INETeconomics / YouTubeLast Wednesday, the Federal Reserve shocked markets with a surprise decision to refrain from beginning to taper back the pace of its bond-buying program known as quantitative easing. In the press conference following the decision, Fed chairman Ben Bernanke cited the recent rise in long-term interest rates ó spurred by Bernanke's previous press conference in July, during which he seemed to endorse it ó as a reason for the delay. Rates had risen too far, too fast, and they were presenting a threat to sustainable economic growth. Nomura chief economist Richard Koo calls this a "QE 'trap' of [the Fed's] own making," writing in a note to clients that the Fed's decision last week is a clear sign that a "vicious cycle of rising rates and economic weakness has already emerged." The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose as high as 3.0% in the weeks before the Fed announced its decision not to taper. "Instead of falling back to 2.0% or lower following the Fedís decision to delay tapering, the 10-year Treasury yield has settled at around 2.5%, which means the next rise in rates could easily take the 10-year yield into 3.0%-plus territory," says Koo. "I worry that this kind of intermittent increase in rates threatens the recoveries in interest- rate-sensitive sectors such as housing and automobiles.†That could lead to renewed hesitance at the Fed and prompt it to temporarily shelve or postpone tapering." That's how the vicious cycle starts. "While rates might then decline, reassuring the markets for a few months, talk of tapering would probably re-emerge as soon as the data showed some improvements, pushing rates higher and serving as a brake on the recovery," says Koo. "Then the Fed would again be forced to delay or cancel tapering. In my view, recent events have greatly increased the likelihood of this kind of 'on again, off again' scenario, something I warned about in my last report. To be honest, I did not expect it to occur so soon." Now that it's here, though, Koo writes that the Fed is facing the true cost of QE: Given that this would never have been a problem if the central bank had not engaged in quantitative easing, I think the US is now facing the real cost of its policy decision.  Had the Fed not implemented QE, long-term rates would not have risen so early in the rebound, and the economic recovery would have proceeded smoothly.†Now, any talk of ending QE pushes long-term rates higher and throws cold water on the economy, making it more difficult to discontinue the policy. That raises the possibility that by buying longer-term securities the central banks of the US, the UK and Japan have placed themselves in a QE ìtrapî of their own making and will be unable to escape for many years to come.†I have previously described QE as a policy that is easy to begin and hardóeven scaryó to end. The recent drama over tapering signals the start of the less-pleasant second part. "Amid all the talk of ending QE, I think hyperinflation is a less likely outcome than a QE 'trap'," says Koo. "As soon as the economy picks up a bit, the authorities begin to talk about tapering, which sends long-term rates sharply higher and nips the recovery and inflation in the bud, effectively preventing them from winding down the policy.†In this kind of world the economy never fully recovers because businesses and households live in constant fear of a sharp rise in long-term rates."
Mike Nudelman / Business Insider Buying marijuana in Denver is a downright pleasant experience. Customers wait in a well-appointed waiting room. There's a variety of reading material ‚Äî¬†feel free to choose between the gardening magazine and the Cannabible on the coffee table ‚Äî¬†and plenty of information about the product. When their names are called, they will follow an attendant through an atrium where they can buy t-shirts or smoking paraphernalia, and into a quaint shop where they can peruse the wares. There, they will find a wide array of aromatic marijuana flowers in glass jars, pot-infused products ‚Äî¬†mints, beverages, or something to satisfy the sweet tooth ‚Äî¬†as well as pre-rolled joints and servings of cannabis concentrates.¬† Customers are rung up on a computerized point of sale system. They get a receipt ‚Äî a receipt! ‚Äî¬†after paying for their marijuana. They are free to walk out to their cars, drive their marijuana home, and smoke it.¬† It's a remarkably clean system. It doesn't feel like a violation of Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, the federal law that governs controlled substances, even though it is. It's a safe, stable, professional environment. It's remarkable that only two years ago, the whole system almost came crashing down during the most difficult economic event the infant cannabis industry has ever faced:¬†The Great Marijuana Price Crash Of 2011. How did it all come about? The story of the marijuana market ‚Äî¬†a business that thrived on the street for decades before developing the market sophistication to lead to a commodity crash in brick-and-mortar stores ‚Äî¬†is one of the most interesting economic stories of our lifetimes. Colorado legalized marijuana for recreational use in late 2012. Beginning next year, anyone with an I.D. can waltz into a marijuana dispensary, put $50 on the counter, and announce to the clerk that he'd like one eighth of an ounce of marijuana. And he'll get it, without any interference from law enforcement. The market is stable. The Colorado marijuana industry ‚Äî which is responsible for thousands of new jobs, and is projected to raise $130 million in taxes for the state next year alone ‚Äî has accomplished something not seen in this nation since the passage of the 21st Amendment. It has taken an illegal product and legitimized it in the eyes of the government. It has made a notoriously sketchy transaction less of a hassle than buying Sudafed. What‚Äôs more, it has built a thriving economy after overcoming wild price fluctuations and crashes, stern government regulation, and absurd banking restrictions. The last time something similar happened, 96.5% of the United States population hadn‚Äôt even been born yet. REUTERSAccording to media customs it is evidently mandatory to include this photo or one like it in any story about marijuana.  What‚Äôs going on in Colorado is an outstanding case study in what happens when a black market becomes a legal one, and it‚Äôs something we probably won‚Äôt see again in any of our lifetimes. And fortunately for observers, the market transition in Colorado is happening in relatively slow motion, making it easy to follow and learn from. Still, when the media covers marijuana, the story is typically accompanied by a photograph of a man smoking an absurdly large joint. But the legalization of the marijuana market in Colorado is actually¬†one of the more fascinating economic stories to unfold in the U.S. in a long time. Walter Hickey / BIIn 2000, Colorado voters approved Amendment 20, legalizing medical marijuana for patients and people they designated as their caregivers. Patients or caregivers could possess no more than 2 ounces of marijuana and not more than six marijuana plants, up to three of which could be mature and flowering at a given time. The earliest incarnation of the marijuana dispensary quickly sprung up. Certain individuals or ad-hoc businesses began providing marijuana to many patients. To try to kill the commercialization of legal marijuana, the Colorado Department of Public Health limited the number of patients each ‚Äúdispensary‚Äù could serve to five. After a lawsuit from advocacy group Sensible Colorado, this policy ended in 2007. When the Board of Health rejected a new, more formal policy attempting to codify the five-patient limit in 2009, the dispensary model was given implicit approval. Wikimedia CommonsBy 2010, marijuana advocates and the Colorado legislature saw that they would soon have to begin seriously regulating the marijuana market, as the 2000 amendment didn‚Äôt plan for a commercial marijuana economy. Legislators passed the Colorado Medical Marijuana Code, which established a rigorous regulatory system for the medical marijuana market. It designated four types of state licenses ‚Äî dispensary, growery, marijuana-infused product manufacturer, and laboratory ‚Äî and laid out the enforcement bureau (The state Department of Revenue) production limitations (six plants per patient on the rolls for a dispensary) and vertical integration, which required store-front dispensaries to grow 70% of the product they sell. The Medical Marijuana Code also allowed municipalities to ban marijuana. The passage of the Code kickstarted the industry's transition. Delivery services transitioned into store-front dispensaries. Growers and sellers merged their businesses in order to abide by the vertical integration laws. New companies scrambled to get patients on their rolls in order to grow product. A year later, in 2011, the assembly passed an update which required businesses to register their groweries with the enforcement bureau. DOJBecause the market was designed to be heavily controlled, Coloradans have been mostly exempt from interference from federal law enforcement, unlike California ‚Äî a state that let every municipality make its own marijuana controls ‚Äî and which has been repeatedly hit by raids.¬† This also means that the Colorado medical marijuana market was able to develop a sophistication and professionalism unlike any other in America. But trading Phish t-shirts for business casual changed the market in ways that nobody expected. The range of choice and quality caused a diversification of product. There were price fluctuations, ill-fated marriages, terrible business decisions, and more between 2010 and today. In addition to establishing a set of regulations, the passage of the Colorado Medical Marijuana Code of 2010 fundamentally changed the structure of the industry. Before 2010, marijuana was produced by "basement growers," or people who grew marijuana informally on behalf of patients and sold it either directly or to a delivery service or other provider. Walter Hickey / BI The Medical Marijuana Code mandated that all people who sell marijuana grow 70% of their product, essentially requiring all¬†growers to link up with a brick-and-mortar, licensed dispensary. This meant that marijuana growers ‚Äî people who were familiar with the plant, and often had a longstanding, personal relationship with marijuana ‚Äî started connecting with capital-flush entrepreneurs interested in setting up a retail operation. One side had the expertise, the other had the cash. Needless to say, the merging of the two sides did not always go smoothly.  ‚ÄúYou had basement growers along with some guy who had money,‚Äù and each side viewed¬†the other with a degree of skepticism, said¬†Ryan Cook, the general manager of The Clinic, a popular chain of marijuana dispensaries, and an expert on the¬†business side of marijuana sales. The basement growers entered the formal industry assuming that the price of marijuana would hold steady with the black market price. The initial offer they made to the retail entrepreneurs ‚Äî $4,000 worth of marijuana for a $3,500 wholesale price ‚Äî was based on that assumption.¬† The risk of growing marijuana in a basement when it wasn't legal was priced into that high wholesale cost: The idea was that when the industry transitioned to the legal medical market, the portion of the price that went to cover the risk would instead cover new expenditures like rents on warehouses and retail facilities.¬† But those initial price estimates did not hold, and that's when people began to panic. For growers, expanding from a small basement operation to an industrial-level growery often led to production issues, and many growers found themselves in over their heads in terms of the volume they needed to produce. To make matters worse, the summer of 2011¬†saw record heat across the country, and heat can wreak havoc on cannabis quality and yield.¬† ‚ÄúYou had all these people racing to grow a product,‚Äù said Cook. ‚ÄúSome were growing it good, some were growing it really, really bad. Everyone had to start moving that product." As a result, many inexperienced growers saw that they had an inferior product that couldn't command what had been the market price.¬† Growers whose product wasn't up to snuff went into crisis mode. They were dealing with long lead times, since it takes about six months to harvest a marijuana plant. And they had bills ‚Äî electricity, rent, cost of goods sold ‚Äî they had put off, promising landlords and creditors that after the harvest they'd have enough to pay them back and then some.¬† When they couldn't move the product off the shelves, the growers slashed the wholesale price, sometimes as low as $2,000 per pound from $3,500 per pound.¬† ReutersSome went with quantity over quality. As a result, the retail side started cutting the sale price of an eighth of an ounce of marijuana to as low as $25, half of what they originally planned. It also didn't help that some dispensaries offered outrageous incentives in order to attract customers. Dispensaries had to have patients on their books in order to grow marijuana, and the more patients they had, the more plants they could grow. To get the ball rolling, businesses needed to sign on a critical mass of people, said¬†Dan Williams,¬†the owner of Canna Security America, a security company that specializes in marijuana dispensaries and who has watched the industry transform.¬†As a result, many of them offered outstandingly low introductory rates for marijuana for people who signed on. ‚ÄúIt was great because they got a whole bunch of new patients,‚Äù Williams said. ‚ÄúBut what they didn‚Äôt realize was since everyone was doing that, they were lowering the cost of the entire market. They were cutting everybody under.‚Äù As a result, customers ‚Äî¬†who could suddenly "comparison shop" among marijuana vendors for the first time ‚Äî¬†started patronizing the dispensaries that sold cut-rate cannabis. For many, the low prices were simply more attractive than higher-priced, higher-quality product. Walter Hickey / BIMarijuana has a six-month growth lead time. As the retailers ‚Äî who were often marijuana novices ‚Äî understood it, pot was pot. Many didn't realize that there were differing qualities of cannabis. They wanted all growers¬†to bring wholesale cost in line with what the bad growers were charging. Growers who had maintained quality and held the wholesale price at $3,500 per pound found themselves under pressure from their retail partners to take a price cut. When growers held the line, retailers threatened to dissolve the partnership ‚Äî taking their patient rolls with them ‚Äî ¬†to merge with one of those $2,000 wholesale growers. The growers also threatened to walk,¬†which meant that the retailer would lose its license to sell. Cook explained: ‚ÄúThe retailers are saying to the growers, ‚ÄòHey you were so nice to get me $3,500 a pound, but I can get it for $2,000 over here. I‚Äôm no longer going to buy this, I‚Äôm going to force you to give this to me at $2,000 per pound.‚Äô‚Äù Since some of these businesses were formed as a result of the M&amp;A version of a shotgun wedding, many of them broke up. The businesses that remained had a decision to make when it came to price. The market split into two.¬† Some portions of the market decided to hold the price at $3,500-per-pound wholesale, or around $50 retail for an eighth of an ounce. Others said they would sell across-the-board $25 eighths and try to make the price cut back on volume.¬† Those companies that held the $50 line by keeping quality high have done better than the ones that pursued volume, thanks to the unique aspects of the production of marijuana. Marijuana has a six-month production lead time. And production is limited by two factors: space and light.¬† ‚ÄúThe problem is that you can't just go back to your manufacturing facility and say, ‚ÄòGuys, we need more, turn up the speed on the conveyor belts,‚Äô" said Cook. "It doesn't work like that.‚Äù Businesses that wanted to make it back on volume couldn't just jam more plants into their groweries. They had to build whole new warehouses with lights, which could cost between $500,000 and $1 million right out of pocket. That kind of growth is just unsustainable long-term.¬† ‚ÄúSo once I hit my capacity," said Cook, "if I drop my prices to $25 and take 50% more market share than I had before, did I really help myself?‚Äù APMulti-agency law enforcement officers raid Organica, a medical cannabis collective in Culver City, Calif.Companies that make profit with a high-volume, low-price model are unsustainable for another reason. They will often find themselves with a¬†production surplus, which for a marijuana company can be a very dangerous thing.¬† In a healthy market, international¬†marijuana arbitrage ‚Äî buying legal pot in Colorado to sell on the black market in, say, New Jersey ‚Äî¬†¬†simply does not make economic sense, because the wholesale prices are largely in line with black market prices. It wouldn't be logical for unsavory elements to drive out to Colorado, buy a bunch of marijuana at $3,500 per pound and resell it in New Jersey for $4,000 a pound. There‚Äôs an insufficient profit margin to accept that risk. But when desperate businesses had to unload $2,000 pounds of marijuana or risk losing everything, the unsavory element did emerge. Businesses that were stuck with marijuana they couldn't sell in the Colorado market, despite owing business debts, were highly susceptible to black market offers.¬† ‚ÄúAll of a sudden, some guy in Iowa calls you and says, ‚ÄòHey listen, you know what, I'll give you $5,000 a pound.‚Äô And they're like, ‚ÄòHoly sh**!‚Äô you know?‚Äù said Cook. The marijuana price crash of 2011, then, wasn't just an an isolated economic incident. It was an existential threat for an industry that sold itself to voters as a safe business that wouldn't fund the interstate black market.¬† In the end, many of the places that tried to survive by volume alone went under. The market wised up. Some couldn‚Äôt sustain the production growth. Some couldn‚Äôt survive in a market with high competition and very low margins. Others tried to unload their product illegally, and they ended up with doors no longer attached to their frames and federal agents un-cooking their books. Others, though, like Cook‚Äôs The Clinic, emerged from the crash stronger than ever. ‚ÄúWe understood very quickly that it was better for us to operate a legitimate business and grow good, quality medicine and make a business we could be proud of, you know?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAnd if we did that we knew we could be successful in the industry.‚Äù EMERGING STRONGER THAN EVER Well, right this instant Denver is in the midst of another moment of economic intrigue. Walter Hickey / BIDan WilliamsThere‚Äôs a new breed of investor coming to marijuana. Dan Williams, the man behind Canna Security, has already received an infusion of capital from the Arc View investment group, a consortium of investors who focus on the ancillary businesses of the emerging marijuana industry. Now that marijuana is on the map, people with cash are ready to dive in. Arc View in particular is interested in businesses like Williams‚Äô, which are on the sidelines ‚Äî i.e., not in direct violation of the laws of the United States federal government ‚Äî but also are tapping into the robustly growing marijuana market, with the ability to scale nationwide if and when serious marijuana legalization moves beyond the Rockies. Who are these new investors in marijuana infrastructure? There are three groups, according to Williams. Some made their money owning dispensaries, and are eager to invest it in companies with slightly less risk on the ancillary side. Others are serial entrepreneurs; people who started their own businesses in the traditional market and either cashed out or have taken a backseat. Most interesting, though, is the last of the three: investment vehicles. Already, representatives of large investment funds and venture capital groups are sitting at the table, getting ready to dip their toes into the water while there‚Äôs money to be made in the infant stage. If there‚Äôs a resounding legacy from the industry‚Äôs survival of the marijuana price crash, it‚Äôs that the model has been so successful that any other state seriously considering marijuana is essentially copying Colorado‚Äôs work. It‚Äôs also been quite good to the people who took the chance on marijuana as a legitimate business, and then remained levelheaded during the rough price fluctuations. The businesses that gave in and sold as low as they could are by and large gone. The firms that maintained their composure are thriving. The businesses that got in early already have an outstanding advantage moving forward in the legalized marijuana economy. As part of the legislation following Amendment 64, which legalized marijuana in Colorado effective Jan. 1, 2014, Colorado won‚Äôt be issuing any new licenses until eight months later, giving the existing market an immense head start. Denver ReliefKayvan Khalatbari In Denver, local ordinances extend the hold on new licenses all the way to 2016. This means that for marijuana businesses, it's a seller's market. Kayvan Khalatbari and Ean Seeb are two founders of Denver Relief, another successful marijuana dispensary. In addition to building their own existing operation, Khalatbari and Seeb are becoming the go-to consultants for people who want to start their own marijuana business. With Massachusetts and Connecticut gearing up for their own rollouts of Colorado‚Äôs model, they‚Äôre very, very busy. But besides the interstate consulting, they‚Äôve also got their finger on the pulse of what‚Äôs going on in Colorado. Since medical marijuana licenses are tied to business entities, not people, anyone looking to cash out in Colorado is in a very good place with the forthcoming moratorium. Walter Hickey / BI‚ÄúIf there's somebody just looking to get in here in Colorado,‚Äù said Khalatbari, ‚Äúyou need to buy a new system, that's just plain and simple. And, you know, those are from, let's say $50,000 for a slice, to $2 to $10 million to buy out an entire company, just because it's the company that goes along with that license.‚Äù Since Kayvan and Ean also consult for interested parties in states just opening up their marijuana markets, they can confirm that the amount of money going into selling legal pot is simply phenomenal. The startup costs alone are immense, as is the amount business owners need to have on-hand just to score a license. ‚ÄúIn Massachusetts ,you need half a million in the bank and a financial letter of credit,‚Äù said Khalatbari. ‚ÄúIn Connecticut it's $2 million. But even aside from that, if you're serious about Massachusetts, yet again there's only 20 to 35 licenses in the entire state for potentially 200,000 patients. We're dealing with 3,000 to 10,000 patients per center, so it‚Äôs going to be massive.‚Äù What do you need in order to start a marijuana business in one of those states? The guys at Denver Relief field dozens of cold calls a day from people asking their advice on what it takes to start up a new business. The short answer? Lots of money. Walter Hickey / BI‚ÄúIf people are honestly serious about getting in, you're going to spend probably $2 to $5 million on construction,‚Äù said Kayvan. ‚ÄúYou're going to probably have $50,000 to $100,000 in non-refundable fees, whether that be to the state, to your local municipality, to consultants, to lawyers. $100,000 just to go into that process to apply when you might not even get a license. That's what it is right now. And then those huge, huge financial burdens on the back end to construct these massive facilities.‚Äù This means that Massachusetts finds itself where Colorado was three years ago: Getting ready for a bunch of shotgun weddings between the money and the local growers. Moving forward, things are about to get very interesting for marijuana in America. Colorado is about to fully legalize cannabis. The people in the business I spoke to didn‚Äôt think that their core market would change drastically ‚Äî it‚Äôs not particularly difficult to get a marijuana recommendation in Colorado, so anybody who really wants one already has one. It‚Äôs the tourism that could shake up the market. The thing is, nobody has any clue about what that means, numerically speaking. Will Colorado become the marijuana capital of America? The West? The world? Is this the new Amsterdam? Nobody has any clue. So the industry is bracing itself for anything. The marijuana that goes on sale to the general population on Jan. 1, 2014 was planted about six weeks ago. Growers and retailers have to deal with the lead-time issue. Like Ryan Cook said, you can‚Äôt just go to your warehouse and crank up the conveyor belt. And while the Colorado industry is continuing to expand, it hasn't accelerated¬†the growth just yet. It‚Äôs wait and see, across the board. What happens next ‚Äî how the industry handles uncertainty when it comes to demand ‚Äî could be even more interesting, from an economic perspective, than how it handled uncertainty when it comes to supply. In short, anyone who's interested in economics needs to have their eyes set on the Rockies, or they might just miss the kind of economic event that comes around once in a lifetime.
REUTERS/Barry MoodyFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 10 Questions Advisors Need To Ask Before Jumping Ship (WealthManagement.com)  The end of the year typically sees a "migration of investment professionals to head out to the broker-dealer hunting grounds," writes Gary Martino of online-broker dealer MoneyBlock. But advisors should also ask themselves and their recruiters key questions before jumping ship. Martino identifies ten key questions. 1. "Does the technology offering match what my business and my clients currently need and may want?" 2. "What are the broker-dealerís primary revenue sources?" 3. "Does the firm allow me to use the investments I want to use now and as my clientsí needs evolve?" 4. "Do you have a complete fee schedule for me and my clients?" 5. "How flexible is the advisory fee and/or commission schedule?" 6. "Is it really my business if I decide to leave?" 7. "What is the B-D doing to save me time, so I can grow and manage my book?" 8. "Does my input not only reach the broker-dealerís decision makers, but does it have an impact?" 9. "Can you walk me through your account opening and management process?" 10. "How does your compliance and supervisory processes work?" Investors Are About To Stumble Upon One Of The Stock Market's Best-Kept Secrets (BofA)  The next leg of the Great Rotation ó the shift out of bonds and into equities is about to begin writes BofA Merrill Lynch head of U.S. equity strategy Savita Subramanian. Until now the rotation has been out of bonds but into "bond proxies." While there will be continued inflows into taper-proof yield, she writes that the next leg will be "Quintile 2." "As managers move down the yield spectrum, they are likely to stumble upon what may be one of the marketís best-kept secrets: Quintile 2 by dividend yield of the Russell 1000. These stocks still offer competitive yields, but unlike Quintile 1, enable investors to avoid yield traps and invest in stocks that generally have lower payout ratios, more globally-diversified revenues, less rate sensitivity, and better/more stable growth. Quintile 2 has offered the highest average return and the lowest downside risk over time. Additionally, many of these stocks are household names that even the most gun-shy equity investor may feel comfortable owning." There Is Some Flexibility With Roth IRAs (Vanguard)  Investors should take the time to realize if Roth conversions are right for the Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs). But, if for instance investors go forward with the conversion and realize it wasn't right for them they could still opt out, according to Mario Bruno at Vanguard. "Well there is some flexibility with Roth conversions, and this doesnít happen very often with the IRS, they do allow a do over. So you can, if you doóif you realize you donít want to do it or maybe you donít have the income to pay the taxes, you can undo the conversion by re-characterizing it back to a traditional IRA. So you do have some flexibility. There are some time constraints to do that but you have until, typically if you file a timely tax return or file for an extension, you have until October of the following year to actually do the re-characterization. So thereís some flexibility there for a do-over. It can get a little complicated in terms of deciphering what the earnings might be and what not, if youíre doing a partial re-characterization. So you might need a little bit of help, but absolutely you can undo it if thatís something that you feel you need to." Advisors Need To Think Of What The Next Generation Of Advisors Wants (Investment News) The average age of advisors is 57 and Mark Tibergien, chief executive of Pershing Advisor Solutions thinks it is important for those in the industry to think of the next generation of advisors and what they want. Speaking at the InvestmentNews Best Practices Workshop Tibergien said it isn't just compensation that counts.† Jeff Benjamin at Investment News reports: "Mr. Tibergien emphasized what he called the 'hygiene factors,' including factors such as working conditions, commute and job security as considerations on which candidates often focus. 'I don't believe you can motivate people, but I do believe you can de-motivate people. As the saying goes, companies hire people and managers lose people.' The Stock Market Is Presenting An Opportunity We Haven't Seen In At Least 25 Years (Goldman Sachs) "Investor demand for 'value' has been pervasive," writes Goldman Sachs David Kostin. "Low valuation stocks have outperformed higher valuation peers by 12% in 2013 on a sector-neutral and equal weight basis." Because of this S&amp;P 500 P/E multiples are at their tightest in 25 years. "With valuation clustered together we believe there are attractive relative value opportunities where companies with different fundamentals are trading at very similar valuation levels."
Between the upper cuts and jabs Jim Chanos and Jim O'Neill threw out at yesterday's Bloomberg Markets 50 conference, Chanos blew you all a kiss. Actually, it was better than a kiss. It was an investment theme for 2014. Bloomberg put together O'Neill ‚Äî a known China bull, and the man who coined the term BRIC at Goldman Sachs ‚Äî¬† and Chanos ‚Äî CEO of hedge fund Kynikos Associates, and the loudest China bear on the planet ‚Äî to see what kind of sparks would fly. It was fun, you should read about it. Anyway, if you listened closely to their discussion (watch it here), Tom Keene asked Chanos to give him a "concrete example of a concrete company" he couldn't stand. Chanos answered: "I would say anybody that's in the business of mining iron ore right now where supply is about to come on in late 2013 and 2014 whether demand holds up or not it's going to be a difficult market for those people." That statement immediately brings to mind two of Chanos' short positions, both of which are companies that are dependent on China's appetite for iron ore. First and foremost there's Fortescue Metals, an Australian mining company. At this time last year, it was going through a liquidity crisis. In an article about the company published four days ago in the Sydney Morning Herald Chanos said: "If you believe as we do strongly that the Chinese credit driven investment boom has to ultimately come to no good, then there is probably no better place to be short than iron ore..." Then there's Vale, a Brazilian steel company. It's down almost 25% year to date and last year Chanos said that it too would suffer as slowing Chinese demand, coupled with the fact that China is building its own iron ore plants spelled disaster for its business. Chanos' gripe with Brazil goes deeper than its association with China though. At the Bloomberg 50 conference he and O'Neill agreed that Brazil's quasi-state planned economy was more Chinese than China's economy right now.  Back in December Chanos said at a conference in London that "People worried that (former Brazilian President) Lula was a socialist, well, Dilma is a socialist.‚Äù So shorting Vale is like killing two birds with one stone for Chanos. It's logical in the context of his China thesis, and if you're an ETF kind of person, Vale (along with Petrobras, another Chanos short) is weighted quite heavily on the iShares MSCI Brazil Index Fund (EWZ), which is down 14% YTD. So you can buy Brazil, and then short Brazil. Have fun.
The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the¬†NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms ‚Äî adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July, 2007, three months before the market peak. Advisor PerspectivesThe next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market. Advisor PerspectivesAfter the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed has¬†periodically increased the easing. Was April a Margin Debt Peak?¬† Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is a few weeks old when it is published. Real margin debt at the end of August 2013, the latest available data, shows a slight increase from the previous month. It is now a mere 0.38% off its interim high set in April (0.9% off in nominal terms). Will we look back at April as a cyclical peak for margin debt like we saw in 2000 and 2007? And does that anticipate a major market peak as we saw twice in the 21st century? Or will margin debt rise further? NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts, General Partner &amp; CEO of¬†Streettalk Advisors, analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the¬†Credit Balance¬†as the sum of¬†Free Credit Cash Accounts¬†and¬†Credit Balances in Margin Accounts¬†minus¬†Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation. Advisor Perspectives Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values. Advisor Perspectives ¬†As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't be immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance trough as a definitive warning for U.S. equities. But we'll want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead.
CNBCRobert Frank (left), host of "The Secret Lives of the Super Rich."Christopher Parr, Founder and EIC of Pursuisit, interviewed Robert Frank, a leading authority on the American wealthy, about his CNBCís series ëSecret Lives of the Super Richí premiering tonight.  In the new series, discover the latest financial status of David &amp; Jackie Siegel, the owners of Versailles, the largest home in America. Meanwhile, learn about Colin Cowie, celebrity party planner, and the outrageous requests that he receives from his clients.† Oh, and then thereís bombproof underground luxury condosÖ  Discover the ëSecret Lives of the Super Rich.í A. We take you inside a world thatís rarely seen and increasingly foreign to the rest of America: the lives of the Super-Rich. Viewers take a gilded tour of some of Americaís most expensive homes, yachts, planes, cars and parties to see how the rich make and spend their fortunes. We donít judge; we just reveal. A. The epiphanies are in the details and in the alternative reality of the rich: the Aspen millionaire who has only been to her $30 million mansion once in two years. The Los Angeles mansion owner who had his bedroom carpet copyrighted to make sure no one would have the same one. The humble mid-Western mechanic who has become one of the worldís top Ferrari restorers (and billionaires have to wait in line). The strange rituals that yacht owners follow when building a yacht (including the ìmagic pennyî in the hull). The heiress whose idea of ìlistening to some musicî is having a world-famous concert pianist play in her living room. Associated PressThis $15 million futuristic yacht was launched for a Hong Kong billionaire concerned about fuel efficiency. A. One trend is ìpractical excessî ó fuel-efficient yachts, vintage Ferraris that can be seen as ìinvestments,î environmentally-friendly infinity sinks where †water shoots out of a slab of onyx with a brush of the hand. The wealthy also like vacation homes that are all-inclusive resorts that they never have to leave, with their own spas, theaters, chef kitchens and recreational areas. A. For homes, Old World splendor, like gold-faucets and French-Imperial furniture is fading. So are dark-paneled walls, wood etc. Wealthy today want bright, spacious and clean look. Properties with big land footprint are also big, and McMansions squeezed into small parcels are out. Formal is out, casual-chic is in. A. The borrowing and binging is back for many of the wealthy ó much faster than I expected. The huge stock-market run-up in the past four years has restored their wealth and their overconfidence. While some have permanently downsized, the newly minted rich (and rebounding rich) are spending again like itís 2007. CNBCRobert Frank with Jackie Siegel, a.k.a. "The Queen of Versailles." A. They are back on top, with Davidís company reporting record profits after its restructuring and streamlining. They have also re-started construction on Versailles, which had gone into default and was up for sale. They now own it outright with no mortgage and they expect to be done in time for Davidís 80th Birthday in 2016. The house is the ultimate symbol of Americaís housing boom, bust and recovery ñ in extreme. Associated PressColin Cowie. A. Heís done parties that cost more than $20 million, with the flowers alone costing up to $500,000. He was asked to do 3 lavish weddings for one couple, including a destination wedding in St. Barthís. A. This speaks to the heightened economic and social fears of the wealthy ó they are increasingly worried about social unrest, political instability and the natural disasters. So the bunkered elite have literally built their own luxury bunkers, with an underground pet park, swimming pools, theaters and (of course) pharmacy. A. CNBCís ëSecret Lives of the Super Richí premieres on Wednesday, September 25th at 9PM &amp; 9:30PM ET, featuring eight new half-hour shows with two back-to-back episodes airing each Wednesday for four consecutive weeks.
Compustat, I/B/E/S, and Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchGoldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin flags an interesting development in the stock market in 2013: the dispersion of individual stocks' price-to-earnings ratios has fallen to the lowest level in at least 25 years. In other words, as Kostin puts it in a note to clients, stocks with different growth forecasts are now valued at similar multiples. How did that happen? "Investor demand for 'value' has been pervasive," says Kostin. "Low valuation stocks have outperformed higher valuation peers by 12% in 2013 on a sector-neutral and equal weight basis." Kostin writes that the low dispersion of valuation multiples in the market has created attractive trading opportunities:† As a result, the distribution of S&amp;P 500 P/E multiples is now its tightest in at least 25 years, implying less differentiation of companies based on valuation. With valuation clustered together we believe there are attractive relative value opportunities where companies with different fundamentals are trading at very similar valuation levels.  Sector valuations are also compressed. We estimate that nine of the ten S&amp;P 500 sectors have P/E dispersions below their respective 30-year averages with Utilities, Industrials, and Consumer Staples showing more valuation compression than the S&amp;P 500 itself. Only Financials stock valuations are more spread out than their average since 1980. We screened the S&amp;P 500 for subsector peers where (1) P/E valuation is +/-5% of one another; (2) 2014 EPS growth forecasts differ by at least 25%; and (3) our Growth MEF scores show significantly different underlying growth metrics. That approach identifies 20 relative value opportunities for stock-pickers, as shown in Exhibit 1. Recent history shows that P/E dispersion and the performance of low vs. high valuation stocks have been closely related since the financial crisis. As investors shift from a policy- and valuation- based framework to a focus on growth we expect these anomalies to moderate. Below are the relative-value opportunities identified by Goldman. Compustat, FirstCall, I/B/E/S, and Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
Russell, Compustat, BofA Merrill Lynch US Equity & US Quant Strategy"We believe investors will move from the highest dividend yielding stocks (Quintile 1 of the Russell 1000) to Quintile 2 ó which offers the highest returns and lowest probability of loss over time."óSavita SubramanianBofA Merrill Lynch head of U.S. equity strategy Savita Subramanian is telling clients to get ready for "the next leg of the Great Rotation" ó the seismic shift out of bonds and into equities envisioned by the bank's analysts. As this next leg rolls out, Subramanian says fund managers "are likely to stumble upon what may be one of the marketís best-kept secrets." "So far the rotation from bonds into equities has primarily been into bond proxies," she writes in a note. "Given the supply/demand imbalance for yield, we expect equity income inflows to continue. Demographics argue for continued demand, while supply is likely to stay tight as both interest rates and the S&amp;P 500 payout ratio are trending well below average. And equity income remains compelling, with one in five S&amp;P companies offering a dividend yield higher than that of the [10-year U.S. Treasury note]." As Subramanian points out, 37% of all actively-managed funds that invest in large-cap equities are "equity income funds," searching for yield. These funds now account for the largest share of the actively-managed large-cap space. So, what comes next? Subramanian writes: Expect continued inflows into taper-proof yield With stretched valuations and interest rate risk looming for high-yield, ex-growth stocks, the positioning shift we have observed since May is likely to continue as the growing pool of income equity seeks out cheaper, less rate-sensitive stocks that will still meet yield targets. Stocks that offer above-market yields but participate in a cyclical recovery may be most attractive to investors who now have lost money in both bonds and bond-like stocks. These half growth/half yield stocksówhich generally offer lower payout ratios and higher cash levelsóare better positioned to grow their dividends over time, with strong representation from our O/W sectors of Tech, Energy and Industrials. The next leg of the Great Rotation: "Quintile 2" As managers move down the yield spectrum, they are likely to stumble upon what may be one of the marketís best-kept secrets: Quintile 2 by dividend yield of the Russell 1000. These stocks still offer competitive yields, but unlike Quintile 1, enable investors to avoid yield traps and invest in stocks that generally have lower payout ratios, more globally-diversified revenues, less rate sensitivity, and better/more stable growth. Quintile 2 has offered the highest average return and the lowest downside risk over time. Additionally, many of these stocks are household names that even the most gun-shy equity investor may feel comfortable owning.† The table below shows specific stocks that fall into Quintile 2. Russell, Compustat, BofA Merrill Lynch US Equity & US Quant Strategy. This does not constitute a recommended list
REUTERSA trader in the Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index futures pit at the Chicago Board of Trade waves his hands to get the attention of fellow traders as he shouts orders.The S&amp;P 500 saw its first five-day losing streak of the year. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
via Foursquare/Dylan L.This is by far the best line in the Wall Street Journal's latest article on Steve Cohen's SAC Capital Advisors...† In an effort to boost morale, Mr. Cohen arranged in July for a local "Super Duper Weenie" hot-dog truck to swing by SAC's office and dispense free food. SAC†was indicted by a federal grand jury†on criminal insider trading charges in late July.† The fund has been hit with a slew of redemptions this year. Some traders have even†jumped ship for rival funds.† According to the Journal, SAC Capital and federal prosecutors are expected to reach a settlement soon. †The Journal reports that it could be in the $1.5 to $2 billion range. [via Dealbreaker]
Spectrem Group via CNBCMillionaires are feeling good. Maybe too good. The Spectrem Group's Millionaire Confidence Index, which measures the investment outlook of the wealthy, reached its highest limit in its 9¬Ω-year history. After bumping along in single digits since the recession, millionaire confidence suddenly spiked to 23. Basically, that means millionaires‚Äîthose with $1 million or more in investible assets‚Äîare poised to move some of their huge piles of cash off the sidelines and into the market. The last time the index hit 23 was when it launched in 2004. (Read more:¬†Six words only billionaires know) There are three possible explanations. First, the survey was taken before the Syrian flareup or the debt ceiling or the End of Summers. Things may change for them in September. "These levels may be difficult to maintain if the market reacts negatively to any Syria issues, the continued political debate in Washington over the government shutdown and the Fed stimulus continuation," said George Walper, president of Spectrem Group. (Read more:¬†Richest 1% earn biggest share since Roaring '20s) The second possible explanation is that the wealthy are seeing sunlight through the investment clouds better than the rest of the population. While we may see Syria, emerging-market quakes, government shutdowns and shaky consumer confidence, they see an accommodative Fed, strong housing numbers and strong auto sales. The third possible explanation is my own. My theory is that the wealthy spent so much time cavorting in the Hamptons and the South of France in August that their brains got sunburned. Now that they're back in the office, we may see a more realistic number in September. "Secret Lives of the Super Rich, is an all-new series premiering Wednesday, Sept. 25 at 9 p.m. ET/PT. |http://superrich.cnbc.com
APUncertainty, political maneuvering, and a heavy dose of brinksmanship and deadline dealing.¬† We could be in for a replay of this week's government shutdown fight next week, if the House of Representatives puts a new plan into action.¬† Citing multiple GOP senators, National Review's Robert Costa reports¬†that the House is considering moving a continuing resolution that keeps the government funded for about a week.¬† Costa reports that the idea is gaining steam in both the GOP House and Senate caucuses. It would give GOP leadership more time to structure a deal more favorable to the party, while also avoiding a government shutdown.¬† A House GOP leadership aide brushed back at the report, saying it "sounds like senators speculating." The plan could create even more uncertainty in Washington. There's no indication that Democrats would agree to such a short-term extension, and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Democrats are moving a bill through the Senate that would keep the government funded through Nov. 15.¬† But the new GOP plan would push the shutdown debate into early October. That's separate from another looming crisis ‚Äî the new, drop-dead debt ceiling date of Oct. 17. All of it adds up to a lot of potential for crisis next month.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeAn anonymous South Carolinian has stepped forward as the winner of the most recent $400 million Powerball lottery.† Lucky guy. Now comes the hard part.† We've taken a look into the point at which you should actually care about the Powerball lottery, factoring in the relationship between participation and jackpot size. But what happens when you actually win? Normally the answer appears to be "take all the money up front immediately and subsequently squander every available penny on frivolous crap." But what if someone won the lottery and then tried to handle it as rationally as possible? We spoke to several financial advisors as to how they would advise a client who came to them after hitting the jackpot.† The key question we wanted to know is whether a winner should take the all the cash up front or whether one should take the annuity, which consists of more money spaced out over several years. But first, before we answer that we need to acknowledge the elephant in the room, which is the impact of taxes. We spoke to Clarence Kehoe, a partner at Anchin, Block &amp; Anchin who chairs their tax department.† Clearly, Uncle Sam is going to want a healthy chunk of those winnings.† "Given the significant size of this lottery prize," Kehoe told Business Insider in an email, "the recipient will be in the maximum income tax bracket on their receipts no matter if they take a lump sum or take an annuity over 30 years." So the multimillion-dollar question is what that top tax bracket will do over the next couple of years. "The maximum federal income †tax rate for 2013 is 39.6%," he said. "As we know tax rates are always changing. If you take a lump sum you are looking at a 39.6% rate. If you take an annuity over the next 30 years the rates will probably be very different when you receive each payment."† So people who expect that the top tax rate will decrease over time ó or that the Flat Tax crowd will win ó should take that annuity. People who think the tax rate will increase over time should take the lump sum, to get everything out of the way sooner.† Still, the federal taxation is only part of it. Which state you live in also makes a difference, whether it's high-income tax New York or no-income tax Florida.† "We donít suggest that readers change their state of residency in anticipation of the possibility of winning the lottery," Kehoe advised. "Also it is pretty much impossible to change your state of residency on the day you win the lottery." So why not take the annuity and kick it to Florida? Well, Kehoe said you're still pretty much screwed. "Some (but not all) states have a rule that when you move out, if you have income that was earned as a resident you will have to pay tax on it even if you move to another low or no income tax state. So the planning idea doesnít always work ñ it depends upon your current state of residency. New York is one of those states which taxes 'accrued' but not yet paid income." So these things ó where you live now, where you live eventually, and potential fluctuations in the federal tax rate ó all impact whether you should take the lump sum or the annuity. Interestingly enough, provided that the top tax rate doesn't change over the next thirty years, there isn't much difference in the effective tax rate you'll pay on all those winnings.† So the first $400,000 annually is covered under the various steps of our progressive tax curve up to the top rate. Long story short, someone who makes precisely $400,000 per year will pay (pre-deductions) $115,505.75 in federal taxes, a 28.9% effective tax rate, leaving them $284,494.25. So anything over that is taxed at the 39.5% rate. Ok, now you're our lucky Powerball winner; you have one of two options.† You can take the cash up front. This is a $223.6 million check. After paying federal taxes on it, we calculated that you'd have $135.1 million left. Not bad.† You could also take the annuity, which pays $400 million over 30 years with an increasing annuity ó $7.1 M the first year, $7.4M the next, increasing up to $22.2M in the 30th year ó and pay the top rate every year for the next thirty. That makes the $400 million jackpot worth, assuming the tax rates don't change from here to 2043, $242.9 million after federal taxes.† I'm assuming that you're a single person with no dependents, mostly because I am a single person with no dependents and I plan to refer back to this spreadsheet when I eventually win the lottery.† So that's the taxes.† AMC"I have no idea how this could possibly go wrong"Let's get down to brass tacks though. Nobody is going to hide their winnings in a large cube of bills in a storage unit outside of Albuquerque, occasionally returning to spray for silverfish. The rational winner will put it in at least a bank account, or most rationally the market.† So how does this knowledge impact whether we should take the annuity or the lump sum? We spoke to an advisor at a boutique financial advising firm in the Midwest. Despite his outstanding analysis, he asked that we not use his name to avoid a mess with the compliance department.† Here's how he figures it: I first started out with the lump sum amount of $223,600,000.††After taxes of 40% (technically 39.6% top federal but I rounded up), you get a starting lump sum amount of $134,160,000.† Now let's look at the "annuity option." Lets say you take the $7,132,040 payment in the first year. After taxes (40%) , you net yourself $4,279,224.† You'll also notice on the schedule of payments it increases per year by exactly 4%.† Based on those constants, let's dive into the numbers for a side-by-side: So this leads us to an interesting point. Whether you should take the annuity or the lump sum depends entirely on what kind of return you can realistically achieve. We took a somewhat deeper look at this, looking at various rates of returns for investments of either the lump sum or the annuity over 30 years at rates of return between 0% and 10%.† This chart shows what happens when you invest your winnings. For the lump sum (green lines) you invest all of the winnings ó $135.1 million after initial taxes ó at once. For the annuity (red lines), you invest the annual post-tax winnings once you receive them each year. Walter Hickey / BI According to our research, if you invest it all and if you can obtain an annual return of more than between 3 and 4%, †the lump sum makes sense over the annuity, 30 years down the line.† Still, winning the lottery and not spending any of the money for 30 years sounds super boring.† What if you took an annual allowance of $1,000,000 worth of walking-around money every year? Here's what your nest egg would look like in that event at the end of 30 years: Walter Hickey / BI So again, if you can score a rate of return somewhere between 3% and 4%, you're still better off with the lump sum.† This is actually pretty interesting. As we figured out before the lottery, it really only makes sense to play provided that you take the annuity, according to the expected value. Factoring in investment, though, it only makes sense to take the lump sum if you think you can get an altogether reasonable rate of return.†
Conference Board, Morgan Stanley Research.Note: Areas of gray shading denote periods of recession.Is the wait over? Morgan Stanley economist Ellen Zentner says American households finally "feel" the recovery. "For four long years since [July 2009], U.S. households have asked themselves, 'what recovery?'" writes Zentner in a note to clients. "To view the recovery through the lens of Americaís households, we look at the behavior of the Conference Boardís monthly consumer confidence index over the business cycle. What we find is that only in the past three months has consumer confidence in the U.S. finally reached a level considered historically 'normal' in recovery." Zentner expands a bit in the note, titled "Households Finally 'Feel' the Recovery": Exhibit 1 charts consumer confidence over the business cycle. Confidence plummeted to a new historical low of 25.3 in February 2009. Prior to the financial crisis, the low had been 43.2 in December 1974 (the data series began as a bi-monthly survey in February 1967). It has taken 4 1/2 years for confidence to reach a level around 80, which has been the average level in past recoveries (Exhibit 2). Essentially, U.S. households are telling us that it has taken more than four years for the recovery to feel like a recovery. Average consumer confidence levels in economic recoveries are shown below. Conference Board, Morgan Stanley ResearchNote: Table statistics exclude the financial crisis that began in September 2008.
REUTERS/Jason Reed In a rare moment for the United States Senate, the "world's greatest deliberative body" has voted, unanimously, on something.† On Wednesday, the Senate voted 100-0 on the motion to proceed to debate the House of Representatives-passed continuing resolution to keep the government funded.†The vote came about an hour after Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) finished his 21-plus-hour speech†in opposition to including Obamacare funding in the continuing resolution.† Cruz, along with every other Republican senator that accompanied him on the floor during his speech, voted in favor of invoking cloture on the motion to proceed.† This sounds confusing ó after all, Cruz just spent nearly an entire day railing against passage of the bill. But this was Cruz's plan all along. He opposes invoking cloture to end debate on the bill ó that vote will come either Friday or Saturday.† Here's what Cruz said on the Senate floor Tuesday (emphasis added): "The central vote the Senate will take on this fight will not occur today and it will not occur tomorrow. The first vote we are going to take on this is a vote on what is called cloture on the motion to proceed. Very few people not on this floor have any idea what that means and even, I suspect, a fair number of people on this floor are not quite sure what that means. That will simply be a vote whether to take up this bill and to begin debating this bill. I expect that vote to pass overwhelmingly, if not unanimously. Everyone agrees we ought to take this up, we ought to start this conversation.† The next vote we take will occur on Friday or Saturday and it will be on what is called cloture on the bill. That is the vote that matters. Cloture on the bill, the vote Friday or Saturday, is the vote that matters. Because the cloture vote has now passed, there's now a 30-hour shot clock in the Senate that allows for debate on the bill.† Cruz signaled a willingness on Wednesday to accelerate parliamentary procedure so that the Senate could hold that all-important vote ó on cloture to end debate ó on Friday, so that more people would be paying attention.† This is the vote that "matters" ó and it's also where things will get awkward. At this point, the bill will still have the House language that strips funding for Obamacare, which is what conservatives have pressed for all summer.  At the same time, Cruz and other conservatives realize that Senate rules make it possible for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to introduce his amendment stripping the language that defunds Obamacare. And he will only need a majority vote for the amendment to pass. Republicans' choice, then, is to either filibuster the bill that includes the language they wanted ó and essentially endorse a government shutdown ó or to essentially allow Reid to be able to introduce the amendment and strip the language.†
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderMorgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart and Ellen Zentner are out with a new report on the fiscal nonsense in DC. There are two really interesting nuggets. Frist are the odds of a shutdown, which they put at 25%: Our intuition is that the probability of a shutdown is relatively low but not negligible, say one-in-four. There is a powerful incentive for cooperation ahead of mid-term elections next year, as the public already holds the Congress in low repute. In addition, Speaker Boehner has the leverage that comes from the knowledge that he holds a job that no one else wants, at least for now, and that the public is likely to blame his party for failure to come to terms. As a result, he does not need all of his caucus to approve the CR as long as enough Democrats are willing to vote for it. And here's what it would mean for the economy if there is a shutdown: In terms of macroeconomic consequences of a short shutdown, the sudden drop and subsequent recovery in activity would be absorbed in the same quarter. There is, however, a direct arithmetic impact on GDP. Compensation of nondefense employees and civilian defense employees makes up about one-fifth of real federal spending and about 1.5% of GDP. Eliminate a third of that in a shutdown as non-exempt workers stay home, and GDP is haircut 0.5%. Annualized, this reduces quarterly GDP growth by around 0.15 percentage points per week of shutdown. Even if ex post legislation makes up the missed pay and therefore avoids a hit to personal income, the real numbers will be gone for good because the hours worked will not be made up. Note that the Federal Reserve is not part of the federal budget, so its operations will continue uninterrupted. As it is the fiscal agent of the Treasury, debt issuance and repayment will continue without a hitch. There's one other wrinkle which matters to us (and markets) a lot: If there's a government shutdown, then no jops report on Friday.
Earlier today, we highlighted both the positive and negative macro indicators in the Indian economy.† But with economic growth at a 10-year low, it's worth taking a closer look what has gone wrong. Below are five charts from Morgan Stanley. First, inflation has started to tick up again. Food inflation is back at a six-year high, and onion prices have soared over 200% year-to-date. Morgan Stanley Projects under implementation also fell. India recently created the Cabinet Committee of Infrastructure (CCI) to avoid project delays which frequently arise over land disputes and because of environmental concerns: Morgan Stanley The current account deficit is narrowing, but continues to pose a threat to the rupee and economic growth. Gold imports, which are part of the reason India has a high current account deficit, declined in July and August. But the weakness in the rupee and oil price movements will play a crucial role in narrowing the current account deficit: Morgan Stanley The rupee is still down nearly 13% year-to-date, against the U.S. dollar. The central bank intervened to support the currency: Google Finance Short-term interest rates are expected to stay elevated for a few more months and this is likely to strain GDP growth, which climbed just 4.4% in the first quarter: Morgan Stanley Of course there have been some improvements in the Indian economy. For instance, industrial production ticked up, corporate revenue growth has improved modestly, and auto sales are picking up. But Morgan Stanley analysts Chetan Ahya and Upasna Chachra expect "slow growth and higher rates to stay for a while longer."
And the hits just keep on coming... this one's especially hard. The Associated Press reports that JP Morgan could pay out up to $11 billion ‚Äî $4 billion in customer relief and $7 billion in cash ‚Äî in a national settlement related to mortgage backed securities. Sources close to the situation told the AP that the Justice Department is taking the lead on this, but individual states will likely get a piece of this pie as well.
He was talking about the risks caused by the latest congressional disagreements on fiscal issues. This morning he followed up with a letter to John Boehner, the Speaker of the House of Representative, indicating that ‚Äúthe extraordinary measures we are employing to preserve borrowing capacity would be exhausted in the middle of October.‚Äù He thus warned that, if Congress fails to act appropriately, ‚Äúthere is no way of knowing the damage ‚Ä¶ [for] our economy and financial markets.‚Äù Secretary Lew is right. Should Congress stumble into shutting down the government (by failing to pass a continuing resolution by October 1st) or triggering a technical default (by failing to lift the debt ceiling a few weeks later), the U.S. economy would suffer. The damage could be both material and durable. And the economic fallout would be even worse if both occurred. This is not just about the direct negative impact on income and economic activity at a time when America‚Äôs recovery remains sluggish, unemployment and poverty are too high, and inequalities continue to rise. It is also about the indirect effects, including the extent to which corporate investment would be undermined by a further loss of confidence in Congressional economic governance, the erosion of America‚Äôs standing in the global economy, and fueling the already-high imbalances in the country‚Äôs economic policy mix. Yet markets are quite relaxed about all this, and for an unfortunate reason. They have been conditioned to expect headline-grabbing political posturing, extreme rhetoric, and seemingly-endless drama from Capitol Hill. Sadly, markets no longer look to Congress to materially enable the economy to grow; nor do they expect that lawmakers will come together to energize job creation. Instead, it has become a question of whether the Congressional impact is neutral at best ‚Ä¶ or, worse, creates additional headwinds to economic prosperity. As much as markets have grown accustomed to bizarre economic governance on Capitol Hill, they have also been conditioned to expect that ‚Äì when push comes to shove ‚Äì lawmakers manage to find a way to avoid lasting damage. Today‚Äôs markets are comforted by two specific beliefs: if there is a government shutdown next week (not probable), it is unlikely to last for more than a very few days at most; and if the mid-October debt ceiling date is reached, Treasury will find a way to buy more time for lawmakers to get their act together. These two beliefs are sensible ‚Äì even in the face of the louder and ever-more acrimonious blame game playing out in Washington. As dysfunctional as Congress has become, lawmakers are unlikely to seriously derail the economy. Accordingly, when it comes to positioning portfolios, markets are right in treating the current rhetoric as ‚Äúnoise‚Äù rather than ‚Äúsignals.‚Äù This is not to say that Congress is unable to badly stun markets; it sure can though this is unlikely. Or does it mean that there aren‚Äôt other things for markets to worry about; there are quite a few. What it does mean is that neither markets ‚Äì nor, more importantly, the economy as a whole ‚Äì should expect Congress to pivot any time soon from manufacturing headwinds to providing helpful tailwinds. And that is really unfortunate.
A Bloomberg News story asserting that Wal-Mart is "cutting orders as unsold merchandise piles up in stores" sent shares of the retailing giant tanking briefly, falling as much as 2.9% in intraday trading, before coming all the way back when the company offered a rebuttal. Wal-Mart called the report "misleading," saying the emails cited by Bloomberg reporter Renee Dudley were part of a normal discussion between buyers and suppliers. The chart below shows the move: Thinkorswim
blog.debate.orgWal-Mart is ordering less merchandise from suppliers because unsold merchandise is piling up in stores.† An ordering manager sent an email to a supplier saying that the company was trying to reduce inventory in the second half of the year, reports Renee Dudley at Bloomberg News. Other suppliers got similar messages, she writes.† "Wal-Martís inventory is well above their goal,î Poonam Goyal, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries, told Dudley. ìMost of the†inventory increase was because of missed sales.î Wal-Mart was criticized earlier this year for not putting inventory on store shelves. The company's workforce has fallen by 120,000 workers since 2008 even though it added hundreds of stores during that time. The company told CNBC that the story was "misleading." Wal-Mart is facing a scary reality: the ailing finances of its core customers, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital, told us earlier this year. "Wal-Mart shoppers are the barometer of the U.S. consumer, and these emails reflect common sense about customers," Sozzi told us. "The consumer isn't mentally or physically ready to spend on discretionary inventory and there's no reason to be optimistic." "The fundamental health of Wal-Mart's customer is concerning," Sozzi said.†
American Psycho screengrabWhoever dressed the cast of American Psycho (2000) nailed the flamboyant men's style of the 1980s. The closer you look, the more on point you realize they were. So lets take a deep dive. In the film, no character escapes the signature 80s details ó the low gorge on the lapels, wide shoulders and the long jacket length. And Patrick Bateman looks perfect in his Valentine Couture suits and Oliver Peoples glasses. † Pinstripes are a must, as is condescension and an AmEx. †Leave the humility at home. † Justin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman. You can follow The Fine Young Gentleman on Instagram and Twitter.
APIn what has to be the best collaboration between equity researchers and a teenage fashion magazine, Goldman Sachs has joined forces with Teen Vogue to produce the definitive "Teen Vogue-Goldman Sachs Brand Affinity Index." "Over the next 5 years, millennials are expected to ascend at the expense of boomers in apparel consumption, increasing spending by 20-25%," writes Goldman's¬†Lindsay Drucker Mann. "But they do so with less financial backing, according to data from various sources: lower incomes than preceding generations, and less inclination to use credit cards." Millennials ‚Äî those born between¬†1980 and 2000¬†‚Äî¬†will therefore be more "discriminating shoppers," and brands will have to compete more heavily in terms of product and messaging. To find the top 50 brands, Goldman polled over 1,200 Teen Vogue 'It Girls' on around 350 brands. Respondents scored brands based on awareness and favorability. They also rated brands based on "word of mouth" ‚Äî an important facet in our social media world where peer opinion is more easily available. The composite index measured the average of those three scores, excluding brands with¬†low favorability scores (where favorability was one standard deviation below the mean).
Today's generation of young people are clearly "less career ambitious" than its elders. This is according to a new report from Goldman Sachs on the consumption behavior of millennials ó†the generation born between 1980 and 2000. Citing data from MonitoringTheFuture.org, the report shows that today's high schoolers expect their lives to revolve less around work and more more around vacation time than Gen-Xers ó the generation born between the early 1960's and 1980's. Millennials also spend more of their leisure time on online activities like video games, social networking and watching TV online than their parents and grandparents, despite having similar internet access.† Some other findings from the report: young people today make less money relative to the rest of the population than ever before, are more conscious of the value of the products they buy and are more likely to be living with their parents. Goldman Sachs
Legal problems haven't stopped SAC Capital from doing what it normally does ‚Äî make serious cash. Reuters' Katya Wachtel reports that, as of Friday, the hedge fund is up 13% YTD. STEVEN A. COHEN'S SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS GAINED ROUGHLY 13 PERCENT AS OF FRIDAY - source According to reports, SAC Capital, helmed by its billionaire founder Steve Cohen, is seeking to settle allegations that it engaged in insider trading. In the meantime, it's business as usual. Now, 13% still doesn't beat the S&amp;P 500, which is up 16% YTD, but 13% is a nice number when you compare to the numbers hedge funds of SAC's size have been putting up. This summer Reuters reported that Pershing Square, Bill Ackman's hedge fund, was up 4% year to date. Forbes has Greenlight Capital, David Einhorn's hedge fund, up 7.9% as of this summer. SAC's numbers are getting beaten by another peer's though. Dan Loeb's Third Point has returned 15% YTD, according to Forbes.
Flickr/best love poemThe Federal Reserve has released its Q2 flow of funds report. According to the release, household net worth in America rose $1.34 trillion ‚Äî or 1.8% ‚Äî in the second quarter to $74.8 trillion. The rise in net worth in Q1 was revised down to $2.838 trillion from the previously reported $3.003 trillion advance. The report showed that rising stock and house prices drove the gains. The value of household real estate rose 2.9% in Q2 after advancing 4.8% in the first quarter. The value of corporate equities rose 1.9% in Q2 after posting 9.0% gains in Q1. Click here for the full release ¬ª
AP Ted Cruz rose in the Senate early Tuesday afternoon in opposition to the inclusion of funding for the Affordable Care Act in the Senate's continuing resolution to keep the government funded.† He didn't stop speaking until noon ET on Wednesday. In all, he was on the floor for approximately 21 hours and 19 minutes. "I rise today in opposition to Obamacare," Cruz said at 2:41:35 p.m. on Tuesday, after being recognized on the Senate floor. He declared he would speak "until I am no longer able to stand." That's almost true ñ he had to stop talking Wednesday by 1 p.m. under Senate rules. That is approximately when the Senate will have its first procedural vote on its continuing resolution, the bill that keeps the government funded past Sept. 30 and avoids a government shutdown.† Though it's reminiscent of Rand Paul's filibuster of CIA director John Brennan's nomination in March, Cruz is not actually participating in a filibuster ó because he doesn't have any real power to prevent a vote from happening on Wednesday. "This is not a filibuster," a Senate Democratic aide said Tuesday. "Since cloture has been filed, the cloture vote will occur†tomorrow†no matter how long Senator Cruz speaks. This is not anything tricky, just basic Senate rules." Adam Jentleson, the communications director for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, tweeted Tuesday afternoon that the terms of Cruz's speech were pre-negotiated:† Fun fact: Senator Cruz pre-negotiated the terms of his #fakefilibuster with Senator Reid yesterday. Not exactly a Mr. Smith moment. In the speech's first hour, Cruz compared his fight to standing up to Nazi Germany in the 1930s, to the British in the Revolutionary War, and the Soviet Union in the Space Race. "So, we get to Obamacare," Cruz said. "What do all those voices say? Can't be stopped. You can't win. Cannot defund it. "By any measure, Obamacare is a far less intimidating foe than those that I have discussed, with the possible exception of the moon. The moon might be as intimidating as Obamacare." About an hour into his speech, he "took a question" from Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah), who has led the fight to defund Obamacare with Cruz. The procedure is meant to give Cruz a break from speaking. In the hours that followed, Cruz was helped on the floor by a number of Republican senators ó including Lee, David Vitter (R-La.), Pat Roberts (R-Kans.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), and James Inhofe (R-Okla.). Twitter/@jasonsjohnsonTed Cruz's daughters listen to "Green Eggs and Ham"Along the way, there were memorable moments. A little before 5 p.m., Cruz heaped praise on a speech by Ashton Kutcher at the Teen Choice Awards earlier this year. A little after 8 p.m., he read his daughters ó who were watching on C-SPAN ó bedtime stories, which included a dramatic reading of the Dr. Seuss classic, "Green Eggs and Ham." On Wednesday morning, he referenced the Star Wars movies and did a Darth Vader impression on the floor. And at various points during his talk-a-thon, Cruz read aloud tweets from Americans who were using various hashtags, such as #MakeDCListen. Two Democratic senators also stepped to the floor during the marathon to ask Cruz questions ó Sens. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Tim Kaine (D-Va.).† Cruz's exchange with Kaine was lengthy, and it provided him with his most significant challenge from the Democratic opposition all night. Kaine argued that the issue of Obamacare was settled in the 2012 election. Cruz retorted that both presidential parties almost entered into a "bipartisan agreement" not to run on Obamacare, even though both Obama and Mitt Romney did make the issue big themes in their respective campaigns. "I very much hope you introduce health care reform legislation," Kaine said. Cruz's marathon ended just after noon, when a new legislative day began in the Senate. Under the Senate rules, he did not have to yield control of the floor ó he could have kept speaking for another hour.† "This has been a big waste of time," Reid said afterward.
The MacArthur Foundation gave out its latest batch of "genius grants" yesterday, recognizing "exceptional creativity in their work and the prospect for still more in the future." One of the winners is a CalTech economist most famous for calling traders idiots. In 2010,¬†Dr. Colin Camerer co-authored,¬†"Using Neural Data to Test A Theory of Investor Behavior:¬†An Application to Realization Utility."¬† It is his most downloaded paper, according to the St. Louis Fed. Camerer and his co-authors found that the "realization utility" model of investing is way more prevalent than it should be. "Realization utility" describes the phenomenon of a given trader being more prone to taking "realized gains," or immediate profits, than to allow "paper gains" to linger on their theoretical balance sheet. As they put it: "[The 'realization utility' trader is] keen to realize capital gains as soon as possible and to postpone realizing capital losses for as long as possible." For a significant number of traders, a part of the brain that should not be given the keys, so to speak, to controlling trading decisions ends up doing so anyway more often than it should.¬† When that happens, this results: "... there were a total of 495 occasions in which our subjects realized gains, and that most of these decisions were suboptimal. Given that stocks exhibit short-term price momentum in the experiment, it is generally better to hold on to a stock that has been performing well. This explains why most (77.9%) of subjects‚Äô decisions to hold on to winning stocks were optimal, and why most (67.5%) of subjects‚Äô decisions to sell winning stocks were suboptimal. Similarly, in the experiment, it is generally better to sell a stock that has been performing poorly. This explains why most (79.2%) of subjects‚Äô decisions to sell losing stocks were optimal, while most (80.3%) of their decisions to hold these stocks were suboptimal." Here's the chart: Camerer et. al./Yale The finding "stands in sharp contrast to the prediction of a simple rational¬†trading model in which subjects maximize the expected value of final earnings." Ouch. Camerer's most cited paper, according to the St. Louis Fed, is his 1999 work "Experience-Weighted Attraction Learning In Normal Form Games," which proposes an entire new way of looking at how humans learn, called "experience weighted attraction." Camerer and his co-author Teck-Hua Ho found this concept captures the phenomena of subjects combining belief learning and experience learning. Camerer and his fellow "geniuses" get $625,000 paid out over five years ‚Äî not chump change to an academic!
First it was Jefferies. Then Citi. Now it's Deutsche Bank's turn: Stock promptly plunges because nobody could have possible foreseen this...  Shortly, everyone else. Which is funny, because a week ago we asked: Just how, if at all, are banks hedged or providioned for an increase in volatility and/or rates from these levels, if a mere 4% blimp in equity markets caused Jefferies to nearly write-down it entire bond-trading revenue for the quarter? We now know: not at all. We also said: "And now that Jefferies is in the record books, just how bad with bond trading results for the rest of the big banks be? We should know in about 4 weeks." Answer: very bad. ¬†
In August, U.S. auto sales hit an annualized rate of 16.0 million units. This is the fastest pace of sales since November 2007. However, this has come during a period when median incomes in America have stagnated. "How can these be reconciled?" asked Wells Fargo's John Silvia in a research note today. "Two factors explain the conundrum," he answered. "First, as shown in the bottom graph, auto loan rates are at historic lows for the 48-month new car loan. Second, the asset-backed security market has become a prime source of credit for auto purchases." That latter point is important because many people will cringe when they hear "asset-backed securities," or ABS.¬† Going into the financial crisis, ABS were the investment vehicles that fueled the proliferation of sub-prime mortgages by adding tremendous amounts of liquidity to the credit markets. Simply put, here's how ABS work: 1) a bank will issue a loan to a borrower, 2) the bank will then sell that loan to an investment bank, 3) the investment bank will package (or securitize) that loan with other loans creating an ABS, and 4) the investment bank will then slice up the ABS and sell them like bonds to investors all around the world. There are two benefits to the ABS process: 1) it frees up bank capital so that they can lend more and 2) it gives investors around the world access and exposure to more types of bonds. "This development reflects two aspects of the credit markets that survived the recession," said Silvia. "First, the globalization of credit markets as much of the ABS paper is sold to foreign investors who are seeking higher yields with a degree of safety. Second, securitization of credit remains a viable means of financing economic activity despite negative commentary on securitzation in recent years." The ABS industry got a bad rap during the financial crisis for being associated with sub-prime mortgages. But with transparency, it's pretty clear to see how ABS benefits everyone. Wells Fargo
DonkeyHotey/FlickrWe've run a couple of stories this morning about rising panic that Washington will fail to get itself together at the last minute and raise the debt ceiling before Oct. 17. Our Executive Editor Joe Weisenthal notes: "There is definitely a gap between how Washington people feel about the debt ceiling and how participants in financial markets feel about it.†Financial markets think it's all just noise.†Washington types think it could be different this time." There is indeed a gap. But I'm with the financial markets on this one. So is Eurasia Group's U.S. practice head Sean West, who says there is an "extremely low risk" that we hit the debt ceiling. Here's his reasoning: As the deadline approaches, the Senate will start to get nervous and pass a clean debt ceiling increase and Boehner will have to decide if he wants to be responsible for default. My strong bet is that he doesnítóheís chosen bad deals over no deal on the debt ceiling every time before, and thereís no indication heís somehow recently warmed to default or playing recklessly on this issue given the potential downside ramifications. This is right. Boehner knows that hitting the debt ceiling is a political disaster for Republicans. That's why he backed down on his debt ceiling demands the last time, and the underlying political dynamic hasn't changed. Sometimes, Boehner is forced by his caucus's unreasonableness to court disaster. But most House Republicans will be grateful if Boehner saves them from a debt ceiling crisis, so his speakership won't be in danger for averting oneóeven if House Republicans feign outrage over his cutting a deal with Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to do so. Plus, if worse came to worse, we could always mint the coin.
Daniel Goodman via Business InsiderThumbs up all around after Yext told employees it raised $27 million. Imagine what they'd be doing after an acquisition?Bryan Goldberg and his three co-founders had to wait eight torturous months to learn the fate of their startup. Technology sites were reporting acquisition rumors about their company, Bleacher Report, and each story made the founders cringe.† The rumors were true: Bleacher Report was on the block. Turner Media, owner of CNN, was interested in buying the sports media site.  But no paperwork had been signed and Bleacher Report didn't want to spook the potential buyer. "It went from something that seemed out of reach, to something that was remotely possible, to something we thought might happen, to something we thought would probably happen, to something that seemed almost certain," Goldberg says. "You go to bed every night thinking there's a really good chance this deal is going to go through, and knowing at any minute it could come apart for the smallest, most abrupt of reasons." Ultimately, Turner purchased Bleacher Report for ~ $200 million. After raising $40.5 million, each founder only owned a sliver of the company. But that sliver was still worth more than most people make in a lifetime.† What's that life-changing moment like for a founder? It's a multi-phase, emotional roller coaster. Most founders, like Goldberg, feel relieved then euphoric when their companies sell. It takes a while for reality to set in, even after the money hits their bank accounts. Charles Forman, the founder of gaming company OMGPOP, experienced disbelief. His acquisition came more suddenly than Bleacher Report's.  Forman left OMGPOP in the hands of his colleague, Dan Porter, to start a new venture. When Porter told Forman about a ~$200 million acquisition offer from Zynga, it was unexpected. The offer stemmed from the abrupt success of an OMGPOP mobile game, Draw Something, and Forman only had $1,700 to his name at the time.† The acquisition news came as such a surprise, it put Forman in a daze. He†wandered aimlessly into the road and almost got hit by a car.† "I walked across the street, and all I heard was ëhonk,í"†Forman told the New York Times†then. ìIt was surreal.î While a thicker wallet is nice for startup founders, telling employees about an acquisition can be even more rewarding.† Wiley Cerilli, the founder of a business management tool Single Platform, remembers calling one of his executives, Kenny Herman, with good news. Constant Contact had acquired SinglePlatform for $100 million in cash, stock, and employee incentives while Herman and his wife were away on their honeymoon. While the couple was still in the airport, Cerilli told them they were millionaires. The couple spent the next few minutes embracing. Dan†Porter also remembers delivering acquisition news to OMGPOP employees. There was a celebration at the New York City headquarters†which involved popping open a bottle of champagne.†Porter then sat down with each employee and told them how much money they had made. An entire day of work was then dedicated to paying off debts, like student loans and mortgages.† Goldberg recalls mixed reactions from Bleacher Report employees.†Bleacher Report's executives distributed paperwork to them that stated the number of shares each owned and the share prices. Two calculators were made available so employees could punch in numbers and determine their new net-worths. Some were ecstatic and wrote the founders thank-you notes; others expressed disappointment. "People were texting their boyfriends and girlfriends," Goldberg says. "Some people's reactions were like, 'Oh my God, this is more than I ever could have imagined.' Some people were like, 'That's it?!'†You never knew what it was going to be." Later, Bleacher Report employees took an unofficial, un-sponsored company trip to Las Vegas.†Cerilli and the SinglePlatform team took one, too. No matter how rich a founder becomes, the acquisition high doesn't last forever. Once it's over, some founders feel remorse. "When the money hit the bank account, I was just relieved that this grueling eight-month process was over," Goldberg recalls. "Then you realize, I don't own this [startup] anymore, which is a very powerful feeling. †You go on the website and it just occurs to you, 'This isn't mine and it doesn't belong to me in any way other than from a sentimental standpoint.'" One founder who was left bitter likened his acquisition to getting hit by a car, then getting disability money for a hurt leg. While he admits the money is nice, all he wants is his healthy leg back. Another founder, Josh Abramson, has had years to reflect on his acquisition. Now he just feels numb. "The moment we sold felt great," Abramson recalls. "It was something I'd been working so hard to accomplish for years. I was basically jumping up and down for weeks. The excitement of having the liquidity lasted about 6 months, then it just felt normal. My life didn't really change at all." Abramson co-founded College Humor in his University of Richmond dorm room. College Humor sold a 51% stake to IAC for $20 million in 2006. IAC also got two of College Humor's other brands, Vimeo and Busted Tees, in the sale. Abramson says he has no regrets about selling his company, although it's sometimes tough to hear Vimeo's current valuation. † "I feel sort of numb about it at this point," he says. "[Selling the majority stake in College Humor] is the single most important financial decision I've made in my life so far and I made it as a 24-year-old. I don't regret the decision ó I still think it was a smart thing to do at that time ... As you can probably imagine, it's the kind of decision that gets replayed in your head every now and again." Once you've tasted your first startup win, most founders don't crave retirement or a beach. Instead, founders long for the madness of a startup all over again. "I think with most founders, you want to work the rest of your life," says Goldberg. "I want to be working hard when I'm 80 and having money doesn't really change that."  Goldberg has already started a new media company, Bustle. "I just knew that I had to find another endeavor because every time I go on Bleacher Report, all I can feel is, this isn't my baby anymore," he says. Abramson agrees. He recently purchased Busted Tees back from IAC so he could run a smaller company again. This time, his priorities are different.† "It's literally the biggest cliche that exists ó but people still forget sometimes that money doesn't buy happiness," Abramson says. "I expected that selling my company would make me feel a certain way and it didn't. Obviously having financial security is awesome to a certain point, but I realize now that having a fun company with awesome people I enjoy spending time with does so much more for my day-to-day happiness than more money in the bank ever would."
If you're a Scotch drinker, you know Laphroaig for its signature smokey "peat" flavor. Those earthy aromas come courtesy of the terrain on the island of Islay, off Scotland's West Coast. John Campbell, Laphroaig's Master Distiller, has two jobs: "The quality of the liquid and keeping it legal." Born only a mile and a half from the distillery on the small Scottish island,¬†Campbell has been at Laphroaig for 19 years and at the helm since 2006. "The purpose of my job is to hold the torch for now, make sure I pass it on the next person," Campbell told Business Insider. "Laphroaig will be here in 200 years when I'm well gone." But it's not such a bad time to be a Master Distiller. Not since the late 1800s has whiskey seen this much consumer interest, Campbell says. And Laphroaig makes single malts, which have seen an especially pronounced renaissance. "We've had a once in a lifetime growth spurt [in the industry]." Laphroaig's 31 employees ship out 26 million peaty bottles a year.¬† Campbell sat down with Business Insider to talk whiskey and show us what¬†Laphroaig has been working on.¬†We particularly liked these three bottles. Laphroaig1. Laphroaig 10 The distillery's flagship bottle. If you've had Laphroaig before, this is the one you likely tried. Expect strong peat, medicinal aromas, white pepper and salt. For Campbell, drinking this classic borders on experiential. Here's how he describes it: If you're standing down the pier at Laphroaig. The kiln fires are burning, the peat smoke is coming out, you've got the seaweed in the beach and you're just standing there and the salt is in the air. That's the essence of the area. "The 10 year old is more like a thinking whiskey as you reflect," Campbell says. "It's more for your own time. Sometimes I'll just pour a 10 year and leave it there to smell it." Add a few drops of water and it's a completely different scotch, opening up with creamier salt notes and an oilier feel in the throat. Laphroaig2. Cairdeas We were lucky to get a sip of this gem, as Laphroaig only made 25,000 bottles this year. "People who get the bottle feel like they're getting the golden ticket," Campbell said.¬† Cairdeas is double matured and put in a port wood cask for 16 months, giving it a pink hue visible in the clear bottle. And you can definitely get the fruit and honey flavors. "Visit your store quickly... This will be gone in a heartbeat," according to Campbell.¬† Laphroaig 3. Triple Wood A sweeter expression, with fruit right at the beginning. Vanilla and sherry flavors shine through. Almost a buttery, syrupy feeling, and then¬†white pepper turns to black. Very smooth. The Scotch gets its name from its triple maturation process, with the final step in sherry casks. Campbell says this Scotch feels right during social occasions ‚Äî it's sweeter and there are a lot of flavors to talk about. Triple Wood is also pretty rare, so you'll have to work to find a bottle of this one too. Campbell will be hosting a live whiskey tasting stream, Laphroaig Live, on Thursday night at 8 p.m. EST. You can watch here.
Reuters/Jessica RinaldiKatie Busker, who receives food stamps and is unemployed due to a disability, stays home and watches the kids while her sister and brother-in-law are at work. Conservative Republicans have officially†made it their†mission to end food stamps†as we know them. Such was evident last week, when the House GOP voted to cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, as food stamps are now known,†by $39 billion over a decade†and begin†bulking up its work requirements, along the lines of welfare reform in the 1990s.† Whether you believe this a good†or humane†idea probably boils down to your take on a†single†question: Why don't the poor, who make up the overwhelming majority of food stamp recipients,†go to work?†In 2012, more than 26 million 18-to-64-year-old adults lived under the poverty line; about 15 million of them didn't have a job during the year. Is the economy to blame? Or are personal choices at fault?† If you're a liberal, your answer is probably pretty cut and dry, and these days likely involves the word "recession."†But†conservatives tend to take a different view. They argue†that†whereas unemployment among middle class families rises and falls with†the health of the job market, poverty is shaped and fueled mostly by cultural forces, that the poor could work if they wanted, and that the safety net lulls them into indolence. One of their key data points†on this front†comes from the Census. Each year, the bureau asks jobless†Americans why it is†they've been out of work. And traditionally, a only a small percentage of impoverished adults†actually say it's because they can't find employment, a point that New York University professor Lawrence Mead, one of the intellectual architects of welfare reform, made to Congress in recent testimony.† In 2007, for instance, 6.4 percent of adults who lived under the poverty line and didn't work in the past year said it was because they†couldn't find a job. As of 2012, it had more than doubled, leaving it at a still-small†13.5 percent. By comparison, more than a quarter said they stayed home for family reasons and more than 30 percent cited a disability.US Census DataAs you might expect, the are some big differences between the genders on this front. Women are far more likely than men to cite family. Men are more likely to cite their inability to find a job.† US Census Data To me, these are the sorts of numbers that raise more questions than they answer. Are women staying home because they prefer to be mothers, or because they can't find jobs that pay†enough to make working†a financially viable choice, once the cost of family care is factored in? Are youngish retirees really choosing to leave the workforce early,†or are they cashing in their social security benefits prematurely because they're out of other options? Of the 1.2 million adult men who said they couldn't hunt down†work, how many really couldn't find any job, and how many couldn't find a job they wanted? Of the millions of apparently impoverished college students in the country, how many are essentially living on loans or their Pell Grants? You get the idea.† If you do choose to take the Census figures at face value, though, I think there are a couple of lessons.†First, the recession changed poverty to some extent. More of the non-working poor claim they cannot find a job than at any point in the past two decades. Given that there†are three unemployed Americans for every job opening, that shouldn't be much of a surprise. Second, the poor who choose not to work aren't necessarily doing so out of laziness, but because they have other obligations: they're trying to take care of relatives, they're ill, or they're attempting to make their way through†school. And taking away their meal tickets won't fix any of those problems. Americans 18 to 64 who lived under the poverty line in 2012 and did not work during the year, by reason for not working (U.S. Census, in thousands)The AtlanticClick here to follow The Atlantic.
Wikimedia Commons 'Make 6m go lower! They r going up. [Senior Yen Trader] will buy you a ferrari next yr if you move 3m up and no change 6m.'This morning the U.S. Department of Justice announced criminal charges against three former ICAP brokers in the Libor manipulation case. The ex-ICAP employees named DOJ's complaint are†Darrell Read, who lives in New Zealand, and Daniel Wilkinson and Colin Goodman (a.k.a. "Lord Libor"). Wilkinson and Goodman are from England.† The former ICAP brokers (two derivatives brokers and one cash broker) are accused of conspiring together with a senior trader from UBS to manipulate Yen Libor, according to the DoJ.† Aside from facing criminal felony charges, the former ICAP brokers had their Instant Messages, text messages and e-mails from 2006 to 2011 made public by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. We've included some of the more cringeworthy ones below:† October 23, 2006:† Derivatives Broker 1: Morning Lad [Cash Broker 1], On the scrounge again, if possible keep 3m the same and get 6mos as high as you can. My guy has an enormous fix on Wednesday in 6mos and will want it as high as possible. Waiting for my credit card to get returned to me from a drunken night out bowling, but will be supplying you with copious amounts of curry on it's imminent return. Cheers† December 7, 2007†: Derivatives Broker 1: Hi [Cash Broker 1], Thanks again for all your efforts, Ö Can you do your best to drive these†libors higher,especially 3 mos if you can and it is still well bid....UBS had to stagger their†move up but will definitely be in the count today. Ö p.s Bubbly on its way with†[Senior Yen Trader]. February 29, 2008 (via text message to personal mobile phone) Derivatives Broker 1: If u can pls move 3m up more than 6m wud be much appreciated :-P Cash Broker 1: What happens if they go down. 3m looked higher yesterday pm and 6m no change Derivatives Broker 1: Make 6m go lower! They r going up. [Senior Yen Trader] will buy you a ferrari next yr†if you move 3m up and no change 6m Cash Broker 1: Not bad isuppose 9625 against 01625 April 18, 2007† Cash Broker 1: Hi [Yen Desk Head] with ubs how much does he appreciate the yen libor scoop? It seems†to me that he has all his glory etc and u guys get his support in other things. I get the drib and drabs. Life is tough enough over here without having to double guess the libors every morning and get zipper-de-do-da. How about some form of performance bonus per quarter from your b bonus pool to me for the libor service *** Yen Desk Head: Lord Baliff, I would suggest a lunch over golden week.Monday or Tuesday if you are†around. *** As for kick backs etc we can discuss that at lunch and I will speak to [Senior Yen Trader] about it next time he comes up for a chat. January 10, 2009† Derivatives Broker 1: [to Derivatives Broker 2] I hope [Senior Yen Trader] is not being too painful, he has†had a storming start and is very happy with the libors [Cash Broker 1] and yourselves re managing to fudge for him (as long as he thinks you are trying!). August 23, 2007† Derivatives Broker 1: [Derivatives Broker 3] does [RBS Yen LIBOR Back-Up Submitter] have any influence over†their libor sets . . . if he does ask him to do us a favour and edge 6m up please.....think [Bank†E Yen Trader] was chasing [Cash Broker 1] for a high fix as well ,so should do us all a favour. . . thanks Derivatives Broker 3: [RBS Yen LIBOR Back-Up Submitter] is doing them this wek , he wants 6's up so will be†marking them up anyway Derivatives Broker 1: brooliant!! they are making fortunes with these high fixings!!! :-) thats UBS,RBS and[Bank E] + MíLord should be ok!! March 3, 2010: 1st message: Senior Yen Trader: i really need a low 3m jpy libor into the imm any favours you can get with the due at rbs†would be much appreciated even if he on;ly move 3m down 1bp from 25 to 24 Sterling Broker: i'll give him a nudge later, see what he can do Senior Yen Trader: thanks mate really really would appreciate that Sterling Broker: haven't seen him since i left so might buy him a steak to catch up Senior Yen Trader: yeah Ö i have a huge fix on the imm so if he moves down 1bp now and leaves it that would†be great 2nd message: Sterling Broker: can i pick ur brain? RBS Yen Submitter: yeah Sterling Broker: u see 3m jpy libor going anywhere btween now and imm? RBS Yen Submitter: looks fairly static to be honest , poss more pressure on upside , but not alot Sterling Broker: oh we hve a mutual friend whoíd love to see it go down, no chance at all? RBS Yen Submitter: haha [Senior Yen Trader¨¨¨] by chance Sterling Broker: shhh RBS Yen Submitter: hehehe , mine should remain flat , always suits me if anything to go lower as i rcve funds Sterling Broker: gotcha, thanks, and, if u cud see ur way to a small drop there might be a steak in it forya, haha RBS Yen Submitter: noted ;-) Sterling Broker: 8-) 3rd message sent the following day: RBS Yen LIBOR Submitter: Libor lower ;-) The U.K.'s Financial Conduct Authority fined†the London-based brokerage house†£14 million, or $22.4 million, in the Libor case.†The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading†slapped ICAP with a $65 million civil penalty.
One of the highlights of yesterday's Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit (my notes here) was, without a doubt, the conversation between alternatives king Cliff Asness (AQR) and†Lawrence M. Schloss, who is the Chief Investment Officer for the City of New York's $145 billion pension portfolio. Cliff Asness is a quantitative analyst and money manager, his firm AQR does everything from hedge fund-structure investing to '40 Act mutual fund advisory. Not every strategy AQR employs will be the right one for a given environment and most are not expected to outperform a bull market in the S&amp;P 500. Much of what quantitative firms seek to deliver are risk-adjusted returns, and, from that standpoint, the $70 billion AQR has clearly been successful. When the conversation between Asness and Schloss turned to the cost of investing and whether or not alpha or risk-adjusted returns were really worth paying fees for, things got interesting. Asness explained how, in this day and age, the classic hedge fund strategies that have always worked will continue to work - although with a more crowded field of practitioners they will probably be less profitable than they had been historically. He's referring to styles like long/short equity, merger arb, convertible arb, etc. These types of strategies, he notes, probably are not deserving of the standard 2-and-20 anymore, given how easy they are to access and how common they've become. But Asness believes that more sophisticated or proprietary strategies are still worth paying up for, noting that when you can find true, pure alpha (returns above a benchmark, uncorrelated with the market's returns), it's probably still a good bargain. That said, he believes that beta (raw market returns) has been creeping into the aggregate returns of the hedge fund complex for years now and actual alpha has become really scarce. Lawrence Schloss weighed in on the cost of alpha with both a pro and con argument. His initial comment, was a rhetorical question: "If I can get beta for three bips [basis points], who cares about alpha? Why do I need it?" This was followed up with a more conciliatory take, "Let's be clear: Costs matter. But I only care about the net returns, only the net matters. if you give me seven [meaning 7 percent], why do I care if it was ten first before you paid yourself. You gave me seven!" Cliff's witty, devil's advocate retort was "But what if it could've been eight?" To which Lawrence deadpanned, "Then I negotiated a pretty bad deal for myself." I think the point is that the value of active management and alpha is still very much in the eye of the beholder. Schloss is running $145 billion and, with a portion of those funds, he's thrilled to have non-correlated alpha being generated by managers like Cliff, so long as they are a part of a larger portfolio that is cost-conscious in the aggregate and even if they don't keep up with the broader market in a rally. It's when you're overpaying performance and incentive fees for disguised beta that the costs become harder to justify.
It's clear that Jos. A. Bank is beating Men's Wearhouse in the fierce competition for customers.† Jos. A Bank's shares have gained more than 8% in the past six months, while Men's Wearhouse only gained 1.6%.† And while Men's Wearhouse reported a disappointing outlook for future months, Jos. A. Bank executives recently said that sales are increasing.† Both retailers market to men who want to look current, but can't afford to shop at Nordstrom. Both face similar challenges in getting cash-strapped customers to go shopping.† So what does Jos. A. Bank have that Men's Wearhouse doesn't?† Those infamous "buy one, get seven free" sales.† "Those promotions are why Jos. A. Bank is getting foot traffic that Men's Wearhouse isn't," said†Brian Pitera, a principal of consultancy at A.T. Kearney. "To compete, Men's Wearhouse is going to have to step up promotions and advertising."† While Jos. A. Bank's promotions sound too good to be true, the brand actually manages to make money by selling the products at higher initial mark-ups than necessary. In other words, Jos. A. Bank builds the cost of free products into the one full-priced suit you purchase.† And once customers are in the store, Jos. A. Bank can count on them making impulse purchases on accessories like ties and belts.† "Critics can hate on Jos. A. Bank's promotions and call them a 'bait and switch,' but they actually have a tried-and-true tactic for getting people in stores," Pitera told us. "That's more than Men's Wearhouse can say."† To get customers back in stores, Men's Wearhouse is going to have to come up with an aggressive promotions strategy, Pitera said.† "Men's Wearhouse doesn't need fancy designers or big names," Pitera said. "What they need is to give customers the value they're looking for right now."†
J.C. Penney stock is getting pounded this morning based on a nasty report from Goldman Sachs. The bank rated the retailer's stock an "underperform" based on its reasoning that the company needs to take on more debt to keep cash flowing. The stock is down 9% on the day and continues to fall. At the heart of this problem, says Goldman, is the fact that JC Penney is rebuilding its inventory. When former CEO Ron Johnson tried to change the face of the company, he started doing so by getting rid of a bunch of the classic brands that customers love. Now new CEO Mile Ullman is trying to get those brands back in stores (and in time for the holiday season). This costs money that, according to Goldman, JC Penney won't have unless they raise some capital. It doesn't help that the bank sees weak 2013 holiday sales in the company's future as well. From Goldman: We expect the company to burn in excess of $300mn of cash from inventory investment in 3Q as it rebuilds its private label inventories, which would bring the company closer to what we view as a minimum threshold for cash for JCP: $500mn. Management indicated at the end of 2Q that they were approximately halfway through the process of rebuilding their inventory. For 3Q, we estimate comparable store sales of -3% and gross margins of 30%. This, combined with capital expenditures of $200mn, would cause cash to fall to $755 from $1.535bn at the end of 2Q... Looking ahead, we forecast gradual improvement in comparable store sales. Even in this scenario, liquidity again becomes challenged in 3Q 2014. As a result, we expect the company to raise incremental capital through a number of potential liquidity levers to keep liquidity at acceptable levels over the next twelve months. Back in August when the company announced earnings, CEO Mike Ullman admitted that capital expenditures of $439 million were high for Q2, but said that after that, capex would decrease to $300 million in 2014 even though for the last 5 years, the company has spent over $700 million on capex annually. ¬†In Goldman's view, even that $300 million number is too high, and is going to force the company to raise some serious cash. Here's what the stock is doing right now. Yahoo Finance
AP ImagesEric Schneiderman.New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman made Page One news yesterday, September 23, in the New York Times with his announcement that he had shaken down $350,000 from 19 companies he had accused of violating "laws against false advertising" and which "engaged in illegal and deceptive business practices." Schneiderman didn't call the $350,000 collected a "shakedown" in his press release. Rather, he called it an "agreement" with 19 New York firms in exchange for their promise to stop flooding such websites as Yelp, Google Local, and Citysearch with fake online consumer reviews. The fake reviews, written for pay by freelancers both here and abroad, were purchased for as little as $1 a pop, and sang the praises of a charter bus company, a teeth-whitening emporium, a strip club, and a hair-removal service, among other companies. Both "reputation management" companies procuring the fake reviews and companies that purchased the fake reviews entered into the agreement with the attorney general. That the reader reviews appearing in Yelp and Citysearch pages might be as loaded as a pair of dice at a floating craps game will not astonish anybody who has ever read those pages. On more than one occasion, I have struggled to find a single trustworthy review beneath a restaurant or services listing. The positive reviews always read too positive, as if composed by somebody with a neurotransmitter imbalance, and too many of the negative reviews seem animated by some vile but unnamed transgression committed by the proprietor. Had the attorney general's investigators desired to perform a useful public service, they would have found the honest reviews on consumer referral sites and marked those pages with a yellow highlighter. Of course, honest Yelp reviews can be as potentially dangerous to the well-being of consumers as dishonest ones produced for pay. Let's say some tongueless fool fancies himself a connoisseur of Mexican food, starts contributing his rave views of this cantina and that taqueria to Yelp, and readers start following his advice. Perhaps I go too far to describe an incorrect opinion stated forcefully a fraud, but surely the consumer damage done by the misinformed online reviewers equals or surpasses the consumer damage done by the paid writers of fake reviews. Where is the New York attorney general when you need him to exterminate that class of fraud? If Attorney General Schneiderman were serious about stamping out the "large-scale, intentional deceit across the Internet" that he claims to be investigating, he'd look into the "sponsored content" racket (aka, "native advertising"), in which online publishers accept money from advertising clients (Logitech, Scientology, Coca-Cola, Dell, et al.) to dress up advertising messages in the cloth and stitching of editorial content. These pages are easily larger-scale and more intentionally deceitful than any of the scams described in Schneiderman's press release. Casting his net further, Schneiderman could consider checking in with the authors of book reviews, movie reviews, restaurant reviews, and product reviews, and the editors who pay them. Editors have been known to exert influence to coax a positive or negative review out of a writer, or to throttle back negativity. Also deserving space on his investigative agenda is the dust-jacket blurb, the most deceitful practice in publishing in which book authors and editors solicit positive endorsements from other authors (and notables) for display on their book cover. In many cases, the blurbs are payback for some favor the book author has performed in the past or an exercise in "logrolling," that is, a debt incurred by the author that can only be repaid by scribbling an equally sparkling blurb for the blurber's next book. Schneiderman mustn't neglect the product endorsement industry. Do those celebrity endorsers really love the product or service as much as they say they do? Or are celebrity endorsers just saying those nice things for the money, like Yelp's paid reviewers working in Bangladesh, the Philippines, and Eastern Europe, whom the attorney general's squad uncovered in their sleuthing? Or what about the political endorsements vanquished candidates toss at their former opponents, especially after a bitter squabble of a campaign? Are these endorsements, which often come with a promise by the victor to help the loser retire his campaign debts, not deceitful, dishonest, and fraudulent, too? It's ridiculous to think the office of the New York attorney general ó or the entire People's Liberation Army surfing the Web 24 hours a day ó can possibly police the billions of user reviews running on Yelp and other similar sites. What burns the AG, I think, is the delightful excess of speech produced by the Web, which makes pitiful his modern exercises in enforcement. Back in the old days, a fraudulent advertising statement placed on a billboard or printed in a newspaper was easily tracked down and detained. But the Web makes a mockery of a cop who wishes to walk the Yelp beat. The crime of fake reviews on Yelp ó if you want to consider it a crime ó does less long-term damage to consumers than it does to Yelp, whose reputation declines almost every time I read the reviews on one of its pages. Fake reviews on Yelp, properly considered, are Yelp's problem, not the state of New York's. Let the Yelp people clean up the sewer. And the attorney general? Aren't there any genuine crimes in the state for him to investigate? (Jack Shafer is a Reuters columnist covering the press and politics. Opinions are his own.)
REUTERS/Mike BlakeNew home sales climbed 7.9%¬†month-over-month in August to an annualized rate of 421,000. This beat expectations for a 6.6% rise to an annualized rate of 420,000. But last month's number was revised down to show a 14.1% fall to 390,000. This compares to an initial reading of a¬† 13.4% fall to an annualized rate of 314,000 in July. There was also a huge downward revision to June's number. The median sales price of new homes was $254,600, while the average sales price was $318,000. This is down from the median and average price of new homes in July. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics pointed out that new home prices will slow more than existing home prices. Meanwhile, the stock of new homes for sale at the end of August stove at 175,000, representing five months' supply at current sales pace. New home sales have been impacted by a surge in mortgage rates, with the 30-year rate up 4.5%, according to the Freddie Mac's September 19 primary mortgage market survey. We've also seen homebuilder confidence stall in September at 58 and housing starts missed expectations. Some have noted tha last month's disappointing new homes sales report is one of the reasons that the Fed delayed tapering its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program.
Flickr/Jerzy DurczakThe Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare, aims to get more Americans on health insurance. However, many economists agree that one of the direct impacts of this new legislation is more part-time jobs and reduced hours for workers. You see, under the employer mandate of Obamacare, businesses employing 50 or more workers will be forced to offer health insurance or pay a penalty of $2,000 per full-time worker (i.e., those working over 30 hours per week). The simple way to get around this penalty is obviously to reduce each employee's hours, but offset that by hiring more workers. "Our analysis of a similar program in Massachusetts suggested that this law could slow job growth in the United States," wrote UBS's Drew Matus in a June research note. "Given the impact on Massachusetts, we could see a reduction in job growth of almost 500,000 during the first few years of the actís implementation.† Alternatively, we could see more hiring driven by part-timers not eligible for health insurance (which could increase hiring) with a commensurate decline in the average workweek." Obamacare hasn't yet been implemented, but there's already numerous anecdotes showing that employers are already making changes. Here's a recent anecdote from The Economist: BEFORE the recession, Richard Clarkís cleaning company in Florida had 200 employees, about half of them working full time. These days it has about 150, with 80% part-time. The downturn explains some of this. But Mr Clark also blames Barack Obamaís health reform... Mr Clark says he is "very careful with the threshold". To keep his full-time workforce below the magic number of 50, he is relying more on part-timers. He is not alone. More than one in ten firms surveyed by Mercer, a consultancy--and one in five retail and hospitality companies--say they will cut workersí hours because of Obamacare. A hundred part-timers can flip as many burgers as 50 full-timers, and the former will soon be much cheaper. Part-time jobs have been a driver of new jobs this year, supporting the theory that this shift is happening nationally. But economists warn that Obamacare may be just one of many factors causing this. "Job growth has been overshooting GDP growth by a substantial margin this year," noted Credit Suisse's Neal Soss in an August research note. "And while there are numerous hypotheses as to why that might be happening (lower productivity, doubling-up of part-time workers due to Obamacare concerns, and others), none are entirely convincing." So, what do the jobs numbers actually say? Well, employers wishing to "game the law" would most likely be going after the jobs that are already near the 30-hour work week level. Wells FargoWells Fargo's John Silvia looked into this. "If managers were engaging in a conscious effort to reduce employee hours to less than 30 hours per week, so as to make those workers 'part-time' employees and, therefore, not subject to the employer mandate of the ACA, then it seems reasonable that hours would be falling most in industries closest to this cutoff point," wrote Silvia. "There is some indication that employers have been reducing hours in preparation for the ACA, but a slightly longer-term view of the macro data does not yet offer conclusive evidence on the prevalence of this practice." "There is no empirical evidence that hiring practices relate to concerns over benefits," argued Westwood Capital's Daniel Alpert on the matter. So, while it might make intuitive sense that employers would cut hours because of Obamacare, and while there may be anecdotes that employers are blaming Obamacare for reducing hours, the jury's still out on whether Obamacare is really having a material impact on the U.S. labor market.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew testifies before a Senate Banking hearing on "The Financial Stability Oversight Council Annual Report to Congress." on Capitol Hill in Washington, May 21, 2013.Treasury Secretary Jack Lew drew an official deadline of Oct. 17 for Congress to raise the nation's debt ceiling, after which he said the Treasury would not be able to meet all of its obligations. Lew sent another letter to Congressional leaders on Wednesday ó a follow-up to a late-August letter that warned of possible default in mid-October. After Oct. 17, Lew said, the Treasury would have only approximately $30 billion to meet all of its commitments. On some days, expenditures can go as high as $60 billion.† "If we have insufficient cash on hand, it would be impossible for the United States of America to meet all of its obligations for the first time in our history," Lew wrote in the letter. Analysts have begun to sound the alarm over the possibility of a default.†Chris Krueger, a D.C.-based analyst for†Guggenheim†Partners LLC, wrote in a market commentary Wednesday that there is a 40% chance of "technical default scenarios" as a result of the looming fight over raising the debt ceiling. What's more ó the 60% chance Krueger sees of no default is based on nothing more than "blind faith," he wrote. The full letter is embedded below: Debt Limit Boehner 
OracleAdmit it... If this was your boat, you'd do the same.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Oracle Corp CEO Larry Ellison skipped a keynote address at his software company's massive annual customer conference on Tuesday to be on San Francisco Bay as his Oracle Team USA made a comeback in the America's Cup. Hundreds of Oracle OpenWorld attendees streamed out of San Francisco's Moscone conference center after an Oracle executive announced that Ellison was still on a boat and would not attend the keynote presentation, a focal point of the annual event. America's Cup sailing is a major passion for Ellison, rivaled only by his focus on expanding what is already the world's third-largest software maker. Last week, Ellison was absent from Oracle's quarterly earnings conference call with analysts so that he could be close to the racing, which the sailing enthusiast has been viewing from a team speedboat. In the past, Ellison has used his OpenWorld keynote to attack rival companies and colorfully criticize their products to the delight of attendees. At least a few of the more than 60,000 people registered to attend this year's OpenWorld were disappointed by Ellison's absence. "I can understand his dedication to the racing, but it does send an interesting message to the audience here about his priorities," said Mason McDaniel, whose company spent a few thousand dollars in travel expenses to send him from Washington, D.C., to OpenWorld, one of San Francisco's biggest tech conferences. Oracle Team USA won its seventh straight race on Tuesday and looked set to keep the Cup from rival Emirates Team New Zealand. The Cup, which has gone on longer than expected due to unfavorable weather, will go to whichever team wins the next race, scheduled for Wednesday. Oracle Team USA won the America's Cup in Valencia, Spain, in 2010 and with it the right to set the rules for this year's competition, including choosing to hold the regatta on San Francisco Bay. (Reporting by Noel Randewich; Editing by Ken Wills)
Fraunhofer InstituteA German-French research team has created a solar cell that can convert 44.7% of the sunlight it receives into energy.¬† That's a new world record (though as CleanTechnica points out some places measure efficiency differently). According to a release from team co-leader the Fraunhofer Institute in Munich, the group created a solar unit made up of four solar cells stacked on top of one another. The cells were made of¬†nitrogen- and boron-based compounds that enjoy high conductivity or electron mobility ‚Äî basically, it's easier for charged particles to move through the cells. That technology was originally used in space applications.¬† The team also came up with a new way of binding the cells that further increased efficiency: "Besides improved materials and optimization of the structure, a new procedure called wafer bonding plays a central role. With this technology, we are able to connect two semiconductor crystals, which otherwise cannot be grown on top of each other with high crystal quality. In this way we can produce the optimal semiconductor combination to create the highest efficiency solar cells.‚Äù¬† The new cell would eventually be used in concentrated photovoltaic installations, which happens to be the fastest-growing type of solar power. Fifty percent efficiency is considered the symbolic holy grail within the solar world. Given this same team already had a world record of 43.6% in May before surpassing it with this new cell, that now seems to be within reach.
AP(Reuters) - Americans will pay an average premium of $328 monthly for a mid-tier health insurance plan when the Obamacare health exchanges open for enrollment next week, and most will qualify for government subsidies to lower that price, the Obama administration said on Wednesday. The figure, based on data for approved insurance plans in 48 states, represents the broadest national estimate for how much Americans will pay for health coverage under President Barack Obama's healthcare reform law next year. The prices of the new plans are at the heart of a political debate over whether they will be affordable enough to attract millions of uninsured Americans. Prices were lower in states with more competition among insurers and higher in states with fewer players, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) said in its report. Americans will be able to sign up for the new plans via online state exchanges beginning on October 1. "For millions of Americans these new options will finally make health insurance work within their budgets," HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said during a briefing with reporters. The Obama administration is counting on signing up 7 million Americans in the first full year of reform through the state exchanges, including 2.7 million younger and healthier consumers who are needed to offset the costs of sicker members. Debate over whether Obamacare will prove affordable for millions of uninsured Americans has been sharp during the past few months, as states have announced rates. States that have supported the law said it will lead to lower prices. Others that have opposed the reform - including Georgia, Florida, and Indiana - warned of "rate shock" for consumers compared to what they could buy on the individual insurance market a year ago. HHS said the average price was 16 percent lower than its own projections on premiums. In addition, consumers who earn up to 400 percent of the federal poverty level, or $62,040 for a couple, will qualify for subsidies that will lower the price further. TEXAS RATES BELOW AVERAGE The data is mostly based on 36 states where the federal government will operate the insurance exchange. About 14 other states and the District of Columbia are running their own exchange. Politics aside, states with the lowest average premium tend to have more insurance companies offering plans, the report said. It said eight issuers on average were selling plans in the states with average premiums in the lowest 25 percent, while states with average premiums in the top 25 percent had only three insurers on average. Texas has been among the Republican-led states most fiercely opposed to Obamacare, but its monthly rates came in below the national average, HHS said. In Austin, Texas, with 76 plans to choose from, a 27-year-old would pay $169 per month for the lowest cost mid-tier plan. In Dallas-Fort Worth, with 43 plans to choose from, that price was $217 per month, the report said. "The rates in Texas are looking good," said Gary Cohen, who is charged with overseeing the exchanges at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Enrolling enough consumers is key to making the healthcare overhaul work economically, with price considered the most important factor driving enrollment, according to insurance industry surveys. Another concern has been that insurance companies will limit access to doctors in order to keep prices low. Cohen said that these so-called "narrow networks" were a trend before the Affordable Care Act went into effect. The law was adopted in 2010 but two of its main pillars, the health exchanges and the expansion of Medicaid, take effect in 2014. Household names like UnitedHealth Group Inc, Aetna Inc, WellPoint Inc and Humana Inc will sell plans on at least some exchanges. Newcomers such as Medicaid specialist Molina Healthcare Inc will also play a role. (Reporting by Caroline Humer in New York; Additional reporting by Lewis Krauskopf in New York; Editing by Michele Gershberg and Lisa Shumaker) * On average (which doesn't exist). Not including tax credits. And not including the new taxes you may pay to fund the program.
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldFights about gold frequently get very heated, but this is the first time we've heard of it getting physical. Izabella Kaminska points us to this article in Santa Monica Mirror about a man who has been arrested for allegedly assaulting his girlfriend during a heated argument about gold. A 21-year-old Los Angeles man was arrested on Thursday, Sept. 12 after assaulting his girlfriend after becoming upset and agitated during an argument over the value of gold. ... The boyfriend had allegedly become upset and agitated because she was differing with him regarding the value of gold. She claimed that he informed her that he was always right, and was at that time resentful that she was daring to argue with him. He expressed his displeasure by pushing the victim to the ground, sitting on her, and punching her repeatedly on both of her upper arms. We're trying to learn more. Bail was reportedly set at fifty thousand paper US dollars.
Business InsiderSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is seeking to dazzle followers of the phablet with bigger screens, and even possibly with a curved one, in its attempt to fence off a segment of smartphones once mocked for their girth and size. Phablets, a cross between a phone and a tablet, have been on a roll since late 2011 as tech-savvy consumers, particularly in Asia, devote more time browsing data-heavy Web pages and downloading media content. Even Samsung's flagship Galaxy S4 smartphone, released in April this year, has a 5-inch screen that puts it squarely in the phablet category for some analysts. On Wednesday, Samsung kicked off global sales of its latest Galaxy Note 3 smartphone in Seoul. The phablet, which boasts a 5.7-inch screen and costs $990 in South Korea without a carrier contract, will be available in 140 nations by October. Analysts say the medium-term outlook for phablets is good, but price points and the lure of their smaller, more portable cousins will keep a lid on consumer enthusiasm. Canalys expects smartphones with 5.1-6 inch screens to make up 6 percent of the market in 2013. The Singapore-based research firm is estimating overall global shipments of 993 million smartphones this year. "We're certainly seeing a shift for large-screen phones, but the vast majority of volumes are sub-5-inch - over 90 percent," said Rachel Lashford, an analyst at Canalys. "We would need to see devices at lower price points and from a much wider range of vendors, including Apple, to go beyond these forecasts." The growing popularity of phablets has galvanized Western names into action. Google's Motorola unit recently launched a 5-inch Droid Ultra, and even Apple Inc, which has stuck to a 3.5-inch form factor for its iPhone since 2007 debut, is also exploring offering iPhones with larger screens, four people with knowledge of the matter said previously. Nokia had originally planned to launch a large-screen phablet in late September. "Samsung has been the leader in this trend, helped by its ability to create and drive the segment through significant advertising and marketing," Lashford said. GETTING EVER BIGGER Driving the phablet's shift to the mainstream is a confluence of trends. Users prefer larger screens because they are consuming more visual content on mobile devices than before, and using them less for voice calls - the phablet's weak spot. "When we first introduced the Note in 2011, a lot of people made a mockery of it and some even said it was doomed to fail," Lee Young-hee, executive vice president of mobile marketing at Samsung, recently told reporters. "But we noticed that people were carrying more than three devices on average such as phones, music players and gaming machines, and we thought people may want just one device that can do it all." Samsung says phablets are largely popular in markets such as China, South Korea, Europe and Southeast Asia. To increase the appeal of its phablet devices, the company has introduced accessories such as the Galaxy Gear smartwatch. The device allows users to make calls, displays messages, records videos and snaps photos, all while the user's phone stays in the pocket or handbag. Samsung is now planning to introduce a smartphone with a curved display next month, potentially another variant of the Note 3. The Note has since grown in stature every year since its first-generation 5.3-inch screen. The Note 3's screen is nearly two-thirds bigger than Apple's 3.5-inch iPhone, and manufacturers are increasingly adopting immense screens dangerously close to tablet territory. Huawei's Ascend Mate has an even bigger 6.1-inch screen, and Sony's Xperia Z Ultra boasts a 6.4-inch screen, making it only less than an inch smaller than Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet. Samsung's Galaxy Mega has a 6.3-inch screen. Samsung's domestic rival LG Electronics Inc is planning to launch its 5.2-inch Vu 3 on Friday. (Reporting by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Ryan Woo)
APAnalysts are beginning to warn about the possibility of a debt-ceiling crisis, as Congress is still in the midst of debating a continuing resolution to avoid a government shutdown.† Chris Krueger, a D.C.-based analyst for†Guggenheim†Partners LLC, wrote in a market commentary Wednesday that there is a 40% chance of "technical default scenarios" as a result of the looming fight over raising the debt ceiling. What's more ó the 60% chance Krueger sees of no default is based on nothing more than "blind faith," he wrote. "Putting the theatrics and brinksmanship around the government shutdown aside, at least there is a relatively clear path forward," Krueger wrote of the shutdown fight.  "The path forward on the debt ceiling remains a total mystery and our 60% probability that the U.S. will not enter into technical default scenarios is based on nothing more than blind faith." The nation's debt limit needs to be raised by mid-October, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said last month. The White House has said it won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling like it did in 2011, because of the precedent it fears it could set on negotiations revolving around the full faith and credit of the U.S.† Republicans are demanding some kinds of concessions in exchange for hiking the debt limit. House Republicans will push a bill this week that includes a laundry list of conservative "goodies" ó a delay in implementation of Obamacare, construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, and Medicare means testing, to name a few. Potomac Research Group also sounded the alarm over the debt ceiling in a research note on Wednesday. The group was perplexed that Wall Street hasn't been more wary of the looming crisis and said it might take a market freak out to force a deal.
August durable goods orders data are out. Total orders unexpectedly edged up 0.1% last month. Economists predicted a 0.2% decline. July's decline was revised down to 8.1% from 7.3%. Orders of durable goods excluding transportation were down 0.1%, versus expectations for a 1.0% increase. July's decline was revised up to 0.5% from 0.6%. Orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft (a.k.a. "core capex") rose 1.5%, versus expectations for a 2.0% increase. In July, core capex fell 3.3%. And shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were up 1.3%, versus expectations for a 1.5% increase. July's decline was revised up to 1.4% from 1.5%. "The report argues in favor of the FOMC‚Äôs recent decision to await further data points that might indicate sustainability of demand," says Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson. "While the report was not weak overall, it does not point to acceleration of activity at this stage." Click here for the full release ¬ª
Woods Entertainment / DimensionToday might be the day that debt ceiling concerns ‚Äî which have been most accutely felt in Washington, but which have been mostly ignored by Wall Street ‚Äî actually start breaking their way through into the minds of market participants. In a note to clients, DC-based research firm Potomac Research Group writes: "A Genuine Crisis Looms for the Markets on Debt Ceiling." They write: MEANWHILE, A MUCH BIGGER CRISIS LOOMS: Treasury Secretary Jack Lew had a chilling message yesterday: the government may have only $50 billion in cash on hand by mid-October; inflows and outflows sometimes exceed that amount every day.¬† This is a looming train wreck; a government shut-down, on the other hand, wouldn't affect much that's essential, and the public would hardly notice a brief shut-down.¬† THE DEFAULT THREAT: It's still a very low probability, but that probability is not zero.¬† As we wrote on Monday, if a default is imminent, we think President Obama would raise the debt ceiling by executive fiat.¬† But the chaos at Treasury leading up to such a crisis could result in some very scary headlines regarding Social Security checks, paying the troops, paying government vendors, etc.¬† This could become a headwind for the economy, as the FOMC undoubtedly concluded last week. They conclude that for this crisis to end, there might need to be a severe market reaction. Only then, perhaps, will someone blink. You can read here for our rundown of the argument that the market is being too ignorant about the risk of the debt ceiling on markets. The gist is basically this: The White House has said it won't negotiate on the issue. The GOP has no appetite for a clean raise. And the growing Democratic left will hem in The White House, preventing any possible deal. There's just no basis for a deal, nor is there one being worked out in the background.
Interesting nugget from Carl Quintanilla here. Twitter It's fascinating that markets surged in the instant after last week's decision not to reduce the pace of Quantitative Easing, and yet it's been falling since then. Not only is that extra bit of Fed easing not doing anything, but fears are definitely growing about what's happening in Washington DC, with the risk of a government shutdown and the debt ceiling.
ìIím starting to worry about a bubble. In some cities itís looking bubbly now,î Of course, real estate is a very local thing.† Shiller certainly knows that.† Heís not saying all markets look bubbly.† But he is saying some regions look bubbly: ìThe really dramatic cities tend to be cities that had bubbles in the recent past ñ California, Phoenix, Vegas ñ Itís regional somewhat. The northeast is relatively mild.î So letís put that in perspective.† The following charts are the big bubble cities.† They include Vegas, Phoenix, San Diego, San Francisco and Los Angeles.† These are cities where the price appreciation in the 2000's was off the charts.† Letís take the 30,000 foot view of whatís happened over the long-term: Pragmatic CapitalismLas Vegas Pragmatic CapitalismPhoenix Pragmatic CapitalismSan Diego Pragmatic CapitalismSan Francisco Pragmatic CapitalismLos Angeles Price changes vary quite a bit across these cities.† Vegas, for instance, is still 48% off the highs while San Francisco is just 20% off the highs.† You could get even more granular than that though.† I know for a fact that the coastal regions of San Diego are almost all back to their bubble highs or very close.† If you go further inland then the prices drop.† So it varies.† Obviously, the big money in California is on the coast so you have to be careful extrapolating too much out from coastal data.In general, real estate markets are hot right now and I know Iíve never seen so much building and activity in the San Diego area as I do today.† And if you list a home in a desirable area you better be prepared for a bidding war.† Weíll see if that continues into the winter months.† It usually doesnít, but who knows.† As Robert Shiller knows, those animal spirits often get the best of us.† But San Diego and the other California cities appear to be outliers.† After all, the national index is still down 20% from its peak after a 20% climb from the bottom in 2011.In sum, Iíd say thereís no bubble nationally and certainly no bubble in places like Vegas, Phoenix, but some of the California cities are starting to feel bubbly again, but not quite there yet.† Stay tuned.
wikipediaTrain service has been suspended on the Metro-North's New Haven Line from Stamford, Conn., to Grand Central Terminal,¬†MTA reports. Trains were halted around 6:30 a.m.¬†because of power problems caused by the loss of a Con Edison feeder cable. MTA says New Haven Line¬†can be used on the Harlem Line. Crews are currently working to get trains running again, and there is no timetable for when service would be restored. Metro-North is tweeting updates.¬†
REUTERS/Mohammed SalemYoung Palestinian groom Ahmed Soboh, 15 and his bride Tala, 14, stand inside Tala's house which was damaged during an Israeli strike in 2009, during their wedding party in the town of Beit Lahiya, near the border between Israeli and northern Gaza Strip September 24, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
In the wake of the bullish June jobs report, economist David Rosenberg declared that the "third act" of the economic recovery ‚Äî the labor market comeback ‚Äî was in "full swing." At the time, he offered ten reasons to love the jobs report. Unfortunately, the improvement we've seen in the labor market in recent months was not good enough for the Federal Reserve to begin tapering its stimulative large-scale asset purchase program, which currently includes the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. Rosenberg is among the many economists who continue to scratch their heads about the Fed's decision. In his Tuesday research note, Rosenberg offered five stats that suggest the labor market is actually in pretty good shape. SOME INTERESTING EMPLOYMENT DATA POINTS......ones that refute the Fed. For example: Gluskin Sheff, David Rosenberg
In his overview of the big topics that traders are talking about these days, Citigroup currency specialist Steven Englander cited the strength of the Euro has one of the big subjects of fascination. So it's worth pointing out, for people who might not realize, just how strong the currency has been. As you can see, in this chart from FinViz, the euro is close to levels not seen since 2011 against the dollar. FinViz As alsays, there will be a combination of factors. These include higher interest rates, the Fed's inclination to keep things very easy (especially of late) and the green shoots of the European economy.
Financial markets have stabilized a bit in India, but over the summer there was a lot of talk about the "rupee crisis" and the country's deteriorating conditions. So what now? Here from Morgan Stanley is the one-slide state of the Indian economy. Morgan Stanley
From Reuters, based on yesterday's Case-Shiller data. Reuters
Flickr / Vermin IncCitigroup FX maven Steven Englander has been visiting clients, and he relates 5 topics of interest that have come up. We summarize: Of the five, the fiscal issues one is going to grow in importance until it's all resolved. This is especially true if one buys the notion that financial market participants are not as aware of the risks as Washington insiders are, which is what Washington folk keep saying is the case.
C-SPAN After more than 13 hours, Texas Senator Ted Cruz is STILL talking on the Senate floor, arguing against funding Obamacare. Were he to be successful, there would almost certainly be a government shutdown, since Democrats will never agree to pass a budget that doesn't fund Obamcare. But as we explained yesterday, this would be a good, bullish thing. If there's no shutdown, then all this tension and anger gets transfered to the debt ceiling, which is a far more risky battle line, since it could mean default. A brief government shutdown makes the GOP look bad (most likely) and things would probably get resolved soon thereafter with no systemic risk.
Wikimedia CommonsIn an email to clients this morning, SocGen analyst Kit Juckes writes: There is a view in Washington that financial market participants are a bit too optimistic about the prospects for the US debt ceiling being raised. Guilty as charged. Observing a man holding a loaded shotgun, pointed at his own foot, I imagine common sense will prevail in time for tragedy to be avoided. And yet...... Juckes is correct here. There is definitely a gap between how Washington people feel about the debt ceiling and how participants in financial markets feel about it. Financial markets think it's all just noise. Washington types think it could be different this time. Back in July we highlighted the analysis of Eurasia Group's Sean West, who explained the debt ceiling dynamics, arguing that there was no inclination on either side for negotiation or a deal. The White House won't negotiate, Democrats don't want to negotiate, and the GOP is stuck in its positions. WSJ points out today that the rise of a resurgent liberal wing in the Democratic party is giving Obama less room than ever to negotiate on fiscal issues. At Wonkblog, they're talking about how 2013 could be worse than 2011. Ezra Klein and Evan Soltas: "There is, quite literally, no shared ground for a deal." Watch markets to see if the Washington view of things starts to take hold.
AP Photo/Steve HelberIt's nothing too dramatic, but markets are lower again, and there's a bit of a trend happening. Japan fell 0.76%. Germany is off 0.45%. Italy is off a fraction. Shanghai fell 0.4%. US futures are down a little bit. We're now almost a week removed from the FOMC meeting, and we've more than erased all of our flash No-Taper gains. Meanwhile, the (possible) government shutdown and the debt ceiling are gaining traction in people's minds. These negative stories will only metastasize in the news, taking up more and more airtime over the coming days.
MacArthur FellowshipKaren Russell, 32, is a fiction writer in New York City and among the 24 MacArthur Fellows of 2013.The names of 24 MacArthur Fellows were revealed at midnight on Wednesday, bestowing recipients with a gift of $625,000, paid over five years, to be spent anyway they choose.† The so-called "genius awards" from the†John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation have been handed out to around two dozen creative and talented Americans from all different fields every year since 1981.† The no-strings-attached money is intended to give recipients the freedom to pursue new ideas or move forward with their current work. † No one can apply for the awards. The fellows are chosen by an anonymous panel of experts, who inform the winners through a telephone call just a couple days before the official announcement.† This year, the fellows range in age from 32 to 60. There are several artists including a concert pianist, a playwright, and a choreographer of classical ballet. The other fellows include an organic chemist, a medieval historian, a behavioral economist, and an immigration lawyer.† You can see the full list of fellows at the MacArthur website.†
