Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderDan Greenhaus of BTIG thinks that Wall Street might be sleepwalking into what's looking more and more like a real economic disruption. In his note tonight, he says that a government shutdown should practically be assumed, and that an increased fiscal drag (due to the sequester kicking in) should probably be factored in as well. It got only modest attention -- more evidence that Wall Street is tuning out K Street -- but Politico‚Äôs lead story this morning said that ‚ÄúThe idea of allowing the country to default by refusing to increase the debt limit is getting more widespread and serious traction among House Republicans than people realize, though GOP leaders think shutting down the government is the much more likely outcome of the spending fights this winter.‚Äù (The WSJ touches on this as well). At this point, we have to assume the government shuts down, even if temporarily and in coming days, we‚Äôll have more on the economic/market effects of the last government shutdown. In addition, if Republicans opt to allow sequestration to take effect as planned rather than agree to a deal without ‚Äúsignificant‚Äù spending cuts, we would have to revisit our market/economic forecast. It might have been reasonable to assume the spending cuts wouldn‚Äôt take effect until later in the year or even 2014. That seems increasingly less likely and if so, the fiscal drag on the economy in the second half would be larger and by extension, the outlook for (select areas of) the equity market more difficult.
The Atlantic just published an article about the Church of Scientology that was written by the Church of Scientology ("sponsor content.") The article, not surprisingly, is quite flattering. And the Atlantic's readership, not surprisingly, is aghast. In the interest of contrast, we thought we would bring to your attention another article about the Church of Scientology. This other article was written by Lawrence Wright of the New Yorker. It might be described as a "devastating expose." Wright's article centers around the story of one of Scientology's most famous defectors, a Hollywood screenwriter named Paul Haggis. It also draws a profile of Scientology's leader, David Miscavige, the beaming fellow in the Atlantic advertorial above. The article describes how Scientology targets and uses celebrities like Tom Cruise to raise money, recruit adherents, and spread its "technology" (teachings). It also notes that David Miscavige's wife disappeared six years ago.†
Tweaking taxes and spending might be able to alter the size of the deficit at the margins, but as we've been talking about lately, today's massive deficit is largely the result of the weak economy. The reason the deficit has swollen is not because of some big entitlement/big government crisis, but because unemployment has surged. The deficit will get much smaller as unemployment continues to drop. So it's cool to see more stuff like this from mainstream pundits, like David Frum: Daily Beast In the post, Frum notes that the deficit is down 9 percent from last year, mostly due to the improving economy. The news last week that California is coming back is also a major revelation to people. It reveals that deficits aren't this huge sign of a structural problem, but just what you expect to see in a major downturn. And now people are talking about the national budget shrinking faster than expected. Here's Goldman's Jan Hatzius, from his 10 Questions for 2013 note: As the private sector balance sheet adjustment comes closer to completion, we expect the government deficit to diminish gradually; the fiscal adjustment shown in Exhibit 3 will push in the same direction. By 2015, we expect the federal deficit to be down to $500bn, or just under 3% of GDP. If this forecast is correct, concerns about the federal deficit are likely to diminish over the next few years. Deficit fears are on the downslope. The only way we can screw it up is by cutting spending too soon!
Another day, another Nikkei rally. Same as usual, as it's combined with a weaker yen. Stocks up 1%. 
APBoth Obama and Geithner chimed in on the debt ceiling today. Obama gave a press conference. Geithner sent a letter to Congress. The most important part of Geithner's letter (which built upon what Obama said) had to do with what would happen in the debt ceiling breach, where he enumerated everything that wouldn't get funded: The U.S. government makes approximately 80 million separate payments per month.† These include payments for Social Security; Supplemental Security Income; Medicare; Medicaid; national security needs, including military salaries, military retirement, veteransí benefits, and defense contractors; income tax refunds; federal employee salaries and retirement; law enforcement and operation of the justice system; unemployment insurance; disaster relief; goods and services sold to the government under contracts with small and large businesses; and many others.† If Congress does not act to extend borrowing authority, all of these payments would be at risk.† This would impose severe economic hardship on millions of individuals and businesses across the country. It is important to point out that extending borrowing authority does not increase government spending; it simply allows the Treasury to pay for expenditures Congress has previously approved.† Failure to meet those obligations would cause irreparable harm to the American economy and to the livelihoods of all Americans.† Even a temporary default with a brief interruption in payments that Congress subsequently restores would be terribly damaging, calling into question the willingness of Congress to uphold Americaís longstanding commitment to meet the obligations of the nation in full and on time.† It should also be noted that default would increase our borrowing costs and damage economic growth and therefore add to future budget deficits, not decrease them.† This is why no President or Secretary of the Treasury of either party has ever countenanced even the suggestion of default on any legal obligation of the United States. Notice the one thing Geithner doesn't say? He doesn't say that a debt ceiling breach would result in not making interest payments. The term "default" gets thrown around a lot, and a lot of people seem to suggest that if the country doesn't make its legally obligated to, say, Social Security, ten that would be a kind of "default." And although that would be an economic calamity, there is an order of magnitude difference between not making a payment to an entitlement recipient, and not making a coupon payment on a US Treasury, an instrument that's at the heart of the global financial system, and is the very definition of a safe asset. As one analyst put it, the US actually defaulting on the debt itself would be the financial equivalent of the Hieronymous Bosch painting depicting hell. Hell coupled with complete chaos. Of course, to believe that the Treasury can make interest payments, while not making other payments, is to believe that the Treasury has the ability to "prioritize" payments, which is both a legal and technical nightmare. The Treasury has been extremely cagey about what it can do, but here Brad Plumer at Washington Post makes a key observation: In theory, Treasury might be able to prioritize bond payments above all else, says Steve Bell of the Bipartisan Policy Center. The computer system that handles U.S. sovereign debt, Fedwire, is separate from the system overseeing payments to government agencies and other vendors. Yet itís unclear whether Treasury has the legal authority to prioritize in this way ó the agency has never dealt with this situation before. ìAnyone who says they know for sure whether this is legal is not telling the truth,î says Bell. So it's not preposterous that the Treasury might be able to technically prioritize US sovereign debt. And both Geithner and Obama omitted bond payments from those things that would not get made in a true debt ceiling breach. There's no doubt that breaching the debt ceiling would be a major legal and economic calamity, but the ability to keep making bond payments (if you think that's what these puzzle pieces indicate) represent the difference between a calamity and an epic calamity. SEE ALSO: Obama explains why he won't negotiate on the debt ceiling &gt;
CNBCStocks are near their 5-year highs. However, fund manager John Hussman warns that the current market conditions have a history of being unfriendly to stocks. From his latest Weekly Market Comment: Last week, the S&amp;P 500 came within 1% of reprising a syndrome that we‚Äôve characterized as a Who‚Äôs Who of Awful Times to Invest, featuring a Shiller P/E over 18 (S&amp;P 500 divided by the 10-year average of inflation-adjusted earnings), the S&amp;P 500 more than 50% above its 4-year low and 8% above its 52-week smoothing, investment advisory bulls (Investors Intelligence) over 47% with bears below 27%, and Treasury bond yields higher than 6 months earlier. This combination is one of numerous and nearly equivalent ways of defining an ‚Äúovervalued, overbought, overbullish, rising-yields‚Äù syndrome. While there are certainly numerous conditions that are informative about stock market returns, and capture a much broader set of negative market outcomes, I don‚Äôt know of any other syndrome of market conditions ‚Äì however defined ‚Äì that has been so consistently hostile for stocks over the past century. ¬† Hussman lists 11 other periods when the markets exhibited similar characteristics to the markets today: December 1972 - January 1973 (followed by a 48% collapse over the next 21 months) August - September 1987 (followed by a 34% plunge over the following 3 months) July 1998 (followed abruptly by an 18% loss over the following 3 months, and at the beginning of a nearly 14-year period where the S&amp;P 500, including dividends, has underperformed Treasury bills, with the S&amp;P 500 nearly 30% lower four years later) July 1999 (followed by a 12% market loss over the next 3 months, and a series of whipsaw recoveries and losses, with the S&amp;P 500 over 40% lower three years later) January 2000 (followed by a spike 10% loss over the next 6 weeks, a series of whipsaw recoveries and losses, and finally a bear market that took the S&amp;P 500 over 45% below its Jan 2000 level by late 2002) March 2000 (followed by a spike loss of 12% over 3 weeks, and a 49% loss into 2002) July 2007 (followed by a 57% market plunge over the following 21 months) January 2010 (followed by a 7% "air pocket" loss over the next 4 weeks, with a recovery into April and then a renewed decline, leaving the S&amp;P 500 about 11% lower by July) April 2010 (followed by a 17% market loss over the following 3 months) December 2010 (near the start of QE2, and followed by a 10% further advance in the S&amp;P 500 into May 2011, when an additional syndrome emerged that was also observed last week ‚Äì see Extreme Conditions and Typical Outcomes ‚Äì¬† whereupon an 18% market plunge wiped out the entire gain, and then some). March 2012 (followed by a further advance of about 3% over the following 3 weeks, and then a quick if unmemorable market decline of nearly 10%). Read more at HussmanFunds.com.
Retailers are missing out on a key demographic and trillions of dollars by not catering more to Third World countries, according to Nobel Prize-winning diplomat Kofi Annan.† "People at the bottom control trillions of dollars," Annan said in a keynote address at the National Retail Federation convention in New York. "Companies often produce for the middle and upper classes, but the base also has needs."† The Third World is "waiting for retail," Annan said, noting that six of the 10 fastest-growing economies are in Africa.† "I often see people in Nigeria and South Africa buying and wearing things they don't need," Annan said. "I ask 'why would you wear this here? Why would you buy it?' and they answer it's because they saw it on television." Companies entering these countries should work with small farmers and businesses in the region to best-reach the consumers, Annan said.† "You don't walk into a situation and act like you know better than the natives," Annan said. "You listen to them."† Annan also commented on the ethical standards big corporations should have when manufacturing overseas.† "I always tell big companies that they shouldn't need a law to offer fair wages or ensure that operations don't pollute drinking water," Annan said. "But I don't ultimately blame the companies, I blame the officials who let it happen."† DON'T MISS:†How Retailers Track Your Every Move &gt;
AP ImagesJust out.... Tim Geithner has sent a letter to John Boehner and other Congressional leaders about raising the debt ceiling. Current timing is for the Treasury to run out of room to maneuver between mid-February and early March. ¬†Geithner says: just raise it! ------------ The Honorable John A. BoehnerSpeakerU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC¬† 20515¬†Dear Mr. Speaker:I am writing to provide additional information regarding the extraordinary measures Treasury has undertaken in order to avoid default on the nation‚Äôs obligations.¬†Treasury currently expects to exhaust these extraordinary measures between mid-February and early March of this year.¬† We will provide a more narrow range with a more targeted estimate at a later date.¬† Any estimate, however, will be subject to a significant amount of uncertainty because we are entering the tax filing season, when the amounts and timing of tax payments and refunds are unpredictable.¬† For this reason, Congress should act as early as possible to extend normal borrowing authority in order to avoid the risk of default and any interruption in payments.If the extraordinary measures were allowed to expire without an increase in borrowing authority, Treasury would be left to fund the government solely with the cash we have on hand on any given day.¬† As you know, cash would not be adequate to meet existing obligations for any meaningful length of time because the government is currently operating at a deficit.The U.S. government makes approximately 80 million separate payments per month.¬† These include payments for Social Security; Supplemental Security Income; Medicare; Medicaid; national security needs, including military salaries, military retirement, veterans‚Äô benefits, and defense contractors; income tax refunds; federal employee salaries and retirement; law enforcement and operation of the justice system; unemployment insurance; disaster relief; goods and services sold to the government under contracts with small and large businesses; and many others.¬† If Congress does not act to extend borrowing authority, all of these payments would be at risk.¬† This would impose severe economic hardship on millions of individuals and businesses across the country. It is important to point out that extending borrowing authority does not increase government spending; it simply allows the Treasury to pay for expenditures Congress has previously approved.¬† Failure to meet those obligations would cause irreparable harm to the American economy and to the livelihoods of all Americans.¬† Even a temporary default with a brief interruption in payments that Congress subsequently restores would be terribly damaging, calling into question the willingness of Congress to uphold America‚Äôs longstanding commitment to meet the obligations of the nation in full and on time.¬† It should also be noted that default would increase our borrowing costs and damage economic growth and therefore add to future budget deficits, not decrease them.¬† This is why no President or Secretary of the Treasury of either party has ever countenanced even the suggestion of default on any legal obligation of the United States.Protecting the full faith and credit of the United States is the responsibility of Congress because only Congress can extend the nation‚Äôs borrowing authority.¬† No Congress has ever failed to meet that responsibility.¬† It must be understood that the nation‚Äôs creditworthiness is not a bargaining chip or a hostage that can be taken to advance any political agenda; it is an essential underpinning of our strength as a nation.¬† Threatening to undermine our creditworthiness is no less irresponsible than threatening to undermine the rule of law, and no more legitimate than any other common demand for ransom.In an address to the nation in 1987, President Reagan said, ‚ÄúUnfortunately, Congress consistently brings us to the edge of default before facing its responsibility.¬† This brinkmanship threatens the holders of government bonds and those who rely on Social Security and veterans benefits.¬† Interest rates would skyrocket.¬† Instability would occur in financial markets and the federal deficit would soar.¬† The United States has a special responsibility to itself and the world to meet its obligations.¬† It means we have a well-earned reputation for reliability and credibility ‚Äì two things that set us apart in much of the world.‚ÄùPresident Obama has put forth detailed proposals to restore fiscal responsibility to the federal budget, and he strongly believes Democrats and Republicans should join together to reduce our deficits.¬† In the meantime we must protect America‚Äôs creditworthiness by ensuring that our government can pay the bills it has already incurred.¬† Therefore, I respectfully urge Congress to meet its responsibility to the country by extending normal borrowing authority well before the risk of default becomes imminent.Sincerely,¬†Timothy F. Geithner¬†Identical letter sent to:¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, House Democratic Leader¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Harry Reid, Senate Majority Leader¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Mitch McConnell, Senate Republican Leader¬†cc:¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Dave Camp, Chairman, House Committee on Ways and Means¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Sander M. Levin, Ranking Member, House Committee on Ways and Means¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Max Baucus, Chairman, Senate Committee on Finance¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Honorable Orrin G. Hatch, Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Finance
JPMorgan Chase received a cease-and-desist order from the Fed to take corrective action in its chief investment office following the "London Whale" trade. The bank also received an order to enhance its anti-money laundering compliance. Regulators use cease-and-desist orders to make banks to improve areas of compliance weakness, according to Reuters. Here's the release:† The Federal Reserve Board on Monday issued two consent Cease and Desist Orders against JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co., New York, New York (JPMC), a registered bank holding company. The first order requires JPMC to take corrective action to continue ongoing enhancements to its risk-management program and its finance and internal audit functions, particularly in regard to JPMC's Chief Investment Office (CIO). The Board's order follows the disclosure of significant losses in a large synthetic credit portfolio that was managed by the CIO. The second order requires JPMC to take corrective action to enhance its program for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering requirements at JPMC's various subsidiaries. The bank has 60 days to submit its written plan, the order states [.PDF].
By lululemonathletica on FlickrShares of yoga pants-maker Lululemon are down 7 percent in after-hours trading. The company just published revised financial guidance, which is disappointing investors. From the press release: For the fourth quarter, the Company now anticipates that net revenue will be at the high end of its original guidance range of $475 million to $480 million based on a comparable-store sales percentage increase in the high single digits on a constant-dollar basis. The Company also now expects diluted earnings per share will be $0.74 for the quarter. The previous guidance for the fourth quarter was a range of 0.71 to $0.73. EPS guidance continues to assume 145.9 million diluted weighted-average shares outstanding and a 29.4% tax rate. This updated revenue guidance is much weaker than the $489 million analysts were forecasting. The stock, which was trading in the single-digits in 2009, closed at $72.30 today.
Bloomberg TelevisionBen Bernanke gave a speech Monday afternoon at the University of Michigan's Ford School of Public Policy, followed by a Q&amp;A. In addition to questions from the audience, Bernanke took questions from Twitter via the hashtag #FordSchoolBernanke. Below is our liveblog of the event: University of Michigan staff have taken the podium to introduce Bernanke. Bernanke is now taking the stage. Bernanke says there are two big fiscal issues we need to think about. The first is the long-term sustainability of our debt. Bernanke said the second issue in some ways sounds contradictory to the first: we want to avoid fiscal actions that will push the economy back into recession. Bernanke cites the "fiscal cliff" as an example. Bernanke says the "fiscal cliff" deal that was struck made "some progress" toward the first issue. It also made a "good start" on removing components that would harm the economy. Bernanke: "I should hasten to say we are not out of the woods." Bernanke says not everyone understands what the debt ceiling is about. He clarifies that raising the debt ceiling gives the government the ability to pay existing bills ‚Äì not authorize future spending. Bernanke says if the U.S. were allowed to go over the fiscal cliff, it probably would have caused a recession this year. That risk has been curbed a bit with the recent "fiscal cliff" deal. Bernanke says the Fed has succeeded through quantitative easing in bringing long-term interest rates down, and it reduced mortgage rates to a "credibly low" level. Bernanke says the Fed will first look at the impact on financial markets in assessing the impact of the Fed's actions ‚Äì also, whether the labor market situation is improving. Bernanke says he sees some "modest improvement" in the labor market, but is looking for a stronger labor market, with broader improvement. Bernanke says the pace of growth has not been as strong as you would normally think would be needed to get improvements in the labor market, but nevertheless, the unemployment rate has fallen from around 10 percent to 7.8 percent. Bernanke says "there's no completely new method" of monetary policy the Fed hasn't explored and says asset purchases and communications policies are the two main tools at the Fed's disposal. Bernanke says state and local governments ‚Äì which have been in contractionary mode since the crisis ‚Äì are looking stronger than they did before and will no longer be a drag on the economy. Bernanke says the U.S. energy industry is looking stronger as well. Bernanke says the University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment indicator is one of the "very best guides" to how the consumer is feeling. Bernanke says the inflation rate is very low and appears to be on track to stay below 2 percent. Unemployment is still very high but has been coming down slowly. High unemployment motivates and justifies the Fed's current monetary policies. Bernanke says he doesn't see much evidence of inflation from Fed monetary policy. He believes the Fed has all of the tools it needs to unwind stimulus before inflation becomes a problem. Bernanke says financial stability risks arising from Fed policies are "a difficult issue." However, the Fed has tried to shore things up by increasing capital held by banks, making derivatives markets more transparent, etc. Bernanke says as the Fed evaluates its policies, it looks at benefits as well as risks. It wants to make sure its actions are justified in a "cost-benefit" framework. Bernanke says raising interest rates would increase budget deficits, making fiscal problems all the more difficult ‚Äì therefore, raising rates wouldn't be sensible action to get Congress going on budget negotiations. Bernanke says one lesson from the Great Depression is to not let monetary policy get too tight. Bernanke says global growth has been slower partly because of the euro crisis. Also, the slowdown in China was partly a policy goal aimed at rebalancing the Chinese economy. Bernanke says U.S. export data have been "pretty weak" recently. Here come questions from the audience. The first question, of course, is about the trillion dollar coin.¬†Bernanke says, "we didn't think this was the right way to deal with this problem...I don't think that going off in that other direction would be all that helpful." Bernanke says the debt ceiling has "symbolic value." Essentially no other countries have it. Bernanke says asset bubbles are very, very difficult to anticipate, but the Fed can try to strengthen the financial system by increasing the amount of capital and liquidity that banks hold, by increasing supervision of banks, by making sure every financial institution is at least supervised by somebody. Bernanke says there is a lot of disagreement in monetary policy's role in creating asset bubbles. Bernanke says the Fed's attitude is that they need to be open-minded about it. Bernanke says that the Fed was created in 1913 not to conduct monetary policy but to prevent financial panics. Bernanke takes the first Twitter question. Why does the Fed continue to "undershoot" its inflation target? Bernanke says that the short-term interest rate is close to zero, and that the Fed is now in the world of nonstandard policies. The Fed has to pay very close attention to the costs and risks of these policies. Bernanke says inflation is close to the target and adds that "it's not radically far from the target." Bernanke says a better way to communicate interest rate guidance than providing a projected calendar date for policy shifts is quantitative thresholds, like the ones the Fed adopted in December. Bernanke says the main benefit is that it allows greater clarity on how policy will evolve given changes to the economic outlook. Bernanke says the main area of financial reform that has been neglected is that of government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Bernanke says the trouble with "Audit the Fed" is that that is not what it's about. The Fed's books are audited by an outside, private-sector accounting firm. Furthermore, the Fed's books are open to the Goverment Accountability Office, and the central bank has an independent inspector general. However, Bernanke says there is one exception. The GAO cannot audit monetary policy decisions. The "Audit the Fed" bill would undo that provision. Bernanke says investigation of why the Fed chooses particular monetary policies by Congress would be the first step toward the Fed giving up independence in monetary policymaking. Bernanke says auditing the Fed has "nothing to do with the financials," but is politically driven. Bernanke says he reads blogs and that the medium has become pretty important for intellectual exchange. That concludes the Q&amp;A. ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the release of a new speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke at 4 PM ET at the University of Michigan's Ford School of Public Policy. The Ford School's website describes the event as a "conversation...on monetary policy, recovery from the global financial crisis, and long-term challenges facing the U.S. economy." Bernanke will take questions from the audience and from Twitter via the hashtag #FordSchoolBernanke. Given the market's recent uncertainty surrounding when the Federal Reserve may move to slow or halt bond buying under its quantitative easing program, Bernanke's words will be closely parsed for anything that may clarify the outlook. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale economist Michala Marcussen wrote in a note to clients this morning, "Favourable data will keep the debate on when the Fed will end asset purchases top of the list of market issues (next FOMC on 29-30 January). We expect Chairman Bernanke, speaking Monday, to reiterate the need for the Fed to keep its foot on the accelerator for now. Our central scenario sees QE continue into late 2013." Note: A live webcast of the event can be viewed on the Ford School's website. We will have LIVE coverage beginning at 4 PM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
The Minerva ProjectFounder and CEO Ben NelsonThere's a massive problem in higher education. The number of people qualified to attend the world's best universities who don't get the chance to do so is growing. At the same time, the cost of attending college has risen to the point where people question its value, and student debt is skyrocketing.† The Minerva Project and its founder Ben Nelson, the former CEO of Snapfish, are making an ambitious effort to fight both problems. Their goal is to attract the best and brightest young students in the world without a traditional campus, while charging tuition "substantially less than half" of what they do in the Ivy League. Former Harvard President and Treasury Secretary Larry Summers chairs the advisory board; and, former Nebraska governor, U.S. senator, and the New School president emeritus, Bob Kerrey, will be executive chairman of the Minerva institute. Benchmark Capital, one of the world's most prestigious venture capital funds, put $25 million into it during its very first round of fundraising. The Economist says it's "one of the biggest seed investments of a leading Silicon Valley venture firm ever." The first class is expected in 2015. All courses will be taught in seminar form, via live streaming from around the world, giving the organizers an incredible amount of flexibility, which is at the core of what's an intriguing idea.† Today Minerva announced the creation of the†Minerva Institute for Research and Scholarship, which aims to solve two of the problems the project hadn't thoroughly addressed yet: research, and creating opportunities for every student. "That's effectively what this most recent announcement is aboutóthe foundation of the Minerva Instituteówhich will have a role of both promoting scholarship for our students and getting them up the curve and learning how to be the world's most impactful creators, as well as supporting our faculty in their pursuit of generating meaningful knowledge, CEO Ben Nelson said." In an interview with Business Insider, Nelson outlined the overall idea behind the school, how it plans to get both the world's best professors and highest-performing students on board, and how it's solving that thorny research problem.† The bottom line?† According to Nelson, Minerva's a response to an enormous demand gap, and to the fact that we need an elite university built for this century, not another built "in a 19th century context."† "That's effectively what Minerva is, so we really are taking every aspect of the university and rethinking it from scratch, and imagining, if we wanted to create the world's greatest university today, what would it look like?" That includes rethinking everything from how the faculty's assembled, to admissions policies, to tuition, to how students will live.†† The pitch that got Larry Summers, Bob Kerrey, and Benchmark on board.† "The pitch for Minerva is actually very straightforward," says Nelson argues. It all comes down to supply and demand. There aren't nearly enough spots at elite schools for the students brilliant enough to attend them. There hasn't been a new, elite research university created since the late 19th century. Since then, there's been a massive increase in demand as women and ethnic and religious minorities joined the pool. In response, elite universities increased their class size. Then came the 1980s, which saw demand explode even more. The need for blind admissions policies, according to Nelson, "effectively quintupled" the market for elite universities. Then came the end of the Cold War. "When that happened the international demand jumped by a couple of orders of magnitude," Nelson said. And that's not just people who want to go, that's people who are absolutely qualified to.† The response of elite universities? They froze the size of their incoming classes. "Effectively, the Ivy League's incoming class today hasn't even tracked population growth over the last 25 years," Nelson said.†† How big is the potential pool for Minerva? In Nelson's words, "very, very, very large." "If you look at a traditional university, we characterize their admissions philosophy as having a high floor and a low ceiling. It means that it's obviously very difficult to get into any Ivy League university," Nelson said, "but, because of their capacity constraints, depending on factors that are completely nonacademic, your likelihood of getting in is dramatically different." Think of Stanford, which just won the Rose Bowl. They only admit 1,700 hundred students, but have too many elite sports teams. Then you add the issue of diversity. Universities concentrate on that, and there's nothing wrong with that, but it does create a problem. "Because the highly qualified kid from New York doesn't have the 'right parents' or doesn't have the right throwing arm, he's kind of screwed," Nelson pointed out.† The problem's even worse for international students. Seven percent of Stanford's class is non-American. Harvard accepts around eight students from China each year. That leaves thousands, if not more, domestic Ivy League-caliber students who don't get into the Ivies or their peer institutions, and by Nelson's calculations, "orders of magnitude" more international students, because the U.S. is only five percent of the world's population.† The pool gets even bigger when you look at the options available in students' home countries. Many countries may have top tier institutions in a few fields, but are completely lacking in others. † "Let's say I'm a brilliant kid growing up in India. But I don't want to be a doctor and I don't want to be an engineer. Therefore, I don't want to go to IIT or IIS," Nelson said. "I want to be an economist, I want to study political science, I want to study philosophy. Right? Where do I go? There actually is not a single institution of the caliber of any top tier university in the world that teaches those subjects at an undergraduate level.†So we provide that opportunity." Assembling a world-class faculty without shelling out millions to poach them Maybe the most important part of creating a new university to challenge the Ivies is getting world class faculty. Minerva doesn't want to go out and say, "We'll pay you 20 percent more if you come and leave Harvard and Yale and come to us." Nelson said,†That's both very expensive, and worse, it's actually very bad for the industry. What they do want to do is pick up the top talent that gets stuck in what Nelson calls "transition points"óthe areas where bright people stall because there's simply no room.† Nelson gave the example of a friend of his who teaches philosophy at Berkeley who described a grim job market for graduates. "There were two, and I kid you not, two postings for professors of logic open in the country," Nelson said. "I will tell you that there are more than two PhD graduates from excellent institutions who have concentrated in logic." That's one of the four major transition points Minerva has identifiedóthe transition from PhD to associate professor, where there simply aren't enough jobs. This is an opportunity to get formal training and experience in teaching, do research, and publish, which puts those graduates in a better position to move to a top tier institution.† The second transition is from assistant to associate professor, where great professors don't quite get tenure. Nelson had an experience many people can relate to, where a beloved professor didn't get tenure because they hadn't published quite enough. "When you don't get tenure at Penn you don't wind up going to Princeton. Right? You wind up dropping a couple of 'tiers.'"† Minerva hopes to provide an opportunity for these sorts of people to take a couple of years to publish and burnish †their credentials so they don't necessarily have to drop down to a lower-tier institution just because their seven years ended at the wrong time for their department. The third point is dual academic households. Think of a doctor who wants to go work at UCSF, but is married to an economist. UCSF is only a medical school, so what's his spouse going to do? Because Minerva faculty can teach from anywhere, it can help resolve what's become a significant problem. The final option is emeritus professors who still want to work, but want to live somewhere other than the last place they happened to have taught.† It's a faculty model that works with, rather than against, existing institutions, without having to pay massive salaries to poach people, and without sacrificing quality.† Providing an opportunity to professors left behind by the current system is one part of building a great faculty. The other is the opportunity to do great research. Minerva doesn't want to build massive labs, but professors sometimes need them. They will provide all of the support needed to write grants, but the experience will be very unique. "Whenever there's overhead that's necessary for a research project, it is built just in time, not necessarily built but actually charged for, outsourced," Nelson said. "So as an example, there are entire biotech companies now that don't own a single lab, what they do is outsource their experiments to labs in India and they get the results back and continue to iterate on them in that fashion, and those labs in India are open 24 hours a day, so there's absolutely no lag." That doesn't mean researchers who want to work in a lab won't be able to find one, because they can live anywhere in the world. "For example, if they want to sit in a lab they can go and [collaborate] with a scientist in Germany, they can go to the Max Planck institute," Nelson explained, "and even though we pay their salary, they can be working alongside their colleague and sitting on their bench for free." The same goes for professors who work extensively in the field. The final point, which Nelson hopes will be particularly appealing, is that Minerva won't claim any part of the intellectual property researchers create because they won't be paying infrastructure costs, unlike Universities, which get a chunk and manage commercialization. Getting students to take a chance† Beyond the fact that there's a massive population of brilliant students who are effectively locked out of an Ivy caliber education, Nelson argues that Minerva has something to offer students, to convince them to take a chance on a new model. "I think the preponderance of our students will come simply because they believe in what we want to do and are excited by our educational system," Nelson said.† Additionally, the experience is going to be dramatically different from anything else available. "At Minerva we will facilitate and expect our students to live in 7 different countries by the time they graduate. So they live in the U.S. or their home country for their first year, going through our core curriculum, and then every semester thereafter they move from city to city, to the city of their choice," Nelson told us, "so they can go to Moscow and London, another student can go to Beijing and Mumbai, another student will go to Rio and Sydney, and another student will go to Johannesburg and Jerusalem." They'll have residence halls in a range of cities, where students will live together, but no central campus.† Additionally, everything will be in a seminar format. "There are no lectures at Minerva. Every single one of our courses is meant to provoke and actually change your perspective of the world." Completely changing the admissions process When it comes to aptitude, Nelson expects Minerva will be harder to get into than Harvard.† Applicants will have to demonstrate the ability to handle an intellectually rigorous curriculum, with good grades and good test scores. But they won't have to write an essay. According to Nelson, people often just pay someone else to write their essays. "The more you pay someone the better your essay will be, and that's generally what happens," Nelson said. "We don't think that that's necessarily a fair thing to do." What differentiates their admissions process is the interview. "We†interview the students. And in the interview we'll actually do a battery of tests that will look at their potential as far as leadership, grit, creativity, analytics, etc." So once you demonstrate that you're "Ivy caliber as far as smart," you have to show that you have these additional abilities to get in. However, the big difference is that "if you pass those tests, you're in. There are no waiting lists, there's no well, we will get back to you later. If you pass our bar, you will have an opportunity to get into Minerva," Nelson said.† "What will never happen at Minerva is a student who is qualified who meets our bar but we say, 'we already have too many of you, so you're rejected,'" Nelson said.† The business side of the equation† The first thing to realize is that Universities are an incredibly good business. "The fact that Harvard has a $37 billion endowment is not because it's a non-profit organization, it's because it's a for-profit organization, and rather than paying out taxes on its profits, it puts it on its endowment." Minerva hopes, by being narrowly focused, appealing to a huge pool of untapped demand, and dramatically reducing costs, they can be a big player in that business. They won't have an ever-increasing infrastructure, they won't have a University-sponsored athletic system, they won't have major labs, they won't offer courses and majors that require intensive lab resources, like mechanical engineering, and they'll have a vastly smaller administration.† All of that means that they will take out an "enormous percentage" of the costs of running a University. They won't spend it on advertising like some lower end universities.† Those savings are going to go into creating a good experience, and into lowering tuition dramatically. "We really are going to spread our message by going and identifying the best students and talking to them, which is far more capital efficient." "Obviously room and board is room and board, we have to eat and we have to live, and we don't know how to make that much cheaper," Nelson said, "but we certainly know how to bring tuition dramatically down and we think that's going to be very important." NOW READ: 30 People With "Soft" College Majors Who Became Extremely Successful
The markets didn't move much.† But trouble may be brewing as the U.S. inches closer to its debt ceiling. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,507, +18.8, +0.1 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,470, -1.3, -0.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,117, -8.1, -0.2 percent And now the top stories:
Contrarian EdgeStock prices have more than doubled since their lows of March 2009. But when you look at the stock market since 2000, prices have effectively gone nowhere. And Vitaliy Katsenelson, author of The Little Book of Sideways Markets, believes stocks could go sideways for another decade. "12 years into this sideways market, valuations are still 30% above the historical average, while in 1982 they were about 30% percent below average!" he writes.† "Also, historically, stocks spent a good amount of time at below-average valuations before sideways market turned into a secular bull market." In a presentation he recently gave to the CFA Society of Atlanta, Katsenelson closely reviews the history of secular bull and secular sideways markets. In addition to pointing to above-average valuations, he argues that this current sideways market can persist because of higher taxes, lower government spending, heavy global debt, historically high profit margins, and overcapacity in China among other things. Thanks to Vitaliy Katsenelson for giving us permission to feature his presentation.
Flickr user: essygieGoldman Sachs has a crafty, though controversial scheme, to wait until April before paying out bonuses in the UK, the Financial Times reports. The delay is a plan to lower the amount of taxes payed to the British government. The bank is reportedly planning to wait until April 6 to pay deferred bonuses. This is due to the fact that the UK's top tax rate (¬£150,000 or $240,000) will drop from 50% to 45% on that date. Deferred bonuses from 2010, 2011, and 2012 are thought to be being delayed, and other banks are now believed to be considering following Goldman's lead ‚Äî the FT says around half of the top 20 are considering it. Predictably, the British aren't too pleased about the plan. Even though it is completely legal, it could be expensive for the British government ‚Äî one estimate suggests the government lost around ¬£16 billion ($25 billion) when banks moved their bonus dates earlier to avoid the implementation of the 50% tax in 2010. Independent columnist Simon English sums up the reaction to the move with a story titled "Memo to Goldman Sachs: This is (partly) why people hate you". Pressure is now building on George Osborne to introduce "emergency measures" to ensure banks pay the bonuses before the new tax year begins, according to the Independent.
Bloomberg broke the news that the struggling hardware company is talking to banks and private equity firms about possibly going private. In Q3, it missed analyst estimates that it would generate $13.9 billion in revenue, coming in at $13.7 billion. According to Gartner, PC sales were down 5% over the holidays. So how would the doctors of Wall Street deal with this patient? To buy the company from shareholders, they would do a standard private equity leveraged buyout ‚Äî a deal in which the purchasing price of a company is financed by equity and debt. Industry folks told Business Insider that the deal would likely require two big players in the private equity space (Think: KKR, Blackstone, TPG) going in on the deal together ‚Äî a "club deal." What PE investors see when they look at Dell is a cheap company with $11 billion in cash and good cash flow. "The question is 'how fast is the decline?'" one analyst told Business Insider. "People aren't buying PCs anymore... You would need to write a $5 billion equity check." That check would lever the company 4 times and puts the purchasing price at $13.00 per share (it's currently trading at $12.60). Michael Dell owns 16% of the company, and that could make the deal easier for PE firms, but currently the company is levered 2x ‚Äî it's holding some debt that would require refinancing ‚Äî so the deal would need to include that. "It's a stable business with great cash flow... would de-lever pretty quickly," the analyst continued. "Plus PE firms bring leaner management and operations so you could cut costs. I think someone would buy it and spin it out into two divisions. A lot of companies like Oracle and Cisco could want the server and storage business. Maybe Microsoft wants the PC business." In short, start your engines. And below, check out the quick math a PE analyst did for Business Insider: 
The word of the day is "crexit," which was coined by Allianz Chief Economist Michael Heise.¬† This is the idea that Greek will exit from its economic crisis this year. However, many point to a speech given by European Central Bank president Mario Draghi as the turning point for the eurozone crisis as a whole. "Draghi‚Äôs comments ‚Äúwithin our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro‚Äù turned sentiment and substantially reduced break-up risk," write Deutsche Banks economists. Here's a chart from the bank's latest House View presentation.¬† It's the percentage of investors expecting a country to exit the Eurozone over next 12 months.¬† As you can see, fears of a breakup have tumbled since Draghi's comments. Source: Sentix GmbH, Bloomberg Finance LP, Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank Research

FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Barry Ritholtz - The 10 Most Significant Trends For 2013 (The Washington Post) "The revenge of John Bogle continues apace. As investors figure out that they are not good at stock-picking or managing trades, they have also learned that most professionals are not much better. Paying high mutual fund expenses to a manager who underperforms a benchmark makes little sense. This realization has led to the rise of inexpensive exchange-traded funds and indices." That sums up the first of Ritholtz's 10 trends to watch for 2013. The VIX Is The Stock Market's Version Of Seinfeld (Barron's) "The VIX is Wall Street's version of the Seinfeld TV show: much ado about nothing. Anytime anyone wants to say something seemingly insightful about stock trading, the CBOE Volatility Index (ticker: VIX) is trotted out. The options market is filled with the smartest stock investors, and this index supposedly reflects what they are doing. ‚Ä¶If the options market has any message for investors, it is that stocks‚Äîand thus the CBOE Volatility Index‚Äîare stuck in purgatory. ...The real meaning to extrapolate from the VIX's decline is that bearish puts and bullish calls aren't trading with fear-and-greed premiums. With many stocks near 52-week highs, puts and calls now offer cost-effective ways to wager on earnings. Many investors are doing just that ahead of this week's stream of earnings reports from major banks, including JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Bank of America (BAC)." FINRA's List Of Investments That It Is Watching In 2013 (The Wall Street Journal) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has announced the investments that it cites as its most unsuitable products for 2013. This includes business development companies, nontraded real estate investment trusts and leveraged loan products. "Finra is particularly concerned about sales practice abuses, yield-chasing behaviors and the potential impact of any market correction, external stress event or market dislocation on market prices. ‚Ä¶The commercial mortgage-backed securities space, in particular, has seen a significant compression in risk premium in 2012 as investors have bid up prices and driven down yields while default rates remain high as compared to historical norms." Stocks Will Go Sideways For A Decade (Vitaliy Katsenelson) Vitaliy Katsenelson, Chief Investment Officer at Investment Management Associates, writes that stocks are headed sideways for a decade.¬† "12 years into this sideways market, valuations are still 30% above the historical average, while in 1982 they were about 30% percent below average!" he writes.¬† "Also, historically, stocks spent a good amount of time at below-average valuations before sideways market turned into a secular bull market." Vitaliy Katsenelson, Contrarian Edge ¬† The Biggest Surprise Tail Event That Nobody Is Predicting (JP Morgan) JP Morgan's Adam Crisafulli says 2013's tail risk is one that no one expects. "The ‚Äúmacro‚Äù is fading ‚Äì the last several years have seen markets swing violently in reaction to a succession of tail-events and while future problems are a certainty there seems to be too much of an eagerness to search out the next big ‚Äúmacro‚Äù event.¬† At this point the next big ‚Äútail event‚Äù could be an extended period of no tail events." 3 Ways Bad Guys Use Data For Evil (Aswath Damodaran) NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran writes that data is often intentionally misinterpreted and misrepresented to back up "specious arguments in multiple settings".¬† He says data is used to 1) Intimidate - People are swayed by mathematical arguments even if they make no sense. "I have seen corporate financial analyses and valuations where analysts use table after table of numbers, to bludgeon others into submission, using acronyms, jargon and Greek alphabets to further the rout." 2) Mislead - "If you have access to a great deal of data, you can parse the data and choose pieces to back up a preconception or argument that you want to advance." 3) Deflect and evade responsibility - "Many analysts use data to avoid making tough judgments about businesses or dealing with uncertainty."
Earlier today, President Barack Obama almost dared Republicans to not increase the nation's borrowing limit¬†in a White House press conference. "If Congressional Republicans refuse to pay America‚Äôs bills on time, Social Security checks, veterans benefits will be delayed," Obama said. "... Investors around the world will ask if the United States of America is in fact a safe bet. Markets could go haywire. Interest rates would spike for anyone who borrowed money." One analyst ‚Äî¬†Michael Feroli, the chief economist at JP Morgan ‚Äî speculated what such a situation might look like, specifically if the U.S. missed a payment to bondholders.¬† It ‚Äúwould be like the financial market equivalent of that¬†Hieronymus Bosch painting of hell,‚Äù Feroli told the Washington Post. The painting is titled "The Garden of Earthly Delights" and is believed to have been painted by Bosch sometime between 1490 and 1510. Here's what that painting looks like. The far right panel is the "hellscape." Wikimedia commons Check out the full Washington Post piece here &gt;
Earlier today, President Barack Obama spoke about the urgency of raising the debt ceiling at a his final first-term White House press conference. Midway through, Major Garrett of CBS reminded the President of harsh objections to his plan from a young, ambitious Senator. In 2006, then-Sen. Barack Obama gave a floor speech defending his decision to vote against an increase in the debt ceiling under President George W. Bush.¬† In it, he decries the soaring national debt, using language that would inspire a Republican this year.¬† In 2006, Republicans were on the other side of the debate, adamant about raising the debt ceiling under Bush. For instance, right after Obama's floor speech, Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley gave a speech urging his fellow senators to raise the debt ceiling.¬† Here are¬†some of the key parts of Obama's speech: Mr. OBAMA: Mr. President, I rise today to talk about America‚Äôs debt problem. The fact that we are here today to debate raising America‚Äôs debt limit is a sign of leadership failure. It is a sign that the U.S. Government can‚Äôt pay its own bills. It is a sign that we now depend on ongoing financial assistance from foreign countries to finance our Government‚Äôs reckless fiscal policies. [...]Increasing America‚Äôs debt weakens us domestically and internationally. Leadership means that ‚Äò‚Äòthe buck stops here.‚Äô‚Äô Instead, Washington is shifting the burden of bad choices today onto the backs of our children and grandchildren.¬†America has a debt problem¬†and a failure of leadership. Americans¬†deserve better.¬†I therefore intend to oppose the effort to increase America‚Äôs debt limit.¬† In the midst of the first debt-ceiling standoff in 2011, Obama was asked about his flip by ABC's George Stephanopoulos. He chalked it up as a "political vote" and said his mindset changed as President. "That was just an example of a new senator making what is a political vote as opposed to doing what was important for the country," Obama said then. "And I'm the first one to acknowledge it." Find Obama's full 2006 speech here &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsThe idea of circumventing the debt ceiling via the creation of a Trillion Dollar Coin first gained momentum a couple of weeks ago after it was suggested by New York Congressman Jerry Nadler in an interview with Reid Pillifant of Capital New York. That such an outside-the-box, yet economically sound argument came from Nadler wasn't a big surprise, as Nadler (who represents much of Lower Manhattan) has a history of showing depth in his thinking beyond that of the typical Congressman. Watching Washington deal with the debt ceiling can be a scary proposition, given the seriousness of the issue, combined with the ignorance, but there are some who get it. In light of the death of the Trillion Dollar Coin, we caught back up with Nadler to get his take on it, and more broadly what Congress should be doing to help the economy. On the deficit, he says what virtually no other politician will say, that it's too small: "I think the deficit is not our immediate problem, our immediate problem is unemployment and frankly, I think right now, we should be running a higher deficit, temporarily, to get the economy into high gear." He also characterized Europe, which has been trying austerity for two years, as a rare real-time economics experiment: "I often say in my speeches, I say, it‚Äôs rare in life that you get a controlled scientific experiment. 'Cause you can‚Äôt do controlled scientific experiments with real people, normally. But you have it, and if you grasp the economics of the economic recoveries from 2007 in Europe and the United States, they matched, until 2010, when they start to collapse. And then it diverges, and we keep going up, slowly." Given the unpopularity of more deficit spending, can the public ever be convinced we need to spend more? Here Nadler blames Obama for ceding too much ground and accepting the GOP premise that spending cuts are needed... "Because when the presidents sets the basic terms of the argument, that defines sort of the outer limit to a lot of extent." As for the debt ceiling, he's very concerned, and he says the best hope is that Wall Street and big business will simply bring enough pressure on the GOP to wake them up. Big thanks to BI intern Lisa Mahapatra for transcribing the below Q&amp;A. ----------------------------- BI: What do you think of the coin rejection? Rep. Nadler: I don‚Äôt understand why the president unilaterally disarmed even if he doesn‚Äôt want to use it, why not just keep it in his back pocket, follow what Carney said last week... and let them think, you know, that the threat is there. BI: Right. Rep. Nadler: He says he‚Äôs not going to negotiate, and god knows that I hope he won't, but when it comes to the deadline and they haven‚Äôt raised the debt ceiling, what happens then?...I hope he doesn‚Äôt negotiate at that point. BI: So you think he‚Äôll basically have to negotiate, having taken all these off the table. Rep. Nadler: I don‚Äôt know. Because Wall St. and big businesses are going to push very hard on the Republican party not to go into Terra incognita, which terrifies them, and it should terrify them. And the Republicans may cave to that. They may not. I hope they do, and I hope they never get to that point. If we get to that point, it would be very good if we had that, if he had that in his backpocket. BI: Let‚Äôs just take a step back for a minute, forgetting the current debt ceiling negotiations, and what‚Äôs your general view, I mean I know like, it seems to me that you have a higher understanding of economics than many congressmen, even the fact that you understood the coin proposal and understood that it wasn‚Äôt a joke. What do you think the government‚Äôs responsibility right now is, in terms of running deficits instead of stimulating the economy. Rep. Nadler: I think the deficit is not our immediate problem, our immediate problem is unemployment and frankly, I think right now, we should be running a higher deficit, temporarily, to get the economy into high gear. We‚Äôre in a very slow recovery, unnecessarily so. The deficit has come down from 10.1% percentage in 2009, to 7.1% now, without doing anything. I mean if we could have unemployment down to 5%, which it was in 2005, that would reduce the deficit by 40% by itself. I think this austerity policy of chasing this whole grand bargain thing, I don‚Äôt agree with. I don‚Äôt think we should be cutting spending at all, except the spending that is really unnecessary, like the military. And even then, cut that, but increase resourceful (resources) spending. The real reason we have this high deficit we do is because of the counter-Cyclicals, unemployment insurance, food stamps, which is what we‚Äôre supposed to do. I think trying to reduce the deficit right now is wrong, because this position is going to keep the economy in the doldrums and keep the depression going longer and it‚Äôs self-defeating. You look at Europe. I often say in my speeches, I say, it‚Äôs rare in life that you get a controlled scientific experiment. Cause you can‚Äôt do controlled scientific experiments with real people, normally. But you have it, and if you grasp the economics of the economic recoveries from 2007 in Europe and the United States, they matched, until 2010, when they start to collapse. And then it diverges, and we keep going up, slowly. BI: Do you think the public could be made to understand this argument. It‚Äôs very, economists understand this very well, and the idea that we should be running higher deficits to counteract the slump, but is this a message that can get through? Rep. Nadler: I think the problem is, it‚Äôs practically impossible to get the public to buy that, as long as the president doesn‚Äôt. If the president buying into the notion that the deficit is a big problem or that we‚Äôre going to have a grand bargain.. Do we revenues as well as cuts, but still do cuts. Very difficult to do against that from the left. BI: Do you think that the left cedes too much, is that what you‚Äôre saying, it cedes too many of the premises of the right about the benefits of cutting spending? Rep. Nadler: I don‚Äôt know, I said from the left meaning... I think the president seems to have ceded the basic argument. And that‚Äôs a problem for all of us. Because when the presidents sets the basic terms of the argument, that defines sort of the outer limit to a lot of extent. BI: Where does your understanding of economics come from, most congressmen don‚Äôt grasp the stuff and don‚Äôt seem to think about it like this. Why do you understand it so well? Rep. Nadler: I read a lot, I don‚Äôt know. BI: Who do you like to read? Rep. Nadler: Who do I like to read? I certainly like to read Paul Krugman, his columns, his blogs. I read, you know various books: currently I‚Äôm reading a book, the Donald Bartlett book, The Betrayal American Dream. I‚Äôve read most of Bob Kutner's books. BI: Are there other people in the congress that sympathize with you? You just don‚Äôt hear many politicians talk like this. Rep. Nadler: There are people who agree. Quite a few people in the progressive caucus that if you look at the progressive caucus budgets, that we vote on every year that we get generally 90 to 100 votes, those budgets either as an alternative democratic budget, we vote the democratic budget and the progressive caucus budget, and subsequent resolutions, those budgets are based on the premises that I‚Äôve been articulating. Based on the fact that we should not be trudging along austerity, that we should be priming the pump and doing straight Keynesian economics. BI: Do you believe that the US could theoretically have a debt crisis or do you think premise, just the idea that that could happen in the US is incorrect? Rep. Nadler: I don‚Äôt know about could, I assume you could conjure up far-fetched circumstances in which it could occur, but it‚Äôs certainly not a likely scenario in the relatively near future. I mean right now, we‚Äôre selling our bonds at negative interest rates. I don‚Äôt see that. BI: Now that the coin idea has been taken off the table, you know there‚Äôs still some people that think there might be some other loopholes, like the IOU idea. Do you think the White House has any backup options at this point? Rep. Nadler: I don‚Äôt know, I don‚Äôt understand. I read something about the IOU thing, I don‚Äôt really understand it, I don‚Äôt know. They‚Äôve taken the 14th amendment off the table, they‚Äôve taken the trillion dollar coin off the table. The coin, I mean the 14th amendment, I‚Äôve read good constitutional arguments on both sides, and there‚Äôs not decent court precedent. But the coin is so clearly legal, so clearly does the job, I don‚Äôt understand why they took it off the table, I don‚Äôt understand where they are at this point. As I said, I don‚Äôt know what actions there are at this point, other than they should have Wall St., big business gets the Republicans backing down. I should tell you, I am sponsoring a bill, introduced last September, in the last congress, I‚Äôm going to reintroduce it this week, on Wednesday, just to repeal the debt ceiling. Because it‚Äôs obviously now become a tool of extortion. But we should have done that a long time ago.' BI: Do you believe that, when the Republicans say that hitting the debt ceiling doesn‚Äôt necessarily imply default on interest payments specifically, what do you make of that argument? Do you think prioritization is technically possible? Rep. Nadler: I don‚Äôt know, I‚Äôm not an economic expert in the operations of the government to be able to answer that. I do know, I think I read that there were 100 million checks written, I don‚Äôt know, that it‚Äôs mostly computerized, that even if you wanted it, tried to prioritize it, it‚Äôs not going to clear if in fact you physically could. And that may be the case but even so, to say that you‚Äôre going to prioritize, to say that you‚Äôre not in default if you‚Äôre paying the interest on the bonds, but you‚Äôre not sending out social security checks, not paying the military, you‚Äôre not sending veteran‚Äôs benefits, those are defaults on contractual obligations. And legal obligations. I don‚Äôt think, the market would look very differently, if you paid the bonds‚Äô interests and you can get away with that for a while, by not paying all the other people, government collapsed and people starved, because they‚Äôre not getting social security checks, I suspect that the markets would not brightly on that. BI: You think the best hope is that big business and Wall Street puts pressure on the Republicans, do you see evidence of that happening in a way you didn‚Äôt see in 2011. Rep. Nadler: Oh yeah, I think we do see evidence that. I don‚Äôt think in 2011 anyone took seriously how limiting these people were. I know that now, and i think that they‚Äôre beginning to really try to put on the pressure. Whether they, certainly work on people like Boehner, it won‚Äôt work on some of these people we‚Äôve seen talk about prioritizing and default and so forth ‚Ä¶ how that will work out I don‚Äôt know. BI: Thank you. ----------------------------------------- SEE ALSO: White House rules out trillion dollar coin option &gt;
Professional wealth managers have long been criticized for charging more than their services are actually worth. But getting routed by an animal that spends 20 hours a day either asleep or scratching itself is a new low.¬† In a recent¬†stock-picking challenge, the¬†UK Observer pitted a trio of investment managers against two groups of amateurs: a handful of high school students, and a house cat named Orlando.¬† The cat won.¬† Each team started the year with¬†¬£5,000 in capital to invest in five companies from the FTSE All-Share index. After each quarter, they could swap out whatever stocks they chose, if any. While the two-legged participants picked stocks the old-fashioned way, Orlando chose by tossing a toy mouse onto a grid of numbers that designated different companies.¬† Things were looking up for the pros by September, when they showed a profit of¬†¬£497 compared to the cat's ¬£292. But Orlando really turned up the heat in the last quarter of 2012, increasing his profit to an impressive¬†¬£5,542.60 and beating the professionals by ¬£366. The students fell in third place.¬† Here was the cat's winning strategy, per the Observer:¬† "All but one of Orlando's stocks (Morrisons) rose during the last three months of the year, including specialist plastics and foam company Filtrona, which Orlando had hastily swapped for under-performing Scottish American Investment Trust in September. By contrast, the professionals refused to swap any stocks at the end of the third quarter and paid the price. British Gas fell by 19% and Imagination Technologies dropped by 16.8%, dragging their portfolio down by an average 7.1%." This isn't the first time professionals have been beaten by "lesser than" competitors. In a study by UC Berkeley's¬†Terry Odean, he found stocks that professional fund managers sold off actually performed 3.2 percent better annually than the ones they purchased for their clients. Taking into consideration the average 3 percent fund managers charge clients in fees, it's a pretty significant finding. The cat's victory ought to make Economist Burton Malkiel smile, too. It was in his controversial book "A Random Walk Down Wall Street," that he claimed a "blindfolded monkey" could put together an investment portfolio better than a paid professional. See Also:¬†10 mistakes that turn investors into their own worst enemy &gt;¬†
Bear in mind: The Post and Fox Business are both owned by News Corp. That said, the real drama went down last week at the Consumer Electronic Showcase in Las Vegas. Fox Business reporter Liz Claman, a CNBC alum, was there, and she's been gaining a reputation for bagging interviews with high-level execs. However, when Fox Business got an interview with TiVo Chief exec Tom Rogers and the Jets' Tim Tebow (he's the star of TiVo's ad campaign), CNBC was not happy. It didn't help that Rogers used to be an NBC president either. The networks also reportedly fought over Kaz Hirai, the CEO of Sony. The only high-level guest that only went to Fox was AOL CEO Tim Armstrong, but still, according to the NY Post's sources. From the NY Post: Our snoops say other top executives were given much the same treatment from CNBC: Itís us first and nobody else second ó or else... One senior executive involved in the p.r. wranglings said, ìThis has been going on for a number of months, but itís gotten to a hysterical level. . . . Everybody has a tough schedule; it really felt like they [CNBC] were coming unhinged.î Can't we all just share and get along?
David CameronEvery Monday, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale Global Head of Economics Michala Marcussen puts together a list of the top questions her team is getting from clients. Last week, a curious candidate for the chief concern on investors' minds rose to the top of the list:†Will the U.K. exit the EU? Marcussen writes (emphasis added): A week of marketing in North America saw this question pop with surprising frequency. In our opinion, a UK EU exit would cause very substantial damage to the UK economy (around 50% of UK exports go to the EU, many foreign direct investments (FDI) to the UK are motivated at also by the EU membership and Londonís position as a financial centre relies on strong ties to EU). Over the weekend, Labour leader Ed Miliband warned that a referendum was not in the UKís national interest. Michael Heseltine, a former Tory Minister and advisor to the current government on economic growth warned that ìto commit to a referendum about a negotiation that hasnít begun, on a timescale you cannot predict, on an outcome thatís unknown, where Britainís appeal as an inward investment would be the centre of the debate, seems to me an unnecessary gamble.î PM Cameron is expected to use his speech in the Netherlands on 22 January to announce that the UK will seize the opportunity of a major revamping of the EU Treaties to renegotiate its membership terms and put this to a referendum after 2015 (assuming PM Cameron wins the general election). MARKET ISSUES: Even if the UK ultimately remains in the EU, which is our base case, uncertainty alone can exert significant damage. Investments will be the leading indicator to watch, and notably foreign investments to the UK.† AFP's Danny Kemp is reporting today that David Cameron's speech on the EU has been moved up to this Friday, January 18. Observers have been waiting for this speech for a long time, writes Kemp: Months of uncertainty over the timing of his announcement on the EU -- dubbed simply "The Speech" in the British press -- fuelled claims that Cameron was wavering over his policies. The speech was originally expected just before Christmas 2012, then Cameron said it would be in mid-January, and finally there were widespread reports it would take place on January 22. But then it emerged that date clashed with the deeply symbolic reconciliation anniversary between EU big guns France and Germany, and -- with Cameron already short of friends in Brussels -- Downing Street changed again. Cameron said earlier on Monday that the speech was "largely finished and ready to go." Marcussen doesn't make any trading recommendations, but Cameron's speech Friday will be of interest to investors, nonetheless. MORE:†Here's The Real Story Behind The Diving Currency That's Causing The Nation Of Hungary To Attack Nouriel Roubini &gt;
An interesting slide from BofA/ML technical analyst Mary Ann Bartels, who sees a risk of a 10-15% "correction" in 2013. But based on past patterns with trading ranges (a range she says has gone back to 1999, and which has echoes in the past) 2013 could be your last chance to buy before stocks go up, up, and away. BofA/ML
CorcoranEric J. Gleacher, founder of Gleacher &amp; Company, a boutique investment bank in Manhattan, is selling his six story Upper East Side townhouse for $30 million, the NY Times reports (h/t Curbed). Glecher founded Lehman Brothers' Merger and Acquisitions department in the 1970s, and then headed up global M&amp;A at Morgan Stanley from 1985 to 1990 before founding his own shop. That's impressive, and so is the house. From the NY Times: The 20-foot-wide town house has seven bedrooms, five bathrooms, two half baths, a chef‚Äôs kitchen, a formal dining room, a parlor and four working fireplaces. Most of the building has high ceilings and well-maintained herringbone hardwood floors. Light streams in from three south-facing windows on each floor at the front of the house, and there are outdoor spaces throughout, including a patio garden off the ground-floor family room, a planted terrace with a wrought-iron trellis off the formal dining room on the second floor, another terrace off the rear bedroom on the fourth floor, and the deck on the roof. Gleacher paid $11 million for the property in 2005 according to city records. Corcoran's Carrie Chang has the listing.
APIn the final press conference of his first term, President Barack Obama warned he would not negotiate with Republicans who he said were holding "a gun at the head of the American people" over raising the country's debt ceiling. Obama's near hour-long news conference focused heavily on two topics: the looming need to raise the country's borrowing limit and the White House's plan to curb the nation's rash of gun violence. Throughout his press conference, Obama urged Congress to raise the debt ceiling without any fanfare. It came on a morning when†Politico†reported that†some House Republicans are willing to test the limits of defaulting†on the nation's debt in order to force spending cuts from Obama.† Sometimes, Obama did that more colorfully than others. "I'm happy to have that conversation," Obama said of future deficit-reduction talks. "What I will not do is have that negotiation with a gun at the head of the American people." Later, he compared it to a "dine-and-dash" situation at a restaurant. Obama said not raising the debt ceiling would be a "self-inflicting wound on the economy," delaying payments to Social Security beneficiaries and veterans. "I want to be clear about this," he said. "Raising the debt ceiling ... simply allows the country to pay for spending Congress has already committed to.†The debt ceiling is not a question of authorizing more spending. "The full faith and credit of the United States economy is not a bargaining chip," Obama added.†"The financial well being of the American people is not leverage to be used.†To even entertain the idea of this happening, of America not paying its bills, is irresponsible.†It is absurd." Signaling another revenue fight, Obama said that future deficit-reduction must be done in a "balanced" way with a mix of tax revenue and spending cuts. He noted that he was open to "modest adjustments to programs like Medicare." "The issue here is whether or not America pays its bills. We are not a deadbeat nation. ... There's a very simple solution to this. Congress authorizes us to pay our bills." The White House has ruled out getting involved in raising the debt ceiling, ruling out the options of minting a trillion-dollar platinum coin and the 14th Amendment as possible work-around solutions if Republicans refuse to raise the nation's borrowing limit. Obama stressed that raising the ceiling was Congress' responsibility ó saying twice that "we are not a deadbeat nation" that should be arguing about whether to pay its bills. "There are no magic tricks here. There are no loopholes. There are no easy outs. ... The consequences of us not paying our bills would be disastrous," Obama said. Obama blamed Republican skittishness on raising the debt ceiling on various "suspicions" ó he suspected himself that their insistence on spending cuts was not about debt reduction alone. "It seems as though what is motivating this from the House Republicans is more than debt reduction," Obama said. "They have a vision about what government should and should not do. They are suspicious about government policy commitment to make sure that seniors have decent health care as they grow older. They have suspicions about Social Security. They have suspicions about whether government should make sure that kids in poverty are getting enough to eat or whether we should be spending money on medical research." In response, House Speaker John Boehner challenged Obama to come up with "meaningful action" to reduce future spending. ìThe American people do not support raising the debt ceiling without reducing government spending at the same time," Boehner said in a statement. "The consequences of failing to increase the debt ceiling are real, but so too are the consequences of allowing our spending problem to go unresolved. Without meaningful action, the debt will continue to act as an anchor on our economy, costing American jobs and endangering our childrenís future. The House will do its job and pass responsible legislation that controls spending, meets our nationís obligations and keeps the government running, and we will insist that the Democratic majority in Washington do the same.î In his press conference, Obama also touched on the White House's planned steps to combat the nation's recent rash of gun violence. Vice President Joe Biden is expected to deliver his recommendations on Tuesday, and Obama said he would present the recommendations sometime this week. "My starting point is not to worry about the politics, my starting point is to think about what works, what makes sense," he said. He hinted that a renewed assault weapons ban and limits on high-capacity magazines are things that continue to "make sense." "Will all of them get through this Congress? I don't know. ...†If there is a step we can take that will save even one child from what happened in Newtown, we should take that step," Obama said. He added that he could "accomplish" some measures through "executive action," specifying it was related to "how we gather data." He also went after the pro-gun lobby for "ginning up fear" of gun-grabbing in the wake of the White House's planned proposals. "It's unfortunate. But that's the case," Obama said.†
Here's a quick guide to the world's big risk from Deutsche Bank's Outlook 2013 presentation. Deutsche Bank
High Frequency EconomicsGerman GDP declined in the fourth quarter according to most estimates. While there is some speculation that Germany will bounce back as soon as the second half of 2013, High Frequency Economics' Carl Weinberg isn't so optimistic given the country's current path: "Many people have already started speculating that this economy will right itself as soon as the second half of this year. We do not see any reason for it to do so." Why? Tight money and credit, mostly, according to Weinberg. Then there's slowing exports, thanks to a sagging European economy, tight fiscal policy, slow investment and flat real wages. However, one way Germany could prevent a downwards economic spiral is to let go of austerity and loosen fiscal policy. Not only could they afford to, thanks to a deficit that's well within Euroland norms, this would also be politically palatable.¬† From Weinberg: "We believe the biggest surprise for traders and investors this year will be a dash of deficit spending to stimulate demand, initiated in the current quarter to yield fruit by elections next fall. Having achieved substantial austerity and reduced its operating deficit to well within Euroland norms, Germany‚Äôs government has the scope to increase its deficit by 1-to-2% of GDP. This would likely improve the sitting government‚Äôs reelection chances." Of course, if Germany were to loosen fiscal policy, it would really upset its neighbors. After all, they've been pushing for higher taxes, trimming public sector spending and cutting entitlements in pretty much every Eurozone country there is. Beyond that, the only real tangible disadvantage of loosening fiscal policy could be that interest rates for German bonds would likely start trending upwards. But this would probably happen anyway. "Deficit spending by Berlin would surely steepen the Bund yield curve," wrote Weinberg.¬† "This would happen anyway, since Bunds pay zero real yield, which cannot persist in a normal world. Policy will only accelerate the correction of yields to more normal levels."
YouTubeGyˆrgy MatolcsyToday, Hungary's economy minister, Gyˆrgy Matolcsy,†blamed NYU economist Nouriel Roubini for last week's sharp depreciation of Hungary's currency, the forint. Matolcsy cites Roubini's recommendation to bet against the forint in a note to clients of his economic research firm last Tuesday ñ but†the forint weakened during most of Tuesday's trading and continued to sink on Wednesday. It wasn't until Thursday that the currency began to plunge. A few minutes ago, Roubini's firm struck back at Matolcsy on Twitter: We can't take credit for the forint plunge - blame Hungaryís controversial policy and weak macro fundamentals. roubini.com/forum#thought.Ö The reason cited by both banks to expect a weak forint is actually Matolcsy himself. The man is widely expected to become the next president of the Hungarian National Bank when the current president's term expires in March. If he does, he will lead the central bank through a significant shift in its policy approach. Sure enough, on Thursday, Matolcsy published an article containing what were perceived to be dovish comments, and the forint began its tumble. The Wall Street Journal's†Margit Feher reports: Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy, who is widely tipped in the local press as the leading candidate to head the central bank from March, said Thursday that keeping the forint strong between 2002 and 2010, when the Socialistsñthe biggest opposition grouping to the current governing Fidesz partyñwere in power, was a mistake. ìUnder the orthodox economic thinking, it looked rational to draw loans in low-interest euros and Swiss francs to amass most of the state debt in a foreign currency, Ö†to keep the forint strong because that would rein in inflation and let the budget deficit widen above 3% of gross domestic product. These decisions proved catastrophic after the crisis,î†Mr. Matolcsy said in a book review he wrote for political weekly Heti V·lasz. Below is a five-day chart of the euro against the Hungarian forint (click to enlarge): Thinkorswim The forint was already weakening before Thursday's dive, though. The Hungarian National Bank has cut interest rates at several of its recent policy meetings and is expected to continue doing so. Interestingly, Hungary's central bank is undergoing the same transformation as many central banks in the developed world, most notably the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, and the Bank of Japan. It's expected to factor economic growth more heavily into its monetary policy decisions ñ alongside inflation, the more traditional standard ñ as it increasingly comes under political pressure in 2013. That transformation is expected to weigh on the forint. Deutsche Bank strategist Henrik Gullberg writes (emphasis added): The upside will continue to be capped in [the Hungarian forint], even in a more constructive risk environment. Firstly because of monetary policy, with the NBH increasingly composed of more growth-focused board members. Governor Simor will be replaced from early March, and by the mid-end of 2013 the entire MPC will have been appointed by the government. With a CB more occupied by supporting growth, we are likely to see anything but a significantly weaker HUF result in further rate cuts. History clearly shows that a sustained NBH rate cutting cycle at a time when the ECB largely is staying put has typically resulted in HUF underperformance (Marí05-Juní06, Juní07-Febí08, Marí10-Julí10). In addition to further rate cuts/negative real rates, the lack of an IMF loan deal is further restricting the appreciation potential in HUF. Indeed, even assuming a higher EUR/USD (DB sees 1.35 Q1), we see EUR/HUF remaining in a broad 275-305 range over the next few months. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategists Guillaume Salomon and†GaÎlle Blanchard echoed concerns over the changing NBH (emphasis added): Another significant factor to watch this year will be the reshuffle of the NBH council in March including the nomination of a new governor. All the members of the central bankís monetary policy council will have been nominated by the parliament, hence by the ruling party. Besides further monetary easing, other unorthodox measures could be taken, notably the use of FX reserves to finance the budget. That would have a very negative impact on the HUF in our view, even in a risk-friendly environment. We are also concerned that the arrival of a new governor could shift the mandate of the†NBH further away from financial stability toward a more ìpro-growthî monetary policy.†This shift in attitude could see the council take a more ìrelaxedî attitude towards inflation†targeting and be more willing to tolerate currency weakness, something that the ìolder†guardsî of the NBH were much less willing to tolerate. It is interesting to note the extent to†which the recent voting pattern has shown that the newer members of the council have†appeared less concerned about the price action in the forint and be willing to cut even when†the forint was under pressure at times of rate decisions. Salomon and Blanchard recommend selling the Hungarian forint against its eastern-European peers, the Romanian leu and the Turkish lira. As the SocGen strategists noted above, interest rate cuts from the NBH have been forthcoming despite weakness in the forint. Thus, it will be interesting to see if in 2013 ñ while the bank undergoes a radical policy transformation ñ Matolscy will continue to blame speculators for the forint's weakness, should he get the job. MORE: The European Bailout That Everyone Forgot About Is Running Into Trouble &gt;
The phrase 'debt ceiling' sounds like a good thing that keeps government under check. Because of that, polls show Americans overwhelmingly oppose raising it, even though to not do so would be catastrophic. So for Obama to win the fight, it needs to be reframed, and at his press conference, Obama has done a decent job doing so with his line about a "deadbeat nation." Republicans like to say that breaking the debt ceiling would not lead to a debt default. And that's possibly true. But there's no question that in a debt ceiling break, we would see some obligations (that are budgeted) go unpaid. The US government would be legally deadbeat. And it's interesting that Obama himself, while talking about the consequences of a debt ceiling break, said that things like Social Security and Medicare and the FAA would go unpaid. He did not say the US would miss an interest payment. For full coverage of the press conference, see here &gt;
Bloomberg TV's White House reporter Hans Nichols Tweeted that Ruth Porat, Morgan Stanley executive vice president and chief financial officer,†is being considered for a top spot at the U.S. Treasury Department. Twitter.com/HansNichols Porat has been working at Morgan Stanley since 1987 when she joined the bank's M&amp;A department. During her career at Morgan Stanley she has served as the global head of the Financial Institutions Group and as vice chair of the Investment Bank, according to BusinessWeek. †She's been serving as executive vice president and CFO since January 2010. She graduated with her bachelor's degree in economics from Stanford University. †She received her master's in economics from the London School of Economics and holds an MBA from Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Inquiring minds are investigating job creation and losses during the economic recovery. Data for following Tableau Software interactive map is courtesy of Economic Modeling Specialists. The interactive tool below may take a while to load. Please give it time on a slow connection. Usage Notes: Hover your cursor over any line to see additional information. You can also select a single category from the drop-down boxes to isolate a particular type of job.  Number and types of jobs since 2007: † Mish's Global Economic Analysis Gains and losses since the end of 2007: Mish's Global Economic Analysis † Job Winners Job Losers Lost and Gone Forever The three largest net losers (construction, manufacturing, retail trade) have a net combined total of -5,189,872 since 2007. Most of those jobs are lost and gone forever. Another 300,807 real estate jobs are lost and gone forever, as are 381,122 Finance and Insurance jobs, and† 379,502 Information jobs. Economic Modeling Data Notes Data is yearly, so the period 2007-2012 is from the beginning of 2007 to the end of 2012. Snapshots below are from end-of year numbers. Data is from multiple sources as explained below so it will not exactly match BLS reported numbers. Comments from Economic Modeling Specialists: ìOur data is used by many to research and understand regional employment trends and dynamics. Itís composed of comprehensive information on industries, occupations, demographics ó as well as things like occupational skills, education, training, and even the names and size of companies in your region broken down by industry. To do this we link nearly 90 data sources ó from federal sources like the Bureau of Labor Statistics to state and private sources. If youíve ever worked with this sort of information, you know it can be hard to collect and present. Itís also often incomplete and outdated. So we organize the data, bring it up to date, and build software and reports around it so you can put it to use more quickly and effectivelyî Thanks to Economic Modeling Specialists and Mike Klaczynski at Tableau Software for this post.
One reason is because Herbalife, the stock he has a massive short position on, is up more than 8 percent. Pershing Square is short more than 20 million shares of Herbalife and has a price target of zero for the multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products. Ackman has publicly said that he believes Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme. Meanwhile, JCPenney¬†was last down more than 1.86 percent trading around $17.92 after hitting a session low of $17.36. Pershing Square owns 39,075,771 shares, or a 17.82 percent, in JCP. ¬†Ackman, who has taken a bath on the stock so far, has been a big supporter of CEO Ron Johnson to turn the retailer around. Check out the charts:¬† Yahoo!Finance Yahoo!Finance
AP Photo/Ross D. FranklinGoing into 2013, home prices are expected to rise 6 percent driven by steady demand, lower bank-owned (REO) sales, and lower inventory of unsold homes.¬† This is according to CoreLogic's latest report. The CoreLogic Home Price Index (HPI) increased 6.3 percent in 2012, the largest increase and highest level since 2006. And year-over-year home price increases were more widespread. This increase in home prices across a broader geographic spread is expected to continue in 2013. Here is CoreLogic's 2013 outlook: "The two major drivers of improvement in the market have been the decline of real estate owned (REO) sales and less available inventory. The decline in REOs drove a sharp turnaround in home prices, but the impact of the decline will be more muted in 2013. The major factor driving the market in 2013 is the lack of inventory. Many trade-up borrowers have been locked out of the market because their outstanding loan balance is greater than the market value of their home. Current owners need to sell at prices high enough to extinguish their debt and provide equity for the next home purchase. Until home prices began to rebound in 2012, these borrowers had been effectively locked out and unable to list their homes for sale. The lock-out phenomenon, combined with the rise in investors converting foreclosures into rentals, led to a lack of for-sale inventory. With home prices rising in 2012 and 2013, tight for-sale inventory will begin to ease.were to improve." CoreLogicAn increase in inventory this year could impact prices, but declining REO sales continue to be good for the market because they typically sell at a 20 percent or more discount. And, these bank owned sales are believed to drive down prices of non-distressed sales by 30 percent. Despite the improvements though, housing still faces some challenges. First, Housing government sponsored enterprises (GSEs) like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the FHA are slowly increasing premiums or guarantee fees. Second, concerns remain over he impact of qualified mortgage and qualified residential mortgage, defined as a mortgage that a household can reasonably be expected to repay. "The main hurdle will be where the cut-offs for loan to value and debt to income (DTI) will be drawn. ‚Ä¶Therefore, policymakers need to carefully craft the demarcations, otherwise they risk cutting off large segments of credit supply." Increasing home prices, according to CoreLogic, would be the best shield against policy uncertainty.

MGMThis week Wall Street's big investment banks will report on how they did in Q4 2012, and while they won't be reporting the train wreck numbers that made the financial crisis so... exciting, there are a few stories to watch that could make a major impact on the world of finance. The banks to watch this week are Morgan Stanley, Bank of America and JP Morgan. Here's why: Morgan Stanley's earnings mean we'll get an idea of what bank CEO James Gorman's "tough times mean change" philosophy is doing to make his company more competitive. At Bank of America, it's time to take a hard look at legal fees. And at JP Morgan, the London Whale could take a bite out of CEO Jamie Dimon. First up, Morgan Stanley. Last week, the bank announced that it would axe 1600 jobs starting today. Coming from James Gorman's firm, that shouldn't surprise anyone. Sure, the mass layoffs of 2009 and 2010 seem to have abated, but Gorman has always been outspoken about his belief that the business of banking is changing and Wall Street has to change with it ‚Äî it's adapt or die. Gorman has even attacked compensation saying that the Street has "too many overpaid bankers" and cut his bank's pay pool by 9% last year. It doesn't necessarily look like investors are being reassured by this tough talk. Morgan Stanley's stock has been relatively flat for the last year having crawled back from a serious beating starting in May after the Facebook IPO disaster (MS was lead underwriter). Bottom line: We'll see if MS earnings reflect what Gorman thinks about the new Wall Street. Then there's Bank of America, where the story is still all about cash and legal fees. Back in October, CEO Brian Moynihan declared victory over everyone who doubted whether or not his firm could amass enough cash to build a strong balance sheet.¬† From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre going to officially declare victory on one of those operating principles,‚Äù Moynihan said in the town-hall style meeting. ‚ÄúThe reason why is, we have the top capital in the industry, the top liquidity in the industry.‚Äù People have stopped asking if the bank needs more funds to absorb losses and now want to know when investors will get the excess, he said. Yes, after selling assets like crazy, after receiving a $5 billion cash injection from Warren Buffett last year, Bank of America is ready to increase its dividend. Maybe. While Moynihan was sounding optimistic, bank analyst Meredith Whitney was raining on his parade. "This is going to be an endless beat down for the banks in terms of legal claims," she told CNBC. Since the financial crisis, Bank of America alone has paid out $50 billion in mortgage related legal fees and it's not over yet. And what's most important about that, as Fortune's Stephen Gandel pointed out after the bank agreed to pay out an $11.6 billion settlement to Fannie Mae last Monday, is that Bank of America has consistently underestimated the amount of money it has to pay out in legal fees... by a whole lot. From Fortune: ...bank reserves, and in particular legal reserves, are murky. Banks only give a total amount, and not what goes into that calculation. It's the 'trust us' approach. And at least in BofA's case, it's not clear investors should. Take the Fannie settlement. BofA said it had not previously reserved for $2.7 billion of the deal. The bank is paying Fannie $11.6 billion, but that includes buying back nearly $7 billion in loans. Many of those loans may be worth as much as half of their original value. So out of a roughly $7.8 billion deal (final cost), BofA had put only 65% of the settlement aside. By that math, BofA's $16 billion reserve fund for these types of deals should really be more like $24 billion. In all, BofA had set aside $6.4 billion, or enough to cover just 55% of the cost of the all the legal settlements and losses the bank announced on Monday. Last quarter, Bank of America estimated its total Fannie losses as $1 billion (obviously not enough), and part of their latest settlement last week was adding $900 million more to its legal reserves. Fine, but another mortgage related suit filed by the Justice Department in October could cost the bank another $1 billion. Then there's the suit AIG filed this weekend. The insurer is suing the NY Fed just to find out if they have a right to sue Bank of America for bad residential mortgage-backed securities it bought from Countrywide before the financial crisis. If the Court says yes, AIG could seek another $7 billion from Bank of America. We'll see if the bank is accounting for all of that on Thursday. The last story to watch is at JP Morgan. This weekend Bloomberg reported that the bank is circulating a report that blames CEO Jamie Dimon for the bank's massive $6.8 billion "London Whale" trading loss last year. The board will decide whether or not to release that report to the public today. For his part, Dimon has said he wants to "let it all hang out." Still, this would be a fall from grace for Dimon. He's widely considered the most competent banker on Wall Street, and he's definitely the highest paid. He received $23 million total pay in 2011, including a $4.5 billion cash bonus. The board has already decided that his bonus will be cut this year because of the trading loss. Tomorrow, we'll see if it gets any worse than that. All that said, here's the schedule for earnings this week: All of this goes down before the bell, so wake up early.
Pi"Pi"Every year, legendary NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran compiles, analyzes, and then publishes a tremendous amount of global securities data on his website. Data is always up for interpretation. And sometimes data is intentionally misinterpreted and misrepresented for the wrong reasons. "I know that data can be misused and manipulated, and that some of my own data has been used to back up specious arguments in multiple settings," writes Prof. Damodaran. For this reason, he identifies three practices he finds "distasteful" and he offers ways on countering them. From his Damodaran's blog (emphasis ours): 1. Data to intimidate: An article in the Wall Street Journal¬† pointed to fact that people who are unfamiliar with numbers tend to give them too much weight to them and are particularly swayed by "mathematical" arguments, even if they are nonsensical. It is this weakness that is used by some number crunchers to intimidate those that may not have the same degree of facility with numbers. I have seen corporate financial analyses and valuations where analysts use table after table of numbers, to bludgeon others into submission, using acronyms, jargon and Greek alphabets to further the rout. The counter: The best weapons against number intimidation are common sense and a focus on the big picture. I hope that having access to my data will give you some ammunition in this endeavor but having a solid grounding in first principles of valuation and corporate finance always helps. 2. Data to mislead: If you have access to a great deal of data, you can parse the data and choose pieces to back up a preconception or argument that you want to advance. A couple of years ago, the effective tax rates that I publish on my site, for US companies, were used by some to advance the argument that US companies were not paying enough in taxes. Looking at the 2013 update on tax rates, that number is low (14.93%), but it is the average effective tax rate across all US companies, including those that are money losing (and thus paid no taxes). Looking only at money-making companies, the average effective tax rate is 28.37%, and the weighted average tax rate is even higher at 30.05%. So, if you have an agenda, you can take your pick to make the argument that US companies pay too little, just enough or even too much in taxes. The counter: While there is little that you can do to stop people from using data selectively, you can counter their arguments by presenting them with the numbers that they are ignoring. In fact, it was in response to the tax rate debate that I started reporting the average tax rates for money-making companies and aggregated tax rates in my datasets. 3. Data to deflect and evade responsibility: Many analysts use data to avoid making tough judgments about businesses or dealing with uncertainty. Thus, assuming that a company will earn a profit margin typical of the industry is much easier to do than analyzing its competitive advantages and estimating a margin, based on your assessment. Similarly, using a historical or a service supplied equity risk premium in valuation is far simpler than estimating one, based upon the macroeconomic risks that we face in markets today. In fact, using an expert or a service estimate of these numbers (using an equity risk premium from a data service like Ibbotson or even my website) allows analysts to claim immunity from errors and to pass the buck, if the numbers turn out to be wrong in hindsight. The counter: I have absolutely no concerns about you borrowing data and spreadsheets from my website but please make them your own by adapting and modifying them to not only fit your needs to but also to reflect your points of view. Read more at Prof. Damodaran's Musings On Markets.
Shares of Herbalife are soaring today.¬† The multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products is up more than 8%.¬† Herbalife is the stock hedge fund fund titan Bill Ackman has been shorting. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, is short more than 20 million shares of HLF. ¬†He believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and has a price target of zero.¬† Not everyone agrees with Ackman, though. ¬†A number of hedge fund managers, most notably Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC, have gone long the stock.¬† Shares of Herbalife are still down more than 5% since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short position. ¬†At one point the stock tumbled more than 38%, but has pared losses in recent weeks.¬† SEE: Bill Ackman's Dizzying Takedown Of Herbalife &gt; SEE ALSO: Herbalife's Full Presentation On Why Bill Ackman's Short Will Be A Disaster &gt;
pasa47 / FlickrThere is no shortage of investing rules floating around like "sell in may and go away." And after a great first week for stocks, many are bandying the January indicator (i.e. if the first five days of January are great, then the rest of the year will be too), which operates on the same logic as the S&amp;P 5 day indicator. But in a Barron's piece, Mark Hulbert writes that this isn't the case. "Hope is not a strategy: There is precious little statistical support for the "first five days of January" indicator." Drawing on historical data for the Dow going back to 1896, he notes that when the Dow was up the first five days of January, it was up 70 percent of the time the rest of the year and the average gain was 6.93 percent. Whereas, when it was down in the first five days of the year, it was up 58 percent of the time for the rest of the year with an average gain of 6.2 percent. In other words, stocks tend to go up regardless of what they do during the first five days of the year. Hulbert explains: "Given the variability in the year-by-year results, the differences summarized in the accompanying table are not significant at the 95% confidence level that statisticians often use to conclude that a pattern is more than a fluke. Notice carefully, however, that even if you were to insist that the differences in the accompanying table were significant, you'd still not have much to write home about: Whenever the first five days of January are up, there have been only marginally higher odds of making money over the rest of that year." Similarly, for the month of January, looking back to 1896 he found that if the Dow was up in January it would rise 73 percent of the time from February through December and the average gain would be 7.68 percent. And if it was down in January, then it would rise 52 percent of the time from February through December with a gain of 3.78 percent. Other top Wall Street minds have weighed on this as well. Art Cashin at UBS has said the first five days of trading have a more "discernible record" than the first day. "According to the very helpful Traders Almanac, the last 39 times the market rose in the first five days, it closed up on the year 33 times (84.69%).¬† So stay tuned." Hulbert's advice: Instead of chasing seasonal patterns, look for bigger picture influences like corporate earnings, political debates, or the risk of a recession. Read the entire piece at Barron's &gt;

President Barack Obama is holding an unexpected news conference this morning at 11:30 a.m. ET, the White House announced today. The Washington Post's Philip Rucker reports that Obama is holding the press conference ‚Äî the last of his first term as President ‚Äî to urge Congress to raise the debt ceiling without strings. Obama to use press conference to press his case for Congress to raise the debt limit, WH official says. Over the weekend, the White House ruled out the option of minting a trillion-dollar platinum coin as a way to work around the debt ceiling ‚Äî a move that was criticized by Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler. The White House has also said that it doesn't view the 14th Amendment as a possible way around the debt ceiling if Republicans refuse to raise the nation's borrowing limit. The press conference also comes as Vice President Joe Biden prepares to deliver his recommendations on curbing the nation's gun violence, which will likely be a topic of discussion.
Twitter / KatG4An op-ed in today's Financial Times by Allianz chief economist Michael Heise has everyone chattering about "crexit." Heise writes that in 2013,†"it may well not be a 'Grexit' for Greece but indeed a 'Crexit' ñ an exit from the crisis ñ that will come into sight." However, nowhere in the article does Heise address Europe's staggering unemployment ñ and specifically youth unemployment ñ crisis. The†latest†Eurostat unemployment figures†released last week indicated rising youth and headline unemployment rates in many countries as economic fundamentals continue to worsen. Over the weekend, Daily Telegraph editor Ambrose Evans-Pritchard summed it up nicely in an op-ed of his own: The horror before our eyes right now is social ruin. Europeís crisis strategy is to the break the back of labour resistance to pay cuts by driving unemployment through the roof. That is what `internal devaluationsí are. It stinks. And the ECB is adding to the cruelty by keeping money too tight. Mr Draghi deserves his accolades, but his job is not yet done. He has saved the rich. Now he must save the poor. Coraggio.
The FOMC also announced on December 12 that the Fed will buy $45 billion a month in long-term US Treasuries starting January, with no limit on the total amount and no termination date. That adds up to $540 billion a year, though Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said the latest version of QE would be ‚Äúflexible.‚Äù Of course, that‚Äôs in addition to the $40 billion on mortgage-backed securities per month that the Fed committed to start buying back at the September 12-13 meeting of the FOMC under QE3. The latest program, let‚Äôs call it "QE4," replaces Operation Twist, which expired at the end of last year. Under that program, the Fed swapped about $45 billion in short-term Treasuries for long-term Treasuries. From September 12 through January 9, the Fed‚Äôs assets are up $105 billion, with holdings of mortgage-back securities and Agency debt up $72 billion and holdings of US Treasuries up $19 billion. A few Fed officials are having some second thoughts about sinking deeper into the QE mud pit. For example, Esther George, the President of the Kansas City FRB, warned in a 1/10 speech that ‚ÄúThese purchases also have their own set of risks and are not without cost. At their current level and pace of growth, I believe they almost certainly increase the risk of complicating the FOMC‚Äôs exit strategy.‚Äù She is a voting member of the FOMC this year. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Whatever It Takes. (1) Central bankers are less conservative, more progressive. (2) Giving the people more money. (3) Let‚Äôs have some austerity, but later. (4) The Fed‚Äôs ‚Äúquantitative threshold‚Äù for jobless rate is 6.5% until further notice. (5) Draghi‚Äôs amazing verbal intervention is working amazingly well. (6) BOJ is giving Abe what he wants. (7) A more populist bull market. (8) Risk On/Off is the wrong model. (9) Health Care leading the way. (10) Asset Managers are also leading. (11) Transports are bullish on global economy. (12) ‚ÄúZero Dark Thirty‚Äù (+ + +). (More for subscribers.)
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderThere's no denying it. ¬†The Wall Street interview process is really, really hard.¬† We've heard all the interview horror stories and we've seen the insanely challenging questions that will leave you feeling like a complete fool. Fortunately, Goldman Sachs has put together a Careers Blog on its website, which features a bunch of great interviewing tips. We've compiled them in the slides that follow to help you ace your next interview.¬†
Wikimedia CommonsPeople fear losing more than they desire to win. This phenomenon, first demonstrated by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman,¬†is known as loss aversion, and it shows up everywhere. Kahneman, in his book¬†Thinking, Fast And Slow,¬†describes how economists¬†Devin Pope and Maurice Schweitzer identified loss aversion on the golf course: Every stroke counts in golf, and in professional golf every stroke counts a lot. According to prospect theory, however, some strokes count more than others. Failing to make par is a loss, but missing a birdies putt is a foregone gain, not a loss. Pope and Schweitzer reasoned from loss aversion that players would try a little harder when putting for par (to avoid a bogey) than when putting for a birdie. They analyzed more than 2.5 million putts in exquisite detail to test that prediction. They were right. Whether the putt was easy or hard, at every distance from the hole, the players were more successful when putting for par than for a birdie. The difference in their rate of success when going for par (to avoid a bogey) or for a birdie was 3.6%. This difference is not trivial. Tiger Woods was one of the "participants" in their study. If in his best years Tiger Woods had managed to putt as well for birdies as he did for par, his average tournament score would have improved by one stroke and his earnings by almost $1 million per season. In short, you should try harder all the time. Thinking, Fast And Slow also discusses the cognitive failings of HR departments, pundits,¬†amateur investors, and pretty much everyone. DON'T MISS: 57 Cognitive Biases That Make You Think Irrationally &gt;
Penske, the US-based truck leasing giant, has released its 2012 list of most popular moving destinations. For at least the third year in a row, Atlanta is No. 1. Dallas returned to No. 2 after falling back to No. 4 last year. Otherwise, these same 10 cities have dominated since at least 2010. ‚ÄúThis list fits the general geographic shifts of the country‚Äôs population with our customers being drawn to the Southeast and Southwest regions,‚Äù Don Mikes, Penske senior vice president of rental, said in a release. Here's the full list (2011 rank in parentheses):¬† 1.¬†¬†¬†¬†Atlanta (unchanged) 2.¬†¬†¬† Dallas/Fort Worth (4) 3.¬†¬†¬† Phoenix (2) 4.¬†¬†¬† Orlando, Fla. (3) 5.¬†¬†¬† Chicago (unchanged) 6.¬†¬†¬† Houston (unchanged) 7.¬†¬†¬† Denver (unchanged) 8.¬†¬†¬† Seattle (unchanged) 9.¬†¬†¬† Charlotte, N.C. (10) 10.¬† Sarasota, Fla. (9) SEE MORE: The States Seeing The Most Migration &gt;
PolandMFA / FlickrAccording to Bank of America Merrill Lynch, analysts have slashed 4Q EPS estimates by 12 percent since April due to fears about the macroeconomic environment. But some companies may now have an easier time beating those lowered expectations. Led by Savita Subramanian, BAML's equity strategy team has screened for stocks they consider are most likely to beat analysts' estimates for 4Q. All of their choices are buy-rated stocks that beat either sales or EPS expectations the previous quarter. All but four stocks from the team's list come from either the Consumer Discretionary, Energy, or Information Technology sectors. We've listed each of the 17 stocks along with their tickers, sectors, and consensus EPS and revenue estimates for 4Q.
UPDATE: The market has opened, and Apple has briefly fallen below $500 Earlier: After a quiet start to German trading, shares of Apple are down nearly 4%. Remember, this is the German trading of Apple. Bloomberg That being said, early bid/ask indications in the US show the same thing, a significant decline from Friday's close.  The culprit? WSJ confirming what other analysts have said, that Apple's parts orders for the iPhone 5 have been weak. The stock could get close to breaking below $500 today.
In China, I have¬†argued¬†many¬†times, high growth is no longer compatible with a strengthening balance sheet. If China is growing at a rate that approaches or exceeds five or six percent, it is probably a safe bet that debt is rising faster than debt servicing capacity. The good news is that the current leadership seems very clear about the need to implement reforms, and also understands that this is going to be politically a difficult process. Last week Xinhua had this article: China must maintain economic growth and persevere with market-oriented reforms in the face of multiple risks in the economy, the new helmsman of China‚Äôs ruling party has said. The government should continue its proactive fiscal and prudent monetary policies next year and improve the economy‚Äôs internal vigor and dynamic, said Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, at a symposium held with non-Party figures here last week. ‚ÄúThe growth that we achieve must be tangible, not exaggerated growth, and should be efficient, of good quality and sustainable,‚Äù Xi said. He urged adherence to market-oriented reforms and well-conceived top-level reform designs. Two weeks earlier the South China Morning Post had a similar, if less politically worded, message: The man who will become premier next year has made a strong case for reform just days after the unveiling of the Communist Party‚Äôs new leadership, saying reform is the biggest dividend. Li Keqiang, speaking at a seminar with selected local officials on Wednesday, organised by the State Council, said China would still be able to see the completion of a ‚Äúmoderately prosperous society‚Äù by 2020 even with a lower economic growth rate of about 7 per cent a year, China News Service reported. ‚ÄúWe do not blindly pursue gross domestic product growth and it is very likely that our future development will go through a period of moderate growth rate that can hardly stay in double digits,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúTo achieve the goal [of building a moderately prosperous society], we‚Äôll have to rely on reform, which still has enormous scope and potential to be explored.‚Äù Analysts said the remarks by Li, 57, who was elevated to No 2 in the party hierarchy last week and will succeed Premier Wen Jiabao in March, could be viewed as a strong political message calling for bolder reform. Last week Xi Jinping, the newly elected general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, toured Guangdong Province in a self-conscious reference to Deng Xiaoping‚Äôs famous 1992 tour supporting reform. Xi‚Äôs tour was widely interpreted as a similar signal about Beijing‚Äôs intentions. As an article in the People‚Äôs Daily put it: During his recent tour of Guangdong Province, Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, stressed the need to accelerate economic restructuring, describing the task as imperative. Xi‚Äôs latest southern tour is widely seen as a signal of the new leadership‚Äôs determination to firmly deepen reform. Xi met with business leaders in Guangdong on Sunday. This is in accordance with widespread concerns and anxiety over the nation‚Äôs economic future. Economic reform directly decides the growth and distribution of wealth, people‚Äôs living standards and social confidence. It is in line with the trend of placing emphasis on adjusting the nation‚Äôs economic development model. After three decades of speedy development, the nation should take another look at the advantages it once relied upon. The era in which prosperity can be realized through labor-intensive industries and extensive production is becoming a thing of the past. Restructuring the economy is a real challenge in the context of China‚Äôs rise. It is during this process that China will begin a decisive competition with developed countries. More interestingly to me, in what is probably the most authoritative newspaper in the country, was that the article pointed very specifically to the kinds of problems Beijing expects to encounter and seemed to be warning everyone that reform is going to be tough and divisive: In recent years, it‚Äôs been shown that the rhetoric of reform is widely welcomed, but practically carrying it out can meet with unexpected setbacks. This is natural. Only very few fortunate reformers implement reform measures with the public applauding all the way. The Chinese have various demands, and some conflict with each other. For instance, public awareness of environmental protection is rising, and the worship of GDP is being opposed. However, public panic arises as soon as economic growth begins to slow down. ‚Ä¶Reform is exciting, but it is also full of difficulties and challenges. Xi said in Guangdong that China must squarely face difficulties and challenges, strive for the best results and firmly seize the initiative. This deserves consideration by the entire Party and society. These expected, and exciting, ‚Äúdifficulties and challenges‚Äù are, I suspect, the things we should be most concerned about in our attempts to understand the pace of reform. The history of developing countries suggests that most countries fail in the reform and adjustment process precisely because the sectors of the economy that have benefitted from the distortions are powerful enough to block any attempt to eliminate those distortions. I have written several times that this reform process may have already begun in earnest, and that in 2012 we have seen, for the first time, some real economic rebalancing, but not everyone agrees. The current issue of Caixin has an article that argues that the imbalances may have gotten worse, not better: One of China‚Äôs top government think tanks warns that the nation‚Äôs economic imbalance has worsened alarmingly with investment growth overshadowing consumption. In a report published on December 12, the China Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) said the structural imbalance in the country‚Äôs growth model, measured by its self-devised index, has significantly worsened over the past decade and more. CASS is a ministry-level research institute that advises the State Council.¬†Its index gauges economic imbalance on a scale of 0 to 1. The higher the index, the worse the imbalance. China managed to bring the index down from 0.5644 in 1991 to 0.4513 in 2000, the report said. But the figured climbed to 0.6173 in 2012, as investment surged relative to consumption. From 2000 to 2009, investment as a share of GDP rose from 35.3 percent to 47.2 percent, while private consumption declined from 62.3 percent to 48.2 percent, the report said. Income distribution inequality and an imbalance in the international payment account, which resulted mainly because of a long-running trade surplus, were also factored in when calculating the economic imbalance, the report said. CASS‚Äô recommendation to encourage domestic consumption echoes that of many other academic and business researches, and the new central leadership has vowed to address imbalances by exploring domestic consumer market. I have no idea how the index is constructed, but it seems that CASS believes that even in 2012 we have not seen a reversal of the growing imbalances in the Chinese economy. This puts all the more pressure on Beijing to change the growth model quickly. But will everyone cooperate? But certainly not every one in China is confident that Beijing will be able to force through the reforms that are widely accepted as necessary without a serious fight. There were two interesting and related articles in this week‚Äôs South China Morning Post that may indicate the degree of worry. They also show that it is not just the economic policymaking elite in beijing that recognizes the urgent need for economic¬†adjustment¬†and reform. The first article tells you much of what you need to know in the title (‚ÄúChina‚Äôs rich and skilled leave in record numbers‚Äù). It goes on to say: More than 150,000 Chinese became permanent citizens in major immigrant countries including the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand last year, topping the world‚Äôs list of overseas migration in absolute numbers, a recent report revealed. The Centre for China and Globalisation (CCD) and Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT) School of Law jointly released their findings in the Chinese International Talents Annual Blue Book‚Äôs¬†International Migration Report (2012)¬†on Monday, according to¬†media reports. ‚Ä¶Another report by Hurun Research Institute and Bank of China in 2011 found that 14 per cent of China‚Äôs high-net-worth individuals had either emigrated or were in the process of doing so. In addition, 46 per cent were considering permanently moving overseas through various immigrant investor programmes with real estate, foreign currency deposits and stocks being the primary areas of investment. US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) declared that 41 per cent of total EB-5 Immigration Investor Programme applicants were Chinese while the Australian Department of Immigration and Citizenship reported that 61.5 per cent of applicants for the Business Skilled Migration Programme were Chinese. We have known for a while that Chinese with the means to do so are increasingly opting to move abroad. There are many reason for this, of course, but China is still growing much faster than the rest of the world, even if some of us don‚Äôt fully accept the official numbers, and so for people to look for opportunities abroad suggests at the very least that either some of these people seriously doubt the sustainability of China‚Äôs current growth and expect it to come crashing down, or that they are worried about political uncertainty and the possibility of difficulty ahead. Or both. The second article, also by the South China Morning Post, involves data from a completely different source and for completely different purposes, but it may broadly be telling the same story. The article is based on a very interesting study conducted by Global Financial Integrity on illicit capital flows around the world. The article summarizes their study as: Some 150 developing countries, led by China, have been the source of flows of tainted money totalling US$5.9 trillion over 10 years through 2010, Global Financial Integrity, a research and advocacy group in Washington, DC, said. Flows of illicit money from tax evasion, crime and corruption in the developing world have roared back to pre-financial crisis levels, topping nearly US$859 billion in 2010, near the all-time high of US$871 billion in 2008, it said. In 2009, following the global financial crisis, the figure dropped to US$776 billion. China tops the list of developing countries sending illicit money abroad, either to offshore havens or to financial institutions in developed countries, GFI said in a study. In 2010, illicit money out of China totalled US$420 billion, the report said, and exceeded US$2.7 trillion for the decade ending in 2010 ‚Äì nearly half that period‚Äôs total for all developing countries. For comparison‚Äôs sake, Malaysia came second, with over $64 billion in 2010 and $285 billion for the decade. Mexico was in 2010, with over $51 billion in illicit flows, and $476 billion for the decade. The study acknowledges that it does not include cash transactions, so actual illicit flows are probably higher, maybe even significantly higher. You can find the full ranking of 71 countries here, and it shows, among other things, that illicit capital flows from China are roughly equal to the sum of illicit capital flows from the next fifty countries. I haven‚Äôt been able to adjust the numbers for GDP size (larger economies should on average have larger illicit outflows), but when you consider that the next fifty countries include Mexico, Malaysia, Russia, India, Indonesia, Poland, Brazil, Turkey, Argentina, Hungary and forty others, I think it is pretty safe to say that China‚Äôs ranking as number 1 is not just a function of its being the largest developing economy in the world. As a share of GDP, in other words, Chinese illicit outflows seem easily to exceed the average for all developing countries. Mexico‚Äôs GDP, for example, is roughly one-seventh the size of China‚Äôs, and yet for all its drug money, its illicit flows were only one-eight those of China. This means that the Chinese business and political elite export illicitly a larger share of the Chinese economy than the combination of the Mexican business and political elite and their drug cartels. One of the most interesting paragraphs in the study, for me, concerned trade invoicing: Trade misinvoicing is the preferred method of transferring illicit capital from all regions except the MENA region where it accounts for only 37 percent of total outflows for the decade ending 2010 (Chart 6). In declining order of dominance, the share of trade misinvoicing in total outflows by region is Asia (94.0 percent), Western Hemisphere (84.0 percent), Africa (65.0 percent), and developing Europe (53.0 percent). Large current account surpluses of countries in the MENA region driven by crude oil exports entail larger outflows through the balance of payments. In the case of Europe, the relatively large unrecorded outflows from the Russia‚Äôs balance of payments dominate regional outflows. This creates, for me, a real and very obvious problem with understanding China‚Äôs trade figures. According to the study, illicit money out of China totaled US$420 billion in 2010. The study also claims that in Asia nearly all of the illicit money flows (94%) occur through mis-invoiced trade, which suggests, of course, that the trade numbers can be seriously distorted. If capital is being secretly taken out of the country through trade, exports are likely to be under-reported, imports are likely to be over-reported, and the real trade surplus is almost certainly larger than the reported trade surplus. How much does this illicit capital flow impact China‚Äôs real trade account? Here is a January 2011 Xinhua article on China‚Äôs 2010 trade account: China‚Äôs foreign trade last year jumped 34.7percent year on year to more than 2.97 trillion U.S. dollars while its trade surplus fell 6.4 percent to 183.1 billion U.S. dollars, the General Administration of Customs (GAC) said Monday. The country‚Äôs exports grew 31.3 percent year on year last year to 1.58 trillion U.S. dollars while imports surged 38.7 percent to 1.39 trillion U.S. dollars, said the GAC. ‚ÄúChina‚Äôs foreign trade is, in general, heading towards a balanced structure,‚Äù said the GAC in a statement on its website. The trade surplus accounted for 6.2 percent of all foreign trade last year, down from 8.9 percent in 2009 and 11.6 percent in 2008.¬† It is clear that these illicit capital flow numbers are pretty significant in relation to the trade numbers. China‚Äôs trade surplus in 2010 was reported to be $183 billion, but GFI claims that Chinese illicit capital flows (I assume that most if not all represents outflows, or even net outflows) for the year were $420 billion, most of which may have been recorded as higher exports or lower imports. Even if these numbers are way off, they still suggest that China‚Äôs real trade surplus may have been substantially higher than reported, with much if not most of the money parked offshore for safekeeping. Among other things these numbers also suggest that the sluggish import growth of the past year, which smart people like Andy Xie insist are among the many numbers that are not compatible with the high official growth rates claimed by the government, may be even lower than reported. Obviously I am not the first person to complain about the opacity of Chinese economic data and the difficulties we often have in reconciling one set of numbers with another, but I think it is important to note that while opacity may not be a terrible problem during the optimistic up-cycle (in fact hazy data give us more leeway to daydream pleasant things), it can suddenly become a huge problem during the pessimistic down-cycle, when they don‚Äôt even constrain our nightmares. What is worse, an increase in opacity, which we are clearly seeing in the financial system, is usually a herald of bad tidings. When the economy starts to get bad, often the first impulse for many is to massage or hide the data.
Last week, it was reported that Morgan Stanley would ax 1,600 jobs, or¬†about 6 percent of the global institutional securities group, Bloomberg News reports.¬† The latest round of reductions are expected to begin today and continue into the coming weeks. According to Bloomberg News, half of those cuts are expected to be here in the U.S.¬† The bank is also expected to eliminate about 15% of the i-banking positions in Asia, Bloomberg reports.¬† Meanwhile, Fox Business reports that the Dubai office's equities division will be hit, too. Layoffs have been hitting a bunch of the big Wall Street banks. Last summer, Deutsche Bank said it would eliminate 1,900 jobs with 1,500 of those coming from its investment bank. A few months later, Swiss banking giant UBS said it would cut 10,000 jobs. Just last month,¬†Citigroup said it would be cutting 11,000 positions globally. Following Deutsche's move back in July, bank analyst Meredith Whitney predicted we would see 50,000 layoffs. ¬†Whitney recently said that¬†we haven't even started to see the beginning of those layoffs. If you're seeing cuts go down at Morgan Stanley, send us an email at jlaroche@businessinsider.com. ¬†We'll be discreet!¬†
Earlier we mentioned how the Hungarian finance minister is attacking Nouriel Roubini for the drop in the currency. Now we're getting more details. Hungarian business site Portfolio.HU explains that apparently it was a response to a call from Nouriel's company that the Hungarian Forint was a short: "Last Tuesday Nouriel Roubini, one of the worldís most influential financial analysts, made the following recommendation in his regular newsletter to his clients: "Until Hungary signs a new deal with the IMF we recommend short HUF." So, with this sentence he signalled for investors to bet on the forintís weakening. Based on the forint depreciation that started on Thursday it seems that the speculators took Roubiniís recommendation to heart and after preparing on Wednesday they have launched an attack against the forint. Read the full report here &gt;
Earlier we mentioned how the Hungarian finance minister is attacking Nouriel Roubini for the drop in the currency. Now we're getting more details. Hungarian business site Portfolio.HU explains that apparently it was a response to a call from Nouriel's company that the Hungarian Forint was a short: "Last Tuesday Nouriel Roubini, one of the worldís most influential financial analysts, made the following recommendation in his regular newsletter to his clients: "Until Hungary signs a new deal with the IMF we recommend short HUF." So, with this sentence he signalled for investors to bet on the forintís weakening. Based on the forint depreciation that started on Thursday it seems that the speculators took Roubiniís recommendation to heart and after preparing on Wednesday they have launched an attack against the forint. Read the full report here &gt;
Smog in Beijing and other parts of China is off the charts, hitting record levels of severity. According to the South China Morning Post, the smog is 40x healthy levels in some parts of the country right now, and people are going to the hospital. It can be hard to appreciate the intensity of the images in many pictures. That's because a lot of the time, a picture of a smoggy city will just look like a foggy city. But CNN producer Steven Jiang tweeted this image which shows just how bad it is. He tweets: "Beijing's missing skyline: today (left) vs. what you should be seeing behind me (right)." Steven Jiang, CNN ¬† (Via @keanesian)
Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ¬ª
But he reserved the most devastating judgment for the euro itself. HeidelbergCement‚Äôs long history‚Äîit was founded in 1873‚Äîalmost ended during the financial crisis. For more than 100 years, the company had expanded in Germany. But in 1977, it began to branch out internationally by acquiring Vicat in France and Lehigh Cement in the US. At the end of the 1980s, it invested heavily in Central and Eastern Europe, then moved via acquisitions into Northern Europe, Africa, and Asia‚Äîpiling on debt as it went. The acquisition spree culminated in 2007, when it paid GBP 9.5 billion for Hansen plc., a British company with 26,000 employees. HeidelbergCement had become one of the world‚Äôs largest producers of cements and aggregates, the two key raw materials for concrete. Then the financial crisis unfolded. Worldwide revenues dropped from ‚Ç¨14.2 billion in 2008 to ‚Ç¨11.1 billion in 2009, and net profits from ‚Ç¨1.92 billion to ‚Ç¨168 million. Staggering under nearly ‚Ç¨12 billion in net debt, the company laid off 15,000 people. Shares plunged from ‚Ç¨120 in May 2007 to ‚Ç¨20 in early 2009. Credit became scarce. On the verge of bankruptcy, the company underwent some financial re-engineering that included a capital increase and the issuance of 62.5 million new shares. It survived. By December 2011, revenues had recovered to ‚Ç¨12.9 billion. Net profit approached ‚Ç¨1 billion. Net debt had been reduced to ‚Ç¨7.8 billion. And shares have more than doubled since their 2009 lows. ‚ÄúThe result of hard work, hard efforts to save money,‚Äù Scheifele told the FAZ. The crisis, ‚Äúan absolutely exceptional situation,‚Äù had surprised him. Until then, he said, it was ‚Äúhard to imagine‚Äù that sales would plunge ‚Äúin almost all countries simultaneously.‚Äù But they did. The entire industry had believed in the guiding principle that declines in one region of the world would be balanced out by growth in other regions. ‚ÄúThat was suddenly obsolete,‚Äù he said. They‚Äôd done stress tests to determine how to react to revenue declines of 20%, but in the US, for example, ‚Äúsales of cement collapsed within a few months by 50%.‚Äù Something that hadn‚Äôt happened since the 1930s. And when they needed an extension of their credit lines, they suddenly found themselves ‚Äúin the middle of a tsunami.‚Äù So never again load up on debt? No, he said, debt helps companies make the necessary investments, but the level of debt, for companies as well as governments, would always have to ‚Äúremain within a manageable magnitude.‚Äù And that‚Äôs why he was worried about Europe. Despite all the to-do about austerity, no country has managed to reduce its debt burden, he said. Instead, debts continue to rise, just more slowly. ‚ÄúI think this is devastating,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWhile companies are throttling back their expenditures, politicians keep spending cheerfully.‚Äù But weren‚Äôt eurocrats proclaiming victory in fighting the debt crisis? Wasn‚Äôt he able to see the signs of progress? ‚ÄúHardly,‚Äù he said. The world economy wasn‚Äôt doing all that badly, Africa and Asia were growing nicely, the US was recovering. ‚ÄúThe problem is Europe,‚Äù he lamented. ‚ÄúThe costs of the monetary union are simply too high; politicians must finally recognize that.‚Äù Harsh words for a German industrialist‚Äîwords that flew in the face of persistent rumors that German industrialists, eager to expand outside Germany, were supporting the common currency with all their might. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs why we invest in Europe only very frugally,‚Äù he added, dousing the future of Europe with gloom. Instead, the company was plowing its money into Asia, source of 40% of its revenues. ‚ÄúIn particular, countries like Indonesia, China, and India are important for us,‚Äù he said. Reason: cement, sand, and gravel could only be produced and sold locally, but in contrast to Europe, it was still possible ‚Äúto open quarries and build new plants‚Äù in Asia‚Äîwhere a lot of cement was needed to build infrastructure. Cement consumption serves as a measure of industrial development, he said. ‚ÄúIn Indonesia, for example, cement consumption is 230 kg (50 pounds) per capita. That‚Äôs currently more than in Great Britain. In some Chinese provinces that grow strongly‚Äù ‚Äîperhaps he was referring to those that were building entire ghost cities‚Äî‚Äùvalues of 2,200 kg (4,800 pounds) per capita are not uncommon.‚Äù He‚Äôd summarized with a few words how companies were reacting to the miasma in Europe: they were taking their money and investing it elsewhere‚Äîcontributing to the economic hardship in Europe and to growth overseas. He blamed it on the costs of maintaining the euro, and on politicians who refused to ‚Äúrecognize that.‚Äù And just when the hype about Europe‚Äôs victory over its crisis reached a feverish pitch. But not all overseas investments work out: Bolivian President Morales ordered the nationalization of four business units owned by Spain‚Äôs largest utility, Iberdrola. Hours later, the army and police seized the company‚Äôs offices. So far, 15 companies have been nationalized. Read.... Bolivia Seizes Spanish Utility In Forced Nationalization.
YouTube via FedReserveBoardAt a conference in Hong Kong last night, Chicago Federal Reserve President Charlie Evans offered another clue on when the Fed may begin to tighten. Evans delivered a speech titled "Monetary Policy at the Zero Lower Bound." He also gave some guidance on what the Federal Reserve deems to be "substantive" improvement in labor markets, which the central bank has identified as a key condition for halting quantitative easing. Via Reuters, Evans said: "One good indicator of labor market improvement would be if we saw payroll employment increase by 200,000 each month for a number of months. We've been averaging about 150,000, but it's been very uneven ... we need a higher pace of employment growth and less volatility in that pace," Chicago¬†Fed¬†President Evans said. The creation of 1 million jobs over six months would be a "substantive" improvement, but bringing unemployment down to the key level of 6.5 percent was likely to take much longer, probably until mid-2015, he said, speaking at the Asian Financial Forum in Hong Kong. Evans' comments are another attempt to clear up the uncertainty surrounding when the Fed's open-ended bond buying may end. In a recent interview, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said that if unemployment neared 7 percent by the end of the year, then the Fed may think about ending asset purchases. Evans joins the board of voting members on the Federal Open Markets Committee this year. His comments last night show he is a bit more dovish than those of Bullard ‚Äì Evans doesn't think the U.S. will see 7 percent unemployment until sometime in 2014.
BloombergMorgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart is on BloombergTV, talking some sense about the debt ceiling with Tom Keene. One of his points is that the belief in 11th hour deals has become such a big cliche that markets may never react and apply the force needed to get a deal, and so that's worrisome. But furthermore, he says that if there's no debt ceiling hike, The Treasury will have to break one of three laws: -- It will have to break the budget law, not making payments that are guaranteed by law. -- It will have to ignore the Second Liberty Bond Act of 1917 (which established the debt ceiling). -- It will have to violate the current Fed law, by getting overdraft protection. This last point is interesting, but seems the least likely. Theoretically the Fed is able to provide overdraft protection to the Treasury, but its legality would be in doubt, and the Fed probably won't do it.
John Shearer/Invision/APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
frankzed / FlickrFrom JPMorgan's Adam Crisafulli: The ìmacroî is fading ñ the last several years have seen markets swing violently in reaction to a succession of tail-events and while future problems are a certainty there seems to be too much of an eagerness to search out the next big ìmacroî event.† At this point the next big ìtail eventî could be an extended period of no tail events. To some extent, this is the story of the past few years. Ever since the financial crisis, we've seen a series of expected blowups that never materialize. For more of Crisafulli's 7 big stories in the market right now, see here.
Ooh. This is juicy. The Hungarian finance minister is blasting Nouriel Roubini for the fall in the Hungarian Forint! Hungary blames...@nourielroubini for the forint's slump,says "speculation" is underway against the currency We don't know too much about the context yet. Real quickly we can't find TOO much that Nouriel has said about Hungary, though at the beginning of 2012 he made some dark noises. In 2012 hungary may have a financing gap as large as 10% of GDP puttin pressure on reserves and currency It is well known that the Forint has had a rough ride. And Roubini is well known in various ailing countries, because there's a good chance that at some point he said something about them, and then it got splashed across the news. Here's a chart of the Hungarian Forint vs. the Euro. it's up off its recent lows, but still on a big downtrend. Google
Stonybrook UniversityJPMorgan's Adam Crisafulli and Co. are out with their look at the week ahead. To kick things off, they present 7 interesting trends that are lurking beneath the surface, but which investors should be aware of. We found the list to be intriguing. We summarize: Excellent nuggets to chew on, all of it.
Flickr/Brisbane City CouncilAs we mentioned earlier, Chinese shares had a monster day, rallying over 3%. What happened? Basically a regulator talked about a allowing tons more investment in the domestic market. Hong Kong newspaper the South China Morning Post reports: China can sharply increase investment quotas for Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investment (RQFII) and QFII, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) chairman Guo Shuqing said on Monday. Speaking at the Asia Financial Forum in Hong Kong, Guo said China could lift the investment quotas by a factor of 10. Meanwhile, on the real economy side of things, there was a very nice reading in Chinese electricity consumption, which correlates nicely to GDP. Per Nomura (which made the chart below) electricity consumption in "secondary industries" grew over 7% year-over-year, which is a strong sign. Nomura For more on what's going on today, see here &gt;
kevin dooley / FlickrThis is a pretty interesting comment from Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels. It's about the divergence we're now seeing between policymakers in Europe (still on the austerity path) and Japan (trying to loosen like crazy), a pattern that will likely result in the yen weakening significantly against the euro, which will be to the detriment of European exporters. Apart from the equity ëfrenzyí, one of the most fascinating developments to watch in the new year is the divergent policy paths now pursued in Japan and the euro area. The new Japanese government just unveiled a Y10.3 trillion economic stimulus package and increased the pressure on the Bank of Japan to ease monetary policy (see ëQuote of the Weekí below) ñ a call that is likely to be heeded soon. Meanwhile, euro area governments are still tightening fiscal policy and the ECB Council this week didnít even discuss a rate cut even though the economy remains mired in recession and the ECB staff slashed its economic forecast significantly a month ago. Following Mario Draghiís tough talk at the press conference, our euro team has thrown in the towel on their call for another ECB rate cut. The most obvious consequence of this policy divergence is euro appreciation and yen depreciation, which will benefit Japanese exporters at the expense of their European competitors. Yet, to me it is ìdÈj‡-vu all over againî as Yogi Berra used to say ñ I think it is only a question of time until the ECB will be forced to reverse its resistance against further easing, either through a sharp further appreciation of the euro or a reversal of the sharp tightening in peripheral bond yield spreads. While the latter would likely push countries into a programme and would trigger the OMT, the best response to excessive currency strength and the related downward pressure on the economy and prices is cutting interest rates.
GENEVA (AP) ‚Äî Switzerland's biggest watch maker, Swatch Group AG, says it has agreed to pay about $1 billion to acquire Canada's Harry Winston watch and jewelry brand. The Biel, Switzerland-based company says it will pay $750 million to acquire the brand from Toronto-based Harry Winston Diamond Corp. and will also assume as much as $250 million in debt. The acquisition includes the Harry Winston production company in Geneva and more than 500 employees globally. Swatch Group's chairwoman, Nayla Hayek, said in a statement Monday that the addition of a jewelry-watch brand "brilliantly complements the prestige segment" of Swatch's portfolio, helping it compete against luxury watch makers. Harry Winston Diamond Corp.'s chairman, Robert Gannicott, said that his company would change its name to Dominion Diamond Corporation. The deal is subject to regulatory approval. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Library of CongressOther than the trillion dollar coin idea, there hasn't really been that much discussion about the debt ceiling, and how it's going to be raised in just over a month's time. But that's about to change, as Congress whirrs back to life. And a new report fro Politico's Mike Allen and Jim Vandehei paints a picture of a House caucus eager to go past the brink, if that's what it takes to force spending cuts. Some of the lines from the report include: -- "The idea of allowing the country to default by refusing to increase the debt limit is getting more widespread and serious traction among House Republicans than people realize." -- "Republican leadership officials, in a series of private meetings and conversations this past week, warned that the White House, much less the broader public, doesn‚Äôt understand how hard it will be to talk restive conservatives off the fiscal ledge." -- "GOP officials said more than half of their members are prepared to allow default unless Obama agrees to dramatic cuts he has repeatedly said he opposes" Not all of the commentary is off the record. For example: ‚ÄúFor too long, the pitch was, we‚Äôll deal with it next time,‚Äù said Rep. Jason Chaffetz, a conservative from Utah. He said GOP lawmakers are prepared to shut things down or even default if Obama doesn‚Äôt bend on spending. ‚ÄúNo one wants to default, but we are not going to continue to give the president a limitless credit card.‚Äù For now markets haven't cared much about the debt ceiling. But with headlines like this coming out, and The White House now having ruled out the two most likely options for breaking the debt ceiling (the 14th Amendment and the coin), it will be interesting to see if markets start to freak.
YouTube screencapMarkets are modestly higher to start the week. The US is gaining modestly. Italy is up 0.7%. France is up 0.3%. Germany is up 0.3% The big story? A HUGE gain in China. The Shanghai Composite gained over 3%. The explanation: The possibility that regulators will massively increase the amount of investment that foreigners can make into the domestic market, according to Bloomberg. Meanwhile in the US, there isn't much economic news, but expect the debt ceiling to now get a lot more talk.
AP ImagesBEIJING (AP) ‚Äî Beijing schools kept children indoors and hospitals saw a spike in respiratory cases Monday following a weekend of off-the charts pollution in China's smoggy capital, the worst since the government began being more open about air-quality data. City authorities, who began releasing figures about some of the worst kinds of pollutants early last year, ordered many factories to scale back emissions and were spraying water at building sites to try to tamp down dust and dirt worsening the noxious haze hanging over the city. Demand spiked for face masks and air purifiers, and hospitals saw surges of up to 30 percent in residents seeking help for breathing problems, state-run media outlets reported. Schools in several districts were ordered to cancel outdoor activities such as flag-raisings and sports classes, and in an unusual public announcement, Beijing authorities advised all residents to "take measures to protect their health." "It's really terrible. I'm extremely upset, but there's really nothing much I can do," said a Beijing resident out for a morning stroll. Like many Chinese, the man would give only his surname, Kang. Another man, a 60-year-old retiree surnamed Chen, said his elderly relatives had moved to stay with family members outside the city to avoid the pollution. "I'm in pretty good shape, but the older folks have a lot of problems with their hearts, breathing, and high blood pressure," Chen said. Levels of PM2.5 particle pollution over the weekend reached the highest levels since the Beijing government began publicly releasing figures following a public outcry. In separate monitoring by the U.S. Embassy, level were at 886 micrograms per cubic meter in a reading that was labeled "beyond index." By Monday, levels had declined to about 350 micrograms on the Beijing government scale ‚Äî down from a high above 700 but still way above the level of 25 considered safe by the World Health Organization. PM2.5 are tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometers in size, or about 1/30th the average width of a human hair. They can penetrate deep into the lungs, and measuring them is considered a more accurate reflection of air quality than other methods. The Beijing Shijitan Hospital received 20 percent more patients than usual at its respiratory health department, Dr. Huang Aiben said. Most patients were coughing and sought treatment for chronic bronchitis, asthma and other respiratory illnesses, Huang said. "Because these dust particles are relatively fine, they can be directly absorbed by the lung's tiny air sacs. The airway's ability to block the fine dust is relatively weak and so bacteria and viruses carried by the dust can directly enter the airway," Huang said. Huang said exposure to such high levels of pollution over the short term can cause bacterial and viral infections, and prolonged exposure could result in tumors. Beijing's air started to worsen on Thursday, and Beijing's monitoring center said the pollution was expected to linger until Tuesday. Weather conditions are a factor, as a lack of wind means pollutants can easily accumulate and fail to dissipate, said Pan Xiao Chuan, a professor at Peking University's public health department. "Recent pollution doesn't mean there is an increase in the discharge of pollutants," he said. The government started publishing PM2.5 readings last year after public demands for more detailed air quality data, prompted in part by a Twitter feed from the U.S. Embassy that reported readings from the building's roof. A growing Chinese middle class has become increasingly vocal about the quality of the environment. Hourly air quality updates are now available online for more than 70 cities. Air pollution is a major problem in China due to the country's rapid pace of industrialization, reliance on coal power, explosive growth in car ownership and disregard for environmental laws. It typically gets worse in the winter because of weather conditions and an increase in coal burning for heating needs. Several other cities, including Tianjin on the coast east of Beijing and southern China's Wuhan city, also reported severe pollution over the last several days. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
