Steve Ballmer's long, slow good-bye to all things Microsoft continued on Monday afternoon when he published "the last shareholder letter I will write as the CEO of the company I love." In it, he tried to sell shareholders again on his vision for the company. This includes his major reorganization last summer, the value of Bing, a justification for buying Skype for $8.6 billion in 2011 and for buying Nokia's device business for $7 billion last month. The letter was published with Microsoft's annual report. It's Ballmer's latest in a long string of good-byes as he prepares to retire from the CEO job. Always an emotional guy, in recent weeks, Ballmer wept through his final speech to 13,000 Microsoft staffers; talked about how weird it was to come to work these days and opened up about his biggest regrets. Here's the letter: TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS, CUSTOMERS, PARTNERS AND EMPLOYEES: This is a unique letter for me ó the last shareholder letter I will write as the CEO of the company I love. We have always believed that technology will unleash human potential and that is why I have come to work every day with a heart full of passion for more than 30 years. Fiscal Year 2013 was a pivotal year for Microsoft in every sense of the word. Last year in my letter to you I declared a fundamental shift in our business to a devices and services company. This transformation impacts how we run the company, how we develop new experiences, and how we take products to market for both consumers and businesses. This past year we took the first big bold steps forward in our transformation and we did it while growing revenue to $77.8 billion (up 6 percent). In addition, we returned $12.3 billion (up 15 percent) to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases. While we were able to grow revenue to a record level, our earnings results reflect investments as well as some of the challenges of undertaking a transformation of this magnitude. With this as backdrop, Iíd like to summarize where we are now and where weíre headed, because it helps explain why Iím so enthusiastic about the opportunity ahead. Our strategy: High-value activities enabled by a family of devices and services We are still in the early days of our transformation, yet we made strong progress in the past year launching devices and services that people love and businesses need. We brought Windows 8 to the world; we brought consistent user experiences to PCs, tablets, phones and Xbox; and we made important advancements to Windows Server, Windows Azure, Microsoft Dynamics and Office 365. We are proud of what we accomplished this year and continue to be passionate about delivering better devices and services more quickly. To increase innovation, capability, efficiency and speed we further sharpened our strategy, and in July 2013 we announced we are rallying behind a single strategy as One Microsoft. We declared that Microsoftís focus going forward will be to create a family of devices and services for individuals and businesses that empower people around the globe at home, at work and on the go, for the activities they value most. Over time, our focus on high-value activities will generate amazing innovation and new areas of growth. What is a high-value activity? Think of the experiences people have every day that are most important to them ó from communicating with a family member and researching a term paper to having serious fun and expressing ideas. In a business setting, high-value activities include experiences such as conducting meetings with colleagues in multiple locations, gaining insight from massive amounts of data and information, and interacting with customers. Microsoft will enable these types of high-value activities with a family of devices ó from both Microsoft and our partners ó as well as with our services. As we go to market, we will primarily monetize our high-value activities by leading with devices and enterprise services. In this model, our consumer services such as Bing and Skype will differentiate our devices and serve as an on-ramp to our enterprise services while generating some revenue from subscriptions and advertising. Enterprise services continue to be an area of great strength, growth and opportunity as businesses of all sizes look to Microsoft to help them move to the cloud, manage a growing number of devices, tap into big data and embrace new social capabilities. Executing and accelerating In the past year we took many bold steps forward in executing on our strategy. First, we are well underway in implementing the new organization structure announced in July. The teams are working together in new and exciting ways. The key change we made is deceptively simple but profoundly powerful: Instead of organizing our teams around individual products, weíve organized by function, including, for example, engineering, sales, marketing and finance. It ensures we have one strategy and work as one team with one set of shared goals. Second, in September we announced we are purchasing Nokiaís Devices and Services business ó including its smartphone and mobile phone businesses; award-winning engineering and design teams; manufacturing and assembly facilities around the world; and teams devoted to operations, sales, marketing and support. This is a signature event in our transformation and will bring together the best mobile device work of Microsoft and Nokia. It will accelerate our growth with Windows Phone while strengthening our overall device ecosystem and our opportunity. Third, in September, we also announced a new segment-reporting framework. We have five new reporting segments tightly aligned with our focus on delivering innovative devices and services for both our enterprise and consumer customers. This framework was designed to give valuable insight into our progress in the key transformations we are undertaking in our businesses to drive long-term growth. As I think about whatís ahead, Iím incredibly optimistic about what Microsoft will deliver. We are accelerating as we bring to market Windows 8.1 PCs and tablets with our partners, Surface 2, Xbox One and new phones; advance our enterprise services including Windows Server, Windows Azure, Microsoft Dynamics and Office 365; and innovate on new high-value activities. Moving forward With the decisions weíve made this year, the strategy weíve put in place, the organization weíve designed, the world-class talent we have, and the devices and services we are creating, we are well-positioned to deliver growth and world-changing technology long into the future. We have seen incredible results in the past decade ó delivering more than $200 billion in operating profit. Iím optimistic not only as the CEO but as an investor who treasures his Microsoft stock. Working at Microsoft has been a thrilling experience ó weíve changed the world and delivered record-setting success ó and I know our best days are still ahead. Thank you for your support. Steven A. BallmerChief Executive OfficerSeptember 27, 2013 †
Flickr/kryptoThe Oct. 17 U.S. debt ceiling deadline is quickly approaching. But markets have been largely unfazed by what many experts warn could be economic catastrophe. The conventional wisdom has been that lawmakers understand the higher stakes of the debt ceiling and will surely prevent the country from self-inflicted economic trauma.† And considering the fiscal brinksmanship of recent years, it's understandable why investors appear to be unusually complacent. But are they being too complacent? "This is anecdotal, so ultimately worthless ó but I can't help noticing that everyone saying shutdown/ceiling not a reason to sell stocks," tweeted Matt Busigin on Sunday. "That is the opposite of what I saw during the last debt ceiling and government shutdown talks. Which may mean it's not priced in, and untrue." "[Investors] believe that ó as in the past ó the fiscal showdown will end with a midnight compromise that avoids both default and a government shutdown," warned Nouriel Roubini on Sept. 1. "But investors seem to underestimate how dysfunctional U.S. national politics has become. With a majority of the Republican Party on a jihad against government spending, fiscal explosions this autumn cannot be ruled out." As we now know, the government failed to avoid the shutdown. Goldman SachsThe degree of investor complacency may be best captured in government-exposed stocks. In a recent report, Goldman Sachs' Robert Boroujerdi noted "We estimate that little or no volatility premium for the debt ceiling debates is priced into the options markets on stocks most exposed to government spending cuts." "Complacency is even more pronounced on stocks with high government exposure," he added. "Fear priced into options on these stocks dropped over the past few months to new lows vs. SPX options." As you can see in the chart above, the cost of put options ó which protect investors from sell-offs ó for government-exposed stocks recently fell to post-crisis lows. And this time period included at least four post-crisis budget bouts. The message of complacency is less obvious when you look at the market as a whole. Today, the Volatility Index (VIX) jumped 15%. Still, it continues to be below recent highs. And the S&amp;P 500 is just 2.8%† below its Sept. 18 all-time high. "[W]e believe there is a zero percent chance of a federal government default at that time," said Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart. "The U.S. government will pay its bills." In a note to clients on Friday, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco wrote that he too saw a zero percent chance that the debt ceiling debate reaches the point where Treasury actually runs out of money and starts missing interest payments. The language from Wall Street's experts reflect absolute certainty that the U.S. will survive the ongoing debate over the debt ceiling. However, "zero percent" is the type of language that should set off warning sirens. Interestingly, Bianco estimated that should the zero-percent scenario occur, the†S&amp;P 500 could crash to 850, about a 50% drop. What's frightening about Bianco's forecast is not the scale of the decline. Rather, what's frightening is that he would go out of his way to present a scenario that had a "zero percent" chance of happening. Because zero represents an impossibility, in theory it couldn't qualify as a worst-case. If this really had a "zero percent" chance of happening, then there would be no need for Goldman Sachs to write: If the debt limit is not raised before the Treasury depletes its cash balance, it could force the Treasury to rapidly eliminate the budget deficit to stay under the debt ceiling. We estimate that the fiscal pullback would amount to as much as 4.2% of GDP (annualized). The effect on quarterly growth rates (rather than levels) could be even greater. If this were allowed to occur, it could lead to a rapid downturn in economic activity if not reversed very quickly. It seems pretty clear that complacency is unusually high, which makes us even more worried that we could have an accident in Washington. Hopefully, this time isn't different. † A closer look at the last four fiscal incidents show that "not all fiscal deadlines are created equal." That was the message of Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips. Goldman Sachs Fiscal issues aside, other "unknown unknown" events in American history have spurred market sell-offs. It took the Dow Jones Industrial Average 309 days to crawl back from its lows after Pearl Harbor. And on the first trading day after 9/11, the DJIA fell 684 points, which set a record for biggest loss for one trading day. By the end of that week, the index was down 14.1%. Recall that†the stock market also lost half its value†in the months following Lehman Brothers' collapse, prompting a harrowing recession. Of course, other seemingly monster moments in history ó like the crisis at the Fukushima reactor ó saw little movements in U.S. markets. Economically speaking, failure to raise the debt ceiling could rival any of these events. It would of course be doubly silly since that failure would be entirely voluntary.
For your edification, here's a great table from Nomura on what happened to markets in the day and month after the downgrade of August 5, 2011 (which came right after the debt ceiling fight). Nomura
Three weeks ago the Detroit Free Press produced a†special report that painted a view contrary to many public perceptions about Detroit's financial history. †The Free Press pored over city budget documents dating back to the 1950s and found some interesting things: The numbers, most from records deeply buried in the public library, lay waste to misconceptions about the roots of Detroitís economic crisis. For critics who want to blame Mayor Coleman Young for starting this mess, think again. The mayorís sometimes fiery rhetoric may have contributed to metro Detroitís racial divide, but he was an astute money manager who recognized, early on, the challenges the city faced and began slashing staff and spending to address them. And Wall Street types who applauded Mayor Kwame Kilpatrickís financial acumen following his 2005 deal to restructure city pension debt should consider this: The numbers prove that his plan devastated the cityís finances and was a key factor that drove Detroit to file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy in July. The State of Michigan also bears some blame. Lansing politicians reduced Detroitís state-shared revenue by 48% from 1998 to 2012, withholding $172 million from the city, according to state records. Decades of mismanagement added to Detroitís fiscal woes. The city notoriously bungled multiple federal aid programs and overpaid outrageously to incentivize projects such as the Chrysler Jefferson North plant. Bureaucracy bogged down even the simplest deals and contracts. In a city that needed urgency, major city functions often seemed rudderless. When all the numbers are crunched, one fact is crystal clear: Yes, a disaster was looming for Detroit. But there were ample opportunities when decisive action by city leaders might have fended off bankruptcy. Perhaps the most interesting piece of information to me is the absolute devastation of property value in Detroit. The Motor City's assessed property values peaked at the same time the overall population peaked, in the 1950s. By about 1955, Detroit's total property value was about $45 billion in 2012 dollars. †By 1980, property value sunk by 67 percent, to just $15 billion. †However, the decline did not stop there. †Property values bottomed out at $8.8 billion in the late '90s, before the housing bubble lifted values over the next decade. †Today's total property value of approximately $9.6 billion.†Once again, I maintain that Detroit was devastated by white flight in a way that no other American city has suffered. †The city could not counter the loss in property value, and without new growth or investment in the city, bankruptcy was bound to happen.†The Detroit News took a more human approach†in its special report†by examining actions and policies on a decade-by-decade basis. †Those who have studied Detroit's collapse will be quite familiar with much of the News' analysis, but like the Free Press makes the case that bankruptcy was virtually inevitable.Two quotes stuck out in my mind that capture the Detroiter's attachment -- or lack thereof -- with place. †Kevin Boyle, a Northwestern University professor raised on the city's East Side, said: ìIt was always a city built on money. People came to Detroit for jobs, not the natural beauty or the great weather. There was never a commitment to place. It was to money.†And then the boom ended.î And then this quote: ìYou had a system that pits against each other immigrant whites and blacks from the South,î said the Rev. Richard Sauerzopf, who studies Detroit for Michigan State Universityís Global Urban Studies Program. ìIn Detroit, the solution wasnít to make it work. It was to leave.î I suppose the very unfortunate and very public embarrassment that is municipal bankruptcy is causing at least some in the city to develop some introspection. †Can this be the basis for much needed change?
The redesigned $100 note is scheduled for release on October 8th. Due to the enhanced security features "it only takes a few seconds to check the new $100 note and know it's real," according to Newmoney.gov, a website affiliated with the Federal Reserve Board,Treasury Department and U.S.¬†Secret Service. Check out a decade's worth of research and development that went into America's newest bank note.: Blue 3-D Security Ribbon: The blue ribbon to the right of Benjamin Franklin is woven instead of printed on the paper. Tilt the note back and forth and the blue ribbon shows "Liberty like bells" transforming into "100s," When you¬†tilt the note back and forth, the bells and "100s"¬†will move side to side. Tilt the bill side to side, and the images move up and down.¬† Newmoney.gov Raised Printing: Stroke Benjamin Franklin‚Äôs left shoulder and it will feel rough to the touch due to an enhanced intaglio printing process.¬† Newmoney.gov Serial Numbers:¬†Each note has a unique combination of 11 numbers and letters that appears on the front of the bill twice. These specific and original serial numbers aid law enforcement in identifying counterfeit notes. Newmoney.gov Bell Hiding in an Inkwell:¬†Inside the copper-colored inkwell is a bell that changes from copper to greenish hue when tilted. Newmoney.gov Portrait Watermark: Hold the note to light and look for a faint image of Benjamin Franklin in the blank space to the right of the portrait. The image is visible from either side of the note.¬† Newmoney.gov Security Thread:¬†If you hold the note up to light you will see an embedded thread of the letters 'USA' and the number '100' running vertically on the note. Under ultraviolet light the¬†thread glows a pinkish hue. Newmoney.gov Look for the Gold: There is a large gold numeral '100' on the back of the note. This addition is designed to help individuals with visual impairments to read the denomination. Newmoney.gov And some other features, not tied specifically to security: New Color:¬†The background color is a pale blue but don't rely on this feature¬†to check the note's authenticity. Instead, scroll down to check out how the serial numbers aid against counterfeiting. Newmoney.gov American Symbols of Freedom:¬†U.S. symbols of freedom addition includes phrases from the Declaration of Independence and the quill used by the Founding Fathers to sign the document. Newmoney.gov  Federal Reserve Bank Indicator:¬†The¬†Federal Reserve System¬†is represented by a universal seal that is to the left of Benjamin Franklin's portrait. A letter and number identifies the issuing Federal Reserve Bank ‚Äî there are¬†12 regional¬†Federal Reserve Banks¬†and¬†24 branches¬†located in major U. S. cities. Newmoney.gov  Printing Locator: The new $100 notes are printed in either Washington, D.C., or Fort Worth, Texas. If the bill is printed in Fort Worth, it will have a small 'F.W.'¬†in the top left corner on the front of the note.¬† Newmoney.gov ¬†
Nearly all of Wall Street is optimistic about the prospects for the stock market in the coming years. Monday, the S&amp;P 500 closed at 1676. The median 2014 year-end target for the index among Wall Street equity strategists, according to a poll by Bloomberg, is 1900 ‚Äî 13% above today's levels. Thus, a new report from Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale's asset allocation team ‚Äî which calls for a 15% correction in the stock market in the first quarter of next year, followed by a multi-year journey back to where the index sits today ‚Äî may come as a bit of a shock. SG Cross Asset Research/Global Asset AllocationSocGen's new S&P 500 price targets.In the report ‚Äî titled "S&amp;P 500: -15% in sight, then the big sleep" ‚Äî¬†SocGen's global head of asset allocation, Alain Bokobza, explains how an unwind of easy money policies at the Federal Reserve and ongoing dysfunction in Washington will cause the stock market to languish. "Strategically, we advise investors to switch into eurozone and Japanese equities, where economic policy is much clearer, monetary policy very loose and positioning is low," says Bokobza. The strategist lays out the case in the report: Between now and the end of the year, any decline in the S&amp;P 500 is likely to be limited given that the Fed is still injecting liquidity. We expect the S&amp;P to be at 1600 by year-end, in line with our technical analyst‚Äôs forecast (1560+/-10pts). SG economists expect the January FOMC meeting to be the most likely timeframe for tapering. They look for the first move to be $20bn (instead of the $5-10bn previously expected by the market). We expect the drop to accelerate at the start of 2014 as the market starts pricing in the end of asset purchases (i.e. well before the market‚Äôs Fed tapering expectation). The S&amp;P 500 should dip to 1450 on our estimates, down c.15% from the peak. Keep in mind the S&amp;P 500 fell by -16% after QE1 stopped and by -17% after the end of QE2. From Q2 2014, the S&amp;P 500 should start to recover slowly after a technical rebound (c.+7%), as 'Growth' returns to the forefront. We see the S&amp;P 500 at 1600 by the end of the year, so 2014 should be rather flat. In the two to three years that follow, the U.S. equity index should remain relatively flat, burdened by higher yields (rate hikes in mid-2015), a higher U.S. dollar and limited earnings growth (Return on Equity is already high), but supported by better economic prospects and a new shareholder value cycle, staving off a bear market. The SocGen report calls Fed tightening "a cap on the U.S. equity market," pointing to liquidity as "the main driver of U.S. equities since 2008." Simply put, stocks will not be able to handle higher interest rates. "U.S. equities have been able to absorb the recent increase in the [10-year] bond yield without panic thanks to a high equity risk premium," says Bokobza. "The U.S. equity risk has dropped from 6.8% to 4.7% over the last 10 months. According to our proprietary risk premium model, U.S. equities can absorb only c.80 [basis points] more; i.e., a bond yield of around 3.4% (to normalise our risk premium at its long-term average)." The surge in long-term interest rates that accompanied a big sell-off in the Treasury market this summer as investors anticipated a tapering of quantitative easing did not weigh much on the stock market, but the 10-year yield only made it to 3.0%. Datastream, SG Cross Asset Research/Global Asset AllocationNote: Red line = linear regression. Return on Equity = 12-month forward earnings/current book value.SocGen says the U.S. stock market ‚Äî along with Switzerland's ‚Äî is the most expensive in the entire world, as the chart at left illustrates. ¬† "We continue to find some value in U.S. equities, but we particularly like financial sectors," writes Bokobza. "The rest of the market is now back to pre-crisis levels, trading at 3.2x book value. Over the last 30 years, the only period non-financial U.S. stocks traded higher was during the dot-com bubble (1997-2001), when markets entered into a period of 'irrational exuberance'." From a fundamental standpoint, SocGen argues that it's becoming increasingly difficult for companies to deliver on earnings expectations. "While the profitability of U.S. companies is already relatively high, earnings momentum remains in negative territory and is decreasing," says Bokobza. "It will be increasingly difficult for U.S. companies to beat consensus expectations. Last year earnings growth expectations for 2012 and 2013 were revised down sharply from the double-digit level. The consensus expects 10% earnings growth for 2014 and 2015." But what about the Great Rotation? "There is more money in U.S. equities now than in 2007 (not the case for European equities)," writes Bokobza. "Everyone has found good reasons to buy U.S. equities, even if some of those reasons are incompatible with one another: economic recovery, monetary stimulus, energy revolution, safe haven area or simply a lack of alternatives." "After gaining 170% since March 2009, we believe that U.S. equities are a tired and crowded asset now." EPFR, SG Cross Asset Research/Global Asset Allocation
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. We're Balanced Between Risk-On And Risk-Off Trades As The Fog Clears (A Gary Shilling's Insight) Gary Shilling has gone from tilting toward seven-risk off trades, to being "balanced between 'risk-on' and 'risk-off' as we prepare to move either way as the fog clears." This comes as the global economic outlook remains mixed and as the Fed takes its time clarifying its plans to taper its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases. These trades include: 1. Modestly long treasury bonds. "They've been beaten up, maybe too much so. Also, they serve as an anchor against a sudden Grand Disconnect-closing shock that something like the government shutdown and the looming debt ceiling crisis may precipitate." 2. Long the dollar. 3. Short emerging market stocks and bonds. 4. Long U.S. dividend-rich stocks. Shilling continues to be cautious and "advocates heavy cash positions." Belski: Investors Should Avoid Singular Investment Approaches Like Value Strategies (BMO Capital Markets)  "The percentage of S&amp;P 500 stocks with P/E ratios within 20% of the index level is near its highest level in nearly 20 years (the height of the financial crisis notwithstanding)," writes Brian Belski of BMO Capital Markets. This suggests that investors are valuing stocks that have different earnings growth profiles in a similar manner. "From our perspective, the main culprit has been the strong outperformance of value strategies this year." "We believe that as QE has driven stock prices higher, investors have sought out more attractively priced areas of the market. The result has been a surge in price multiples for areas at the lower end of the valuation spectrum making market valuation more homogeneous. "Going forward we would urge investors to avoid such singular investment approaches and instead incorporate other variables (such as earnings growth) when making decisions. This is particularly relevant in the current environment since earnings growth among US stocks has become increasingly more disperse (Exhibit 2, right) ñ a trend we expect to continue given the stage of the current cycle." Here's The Real S&amp;P 500 Chart That No One Ever Talks About (All Star Charts) While we've been bombarded with headlines about the S&amp;P 500 hitting new all-time highs, the inflation adjusted index tells a different story. JC Parets at All Star Charts writes that the inflation adjusted chart shows "is the consistency of the lower lows and lower highs since the year 2000. Hardly the uptrend and bull market that we hear about so often."† "I think itís important that when I speak with investors, they understand how in Real terms, not only is the S&amp;P500 not at all-time highs, but actually down 20% over the last 13.5 years." All Star Charts UBS's Largest Wealth Management Team Goes Independent (Investment News)  UBS Financial Services largest wealth management team in San Diego that managed $540 million in client assets has gone independent, according to Investment News. The team includes Ajay K. Gupta, and two other partners that have registered with the SEC. Gupta and his partners moved because they wanted "access to new technology, a broader choice in clients and independence as a fiduciary adviser to its 119 family clients," reports Trevor Hunnicutt at Investment News. Gupta will write UBS a seven-figure check.  A Popular Stock Market Warning Sign Is 'Crying Wolf' Again (Deutsche Bank) The ratio of companies providing negative earnings guidance, to those providing positive forward guidance, has been rising. This is usually interpreted as a sign of excess optimism.† But Deutsche Bank's David Bianco writes that "investors should ignore these aggregated stats."† "We have repeatedly argued that guidance ratios are noisy and unreliable. Only 20% of companies provide quarterly guidance, the mix changes from period to period, the ratio is not earnings weighted and does not differentiate between a 1% or 10% change in guidance. "Bottom-up EPS growth and estimate revision trends are more insightful. Btm-up 3Q S&amp;P EPS declined only 3.2% among the least in two years and est. EPS growth just prior to reporting is the highest in over a year at 4.1%. Our $28 3QE EPS implies the usual 3-4% weighted average beat."
REUTERS/Noah BergerLast week Tesla's stock plummeted after a video of a Model S on fire went viral. Elon Musk took to his blog to explain the incident and defend the Model S. Today, Jefferies analyst Elaine Kwei called the the fire a "freak accident" and wrote that "the Model S is still considered safer than conventional vehicles." Kwei raised her price target to $210, from $160. She also raised her third quarter Model S delivery estimate to 5,500 units, from 5,250 units "based on reported VIN numbers, deliveries in Europe, and higher rates of production."  "Last week we held test drives and meetings with Jeff Evanson, VP of IR," she wrote. "Based on our discussions with investors and opinions expressed by current/prospective owners, it appears the Model S is still considered safer than conventional vehicles, in contrast to media headlines questioning EV safety. The company‚Äôs track record of innovation and groundbreaking products gives us confidence in the execution of future vehicles." Here are some of the details of her investment thesis: Tesla believes it will achieve 400,000 - 500,000 units of production capacity at its Freemont plant by 2020.
Courtesy of Diane Francis/Harper CollinsSince the publication of her book calling for a merger between the U.S. and Canada, Diane Francis has been showered on Twitter and elsewhere with some not-too-kind reactions. One person called it a "loony idea," while another wrote that they had to check the calender to see if it was April Fool's Day. "You, Madam, are a traitor!" another man wrote, before more succinctly explaining his position in a one word follow up tweet: "TREASON!" But her book, "Merger of the Century: Why Canada and America Should Become One Country," is meant to generate serious debate. Author of nine books,†66-year-old Francis has worked as a columnist for Maclean's magazine and the New York Sun. She currently works as an Editor-at-Large at the National Post and divides her time between Toronto and New York City. She tells Business Insider that her new book was conceived four years ago, but the concept was kept a secret til last week. Courtesy of Diane Francis/Harper Collins"It is one big idea book," she explains. "I wanted it to be a complete intellectual package. I didn't want to come out with the idea and have Canadians dismiss it." At around 120,000 words and with 30 pages of end notes, Francis says the book has been thoroughly researched. While the introduction says it is a "thought experiment," Francis' background as a business journalist shines through in the facts and figures ó it reads almost like a business proposal. Francis seemed aware that the response from Canadians might not all be positive. The core of Francis' argument is that faced with the threat of the growing economic strength of the BRICS (notably Russia and China, who have significant interests in Canada's Arctic regions), plus the security problems along the long U.S.-Canada border, the two countries should pair up. Canada would be able militarily and economically to†defend its Arctic regions, and the two countries would be able to team up to exploit Canada's vast resources. "Even though [Canada] is a big country, it's got a small population and a small economy," she says. "Our natural and obvious partner ó and our partner already, really ó is the United States." The negative reaction from some Canadians didn't surprise Francis. "The initial reaction was very bad. I go in to call-in radio shows ó which is how you promote books ó and I'd get really nasty calls," she says. "'Yankee go home,' that sort of thing." "That's knee-jerk," she says, adding that it's unrepresentative of Canadians as a whole. The country's paranoia about American dominance is a legacy of warfare between 1770 and 1820 and a "colonial mentality" left behind by the British. Americans, she says, have gotten the idea quicker. "It means jobs for everybody," Francis says. "It means energy independence, and it means national security." Perhaps the most widely shared criticism has come from Francis' National Post colleague, Jonathan Kay. Following the publication of a passage of the book in the Post, Kay wrote that the merger plan had "many, many" problems. In particular, Kay zeroes in on the caveats for the merger that might prove unpalatable to Americans ó the idea that Canadians would keep their popular HealthCare system but Americans wouldn't be a part of it, and the $17-trillion in debt bonds that the the U.S. would pay Canada for the merger ó and the complexities surrounding making sure Quebec's Francophone separatists are comfortable in an even larger Anglophone community. Francis bristled when Kay's critique was mentioned. "This book contains models," she says. "These are my best solutions to the existential problems facing the two countries, and various forms of integration. He was drawing from one that was the German style, the 'lets just unite two countries and compensate Canadians' ones. That's a total hypothetical." Francis' complaints about the critique hinge on the fact that Kay appeared to have only read the excerpted chapter of her book, and not the chapters that presented other, looser, options for integration. "It was interesting that someone would riff off a book that they haven't completely understood the reasoning behind, nor had time to read it, and before anyone else had a chance to read it," she says, later adding. "All the arguments used in that article were the typical negative, push-back, automatic rejection of a Canadian to anything new." It's hard not to read Francis' book, however, and feel that her view of a Russian and Chinese state capitalism dominated future feels pessimistic, and perhaps even, as J. Dana Schuster of Foreign Policy describes it, "dystopian." Here too, Francis is unrepentant, pointing to huge sovereign wealth funds, big investments in overseas resources, and Russia's aggressive behavior in the Arctic as proof that she isn't being alarmist. "It's like a new cold war. The Cold War, 2.0, or the economic Cold War, 2.0." Even so, does Canada need to be part of a world power? While the country may share many ties with the U.S., in many ways the country's high living standards and history of social democracy may have more in common with European middle powers such as Norway or Denmark. Why shouldn't Canada remain on that path, rather than join with the U.S.? Francis concedes that wouldn't be a bad idea and says her last chapter is designed to deal with that. "It [says] OK, Canada, if there's going to be no merger, here's what you've got to do, and you've got to do it quickly. It'll probably be more difficult politically than integrating faster with the Americans. They've gotta fix the border, they've got a constitutional problem, they've got a governance problem, they have an aboriginal problem, they've got an Arctic and military problem, a brain drain problem, a Dutch disease problem." Ultimately, however, it all boils down to the same thing; "All of these things have to be looked at with solutions that involve working closer with the Americans," Francis says. More than anything, she says, she hopes that the book will ignite debate. "I've talked to some of the people in the Canadian government, and I know the US government is reading this thing as we speak," she says. "I think this will push along faster perimeter security talks, which have been going nowhere, nd it will push along faster the study of monetary union in Canada ó is that a good idea? It'll bring more attention to our vulnerability in the Arctic and Canada's complete abdication of any kind of development help there." Even with the more unpleasant comments directed her way, Francis has faith that the Canadian national character will prevail. "Canadians are very smart, and they're very circumspect," she says. "And they're gradualists. I know that by introducing the conversation ó and everyone is talking about it ó and introducing hopefully the conversation in the United States, that this will become part of policy discussion."
Ben Milne is CEO of Iowa-based payments company Dwolla and he barely carries cash anymore. Dwolla works by charging a simple $0.25 fee for sending money to someone. Transfers under $10 are free. "I reached into my pocket the other day and felt crumpled paper in there," he said during a panel at Money2020 in Las Vegas. "I thought I had absentmindedly put my burrito wrapper from lunch in there, but it was actually some dollar bills." Milne's point is simply that the Internet has carried so much of our analog world into the digital age that the physical currency in his pocket felt foreign and unrecognizable. "Our world is already virtual, we just don't realize it yet," he said.¬†"If all you have is an Internet connection, you can't send money around the world very easily, but it's no problem to send someone a picture of Miley Cyrus. What we're doing ‚Äì easy Internet payments ‚Äì is an inevitability. We may not be the people to do it, though I'm working my ass off to make sure we are."
Wikimedia CommonsEver find something weird in an airplane bathroom? How about $1.4 million in gold? Four men have been arrested for stashing 32 kgs of gold biscuits in the lavatory of an Air India flight, according to the Press Trust of India. The country's Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, which is analogous to the currency division of the Secret Service, received a tip-off that two of the suspects were on a plane from Dubai. They were detained when they landed in Chennai, and a subsequent search of the plane revealed the bars were hidden in the bathroom (the report does not mention where, exactly they were hidden). Authorities then arrested the two other men, who were waiting to board the same plane onto Delhi. India is the world's largest consumer of gold, and smuggling has become rampant after the government imposed a series of import tariffs and quotas to tilt its current account deficit.¬† This story was earlier spotted by @anandh and @fullcarry.
REUTERS/ Tim ChongFederal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke.The monthly nonfarm payrolls report put out by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics is perhaps the single most important report in determining the Federal Reserve's¬†outlook for monetary policy at the moment. The fact that it moves markets the most of any regular economic data release reflects this. However, a new paper by Johns Hopkins economist Jonathan Wright has sparked a lot of chatter about how the seasonal adjustments used by the BLS in the report have become seriously distorted in the wake of the financial crisis of 2008, causing the agency to systematically overestimate job creation from October to April every year since then, while at the same time underestimating job creation over the May-September months. That's why, every year since 2008, the economy has appeared to stage a "recovery" in the winter months, only to weaken again over the summer. Wright says the effect of these distortions from inaccurate seasonal adjustments has weakened each year since the financial crisis ‚Äî in other words, the problem is slowly going away on its own. Unfortunately, it didn't go away fast enough to create another big problem this year. In May ‚Äî right at the end of that October-April period that gets an artificial boost from seasonal adjustment errors ‚Äî the Fed signaled its intent to taper back its quantitative easing program later in the year, based on improvement in the data. By September, Wall Street was convinced that this monumental shift in policy was imminent, and had priced such an outcome into financial markets. Then, the Fed shocked markets by refraining from tapering, citing a lack of substantial improvement in the underlying economic data. "We have never heard investors as angry as the day after the Fed decided to not taper its asset buying program," says BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris. "Some investors argue that it was a deliberate attempt to introduce volatility into the market. Others said Fed credibility is shot." BAML analysts reproduced the work of Jonathan Wright, attempting to answer the question of whether the Fed was in turn misled by the seasonal adjustment errors in the nonfarm payrolls report. "Our analysis suggests that might be the case," says BAML interest rate strategist Ruslan Bikbov. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchIn a note to clients, Bikbov writes (emphasis added): The Chart of the Day shows that although the six-month moving average of BLS [seasonally-adjusted] employment increased by 85k from September 2012, when the Fed initiated QE3, to April 2013, the adjusted moving average increased by only 47k over the same time period.  In fact, when we repeated our analysis with the data available to the Fed by May of this year, we found even a smaller improvement in employment statistics adjusted for biases. The adjusted six-month moving average increased by only 35k from September 2012 to April 2013, while official BLS statistics showed 78k growth in the moving average over the same time period.¬† Clearly, the 35k improvement in monthly payroll growth from the start of QE3 to April 2013 barely qualifies for ‚Äúsubstantial improvement‚Äù in the outlook for the labor market. Nevertheless, the Fed started talking publicly about tapering asset purchases in May. This suggests the Fed might have overreacted to biases in official BLS statistics. Similarly, the drop in the moving average of employment growth since April, which could be one reason for the decision not to taper in September, might be smaller than suggested by published BLS data. Although our analysis applies only to employment, it is plausible to assume other [seasonally-adjusted] data could be biased as well. This also could have influenced Fed communication this year. Bikbov warns that the seasonal adjustment errors could continue to cause problems for markets headed into the end of the year, causing another sell-off in the Treasury market. "Our analysis suggests official payroll statistics may be biased higher in the coming months," he writes. "Given that the Fed has deemphasized the importance of the unemployment rate, the market could be especially sensitive to payroll data."
Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn disclosed a big investment over Twitter in Talisman Energy and the stock is going nuts in after-hours trading.¬† Twitter.com/Carl_C_IcahnShares of the oil and gas exploration company's stock were last trading up around 13%.¬† According to a securites filing with the SEC, Icahn bought 61,554,602 shares, or a 5.97% stake, in Talisman Energy for $277 million. ¬†¬†
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesThe National Review's Robert Costa is the best reporter on the GOP and the fiscal standoff. His latest piece has one ominous paragraph about what John Boehner is saying in private: In private, Boehner has told his allies that he won‚Äôt bring up a clean CR, and he‚Äôs hopeful that as the deadline nears, President Obama will deal. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no way the president holds firm,‚Äù a House GOP insider predicts. ‚ÄúOnce that crack opens, I don‚Äôt know how the debt limit will be addressed, but it won‚Äôt be by Republican capitulation.‚Äù It'd be nice to read that in private, there was some more conciliatory language, but at the moment, all of the private rhetoric is about hardening people's positions and convincing the team that the other side will cave.
We're at the Money2020 conference on new and alternative payment systems in Las Vegas, where representatives from all corners of financial services are discussing the current state of money. This morning, Micky Malka of Ribbit Capital laid out a very straightforward case on why you should be bullish on Bitcoin. "Bitcoin is for money what TCP/IP is to the Information Age," he said. "It provides us with a universal decentralized ledger for recording any and all transactions. It will change the way money moves around the world." It's an apt analogy. To simplify it a bit, TCP/IP is the name for the communication standards that enable Internet technology to function. Because TCP/IP is the same everywhere, it's practical worldwide. Similarly, Bitcoin standards are the same everywhere. Malka makes the case that Bitcoin will move money around the world the same way that TCP/IP moves information around the world. Malka explains that there's still some development to be done before Bitcoin can become the disruptive standard Internet currency it purports to be: "Bitcoin today is in a similar state that the Internet was in 1992. It's functional and useful, but the great use cases are only just now happening. It's only going to get better and better."
You may have heard New York City could see some precipitation over the next few hours. It may have been much worse, but the tornado watch just got canceled. Anyway, we got Instagrams of the approaching deluge. ¬†       
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Storm clouds pass over the top of the Empire State Building in New York, June 13, 2013.It's day seven of the government shutdown. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
How should a suit fit? ¬†I get this question a lot. So to make it really simple I had my team here at Real Men Real Style create the simple suit fit chart ¬†below. Want more details on fit ‚Äì then go check out my¬†massive 2000 word post on suit fit over at The Art of Manliness. Real Men Real Style Enjoy this? How would you like a FREE 47 Page Men‚Äôs Style eBook?¬†Click Here for Awesome Style Advice. Want more details?¬†I created a detailed¬†how a suit should fit video¬†for you here as well.  
A new Business Insider-SurveyMonkey Audience poll¬†has found that Americans know shockingly little about the budget, federal deficits and other major economic indicators.¬† Last week, we asked nearly 500 respondents to estimate several economic statistics, including the inflation rate.¬† Remember, in the real world, inflation is low ‚Äî¬†1.5% so far in 2013. That's below the Federal Reserve's target of 2%, and far below historical averages. Some Americans know that. In fact, 31% of respondents on our survey got the inflation rate within a point of the correct answer.¬† But more often, respondents drastically overestimated inflation. 39% said the inflation rate was at least 5%. 22% thought inflation was in double digits. On average, respondents said inflation is 32%. That number is skewed by a handful of respondents who gave answers in the three and four figures, contending that we are already experiencing Weimar-style hyperinflation.¬†Perhaps they have been listening to Glenn Beck.¬† But even when you throw out those outlier responses, dropping the top and bottom 5% of answers from the survey, you're still left with an average response of 9%, six times the actual rate of inflation.¬†¬† Public misperceptions of inflation aren't new, but they appear to be getting worse.¬†The Cleveland Fed surveyed 20,000 people¬†between 1998 and 2001 and learned that on average Americans thought inflation was 6%. Over that period, the actual average inflation rate was 2.7%. So we've gone from being off by a factor of two to a factor of six. Not good. Walter Hickey / BI Also, 5% of Americans think that the dollar is in deflation. So there's that.¬†
In recent weeks, we've had three investing legends ó Stan Druckenmiller, Carl Icahn and Warren Buffett ó all suggest that the stock market is fully valued.† Now Julian Robertson, the 81-year-old founder of Tiger Management, has said the same thing in an interview with CNBC's Maria Bartiromo on "Closing Bell" today. Robertson also thinks we're in the middle of a bubble market right now and when it does burst the reactions will be "pretty bad."† Here's an excerpt from Robertson's interview with Bartiromo courtesy of CNBC. (Emphasis ours). †† MARIA BARTIROMO: Thank you.† So let's talk about-- the environment-- with which you find yourself investing.† The broad economic landscape first.† How would you characterize it? JULIAN ROBERTSON: Well, I would-- characterize it as precarious.† And-- I think everyone knows that.† And-- I think that-- rather than just sitting back and-- saying, "What if this happens or that happens"-- we go ahead and find good companies and invest in them and-- bad companies and-- them. MARIA BARTIROMO: And of course you are one of the most-followed person in finance.† Where do you see the sweet spot in the market right now? JULIAN ROBERTSON: I don't see any particular sweet spot.† But I do see sweet stocks that I really love and like and-- think are going to do well.† And-- one is-- a company that-- probably makes that beautiful toenail polish you've got on. A company called Ulta.† And it has just beautiful beauty salons all over the country. And it sells all the great products.† And it's growing-- probably at 25%-- or so, will grow that way over the next three or four years.† This year won't be quite that good.† But-- it is just amazing what's happened.† And-- how well they've caught this great movement.† And-- we've interviewed a lot of women and Ulta is where they're going. MARIA BARTIROMO: Is that right?† So what are the screens you look at in terms of finding some of these companies?† Is it revenue growth, is it management ownership?† What are some of the most important screens that you look at when you pick stock? JULIAN ROBERTSON: Well, I-- one of the things that I'm particularly interested in is-- stocks and who's already picked them.† And-- we've had some really good people here who have excelled in certain fields and-- I love to see really what they had bought recently.† And-- Ulta is one of those stocks.† And-- I think it's going to be a real good one for next year, so. MARIA BARTIROMO: Hmm.† So this is not really a sector call?† This is a specific-name stock picking? JULIAN ROBERTSON: That's really the way I'm looking at stocks primarily now.† I think we're in the middle of a kind of a bubble market, where it's going to take something-- bubble-like to happen.† And-- prick the bubble and we'll probably have pretty bad-- reactions to the breaking of the bubble.† But-- probably not right now.† And somehow I think we'll wallow through the political and fiscal crisis we have in front of us.† And then we'll sort of see what happens. MARIA BARTIROMO: So when you look at the broad averages, you think that-- this market's full of value then? JULIAN ROBERTSON: I think the market is reasonably-- yes, is fully valued.
A big storm is approaching New York right now, and the sky is turning very dark and ominous. You can watch the¬†live cam from the Statue of Liberty. Here's a sample image:www.earthcam.com The rain has just started in lower Manhattan. Here's the camera now: EarthCamWhile the tornado watch has been canceled, there's still a chance of the storm being severe. Wind gusts could top 60 miles per hour, according to New York 1. The worst should clear out by 4:30 p.m, though it could continue raining for another few hours according to meteorologist Eric Holthaus.¬† The images aren't all that bad. Here are some more images being shared on Twitter and Instagram: Nice. Mnhttn stealing your 'thunder' right now, tho. RT @ShiloByrd: Storm clouds rolling in. Taken from Williamsburg pic.twitter.com/DR8Hh48DDf Here's an Empire State Bldg to WTC panorama of the T-storm over Manhattan, taken from the West Village looking east. pic.twitter.com/mr1mea6tQR
AP Monday morning, House Speaker John Boehner's spokesman issued a statement saying the House won't take up a "clean" debt limit increase because it†can't pass the Senate. But what if it can? A Democratic Senate aide told Business Insider they are going to try, and are formulating a plan to possibly vote on a clean debt limit increase bill later this week. The aide said that they are confident that all 52 Democrats and both independents in the Senate would vote for a "clean" increase. They would then need six Republican votes to break a potential filibuster. If Senate Democrats can assemble the votes to raise the debt limit with no strings attached, they would be able to pressure the Republican-led House: Pass a similar increase or take responsibility when the limit is reached on or around Oct. 17. Details of the plan are slim ó such as when a final vote might be taken, as well as the duration and/or dollar amount of the debt-ceiling increase. And as National Review's Robert Costa points out, it's no sure thing that Democrats can convince the usual stable of moderate Republicans they have worked with on issues like immigration and confirmation of Presidential nominations. During the 2011 debt-ceiling negotiations, 43 Republican senators sent a letter to Reid saying they would not support a "clean" debt-ceiling hike. Of the four who didn't sign the letter, only two ó Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) ó†are still in office. Many Senate Republicans have complained openly about efforts led by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) to tie the debt ceiling and government shutdown issues to Obamacare, but that hasn't translated into support for bills with no Republican demands attached. But if Senate Democrats could pass a clean increase, it would put House Republican leadership in the awkward position of likely opposing something that they said a week before was not worth discussing because it couldn't even pass the Democrat-controlled Senate. Adam Jentleson and Faiz Shakir, two Reid aides, began openly challenging Boehner aide Kevin Smith Monday on whether the House would pass a clean debt-ceiling increase if the Senate does: .@KG_Smith If we pass a clean debt limit, will @SpeakerBoehner let the House vote on it? And if he commits, will he keep his commitment? Will you if we do? RT @KG_Smith: POTUS &amp; his advisers keep calling for a clean debt hike. So when will his party in the Senate pass one?
michael_swan via Compfight ccThe Federal Reserve just released U.S. consumer credit data for the month of August. Total credit expanded $13.625 billion (or 5.4%) in August to $3.037 trillion. Economists expected a smaller, $12.0 billion expansion after an upward-revised $10.4 billion advance in July. Revolving credit ‚Äî credit cards and the like ‚Äî fell $0.9 billion (1.2%) to $848.9 billion. Non-revolving credit ‚Äî auto loans, student loans, and the like ‚Äî advanced $14.5 billion (8.0%) to $2.188 trillion.
Twitter.comIt's finally happened: Twitter has become a serious tool in the world of finance and financial news. This spring, even¬†Bloomberg embraced select accounts on its terminals, signaling that its high-speed, super short communication wasn't just for media types, comedians, and Kim Kardashian. Folks have been using Twitter to talk about finance for a long time, of course, but what's changed since the last time we did this is there's been a surge of no-nonsense industry practitioners using the service. Business Insider has compiled a list of the best of financial Tweeters for you to use. These are people we follow all day, and if you're going to get serious about using this awesome tool, you should follow them too. Some of them you'll definitely recognize from financial media, other are completely anonymous (as you can see by their avatars).
Congress has yet to address the debt ceiling, which is the point when the U.S. Treasury will no longer be able to borrow money by issuing debt. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew says the U.S. will hit the ceiling on October 17. However, October 17 is not when the Treasury is expected to run out of cash and default on its liabilities. So, it's possible that a debt ceiling deal could occur after October 17 with limited consequences. In fact, this is the baseline scenario of Deutsche Bank Chief US Economist Joe LaVorgna. "We expect a budget/debt ceiling deal sometime between the Treasury's Oct 17 deadline and Oct 31 which is when the Treasury runs out of cash," tweeted LaVorgna. Here's more from a note LaVorgna just published: Is October 17 the drop-dead date to raise debt ceiling? This is what Treasury Secretary Lew said, but it really depends on the Treasury‚Äôs finances. Thus, the answer is NO. In fact, there is some leeway after the October 17 date to keep the government‚Äôs finances operational without a debt ceiling increase. We believe the Treasury can fund the government until the end of the month, up to October 31. The real issue is whether financial markets will panic between October 17 and October 31, thereby forcing the Administration and Congress to reach a deal. Hence, our best guess is that the government will reopen between October 17 and October 31. Will the Treasury default or prioritize interest payments? The latter point is sometimes referred to as a technical default as some recipients may get paid (i.e., bond holders and Social Security beneficiaries) and some may not (i.e., defense contractors and essential government employees). The answer to both questions is a resounding NO... "The S&amp;P 500 likely drops to about 1650 if convincing signs of an imminent deal do not emerge by Friday, but not under 1625 as a deal should come before Treasury exhausts its funds," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco today. "A multi-week shutdown will drag on GDP, but 4Q GDP &amp; EPS growth will still be decent. We see missed interest payment risk as nonexistent and would use any weakness next week to buy non-financials."
Mike Ehrmann/GettyImagesI have a "love-hate" relationship with LeBron James.I was turned off by "The Decision" -- a crass July 2010 show in which he announced that he would be "taking his talents to South Beach" to play for the Miami Heat after years of playing for the Cleveland Cavaliers.And then came the 2013 NBA Finals. I've been a San Antonio Spurs fan for nearly 30 years, and LeBron and the Miami Heat ripped my heart out in winning one of the most compelling NBA Finals of all time.Still, there's a†lot†to like about the guy. Over the years, I've admired the†maturity†LeBron has shown, "The Decision" notwithstanding. He has gone from impoverished kid and high-school phenom to NBA megastar and savvy businessman.That savvy has drawn the admiration of many outside the sports world -- including one man who is as iconic in the business world as LeBron is when it comes to basketball.† Who am I talking about? Warren Buffett. The†Oracle of Omaha†is a fan of King James?† Yeah. "Heís savvy," Buffett told the†Miami Herald†in November 2012. "Heís smart about financial matters. Itís amazing to me the†maturity†he exhibits. I know that if I had been famous at that age, I would have had trouble keeping my feet on the ground.î According to reports, they email each other from time to time, they have dinner together, they play golf and more. LeBron even says he's sent Buffett some of his†financial statements, according toSports Illustrated. Buffett even uses LeBron to explain his own ultra-successful†investing†strategy. My colleague Amy Calistri, editor of Street Authority's†Stock†Of The Month†newsletter, talks about this in her latest report.† Buffett calls it the "LeBron James analogy." He says, "If you have LeBron James on your team, don't take him out of the game just to make room for someone else. ... It's crazy to†put†money†into your 20th choice rather than your first choice." What does that†mean?† In short, it means invest the most in the best companies. ... If you've done your homework and you've determined that a few select companies are clearly the best ones in your portfolio, you shouldput†the bulk of your money in those companies.† Don't diversify just for the sake of†diversification. After all, you want those companies to do the bulk of the work for your†investments, in much the same way that you want LeBron James to take more shots in a game than one of his teammates. Buffett has lived his strategy. His top five holdings make up 76% of the†equity†portfolio of his giantinvestment†firm,†Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE:†BRK-B).† He isn't the only believer, though. Bill Gates' top†investment†-- worth $8 billion -- makes up 46% of thestock†portfolio he set up for his nonprofit foundation. Fidelity legend Peter Lynch and Blum†Capital's David Einhorn have also said they believe that less is more when it comes to owning†stocks.† Amy Calistri believes that, too, and she has even come up with a strategy that has picked winninginvestments†roughly 85% of the time and produced annual returns of up to 510%.†(Click here to learn more.) As for LeBron, he's become more particular as well. As one of the world's most recognizable and marketable faces, he must be besieged by companies trying to catch his attention. But not just anyone makes the grade. He has had endorsement deals with Nike, Coca-Cola, Samsung and others that, according to Forbes, helped him earn $60 million between June of 2012 and June of 2013. And in 2011, he even became a minority owner in Liverpool FC, the English Premier League soccer team. ìIíve got a†lot†going on right now,î James said in the same Miami Herald article. ìIím not looking for too many new opportunities -- unless itís a good one.î Sounds like a sensible decision. I have a feeling that his friend, Mr. Buffett, would approve. The†Investing†Answer:†It can be dangerous to†put†all of your money in one stock or just few stocks. After all, if that stock tanks, your portfolio goes down with it.† However, the idea of putting the bulk of your†funds†into your strongest stocks can make sense, if you do your homework. And since you likely don't have the resources at your disposal that James and Buffett do, the responsibility falls onto your shoulders. Take it seriously. Learn as much as you can about these companies before you throw all of your money at them. Read annual reports, quarterly reports and any other data you can get your hands on. Check the news for the latest headlines about the company. Talk to friends who may have ties to the firm or who may already own the stock. Turn over every rock and beat every bush. After all, while†investing†a†lot†of money in a wonderful company is a great idea, researching it is the only way to know just how wonderful the company really is.† P.S. --†And don't forget to check out Amy Calistri's†Stock of the Month†newsletter. As we said, her portfolio has had an 85% win rate and clocked annualized returns as high as 510%.†Click here to learn more about her strategy.
At the start of the year, hedge fund legend Julian Robertson dumped his stake in Apple. Today, he's explaining his rationale for the move, and it's one of the strangest reasons we've ever heard.† He tells CNBC he read Walter Isaacson's biography of Jobs, and came away thinking Jobs was a†"really awful" person. "I came to the conclusion that it was unlikely that a man as really awful as I think that Steve Jobs was, could possibly create a great company for the long term. I just don't believe bad guys ... do well in the long run," Robertson said.† He added, "How can you create a great organization of people and be that mean a person?"† The fact that Jobs was a, shall we say, demanding boss was not news. It was known for years. It's strange that it affected Robertson's decision.† Stranger still, if Jobs were still around, Robertson would remain an investor. "There's no question that ó and I think if he were still there, I'd still be in it," he said. "I think he's one of the great geniuses of the world. But ó he's not the kind of guy I think that would develop a long-standing company."
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Hedge fund manager John Paulson had an awesome September and has had a great year. A source passes along all the data for his big funds: The first number is the September Return. The latter is the Year-To-Date return. Paulson Enhanced 3.14/25.59% Advantage+ 1.22/15.76% Credit Opps 0.65/14.85%Recovery 4.17/39.31% 
Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LPThe battle over the debt ceiling in Congress raises a few questions. For instance: what if the debt ceiling isn't raised in a timely manner, and the U.S. defaults on its debt for political reasons? Pursuant to that, who should be most concerned in such an event? Bilal Hafeez, Deutsche Bank's global head of FX strategy, says it's China. Data from the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve show that China is the third-largest holder of U.S. government debt, with a $1.135 trillion portfolio of Treasury securities. The U.S. Social Security Trust Fund is the largest holder ($2.672 trillion) while the Federal Reserve is the second-largest ($2.077 trillion). In a note to clients, Hafeez writes: Looking at the top holders of U.S. Treasuries, recipients of U.S. social security should be most concerned, followed by the Fed and then China. In theory, the first group can pressure congress and end up with other funds to fill the gap left by Treasury losses; meanwhile, the Fed has a money printing press to cover any losses, so that leaves the Chinese with a dilemma. History could be instructive. The Nixon shock of 1971 saw the U.S. break the link between the dollar and gold, which in effect was a U.S. default-in-kind. Up until that point, major currencies were pegged to the dollar. That shock resulted in a wholesale re-organisation of the global financial system towards free-floating currencies, less capital controls and a race by central banks to establish inflation credibility in the absence of a gold anchor.  Rapidly industrialising Japan felt the full effects of this, and moved off the dollar peg. Economically it was only until the late 1980s that the Japanese growth engine fell apart, but the immediate consequence of the Nixon shock was a dramatic rise in USD/JPY volatility as Japan moved to a free-float. Should the Chinese and other countries lose faith in U.S. Treasuries, their response could end up being similar: a move away from a managed peg against the dollar, and towards a free-float. The immediate benefit would be that reserve accumulation and hence U.S. Treasury buying would no longer be needed, but the necessary cost would be much higher FX volatility. Perhaps it's time to read "L√ºÃÄ jiÃÑdaÃÄn heÃÅ huoÃåtuiÃå." "L√ºÃÄ¬†jiÃÑdaÃÄn¬†heÃÅ huoÃåtuiÃå" translates to "Green Eggs and Ham," the title of a Dr. Suess book read aloud by Republican Senator Ted Cruz in his 16-hours-long filibuster against Obamacare last week.
Flickr / tkmckenzieDE Shaw, the $32 billion hedge fund titan, has shut its doors to new investors. The Financial Times' Sam Jones reports that quantitative easing, bank deleveraging, and trading desk closures have made hedge funds far less profitable than they have been in recent years. DE Shaw was no exception, and is now looking to safeguard returns. From the FT: Last year, DE Shaw‚Äôs flagship Oculus fund made its clients a 20 per cent return on their capital. In 2011 the fund returned 18 per cent. Performance this year has been more modest, said an investor, who declined to give a precise figure because it is protected by confidentiality agreements. "DE Shaw‚Äôs Oculus and Heliant funds were closed earlier this year and the firm‚Äôs flagship multi-strategy fund, Composite, was closed at the end of the summer, according to people familiar with the matter," Jones reports. Read the full report at the FT¬†¬ª
via CNBCHere's an interesting¬† move in the world of financial media ... CNBC Executive Producer John Melloy ‚Äî a star who's been at CNBC for more than seven years ‚Äî is leaving the financial network to be the CEO of Stocktwits, according a source familiar with the matter. Melloy has been in charge of CNBC's "Halftime Report" as well as the very successful show "Fast Money." Stocktwits ‚Äî which was founded by Howard Lindzon ‚Äî was an early player in social finance. It consists of an avid community of traders constantly tweeting ideas and news, as well as a network of highly respected finance blogs. Lindzon, we're told, will be moving from the CEO role to Chairman. When reached for comment, Melloy told BI: "I look forward to the opportunity at Stocktwits. It's already an incredible company. I'm joining it at a great time."¬†¬† As for his time at CNBC, he says: "CNBC was an amazing experience. This was my decision."
As market participants we look at charts every day for a variety of reasons. But whether weíre doing so for idea generation, risk management or entry/exit points, weíre charting to go out there and try to make money. Other times, however, looking at longer-term charts just helps to put things in perspective. With the day-to-day noise out there coming from the government, media and investing public, sometimes itís important to bring in a longer-term view to supplement our short-term outlook. Here is a chart of the S&amp;P500 adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index, which is released monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. What still stands out to me is the consistency of the lower lows and lower highs since the year 2000. Hardly the uptrend and bull market that we hear about so often. You rarely see a chart like this because the†ìall-time highî†headlines are so much sexier. No one likes to add the,ìBut in real terms weíre still far from itî. Who wants to buy a newspaper that says that? I know I wouldnít. But fortunately Iím not in that business and I can share with you guys any chart I want. And I think itís important that when I speak with investors, they understand how in†Real†terms, not only is the S&amp;P500 not at all-time highs, but actually down 20% over the last 13.5 years. Itís all about purchasing power isnít it? Or in this case, the lack there of? All Star Charts
REUTERS/Bob StrongGeorge SorosLegendary investor George Soros previously said the euro crisis is over, while Europe's nightmare is getting worse. This is because of many "misconceptions and taboos that sustain it." In a new Project Syndicate column, Soros writes that Greece has been a† victim of such taboos and misconceptions. "Greece, too, is a victim of its creditorsí misconceptions and taboos. Everyone knows that it can never pay back its debt, most of which is held by the official sector: the ECB, eurozone member states, or the International Monetary Fund. After undergoing a lot of pain and suffering, Greece is close to posting a primary budget surplus. If the official sector could forgo repayment as long as Greece meets the conditions imposed by the Troika (the ECB, the European Commission, and the IMF), private capital would return and the economy could recover rapidly. "I can testify from personal experience that investors would flock to Greece once the debt overhang was removed. But the official sector cannot write down its debt, because that would violate a number of taboos, particularly for the ECB." Soros goes on to remind Germany that it has benefited from debt write-downs in the past. And that it was French insistence on "harsh reparation payments after WWI that set the groundwork for the rise of Hitler, akin to what we're seeing in Greece: "Germany would do well to remember that it has benefited from debt write-downs three times in its history. The Dawes Plan of 1924 sought to stagger Germanyís reparations payments for World War I. The Young Plan of 1929 reduced the sum that Germany owed in reparations and gave the country much more time to pay. The post-World War II Marshall Plan provided debt relief as well. "French insistence on harsh reparations payments after World War I clearly prepared the ground for the rise of Hitler. The rise of Greeceís neo-fascist Golden Dawn is a similar phenomenon. "These two examples justify my description of the euro crisis as a nightmare. Only Germany can end it, because, as the country with the highest credit rating and largest and strongest economy by far, it is in charge." Soros insists that ultimately Germany can't escape the responsiblities that come with its position.  Read the entire piece at Project Syndicate ª
Wikimedia CommonsThe ratio of companies providing negative earnings guidance to companies providing positive guidance has been on the rise. This suggests that the market is a bit too optimistic about corporate earnings. And a disappointing quarter of earnings announcements could be bad news for stocks. However, Deutsche Bank chief U.S. equity strategist David Bianco says guidance ratios are crying wolf again. In his latest note, Bianco tells clients that "investors should ignore these aggregated stats." Bianco writes: Of the 109 companies to provide quarterly guidance, over 80% was negative for 3Q. This is the worst guidance ratio since 2006, just as 4 of the last 5 quarters each climbed to set a new worst. Other than during the recession, usually a super-majority of companies issue negative pre-reporting guidance. We have repeatedly argued that guidance ratios are noisy and unreliable. Only 20% of companies provide quarterly guidance, the mix changes from period to period, the ratio is not earnings weighted and does not differentiate between a 1% or 10% change in guidance. Bottom-up EPS growth and estimate revision trends are more insightful. Btm-up 3Q S&amp;P EPS declined only 3.2% among the least in two years and est. EPS growth just prior to reporting is the highest in over a year at 4.1%. Our $28 3QE EPS implies the usual 3-4% weighted average beat. Bianco has a 1,750 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500. Third quarter earnings reporting season really gets underway Tuesday after the closing bell with the announcement of Q3 results from Alcoa and Yum! Brands.
A construction crane¬†got stuck as it was raising a box above the ground at the One57 building in midtown Manhattan, NBC New York reports. The box was dangling precariously above the street, and authorities shut down 57th Street between 6th and 7th Avenues. The crane is holding a yellow box, not sure what's in it. It's dangling precariously over 57th Street. pic.twitter.com/KE0cQKPw30 #Breaking: this is a shot of the dangling construction crane in Midtown #Manhattan. http://t.co/GuFNEfmgOH pic.twitter.com/aUazxDsCc8 The box was hanging about 20 floors up in the air, ABC 7 reported.¬†The news station also pointed out that New York City is under a tornado watch and the Department of Buildings issued a reminder earlier in the day to secure all construction sites because of the forecast of high winds. Just last year, another crane caused problems for the same building. The top half of the broken crane, damaged by Hurricane Sandy winds, dangled over the street and shut the block down for a week.
One of Argentina's last hopes in its fight against a few hedge fund creditors was that The Supreme Court would hear the country's case and rule in its favor. Now that's gone. The Supreme Court has refused Argentina's plea to hear the case. The country can appeal, but it doesn't look good. In June, Argentina filed a¬†writ of certiorari¬†to the U.S. Supreme Court asking the court to overturn a ruling by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals made last October. That ruling would force Argentina to pay a few hedge funds $1.33 billion, since they refused to take a 70% haircut on the investment they made in the country during its last economic collapse. Those hedge funds are being led by Paul Singer's Elliott Management, and they've gone to extreme lengths to get Argentina to pay up ‚Äî like getting a Ghanaian Court to impound an Argentine naval ship harbored in Ghana last year, and holding it for collateral. It was months before Argentina's ship, La Fragata Libertad, and its crew were able to go home.¬† Argentina's President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, hasn't calmed her rhetoric against the bondholders, though. She still calls them "vultures" and has made this issue a part of the country's national identity. So we expect to see these two back in the ring in a few months.
A common argument among those who are sanguine about using the debt ceiling as political leverage is that breaching the debt ceiling wouldn't mean default. They argue that the Treasury has plenty of money coming in each day to cover interest payments, and so therefore the Treasury can just prioritize debt payments (ahead of other spending) and avoid default. There are two problems with this.¬† The first is that legally and technically, prioritization might be impossible. Here's the other problem. It's not true that on all days the Treasury has more money coming in than it has to pay out. As Goldman Sachs points out, the receipts/payments schedule is lumpy. The U.S. might be able to prioritize for a few days, but come November the U.S. would have to pay way more than was coming in that day, and we'd have a real breach no matter what. Goldman Sachs
This is how America's dysfunction at home is undermining its credibility abroad. The latest development: Obama's desire to maintain laser focus on the Republicans for political gain has prompted him to cancel a pivotal trip to Asia to attend an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting. But it's not just the shutdown: it is a series of issues over the past decade, chief among them the financial crisis. For decades the U.S. had been espousing the virtues of free market capitalism, urging other countries to adopt the model. America's exceptional economic success, the thinking went, allowed it to give advice about how other countries should build their own economies. And then the bottom fell out. The crisis, spurred by lax regulations that were manipulated by the big banks, started in the United States, before its impact spread globally. An unemployment and debt crisis soon followed. So did a rush to rethink the way countries handle their economies. With the free-market system no longer sacrosanct, countries with other approaches were happy to second-guess the system. China's state capitalist model became a viable alternative as it navigated the financial crisis much better than most. I'll never forget my meeting with Chinese Vice Foreign Minister He Yafei in 2009, when he asked me outright, "Now that the free market has failed, what do you think is the proper role for the state in the economy?" The financial crisis was an opportunity to reopen the debate surrounding perceived global values - and to kick the U.S. system while it was down. That's a case study that points to America's larger problem. All too often, America has been leading by rhetoric rather than example. In a G-Zero world - what President Obama described as a "vacuum of leadership" in his U.N. General Assembly speech - strong words do not qualify as leadership. It's only credible when you call for reforms or actions that you actually stand behind - and reflect them in your domestic policy. Whether it's botched Hurricane Katrina relief efforts, a failure to close Guantanamo, or a disregarded redline on Syrian chemical weapons use, the discrepancy between America's words and deeds opens it up to criticism from abroad. It's hard enough to defend dysfunctional domestic policies - but when you are projecting those values on to the rest of the world, any mistake is that much more glaring. On these leadership metrics, Barack Obama has proved to be better in theory than in practice. He certainly can give a stirring speech, but contradictions between the United States' promoted values and its actions have undercut Obama's leverage in diplomatic negotiations. Just ask Xi Jinping, whose meeting with Obama was neutered by Edward Snowden's NSA revelations. I wrote a Reuters column back in June explaining the drawbacks of American exceptionalism - and how the Snowden affair was undermining any progress on cyber policy with the Chinese. Even if NSA surveillance and China's cyberattacks on American intellectual property are apples and oranges, the Snowden affair makes for an easy pretext for China to bury the issue. Recently, there has been a lot of discussion surrounding American exceptionalism, from Vladimir Putin arguing against the concept in his New York Times op-ed, to Obama strongly reasserting it in his U.N. speech. But exceptionalism is dangerous and counterproductive when America's missteps make it an exception to the very rules it champions. Obama was correct in identifying the "vacuum of leadership" in the international system. He could have been more honest about the vacuum here at home. It's one thing when a student dozes off in class - it's entirely different if the teacher scolds the student, only to nap right after. As a shutdown leaves the U.S. government unable to perform its most basic functions, how can it presume to weigh in on what a political system should look like? To be exceptional, the United States need not be the global policeman, nor an indispensable nation. What it needs is a leader who can clearly outline the principles that the administration and the country stand for, uphold them whenever possible, and take ownership of any failures to do so with honest accountability. Recently, America has fallen far short of that mark, and its exceptionalist rhetoric leaves the bar as high as possible. A little humility wouldn't hurt. (Ian Bremmer is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)
BloombergFX Concepts, John Taylor's currency-focused hedge fund firm that once managed more than $14 billion, may soon shut. One of the 32-year-old firm's last remaining large institutional investors, the San Francisco Employees' Retirement System, voted to redeem its money on Sept. 11, according to Jay Huish, the pension plan's executive director. "The Board approved reducing its currency overlay program target to zero percent," Huish said in an email to CNBC.com. "There is no intention at this time to redeploy the currency overlay mandate to any new currency managers." San Francisco had more than $450 million with New York-based FX Concepts, a majority of the $661 million the firm reported managing overall in its latest Securities and Exchange Commission filing. That redemption may have been fatal. According to two people familiar with the situation, FX Concepts is in the process of liquidating its hedge funds and laid off most employees in recent weeks. Those accounts could not be directly confirmed. Robert Savage, the firm's chief strategist and head of related research service Track.com, told CNBC.com the firm was still running. "We are in the process of restructuringówe have let go some staff and are in the process of closing some funds, we remain an ongoing firm with years of experience in handling client money and solving FX problems for them," Savage said via email. Asked about whether the firm was considering bankruptcy, Savage said that "anything is possible but not the most probable or preferred outcomeówe are restructuringóworking with our creditors." The San Francisco redemption follows recent withdrawals by the Pennsylvania Public School Employees' Retirement System and German pension fund Bayerische Versorgungskammer. A filing in September also disclosed that FX Concepts had liquidated two of its smaller hedge funds, the Volatility JPY Fund and Multi-Strategy HighAlpha GBP Fund. Taylor founded the firm in 1981 as a research service and began managing external capital in 1988. FX Concepts grew to manage $14.2 billion in January 2008 by successfully using systematic investment strategies in currencies, fixed income derivatives, commodity and equity futures. Taylor was named one of the best paid hedge fund managers of 2008 by†Alpha magazine, pulling in an estimated $250 million. But like many trend-following hedge fundsóoften called managed futures shops or commodity trading advisors--FX Concepts has lost money in recent years. The flagship multi-strategy fund is down 11.35 percent this year through August. It also fell 14.47 percent in 2011 and lost 3.11 percent in 2012. The fund produced net annualized returns of 3.74 percent from January 2002 through this August. "As a basket, trend-following funds have been disappointing over the last several years. Central bank policies have made it increasingly difficult to invest on a macro level or based on historical precedent," said Charles Stucke, chief investment officer of Guggenheim Investment Advisors, which has no relationship with FX Concepts. "That said, most people use trend-following as a hedge, and so recent losses during a bull equity market are in line with expectation," he added. "As government intervention in the markets tapers and there's a return to fundamentals, we think the strategy could do well." The†Absolute Return Managed Futures Index†fell 2.71 percent in 2011, 0.86 percent in 2012 and another 2.30 percent this year through August. The strategy has yielded net annualized returns of 6.99 percent since January 1998, including a gain of 15.91 percent in 2008. Taylor himself recently lamented the difficulty his type of firm faced. "Trend-following is dead because trends never really get going," Taylor†said in July, according to Track.com. "Investors trying to read signals in the financial markets pushed by political and central bank diktats have struggled to keep up with the latest government moves." Other large managed futures hedge funds have faltered recently. As noted recently in hedge fund publication†Absolute Return, Renaissance Technologies' Renaissance Institutional Futures Fund is down 3.03 percent for the year through August. Quantitative Investment Management's Quantitative Global Program is down 5.50 percent. Winton Capital's Winton Futures Fund is down 0.10 percent. The Brevan Howard Investment Fund IIMacro FX fund is also down 4.20 percent through August and the currency focused Ortus Fund from Ortus Capital Management was down 14.81 percent through Sept. 13, according to a report by HSBC's Alternative Investment Group. A rash of employeesómany of them after long tenuresóhave departed FX Concepts recently. They include former senior investment researcher Saurabh Kumar (left in August 2013); quantitative researcher Simon Zhang (August 2013); compliance officer Courtney Wessling (May 2013); compliance director Susan Kim (March 2013); quantitative analyst Dyuti Lad (February 2013); portfolio manager Edward Boyle (January 2013); portfolio manager Ross Thalheimer (October 2012); director of investment administration Laurie Pisano (March 2012); portfolio administrator Lauren Orlouski (March 2012); chief financial officer Anthony Sacco (December 2011); managing director for fixed income Timothy O'Grady (September 2011); portfolio manager Brett Holleman (September 2011); head of research James Conklin (August 2011); and vice president Trey Fitzpatrick (April 2010). FX Concepts also faces ongoing litigation by former fixed income trader Michael Zentz,†primarily over allegedly lost pay. Zentz worked at the firm from 1997 to 2007. The firm has fought the accusations and Zentz declined to comment. One clue to FX Concepts troubles is Taylor's home. In 2010,Taylor bought a nine-room, three-bedroom apartment on Manhattan's upper east side for $22 millionó$4.5 million above its asking price and using a loan from FX Concepts. Taylor now has the property on the market for $25 million. "[It's] truly a one-of-a-kind opportunity to own a magnificent residence in one of Manhattan's finest prewar co-ops," a Sotheby's listing says. Savage confirmed the aim of the sale is to benefit the firm: "The story of John agreeing to sell his home to help recapitalize the firm is accurate and yes FXC like many other funds have some debt agreements in place."
This morning, there are signs that the equity optimism may have reached its limit. If so, I would say that this is a good thing. Every once in awhile, the business community ‚Äî as manifested by the Dow Jones Industrial Average's daily closing price ‚Äî needs to remind Washington who the boss is. A sudden 3-5% correction for stock prices would almost certainly send a message strong enough for even the most intransigent pols to notice. The market needs to scare this congress straight, perhaps. It's certainly worked before. I'll never forget the afternoon of Sept. 29, 2008, mainly because I spent it drinking in a bar rather than watching the carnage on my trading screens. The TV in the corner was tuned to CNN which was tuned to the Capitol so that didn't do my fellow brokers and I any good. Like "The Notebook" on Valentines Day, we were forced to watch it. That morning, a Monday, Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson had announced a proposed bill that involved the U.S. government buying $700 billion in mortgage-backed securities to stabilize the housing market and the banks. The first vote on what would become known as TARP was set for that afternoon and President Bush was confident it would do the trick. Democrats in the House of Representatives voted for it (140‚Äì95) while Republicans voted it down (133 against, 65 for) and the legislation failed. The stock market's judgment was swift and merciless. Wall Street ‚Äî itself the epicenter of the crisis ‚Äî was now weighing the effectiveness of our elected officials in Washington ‚Äî and they had been found wanting. Consider: The Dow Jones Industrial Average, what Mom and Pop look at when they want a gauge of the stock market (and economy) fell 777 points in the vote's aftermath. We sat on our bar stools stunned. It was the Dow's single worst point drop ever, with some $1.2 trillion in market value wiped out. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500, what pros pay attention and benchmark to, had lost 8.8% on the session, its seventh worst daily percentage drop of all time and the worst one-day crash since 1987's Black Monday. The NASDAQ composite, which was almost completely devoid of banks or real estate-related equities, also posted its worst day since Black Monday that afternoon. It dropped a stunning 9.1%, its third worst day of all time. Notably, the TED spread, a measure of how much banks trust each other with loaned money, hit a 26-year high of 3.58%. This was the bloodbath that the pols needed to see, unfortunately. It made headlines around the nation and around the world. Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke met with Congressional leaders, pointed at the destruction and told them the sky would absolutely fall without a bailout. He was right. Inaction was never an option. A few days later, now scared straight, the Senate passed a revised version on the evening of Oct. 1st with Wall Street's plunge fresh in everyone's minds. The House got another crack at the TARP vote on Oct. 3rd and this time it passed 236-171. Sixty-three Dems and 91 Republicans had still voted no, but common sense triumphed. Bush signed it a few hours later and the markets eventually stabilized (although the bear market was far from over). Importantly, the current debate over finalizing a budget and paying the debts we've already accumulated pales in comparison to the life-or-death events of the fall of 2008. However, it's important to remember what happens when the markets begin to show real concern for the inability of congress to function. A market sell-off here might be just what Washington needs to see, like a juvenile delinquent should occasionally be shown the inside of a prison. We'll see how far it needs to go to make a point.
Congress has yet to address the impending U.S. debt ceiling, which will be hit on Oct. 17 if nothing is done. Analysts believe that if the U.S. hits the debt ceiling and eventually defaults on its liabilities, then the resulting market chaos could actually cause investors to dump risk assets and rush into U.S. Treasury securities causing U.S. interest rates to fall. One risky asset class they are sure to leave is the U.S. stock market. Deutsche Bank sees a 0% chance that the U.S. debt ceiling debate gets to the point where the Treasury runs out of cash and starts missing interest payments. "The S&amp;P 500 likely drops to about 1650 if convincing signs of an imminent deal do not emerge by Friday, but not under 1625 as a deal should come before Treasury exhausts its funds," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a note to clients. "A multi-week shutdown will drag on GDP, but 4Q GDP &amp; EPS growth will still be decent. We see missed interest payment risk as nonexistent and would use any weakness next week to buy non-financials." But for the heck of it, Bianco runs the worst-case scenario. Should the U.S. miss an interest payment, Bianco sees the S&amp;P 500 crashing to 850. Deutsche Bank
APNational Economic Council Director Gene Sperling said Monday that the White House would be open to a short-term debt-ceiling increase as a last-ditch way to stave off a potential default. ABC reporter Jon Karl asked Sperling Monday at a Politico Playbook breakfast in Washington whether the White House would accept a short-term increase (about two weeks). Though Sperling quickly said that the White House and President Barack Obama would prefer a long-term deal rather than kick the can for a few weeks, he said it's up to Congress to set the amount of the increase. "I think longer is better for economic certainty and jobs, but it is ultimately up to them," Sperling said. For the White House, this line of talking point makes sense ‚Äî they have said all along that it is Congress' responsibility to raise the debt ceiling, and that Obama will not negotiate with Republicans using it as a leverage point. It's also different than the debt-limit negotiations of 2011, when the White House insisted that it be raised beyond 2012. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has said that the nation's debt limit needs to be raised by Oct. 17. The Treasury warned last week that failure to hike the debt limit could lead to an economic catastrophe worse than anything outside of the Great Depression. Sperling has also been sounding the alarm since mid-September. On a conference call with reporters,¬†he said that,¬†according to business leaders who have shared their thoughts with the White House, the 2011 debate over raising the debt ceiling hurt consumer confidence on a level comparable with "Pearl Harbor or 9/11." "When the president met often with business leaders afterward, a couple of major companies came in and showed him ... what 2011 meant to business," Sperling said. House Speaker John Boehner said Sunday that the U.S. was "on the path" to default because of Obama's refusal to negotiate around the debt ceiling.
Courtesy of Universal StudiosFirst came the Bakken in North Dakota. Then came the Eagle Ford, on the Mexican-Texas border. In a new note, Goldman Sachs' Jeffrey Currie says the third epicenter of the great American shale boom is about to reveal itself. Its location: West Texas'†Permian Basin.† We've put his projections for all three boom hubs through 2016 into a chart (see below). That year, the Permian will surpass both the Bakken and Eagle Ford. Goldman Sachs/Rob Wile Right now though, all three are still producing way more oil than the country has seen in decades, and their output is likely to saturate North American refineries so thoroughly that the federal government may have to ease export controls (currently raw crude cannot be shipped abroad). Currie: "Ultimately, as US light crude production continues to grow, exports to countries other than US and Canada might become the next necessary step in order to avoid a shut-in of US production as we donít consider ësyntheticí medium blending in the U.S. Gulf Coast will meaningfully absorb incremental US light supplies." At a minimum, the discount on U.S.-traded crude contracts is going to increase: Currie is lowering his bearish target for WTI to $9 a barrel, from $8.50, for 2014. That means it'll be around $98. It's trading around $102 today.†
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookThe father of a Bank of America Merrill Lynch intern in London who died after working through three all-nighters is calling for the U.K. government to enact legislation to prevent such tragedies. Moritz Erhardt's father¬†Hans-Georg¬†Dieterle¬†suspects the 21-year-old, who had epileptic episodes in the past, suffered a seizure in the shower and drowned. The episode, Diterle told the Observer, was brought on by exhaustion. From the Observer: Dieterle said this might not have occurred had his son been working in his home country. "In Germany, everyone has the right to rest between shifts, from a trucker to a surgeon," he said. Dieterle said his son had completed an internship with the KPMG consulting group in Frankfurt in 2012 which had been less taxing than the London placement in terms of hours worked. "I think he worked really hard there, but not so excessively [as in London]," he said. Erhardt reportedly collapsed after three consecutive so-called "magic roundabouts" ‚Äî he would take a taxi home at 5 in the morning only to have it wait for him to shower and shuttle him back to the office. Dieterle¬†told the Observer that he wasn't angry with the bank itself, adding that his son was enjoying the internship at BofA. The bank, which was planning to offer Erhardt a full-time position after he graduated, called him a "a highly diligent intern at our company with a bright future." They have launched a working group to investigate conditions. Read the full report at the Observer¬†¬ª
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is off 130 points (0.9%) and the S&amp;P 500 is 0.8% lower to begin the week as the crisis in Washington weighs on sentiment. Meanwhile, gold is spiking. The shiny yellow metal has been rising all morning and is now up 1.2% on the day and is now trading around $1325 an ounce. Meanwhile, oil is dow 1.6%, trading just north of $102 a barrel after heavy selling at the 9 AM NYMEX open. There are no economic data releases this morning in the United States. August consumer credit data will be released at 3 PM.
REUTERS/KWSpectators gawk at a Miss Venezuela Beauty Queen contestant. The Dow is down -3.8% since it hit its all-time high on September 18. The sell-off was exacerbated by the ongoing budget fiasco in Washington, which has forced the government to shutdown and the debt ceiling to inch closer. Policy analyst Greg Valliere says stocks will need to fall more to get Washington's attention. But ConvergEx chief market strategist Nicholas Colas thinks U.S. equities are still "beautiful." "'Beauty' in this case comes down to valuation," he wrote this morning. "Are U.S. stocks cheap enough to elicit incremental interest?¬† Recall Keynes‚Äô observation: they don‚Äôt have to be attractive to just you.¬† Others must also think they merit their attention as well." And others certainly do. Bloomberg and WSJ both have stories this morning on how lots of money managers are seeing the sell-off as a buying opportunity. Colas cites the three reasons why he thinks stocks are beautiful: Stocks are currently in the red again. Perhaps this is the buying opportunity.
Reporter John Harwood has 3 indispensable tweets on the ongoing debt ceiling debate. John Harwood John Harwood John Harwood Basically, the Democrats have been trying all Summer to negotiate with the GOP in a "conference" on the budget, only to see the Republicans refuse. Now the GOP is demanding negotiations, but is not willing to offer any concessions, nor is it even willing to stake out a clear position that it wants. Understand these three points, and you'll basically have a better understanding of the debate than any of the yakkers yakking cliches for the next few weeks.
Flickr / GwiRNo matter how long or painstaking this government shutdown may be, the conventional wisdom is that lawmakers aren't dense enough to allow the U.S. government to default when our current debate fully transitions into one over the debt ceiling. Nobody is quite sure when¬†the government will run out of money. Treasury set the original deadline at October 17, though "September was a huge surplus month ‚Äî raising the issue of whether the Treasury Department could juggle the books for a couple extra weeks before facing a default," writes Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. Either way, markets seem generally calm. But Valliere says it may take a strong market reaction to cajole House Republicans. WHY THE MARKETS SHOULD CARE: The financial markets aren't worried about a default crisis and we agree that a default is extremely unlikely (but not totally out of the question). The bigger concern is the corrosive impact of the shut-down on the economy, which will intensify in the coming days. How pathetic: like a child looking for parental discipline, Washington needs an ugly market sell-off to jump-start talks. "The GOP is still playing with fire on the debt ceiling," Valliere concludes.
Wikimedia CommonsIt's not intuitive, but the 2013 debt ceiling crisis is scarier than the 2011 crisis. That seems odd, because the 2011 crisis was characterized by months of tense negotiations, a dug-in Tea-infused GOP, an economy that was much more brittle, a debt downgrade, and a market crash. This year, the stock market has barely been paying attention. Mostly investors are convinced that there will be a deal, and nobody wants to be out of stocks for even one day, lest they miss the "deal" and subsequent rally. Unlike in 2011, when the debt ceiling was on everyone's radar for months, this year, things have only come into view with days to go until the drop-dead date. But 2013 is scarier for what it says about the whole system. In 2011, the crisis could be chalked up to the times. We were still (basically) in the middle of a big depression. The deficit was soaring. And there was a "wave" election for the GOP (the 2010 midterms) the likes of which rarely comes along. So it was not surprising that all these trends resulted in a major governance crisis. But 2013 doesn't have these excuses. The economy is getting better (though yes, it's still disappointing). The GOP fared very poorly in the last election. And the deficit is shrinking fast. And yet: Things aren't going any better on the debt ceiling front. So what we know now is that we can't attribute the events of 2011 to some one-off fluke that was the result of bad times. This is how politics is now. One party takes the maximalist position, and then decides it's going to take the country hostage as its prime negotiating tactic. There's no reason to think if a "deal" is struck this time, that this won't happen again in 2014, 2015, and every other time the debt ceiling comes up. A big factor in this is the collapse in the traditional GOP organizing structure. Columnist Tim Carney has written some great stuff lately explaining how the old Republican power and money has been replaced by Tea Party power and Tea Party money, effectively neutering the GOP leadership that The White House is theoretically supposed to deal with. There are no longer two distinct parties (which can deal with each other). One party really doesn't have a driver, and that doesn't seem likely to change.

pinguino via flickrThe FBI has found that seizing an anonymous decentralised peer-to-peer currency was trickier than it seemed, following the Bureauís bust of the international drugs marketplace, Silk Road. When Ross Ulbricht, known as Dread Pirate Roberts to users of the site, was arrested last week, the FBI seized 26,000 Bitcoins belonging to Silk Road customers. But it also attempted, unsuccessfully, to claim the nearly 600,000 which Ulbricht himself is thought to be holding. Bitcoin is a digital currency based on a methods of cryptography similar to those used to protect confidential emails. Due to its decentralised nature ñ the currency does not rely on any centralised agency to process payments, instead relying on work done by usersí computers†ñ†it is popular for a number of fringe-legal and illegal uses. One of those uses was Silk Road, where Bitcoin was required for all transactions. In order to transfer Bitcoins out of a ìwalletî, the name for the digital file which contains the encrypted information necessary to spend the currency, users need to know that walletís password or ìprivate keyî. According to Forbesí Kashmir Hill, that hurdle is causing the FBI difficulty. ìThe FBI has not been able to get to Ulbrichtís personal Bitcoin yet,î wrote Hill. An FBI spokesperson said to Hill that the ì$80m worthî that Ulbricht had ìwas held separately and is encryptedî. At current exchange rates, that represents slightly more than 5% of all bitcoins in circulation. Even if the FBI is not able to transfer the money, merely having possession of the wallet file itself is enough to prevent the coins being spent. The Bureau is in a position equivalent to having seized a safe belonging to a suspect with no idea of the combination ñ and no hope of forcing it open any other way. ï Bitcoin sounds confusing, but the revolutionary digital currency is easy to understand. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueGood morning! Here's what you need to know.
APJohn Boehner, House Speaker, who appears ready to force the US to default.BEIJING (Reuters) - China urged Washington on Monday to take decisive steps to avoid a debt crisis and ensure the safety of Chinese investments, as a deadlocked U.S. Congress confronted a looming deadline to increase the nation's borrowing power or risk default. China, the U.S. government's largest creditor, is "naturally concerned about developments in the U.S. fiscal cliff", Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao said in the Chinese government's first public response to the Oct 17 deadline in the United States for raising the debt ceiling. "The United States is totally clear about China's concerns about the fiscal cliff," Zhu told reporters in Beijing, adding that Washington and Beijing had been in touch over the issue. "We ask that the United States earnestly takes steps to resolve in a timely way before October 17 the political (issues) around the debt ceiling and prevent a U.S. debt default to ensure safety of Chinese investments in the United States and the global economic recovery," Zhu said. "This is the United States' responsibility." The U.S. government moved into the second week of a shutdown on Monday with no end in sight, as Congress also confronted an October 17 deadline on raising the debt ceiling. "We hope the United States fully understands the lessons of history," Zhu said, referring to a deadlock in 2011 that led to a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating to "AA+" from "AAA" by agency Standard &amp; Poors. The last big confrontation over the debt ceiling, in August 2011, ended with an eleventh-hour agreement under pressure from shaken markets and warnings of an economic catastrophe if a default were allowed to happen. Republican House Speaker John Boehner vowed on Sunday that there was "no way" Republican lawmakers would agree to a measure to raise the debt ceiling unless it included conditions to rein in deficit spending. The comment raised fears that the U.S. Congress and Obama could fail to reach a deal on raising the ceiling by October 17, when the Treasury has estimated it will have run out of cash. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Writing by Sui-Lee Wee; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
APn this Sunday, Oct. 6, 2013, photo provided by CBS News U.S. Treasury Jacob Lew speaks on CBS's "Face the Nation" in Washington.Gov't shutdown enters 2nd week with no end in sight, ominous signs about debt limit prospects WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî The government shutdown entered its second week with no end in sight and ominous signs that the United States was closer to the first default in the nation's history as Speaker John Boehner ruled out any measure to boost borrowing authority without concessions from President Barack Obama. Washington will be closely watching the financial markets on Monday to see if the uncompromising talk rattles Wall Street and worldwide economies just 10 days before the threat of default would be imminent. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew warned that the budget brinkmanship was "playing with fire" and implored Congress to pass legislation to re-open the government and increase the nation's $16.7 trillion debt limit. Lew reiterated that Obama has no intention to link either bill to Republican demands for changes in the 3-year-old health care law and spending cuts. A defiant Boehner insisted that Obama must negotiate if the president wants to end the shutdown and avert a default that could trigger a financial crisis and recession that would echo 2008 or worse. The 2008 financial crisis plunged the country into the worst recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s. "We're not going to pass a clean debt limit increase," the Ohio Republican said in a television interview. "I told the president, there's no way we're going to pass one. The votes are not in the House to pass a clean debt limit, and the president is risking default by not having a conversation with us." Boehner also said he lacks the votes "to pass a clean CR," or continuing resolution, a reference to the temporary spending bill without conditions that would keep the government operating. The shutdown has pushed hundreds of thousands of workers off the job, closed national parks and museums and stopped an array of government services. The one bright spot on Monday is a significant chunk of the furloughed federal workforce is headed back to work. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel ordered nearly 350,000 back on the job, basing his decision on a Pentagon interpretation of a law called the Pay Our Military Act. Those who remain at home or are working without paychecks are a step closer to getting back pay once the partial government shutdown ends. The Senate could act this week on the measure that passed the House unanimously on Saturday. Democrats insist that Republicans could easily open the government if Boehner simply allows a vote on the emergency spending bill. Democrats argue that their 200 members in the House plus close to two dozen pragmatic Republicans would back a so-called clean bill, but the Speaker remains hamstrung by his tea party-strong GOP caucus. "Let me issue him a friendly challenge. Put it on the floor Monday or Tuesday. I would bet there are the votes to pass it," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. In a series of Sunday television appearances, Lew warned that on Oct. 17, he exhausts the bookkeeping maneuvers he has been using to keep borrowing. "I'm telling you that on the 17th, we run out of the ability to borrow, and Congress is playing with fire," Lew said. Lew said that while Treasury expects to have $30 billion of cash on hand on Oct. 17, that money will be quickly exhausted in paying incoming bills given that the government's payments can run up to $60 billion on a single day. Treasury issued a report on Thursday detailing in stark terms what could happen if the government actually defaulted on its obligations to service the national debt. "A default would be unprecedented and has the potential to be catastrophic," the Treasury report said. "Credit markets could freeze, the value of the dollar could plummet, U.S. interest rates could skyrocket, the negative spillovers could reverberate around the world." Private economists generally agree that a default on the U.S. debt would be extremely harmful, especially if the impasse was not resolved quickly. "If they don't pay on the debt, that would cost us for generations to come," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics. He said a debt default would be a "cataclysmic" event that would roil financial markets in the United States and around the world. Zandi said that holders of U.S. Treasury bonds would demand higher interest rates which would cost the country hundreds of billions of dollars in higher interest payments in coming years on the national debt. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, a force in pushing Republicans to link changes to the health care law in exchange for keeping the government running, spelled out his conditions for raising the borrowing authority. "We should look for three things. No. 1, we should look for some significant structural plan to reduce government spending. No. 2, we should avoid new taxes. And No. 3, we should look for ways to mitigate the harms from 'Obamacare,'" Cruz said, describing the debt ceiling as an issue that is among the "best leverage the Congress has to rein in the executive." Some Republicans, such as Rep. Steve King of Iowa, dismiss the warnings about a government default as an exaggeration, suggesting U.S. credit won't collapse and calling the talk "a lot of false demagoguery." Asked how the standoff might end, Boehner, R-Ohio, said that he was uncertain: "If I knew, I'd tell you." Boehner and Schumer were interviewed on ABC's "This Week," and Lew and Cruz on CNN's "State of the Union." Lew also appeared on CBS' "Face the Nation," ''Fox News Sunday" and NBC's "Meet the Press." ___ Associated Press writer Martin Crutsinger contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
AP Photo/Alexander F. YuanSINGAPORE (Reuters) - The World Bank lowered its 2013 and 2014 economic growth forecasts for China and most of developing East Asia on Monday, citing slower growth in the world's most populous nation as well as weaker commodity prices that have hurt exports and investments in countries such as Indonesia. "Developing East Asia is expanding at a slower pace as China shifts from an export-oriented economy and focuses on domestic demand," the World Bank said in its latest East Asia Pacific Economic Update report. "Growth in larger middle-income countries including Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand is also softening in light of lower investment, lower global commodity prices and lower-than-expected growth of exports," it added. The Washington-based development bank now expects developing East Asia to expand by 7.1 percent this year and by 7.2 percent in 2014, down from its April estimate of 7.8 percent and 7.6 percent, respectively. CHINA LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEBT A CONCERN On China, the World Bank said the massive, investment-heavy stimulus program supported by credit expansion had run its course, and policymakers must focus on containing the rapid growth of credit and tighten financial supervision. It added local government debt was a concern, given the complexity and opacity of municipal finances, and said they should be reformed "with clear rules on borrowing, on allowed sources of borrowing, on debt resolution, and on the disclosure of comprehensive financial accounts by local governments". "The rapid expansion of shadow banking poses serious challenges, since shadow banking is closely linked to the banking system, is less regulated, and operates with implicit guarantees from banks and local governments," the World Bank said. But it added local governments in China had significant assets to meet liabilities as they held land reserves worth 10 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) as well as shares in state-owned enterprises worth a similar amount. China had shown some progress in rebalancing its economy, it added, with consumption contributing more to quarterly growth than investment in the two years up to the first quarter of 2013 and services accounting for a larger share of GDP. "Still, the economy has yet to make the decisive turn toward consumer-based growth," the World Bank said. The World Bank now expects the Chinese economy to expand by 7.5 percent this year, down from its April forecast of 8.3 percent and below the International Monetary Fund's most recent forecast of 7.75 percent. China's 2014 growth is estimated at 7.7 percent, the World Bank said, down 0.3 percentage point from the previous prediction. The IMF is due to publish its new world economic outlook on Tuesday ahead of the fund's annual meeting. INDONESIA, PHILIPPINES Turning to Indonesia, the World Bank said investment growth reached a three-year low in the second quarter and is likely to face headwinds from interest rate hikes in response to rising inflation and capital outflows as well as from a slowdown in foreign direct investment and regulatory uncertainties. "Lower global commodity prices have dampened export receipts and slowed private investment in the capital-intensive resource sectors of the Indonesian economy, depressing overall growth," the World Bank said. The World Bank cut its growth forecast for Indonesia to 5.6 percent for 2013 and 5.3 percent next year, down from its previous estimates of 6.2 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively. As for the Philippines, investments slowed in the second quarter after a strong first three months of the year. But remittances from Filipinos working abroad boosted consumption, which contributed three-fourths to growth in the April-June. The World Bank expects the Philippines to grow by 7.0 percent this year, much faster than the April forecast of 6.2 percent. For 2014, the economy would probably expand by 6.7 percent, better than the previous estimate of 6.4 percent. The World Bank said its latest regional forecasts faced greater likelihood of being revised downwards than upwards, citing potential headwinds such as a less orderly tapering of the U.S. Federal Reserve's stimulus program and a prolonged fiscal deadlock in Washington. World Bank East Asia and Pacific Chief Economist Bert Hofman added, however, that the reversal of capital flows in developing East Asia may be offset by Japan's new strategy to exit deflation and revive growth, commonly referred to as "Abenomics". Japan's efforts to reflate its economy could spill over to emerging Asian economies through expanded bank lending, portfolio rebalancing, and increased outward foreign direct investment, he said. (Editing by Kim Coghill)
BIThe base case for most Wall Street economists is that somehow a debt ceiling deal gets done at the last second, preventing a breach. But how we get from here to there remains something of a mystery. For now, there's been zero progress. At all. But, remaining optimistic, Nomura economist Lewis Alexander identifies some vague positive developments. Here's his key observation: ...the debate is expanding beyond the Affordable Care Act (ACA, "Obamacare.") The ACA is a uniquely partisan issue on which neither side is inclined to compromise. Expanding the discussion to include other issues ñ such as long-term entitlement reforms and near-term constraints on spending ñ would provide more scope to find a solution. Basically, the good news is that Obamacare is no longer the issue, and the GOP is talking about areas where Democrats might be slightly more inclined to deal. That's thin gruel, but for now, you better enjoy it!
APAs many observers have noted, the dysfunction in Washington is on the verge of becoming a full-blown crisis. A handful of extremists in one political party have become so convinced of their own brilliance and rectitude ‚Äî and so frustrated by their inability to persuade the rest of the country of it ‚Äî that they are threatening to cause the United States of America to default if their demands aren't meant. This is extortion, plain and simple. And the Obama Administration is right not to give into it. If it becomes legitimate for a small group of politicians on either side to threaten the country with economic disaster if they aren't bought off with concessions, America will have to deal with this extortion tactic forever. So it's time to end it once and for all. If the Republicans seriously want to cause the U.S. to default by not raising the debt ceiling on October 17th, let them. Let them spend the 10 days between now and then howling and raging about how awful it is that health insurance might soon become more affordable for millions of Americans. Let them roar about how programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid are destroying the country, despite the fact that most Americans like them. Let them scream, as they have every day since a Republican President left office, that our debt and deficits will soon obliterate us (never mind that the deficit is shrinking rapidly). And so on. Let the Republicans finally persuade Wall Street that they are, in fact, so anti-American that they are willing to put their own extreme political views ahead of the country at large. Let them, in other words, finally trigger stock and bond market panics. And then, a few minutes before midnight on October 17th, save the country. Some people believe that, in an emergency situation, President Obama would have the legal right to raise the debt ceiling himself. Others disagree. So, on the night of October 17th, if the Republicans really have driven the country off the cliff, President Obama should invoke the right that some people think he has... and raise the debt ceiling. And he shouldn't just raise it a trillion or two. He should raise it far enough that the country can be spared this absurd charade for many years to come. He should raise it to, say, $25 trillion ‚Äî enough to carry the country well into the next Congress and Presidency (when, we can all hope, cooler and more responsible heads might prevail). The next morning, as world markets breathe a massive collective sigh of relief and business gradually returns to usual (except for U.S. government business, which, by then, assuming the Republicans are still stabbing the shutdown dagger in the back of America, will be taking a real toll on the economy), President Obama can marshal a legal team to defend the decision he has just made. The legal fight will play out for several years, as all legal fights do. And, in the end, long after we have a new Congress and new President, and long after everyone in the country has moved on, the Supreme Court can decide once and for all whether a President has the right to save the country if a handful of extremists in Congress become willing to destroy it. That will certainly be an interesting decision. But in the meantime, desperate times call for desperate measures. And we appear to be headed toward one.
Just a quick heads-up that in addition to equity markets today, oil is getting clubbed. From FinViz: FinViz This speaks to the growing meme that, "default" aside, the nearly week-old ructions happening in Washington D.C. are taking a toll on the U.S. economy, and therefore the global economy as well. And oil (and also copper today) is reflecting that.
SoberLook posts a chart from JPMorgan asking investors what they think will happen to long-term interest rates (10-year Treasury rates, specifically) if the U.S. were to default on its debt due to a debt ceiling breach. JPMorgan, CO/Soberlook It's a little small, but the gist is that far more investors think that interest rates will go DOWN in the event of a default than think they will go up. When the media typically talks about default, it's usually presented as this scenario that will shake confidence in U.S. creditworthiness, causing borrowing costs to soar. But to industry players, what they see is a panic, and ironically enough, a flight to the one asset that always catches a bid during panics: Treasuries. And thus rates are seen by a solid majority of players as likely to fall.
Francisco Diez, Wikimedia CommonsThis is from S&amp;P's historic downgrade of the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5, 2011: More broadly, the downgrade reflects our view that the effectiveness, stability, and predictability of American policymaking and political† institutions have weakened at a time of ongoing fiscal and economic† challenges to a degree more than we envisioned when we assigned a† negative outlook to the rating on April 18, 2011. At the time, one could argue that 2011 was just a blip, that there was a Tea Party "fever" caused by the horrible economy, and the exploding debt, and the unique political situation. But since then we've seen a broadly improving economy, a sharply improving fiscal picture, and the re-election of Obama ... and we're still in the same political situation. Some D.C. pundits would argue that deal prospects are even worse in 2013 than they were in 2011, which is astounding for anyone who paid close attention to the scene then. So S&amp;P's assessment that the effectiveness, stability, and predictability of U.S. policy-making and institutions had weakened quite a bit, and deserved to play a role in the downgrade was quite astute.
APWhat happens if we breach the debt ceiling? According to Morgan Stanley top economist Vincent Reinhart, the question becomes straightforward: Which law must the Secretary of the Treasury break? In a column for DealBook, which is adapted from one of his notes to clients, he explains the choice facing Treasury Secretary Jack Lew: If the Treasury is unwilling to stretch the definition of extraordinary measures, on the day that the Federal Reserve predicts that the Treasury will run out of cash in its account and the Treasury is bound by the debt ceiling, it suspends all payments and awaits instructions from the Treasury. As a result, the government‚Äôs principal economic officials will face the prospect of violating one of these three laws: 1. The Second Liberty Bond Act of 1917 that establishes the debt ceiling; 2. The Federal Reserve Act that prohibits the Fed from lending directly to the Treasury; or, 3. The 14th Amendment of the Constitution that holds that the debt of the United States government, lawfully issued, will not be questioned. They have to break a law. At the end of the day, officials will avoid violating the Constitution by indicating that they have been given inconsistent instructions and are obeying the one with the most important precedent. Basically in Reinhart's formulation, Lew will opt to break the debt ceiling law, citing constitutional obligations to continue servicing the debt. And then of course we enter into level never-neverland with respect to the budget.
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! Markets are tumbling around the world. U.S. futures are set to open sharply lower this morning after a weekend of heightened debt ceiling rhetoric. Not only was there absolutely no progress on any kind of "deal" but on the Sunday shows, John Boehner insisted that the U.S. was on the "path" to default if Obama refused to negotiate on the debt ceiling, which is something Obama has absolutely refused to do. Now Boehner's rhetoric, to some extent, might be just red meat for his right-wing base, but the market doesn't like this kind of language. U.S. futures are set to open down to the tune of 1%. And it's not just in the U.S. Japan fell 1.2%. Germany is off 1.1%. France is off 1.2%. Basically, global selloff. Meanwhile, even before the debt ceiling is hit, the economic impact starts to build, as Bank of America has slashed its GDP forecast for both this quarter and the next one.
