Here's an interesting chart from Rio Tinto's Alan Davies, CEO of Diamonds &amp; Minerals. It shows how the demand for certain mined goods wanes as GDP per capita rises. As you can see, diamonds rise at the slowest rate.¬† And even by 2050, the world won't be rich enough that it runs out of new buyers. And based on the curves of Davies' chart, the point at which diamond demand reaches critical levels appears to be beyond forecasting capacity. Rio Tinto is the third largest producer of rough diamonds. Rio Tinto Here's what diamond supply and demand is looking like around the world: Rio Tinto
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke heads to Congress to speak to the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday at 10:00 a.m. ET and then to the Senate Banking Committee on Thursday at 10:30 a.m. ET. This will be Bernanke's 16th so-called Humphrey Hawkins testimony. The world will be listening very carefully for any new clues regarding the direction of monetary policy. In particular, everyone will want to know 1) when the Fed could begin to taper its monthly purchases of $85 billion dollars worth of bonds and 2) when it plans to start hiking its benchmark interest rate, which is currently near 0%. Anything could potentially rock the markets. Here's what the experts are saying (emphasis added): Neal Soss, Credit Suisse: "Bernanke probably will not dissuade the markets of the notion that a tapering is likely as soon as September. But his comments may sound dovish as he reiterates that any change in the size of asset purchases is dependent on the economic data and on financial market conditions. The run-up in yields in recent weeks, for example, practically demands that Bernanke comment specifically on the risks posed by tighter financial market conditions. He may also focus on the risk of lower-than-desired inflation... ...We assume this will be Bernanke's final semiannual testimony. Will he reveal his intentions regarding a third term? Possible, but not probable." Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna: The Chairman technically will be speaking on behalf of the FOMC so his commentary may not be as overtly dovish as his recent remarks at the NBER conference; he will likely reiterate the Fedís desire to begin tapering asset purchases sometime this year and highlight the progress made in the labor market since the Fed embarked on QE3 last September. If any new ground is broken, we may get a better sense of when the committee expects asset purchases to end, which may be sooner than investors currently anticipate since we learned in the latest minutes that half of FOMC participants saw purchases concluding by year end. Most importantly, pay attention to the Q&amp;A session because this is where Bernanke has tended to provide the most market pertinent information. TD Securities' Millan Mulraine: In today's testimony we expect to see more of "good Ben", and his remarks should again emphasize the data- dependency of any tapering action. He is also likely to shy away from any mention of "September" as other Fed officials have indicated, though he will continue to reference the "later this year" theme - as he has in the past. More importantly, even when referring to tapering, Bernanke is likely to emphasize the dovish forward guidance to good effect, dwelling on the reference to the reduction in purchases taking place in "measured steps". In the context of his appearance before lawmakers, one key consideration for the market will be whether Bernanke continues to emphasize the drag from fiscal austerity. In particular, it would be interesting to see whether the recent disappointment on the data front causes any discernible shifts in the Fed's assessment on the impact of fiscal policy tightening on the real economy or a reassessment on the relatively optimistic economic outlook presented at last month's FOMC meeting. However, on the labor market and inflation front, the Chairman is likely to stick to the recent script of "the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market have diminished since the fall" and "the Committee expects inflation to move back towards this 2 percent longer-term objective over time." High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan: The Fed chairman will probably be less market-moving today than he was on May 22, June 19 and July 10. However, if anything, we suspect he will be the ìgood copî from July 10 more than the ìbad copî from May 22 and June 19. Note that Mr. Bernankeís prepared text and the Monetary Policy Report will be released at 8:30 EDTóbefore the formal testimony at 10:00 EDT. That change was announced earlier this week. By now, the chairmanís message is fairly clear: Yes, we plan on scaling down the asset purchase program soon, but, no, we will not be shrinking the balance sheet or raising policy rates for some time. Policy needs to and will remain highly accommodative for a while. And remember, the 6.5% unemployment rate marker is a threshold for possible tightening, not a trigger. PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian: ...I suspect that Mr. Bernanke will try very hard this week not to rock the boat ñ particularly given that global growth is slowing and, based on available partial data, U.S. GDP expansion is tracking only around 1.2% for the second quarter. Look for Mr. Bernanke to try to strike a delicate balance: reassuring us that the Fed remains committed to supporting the economy, but also seeking to avoid encouraging additional artificial asset pricing that would further disconnect markets from underlying fundamentals. It is indeed a high wire act for the Chairman ñ and with an important qualification. Unlike the usual setup, Mr. Bernanke is not interested in creating lots of excitement. Let us hope that he has the agility to deliver the delicate balance, along with cooperating cross winds.
Suddenly a barrage of tweets just came out, with people saying that Jim Chanos nearly got hit by a flying bat at the MLB all-star game. And sure enough, that's him. From @joshh031 on Twitter, there's no mistaking the legendary hedge fund shortseller. Chanos? pic.twitter.com/K0fsuWPSQu
Recent protests in Brazil (over the state of public services, infrastructure, and how money is being spent) were probably a pretty great indication that the current President Dilma Rousseff was not too popular. But prior to seeing this chart from SocGen, we hadn't quite appreciated just how violent her collapse in popularity was. Analyst Eamon Aghdasi keys off of a brand new poll that came out today. One of the most intriguing indicators in Brazil at the moment is the popularity of the government, and specifically the approval rating of President Dilma Rousseff. Since she was inaugurated in January of 2011, Dilma has enjoyed remarkable support from the electorate, with percent approval ratings hovering in the 70s. But recently, largely under the weight of the current protest movement, the Presidentís once sky-high popularity has weakened considerably. Todayís CNT poll result paints a stark picture: Dilmaís approval rating as measured by this poll is now running below 50 percent (49.3%), an astounding drop from the 73.7% result registered just a month earlier. The collapse in popularity has significance for investors, because an unpopular President isn't going to be inclined to engage in fiscal consolidation or anything like that, even if that's what's called for. Check out the chart: SocGen

CNBCMarkets are open in Asia, and the moves are modest. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is flat. Korea's Kospi is down 0.2%. Japan's Nikkei is down 0.8%. "Another boring open," said CNBC/SBS reporter Chery Kang on Asia Squawk Box. Indeed, markets are basically in a holding pattern until Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke appears before Congress Wednesday morning. "Look for Mr. Bernanke to try to strike a delicate balance: reassuring us that the Fed remains committed to supporting the economy, but also seeking to avoid encouraging additional artificial asset pricing that would further disconnect markets from underlying fundamentals," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian.
Japan has opened lower to the tune of 0.7%. Nikkei.com Nikkei futures have been lower much of the day, as US equities broke an 8-day winning streak. That being said, the only real show is Bernanke speaking on Wednesday about monetary policy. It will be the Fed Chairman's final Humphrey-Hawkins testimony (the bi-annual testimony of the Fed chair to a committee from both houses) on the state of policy.
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesBank of America will report earnings tomorrow before the bell, and everyone's hoping for some good news from what used to be one of the sickest banks on Wall Street. Analysts are expecting earnings per share of $0.24 (down 2 cents from last quarter) and revenue of $22.5 billion (down from $22.8 billion last quarter). That's also a year over year 32% jump from an EPS of¬†$0.19 a share and revenue of $21.2 billion¬†according to Bloomberg Businessweek.¬† You'll note that, in terms of quarter over quarter stats, analysts are clearly not expecting as much of a slow down from BofA as they were from, say, Goldman Sachs. Q2, as you know, has become a quarter known for face melting set backs on Wall Street. But the optimism seen in analysts' expectations from BofA can be traced to a few sources. One is massive cost cutting being undertaken by CEO Brian Moynihan. Another source is Bank of America's wealth management business, it shined last quarter even as the firm underperformed in sectors like sales and trading. All that said, this is still BofA we're dealing with, so you have to keep a close eye on those legal costs. Countrywide is still taking a nasty bite out of this bank. See you in the morning. ¬†
Dr. Ed's BlogWhat is the likelihood of a ‚ÄúGreat Rotation‚Äù out of bonds and into stocks? Weekly data estimated by the Investment Company Institute show that $66.7 billion poured out of bond mutual funds during the past five weeks through July 3, while only $0.3 billion flowed into equity mutual funds. So far, the evidence suggests more of a Great Liquidation out of bonds and into cash than a Great Rotation into equities. Today's Morning Briefing: Questions &amp; Answers. (1) Off-the-cuff. (2) No imminent threats. (3) Four more years for expansion and secular bull? (4) Retail sales making new highs along with earned incomes. (5) Will consumers drive right past latest pump price spike? (6) The IMF‚Äôs global economic forecast is subdued. (7) Might Europe surprise to the upside? (8) Less bang per yuan of borrowing in China. (9) Analysts see rising profit margins for Consumer Staples, Financials, Industrials, and Utilities. (10) Not so Great Rotation, so far. (11) Bernanke says Fed policy will remain ultra-easy even if QE is tapered. (12) Focus on overweight-rated Retailers. (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog
ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. The Wealth Management Industry's Hardships Are Self-Made (Barron's) A report from PricewaterhouseCoopers showed that 34% of wealth managers think there will be significant consolidation ahead. In a piece titled 'The Wealth Management Whine,' PWC's Steven Crosby tells Barron's that this was because of the constantly changing regulatory environment. What's more, Crosby says wealth managers have a harder time holding on to wealthy clients, as they have to adapt to changing regulations even as there are more demands made of them. But Barron's' Robert Milburn wasn't buying. "Letís be honest. Itís typical of Wall Street to blame regulators for problems of their own doing." To the argument that being a wealth manager is harder now than ever before he writes "Perhaps so, but our conversations with clients over the years suggests that a lot of the industryís current hardships were directly brought on by the wealth managers themselves. Itís simple really ñ treat clients like chattel, and they will eventually trample you on their way out the door." The #1 Thing Worrying Hedge Fund Managers Right Now (Bank of America) "China is the biggest area of concern for investors," says BAML Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett. "[The] number of investors expecting stronger China growth collapsed to a net -65%, a massive reversal from 67% in December 2012." A Chinese hard landing and commodity collapse are now the biggest tail risks to investor portfolios. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Research The Benefits Of An 'Enhanced' Open Architecture Approach To Wealth Management (The Wall Street Journal)  In the Wealth Advisory world, firms continue to argue over the benefits of active and passive investment. Michael Nathanson, CEO of Boston-based The Colony Group talks about the virtues of the 'enhanced' open architecture approach his firm uses in The Wall Street Journal. This approach allows them to use both active and passive strategies, and allows clients to customize their portfolios.† "The key to this approach is that it allows us to offer clients greater customization in their portfolios. We're able to bring the benefits of proprietary strategies to clients, which puts the clients in a direct relationship with the managers. "For example, if a client doesn't want to own Exxon, a company included in many mutual funds, having proprietary portfolios can give advisers the flexibility to conform to a client's desires." Dividend Stocks Are Awesome No Matter What Rates Do (BlackRock) Dividend paying stocks have always outperformed non-divided paying stocks when the Fed has driven rates higher, according to BlackRock.† "Dividend paying stocks in the S&amp;P 500 returned 2.2% annualized during such times of tightening (increasing rates), while non-dividend stocks in the S&amp;P gained 1.8%, according to Ned Davis Research. On the other end of the spectrum, during periods of easing (declining rates) by the Federal Reserve, dividend payers gained 10.2% annualized and non-dividend payers lost 1.3%. During times of neutral Fed policy is when dividend payers have performed best, returning 12.3% versus 6.2% for non-dividend stocks. There is no guarantee that stocks will continue to pay dividends. "The bottom line is that despite the prevailing uncertainty and volatility in financial markets, investors still need growth in their portfolios. In the new world of investing, high-quality companies that pay and grow their dividends can be wise choices." Here's What It Looks Like When The Bond Market Goes Into A Coma (Societe Generale) The surge in bond yields in May and June prompted trading volume in the Treasury market to hit all-time highs. The surge in bond yields in May and June prompted trading volume in the Treasury market to hit all-time highs. Much of the "activity and liquidity have dropped sharply," after the bond sell-off eased a few weeks ago, according to Societe Generale's Sebastien Galy. "My readership dropped by a third, which is pretty much the loss of volume on the UST market according to my rates colleague." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
It's no secret that Treasury rates are rising. And all of the rates that use the Treasury curve as a benchmark (e.g. mortgages, auto loans, credit cards) are also rising. But does that mean the markets for homes, cars, and everything else will get crushed? Not necessarily. Even the most bearish economists have argued that rising mortgage rates won't stop the housing market as long as a growing economy fuels demand. The same argument can be made about the market for cars. Goldman Sachs analyst Patrick Archambault explains: We want to be clear that we are not suggesting that higher rates will significantly curtail volume. Exhibit 10 below shows a graphical depiction of what happens in a tightening cycle that is concurrent with an economic recovery. As the economy recovers and disposable income improves there is a macro driven outward shift of the demand curve (engendering more volume at a given price). If as a response to the healthier macro the Fed lets rates rise, then there is a partially offsetting increase in price (i.e., a higher monthly payment) which reduces ìquantity demandedî pulling us back a bit along the new demand curve, but we still wind up with higher overall volumes. This is born out anecdotally in Exhibit 2 which shows that the SAAR increased during 2 out of the last 3 tightening cycles. Like with housing, the key is an improving economy fueling demand.† Below is Archambault's chart Goldman Sachs
Railroad giant CSX announced its second quarter financial results this afternoon.† Revenues climbed 2% year-over-year, and earnings per share jumped 6% to $0.52. ìCSX continues to drive solid growth in many of its markets and is encouraged by the team's sustained track record of delivering excellent operating performance in a wide range of market conditions,î said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. ìWe remain sharply focused on creating strong, sustained value for customers and shareholders, as the economy appears to be slowly gaining strength.î Railroaders are considered reliable bellwethers of economic activity.† And CSX's massive rail network connects every major metropolitan area in the eastern U.S. Below is a breakdown of everything CSX moved during the second quarter. CSX
APIn the time she has run for Senate and held office, no one has led the charge for Richard Cordray's permanent confirmation as much as Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). That's because Warren, the former†chair of the†Congressional Oversight Panel†created to oversee the†Troubled Asset Relief Program, was instrumental in the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The bureau was created as part of the 2010 DoddñFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and Warren was its first special advisor. Now, the CFPB officially first permanent director. Because of Democratic senators' threats of employing the so-called "nuclear option" to change Senate rules†finally forced Republicans to relent in their opposition to Cordray.† This afternoon, 12 Republicans voted with every Democrat to confirm Cordray in a 66-34 vote. Warren, who was presiding over the Senate at the time of the vote, gave a big smile at its conclusion. For Cordray and consumer advocates like Warren, it's a significant step ó Cordray was a controversial recess appointment whose tenure was due to expire at the end of this year.† In a statement, Warren cheered the progress earlier in the day, when the Senate voted to end debate on his nomination. "Director Cordray has won praise from consumer and industry groups, and from Republicans and Democrats, for his fair and effective approach," Warren said.  "With Director Cordray's confirmation, we will be able to say loudly, clearly, and with confidence: †the consumer agency is the law of the land and is here to stay. We fought hard for the agency, and we proved that big change is still possible in Washington. Now we have the watchdog that the American people deserve ó a watchdog looking out for middle class families, getting rid of tricks, traps, and fine print, and holding financial institutions accountable when they break the law." It marked something of a personal victory for Warren, who has challenged Republicans from her time on the campaign trail last year. In March, while speaking at†Consumer Federation of America conference, she charged Republicans with wanting to "keep the game rigged."
REUTERS/Beawiharta In a rising interest rate environment, investors don't need to panic about their dividend-paying stocks losing sheen. This is because dividend paying stocks have always outperformed non-divided paying stocks when the Fed has driven rates higher, according to BlackRock.  "Dividend paying stocks in the S&amp;P 500 returned 2.2% annualized during such times of tightening (increasing rates), while non-dividend stocks in the S&amp;P gained 1.8%, according to Ned Davis Research. On the other end of the spectrum, during periods of easing (declining rates) by the Federal Reserve, dividend payers gained 10.2% annualized and non-dividend payers lost 1.3%. During times of neutral Fed policy is when dividend payers have performed best, returning 12.3% versus 6.2% for non-dividend stocks. There is no guarantee that stocks will continue to pay dividends. "The bottom line is that despite the prevailing uncertainty and volatility in financial markets, investors still need growth in their portfolios. In the new world of investing, high-quality companies that pay and grow their dividends can be wise choices." BlackRock still thinks that dividend paying stocks are a good long-term theme for investors' portfolios. "Increased volatility should signify the need for more selective dividend strategies," according to BlackRock.
Photo illustration by Mike Nudelman for Business InsiderLegendary suspender-wearing radio/TV host Larry King was on Bloomberg Radio this morning with anchor Kathleen Hays. Most of the nearly 12 minute segment was pretty normal (he talked about his love of Radio) but then things got weird toward the end of the segment when host Carol Massar joined them.† We've transcribed this part of the segment and have included the audio below.† Larry King: "You put me in front of a radio microphone because you know what's great about radio?...Who's this beautiful woman?" Kathleen Hays:†"Carol Massar... She's one of the hosts of 'Taking Stock' coming up next." Carol Massar:†"Hello." King:†"You follow her, Kathleen, everyday?" Hays: "I do. I do. I do and Pimm Fox." King: "Now you see if you're listening at home now." Hays: "You've got about 10, 15 seconds." King [sultry voice]: "There two beautiful women and you can imagine I'm sitting with two...What's your name again?" [laughter] Female Hosts:†"Carol." King [sultry voice]: "Carol, don't touch me like that. Carol." [giggle] Host: "Wait a minute!" King: Now you see here's what the beauty of radio anybody listening can fantasize this. Carol, Carol, oh Carol. Female Host [whisper]: Alright King [sultry voice]: "Ohhh thank you, Carol." Female Host†[whisper]: Alright. Massar:†"He's coming back." Hays:†"Larry King, thank you for joining us today!" Listen below:
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer Bloomberg Businessweek's Carol Matlack has landed an interview with HervÈ Falciani, a French and Italian national who spirited abroad evidence of massive tax fraud he'd obtained while working in Switzerland for HSBC. Matlack says Falciani is currently "hopscotching around Europe" while Swiss authorities (among others) pursue him. He's believed to have helped other countries expose $260 billion in tax fraud.†† Matlack quotes Falciani saying he and Edward Snowden share much in common. "Iím willing to take risks, to expose a problem and put in place the structures to fight it," he says. Falciani also claims he alerted superiors to his concerns but found them unresponsive, adding he also began having "doubts about Swiss justice." Matlack says HSBC denies receiving any warnings. ìI really felt I had no choice,î Falciani says. ìI have a family, a daughter. I had to draw a line somewhere.î Read the full story at Bloomberg Businessweek ª
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAfter Goldman analyst Patrick Archambault put out a bearish note about Tesla, the stock closed the day down 14.3%. But Cole Wilcox, CEO of Longboard Asset Management, knows exactly what Goldman's missing in their analysis. He released a presentation in May saying that the stock was going to $200 a share, and spent last weekend with Elon Musk and hundreds of Tesla owners/evangelists outside San Jose. It was the first annual meeting of "Teslive"ó think of it as a Tesla Woodstock, summer of love type of thing. That's where Wilcox saw what he calls a "feedback loop." When asked whether or not they had sold a Tesla to a friend, every Tesla owner present raised their hand ó every single one. Some had sold more than one car to their friends. Here's a note from Wilcox: I recently attended the Teslive event, during which I spoke at length with Elon Musk about the feedback loop of a viral marketing campaign. The attendees at the event were asked if they had sold at least one Tesla automobile to someone in their immediate social circle ñ relatives, business associates, family members, etc. Virtually everyone had.They were then asked if they had sold two or more Tesla cars to friends and relatives. A majority of the attendees indicated they had. This brief survey simply served to demonstrate the power of a viral marketing feedback loop and how, on a global scale, Teslaís share of mind of the luxury car-buying public is continuously increasing, showing the compounding power of viral marketing. Wall Street fails to understand the compounding power of a viral feedback loop. Hence, traditional financial firms underestimate the global demand for Tesla automobiles and related products. Most Wall Street firms are linear thinkers, and they do not understand the non-linear mathematics of viral feedback loops. Consequently, their linear models miscalculate the power and impact of viral marketing. So get with the loop. Below, check out a picture of Wilcox asking Elon Musk questions at Teslive. Cole Wilcox
For many investors, this important distinction speaks to the two main factors that have underpinned the impressive rally in risk assets: a reliable and rewarding liquidity paradigm that is anchored by the steadfast support of global central banks (and the Fed in particular); and the possibility of a successful handoff over time from the current phase of ‚Äúassisted growth‚Äù to ‚Äúgenuine growth.‚Äù I suspect that the distinction is much murkier within the Fed. Officials see the world as much more of a continuum where central bank policies can (and should) be adjusted on the basis of economic data (particularly employment and inflation); and also in response to the related assessment of the ‚Äúbenefits, costs and risks‚Äù of the current phase of unconventional monetary policy. The difference between investor and the Fed‚Äôs perceptions may not stop there. Investors parse central bankers‚Äô remarks with a view to reflecting ‚Äúterminal values‚Äù as soon as possible. The destination can be more rewarding than the journey. As such, they are inclined to jump from tapering to tightening. Moreover, upfront price adjustments can be quite violent and indiscriminate; risk appetites can change materially and quickly; and secondary liquidity can evaporate quite suddenly. Contrast that to central bankers who believe that orderly market adjustments can result from transparent policy communication, including the specification of thresholds and illustrative time frames (as the Fed has done for a while, and the Bank of England, Bank of Japan and European Central Bank are now pursuing or likely to do so). It is not easy to reconcile in the short-term such competing views and behavior. Accordingly, I suspect that Mr. Bernanke will try very hard this week not to rock the boat ‚Äì particularly given that global growth is slowing and, based on available partial data, U.S. GDP expansion is tracking only around 1.2% for the second quarter. Look for Mr. Bernanke to try to strike a delicate balance: reassuring us that the Fed remains committed to supporting the economy, but also seeking to avoid encouraging additional artificial asset pricing that would further disconnect markets from underlying fundamentals. It is indeed a high wire act for the Chairman ‚Äì and with an important qualification. Unlike the usual setup, Mr. Bernanke is not interested in creating lots of excitement. Let us hope that he has the agility to deliver the delicate balance, along with cooperating cross winds.
Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer delivered an undramatic Q2 earnings, with the emphasis on new products, the axing of 30 products that people weren't using, and the promise that from the acquisition of Tumblr, Yahoo's revenues would start growing again Ö just not this year.Revenues declined 1% to $1.07 billion. She also lowered her year-end revenue guidance slightly (detail on that below).It could have been a lot worse ó†Yahoo has seen several years of revenue declines, so flat is the new up, so to speak.Analysts, however, were concerned about the effect of "programmatic" ad buying in real-time bidding auctions, which tends to drive down ad prices. They could see the effect of that on Yahoo's media inventory: Display revenue (ex-TAC) was $423 million, an 11 percent decrease. Yahoo did better on search revenue, which increased 5%. Mayer also revealed that she did not expect Tumblr to add any significant revenue until next year.In all, Mayer appears to still be in the process of re-engineering Yahoo to position it for future growth, but that growth is still, unfortunately, in the future.YahooThe live video webcast of Yahoo's earnings.The call was notable because Mayer and CFO Kenneth A. Goldman conducted it in a live webcast video, as if it were a newscast. Mayer looked calm and comfortable in the new format; Goldman not so. And Mayer's desk held up a coffee cup that appeared to be about the size of her head. Here's all you need to know: Yahoo lowered its revenue guidance slightly for the year to $4.45† - $4.55 billion. (It was previously $4.5 - $4.6 billion.) See the chart below. The investor slides can be seen here. EPS: 35 cents. That's a beat. Revenues are $1.07 billion vs. $1.08 billion expected by analysts. That's a small miss. And a revenue decline of 1%. Here's our live blog of the call: Here's Marissa ... it's her 1 year anniversary at Yahoo. She's delivering the call live on video, looking us in the eye via the camera. "We delivered solid revenue ex-Tac, flat year over and year and within guidance." "We're launching a new product every week." She believes in "people then products then traffic then revenue." New products eventually drive ad revenue, she says. Traffic is up! Here's the chart: Yahoo Now we're getting an update on Yahoo's various products and apps. Not much new here. Yahoo stream ads and homepage billboard ads were introduced in May: "In both cases it's still early but the reception from advertisers has been warm." Tumblr users got some updates and storage capacity; no revenue news here though. Wait! "Since the deal, Tumblr's growth has seen an acceleration with a quarter of a million new blogs being set up each day." (Looks like news of the deal created an influx of consumer sampling.) YahooMarissa Mayer uses video to deliver her earnings call.Here's what Mayer looks like on the video (at right). It's going to get interesting when they enter the unscripted section with questions from Wall Street. Yahoo will also host the entire archive Saturday Night Live: "All 38 years," Mayer says. (This is definitely the first earnings call I've ever seen that uses time-lapse photography, in a short piece of video describing Yahoo's turnaround.) Yahoo receives up to 10,000 resumes from people wanting to work there each day, Mayer says. She concludes: "We're deep into the second sprint, the one around products and engagement." She hands over to CFO Kenneth A. Goldman. You can see all the tables here. Goldman says, "We have a lot of confidence in our business but that has yet to translate into revenue growth." Ouch! He hands it back to Mayer ó it's like they're reading the news. Mayer says Yahoo will become a mobile company: "Yahoo's future is mobile. We will be delivering our products mobile first." She also calls out Yahoo's RTB and programmatic business: "we can do better in display and this will be a clear focus for the business." Tumblr will ad incremental video revenue, too. It's all about focusing Yahoo on what it does well: "Since last fall we have shut down over 30 under-utilized products and features." Yahoo / Jim Edwards / BIClick to enlarge Mayer's bucket-sized coffee cup.Question time! Here's what that looks like on the video (at right). Note Mayer's MASSIVE coffee cup, which we've highlighted here. It's like watching a newscast or a C-Span show. No money from Tumblr yet: When asked about revenue patterns, Mayer says: "We don't believe Tumblr will provide meaningful revenue this year." (One analyst points out they can now read the expressions on their faces as they talk.) RTB: Another analyst expresses concern that programmatic and real-time bidding advertising is driving down ad prices at Yahoo. Mayer is non-committal but believes Yahoo can handle it; they're investing in the relevant adtech. M&amp;A: "We're going to continue making smaller acquisitions." Mayer says that buys the size of Tumblr will be rare. "Tumblr is the notable exception, we don't intend to do that again with a regular cadence." (She meant to say "occurrence.") RTB again: Yet another analyst question worrying about the effect of programmatic buying driving down premium prices for advertising. Mayer: "We're excited and heartened by the move to programmatic. ... there might be even more pricing leverage to sell fewer ads at higher prices." Interesting snippet: Because some Yahoo properties (such as Tumblr) have infinitely scrolling pages, they count as one pageview even though a user may spend a long time on it. Yahoo has difficulty measuring that, Mayer says. Last question ... search: Somehow, Mayer turns this into a question about Tumblr: "We're seeing more than 75 million posts every day on Tumblr ... we just don't want to screw it up. ... We want to embed advertising opportunities that really enhance the experience." And ... scene! We're done. From the financial disclosures: Yahoo lowered its revenue guidance slightly for the year to $4.45† - $4.55 billion. (It was previously $4.5 - $4.6 billion.) See the chart below. The investor slides are out! See them here. EPS: 35 cents. That's a beat. Revenues are $1.07 billion vs. $1.08 billion expected by analysts. That's a small miss. And a revenue decline of 1%. Here's a chart of ex-traffic acquisition cost revenue (see page 7). Sales at Yahoo are essentially treading water: Yahoo That flatness is actually good news ó since 2007, revenues have been in decline, one way or another. Maybe Mayer has stabilized the ship? The stock declined immediately to $26.30, down 2.38%, after hours. Here's a clue as to why the revenue declined when it was expected to be roughly flat. Yahoo said there was a decline in both the number of display ads sold and their price (by 2 and 12 percent, respectively). Yahoo says in its press release: "GAAP net earnings for the second quarter of 2013 was $331 million, a 46 percent increase from the same period of 2012. Non-GAAP net earnings for the second quarter of 2013 was $386 million, a 6 percent increase from the same period of 2012. " Here's what's really driving Yahoo: The investment in China's Alibaba and Yahoo Japan: Yahoo Cash on hand declined by† $1.2 billion, as expected after the $1.1 billion acquisition of Tumblr, to $4.8 billion. The share buyback contines on schedule: "We are happy to announce that as of today we have essentially completed our commitment to return $3.65 billion from our Alibaba Group proceeds to shareholders, repurchasing a total of 190 million shares," said Yahoo! CFO Ken Goldman. "As part of our ongoing commitment to shareholders, we plan to continue to execute against the $5 billion share buyback that was authorized last year, of which approximately $1.9 billion remains. We plan to repurchase shares in open market or privately negotiated transactions." Here's the new guidance chart: Yahoo This was the backdrop to the call: The company was expected to deliver $1.08 billion in revenues, up just 0.1% from a year ago. Today's disclosure caps off CEO Marissa Mayer's one year anniversary of her move from Google. In that time, she boosted morale at the company and made 17 acquisitions, most prominently Tumblr. The stock has been up all year, sitting around the $27 mark prior to the call. But that rise has come in large part due to Yahoo's lucrative holding of Alibaba equity, which could be worth a future $20 billion when it's sold. More immediately, Yahoo needs to convince advertisers of its offerings at both Yahoo and Tumblr.
Business Insider/ Mike Nudelman CNBC/Institutional Investor's Delivering Alpha conference is happening tomorrow at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan's Upper East Side.† The annual hedge fund conference features discussions with top money managers and Washington insiders. This year's speaker lineup includes Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, Jim Chanos, Leon Cooperman and Richard Perry, just to mention a few. †Closely-followed fund manager John Paulson is giving the lunchtime keynote, too.† At last year's event there were a bunch of different investment ideas and stock picks tossed around. We've decided to do a report card check on how they've been playing out from July 18, 2012 through July 12, 2013. Let's begin with billionaire fund manager Leon Cooperman.† Cooperman, who runs Omega Advisors, gave ten stock picks. †All of them turned out to be winners. †Here's their performance since July 18, 2012 until July 12, 2013:† At last year's event, Cooperman noted that he found himself limited because of the current macro environment. He still crushed it. Kathleen Kelley†of Queen Anne's Gate Capital Management also presented last year.† At the conference, she said one way to play the eurozone weakness was the platinum market. Platinum closed at 1405.60 on July 18, 2012. †It's now trading around $1,424 per ounce. Kelley also said the British pound was overvalued.†The†pound closed at 156.54 on July 18, 2012. It has been trading around 150.94.† Last year, Kelley said she didn't mind being long the dollar, especially the dollar against Sterling. † That's working moderately well now, but there's no telling if she stayed in that trade. †It took a lot of heat. †Back in December, it was trading at 164, which would have been a huge move against her.† Next on to famed short-seller†Jim Chanos, who said that Hewlett-Packard is the "ultimate value trap" at the 2012 Delivering Alpha conference. So far, that bearish bet isn't working out for the Kynikos Associates founder. †HP's stock is up more than 35% since then.† It's not over yet. There's still time. During last year's energy panel,†Beau Taylor†of Taylor Woods Capital Management predicted that crude would go to $200 a barrel. † That trade is playing out so-so. †It took a lot of heat with crude going down to $87. †It's currently making new highs on the year now trading at around $106. Lastly, on the real estate panel last year, hedge fund manager†Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square, revealed that his fund has a massive stake in Procter &amp; Gamble. It has played out well so far for the activist investor. †Shares of P&amp;G have risen more than 25% since the Delivering Alpha conference.† We'll be covering the conference tomorrow. Be sure to check back for live coverage and updates.†
Everyone knows there's a bunch of money to be found studying STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics), but few fields are as direct about the opportunities for making money as math.¬† The tradition of offering mathematical prizes goes back ages. One of the most famous men to offer prizes in exchange for proved theorems is the legendary Paul Erd≈ës, whose $25 prize checks were often just framed as a trophy rather than cashed.¬† Still, that tradition carries on to today, and anyone who manages to prove one of these problems ‚Äî and solve it to the satisfaction of the evaluation committees ‚Äî can expect a nice check in the mail.¬† However, keep in mind that these are profoundly difficult problems that have stumped generations of mathematicians, so it's not exactly a free check.¬† While Erd≈ës passed away in 1996, Ronald Graham remains the current administrator of any outstanding¬†Erd≈ës problem prizewinners.¬† You can make $5,000 by proving one of the remaining Erd≈ës problems, the Erd≈ës conjecture on arithmetic progressions.¬† If the sum of the reciprocals of the elements of a set A (comprised of positive integers) diverges, then A contains arbitrarily long sequences of numbers with constant differences between terms.¬† So you've got this set A, made of positive integers. You take the reciprocal of those numbers ‚Äî for a number x, the reciprocal is 1/x ‚Äî and you sum them, and find that they never converge to a single number, they just keep adding to infinity.¬† Well, this conjecture says that when that happens, you'll notice A contains sequences of numbers with an arbitrary distance between them.¬† Prove that works every time, let Graham know, and your check ‚Äî signed by Graham if you want to cash it, signed by¬†Erd≈ës if you make the right call and frame it ‚Äî is in the mail.¬† This prize, orchestrated by sponsor Marcus Hutter,¬†seeks to find new ways to compress data. The task is to create a compressed archive of a given 100MB file smaller than ever before as a way to create new compression algorithms. If you can get it compressed to smaller than the current record ‚Äî around 16MB ‚Äî you get a portion of the prize money. So far,¬†Alexander Ratushnya is the three-time winner. The prize? The percent you improve the compression is equal to the percent of the 50,000‚Ç¨ you win, with a minimum of 3%. This is one of the six unsolved millennium problems which ‚Äî if solved ‚Äî net the solver $1 million.¬† The Navier-Stokes equations help us understand and predict turbulence or air flow or waves in a mathematical sense. Claymath.org The thing is, we don't actually understand them anywhere near as well as we should. Fluids are hard to understand but crucially important. With Navier-Stokes, someone has to invent new ideas that we can get from rudimentary partial differential equations to a total understanding of the equation.¬† We need to know that "smooth, physically reasonable solutions" exist for the equations, in the words of Chlarles L. Ferfferman. Describe them and the prize is yours.¬† This is another Millennium Problem. When you look at the prime numbers among all natural numbers, you won't notice a pattern.¬† However, G.F.B. Riemann observed in the 19th Century that the frequency of prime numbers is closely related to the behavior of the Riemann Zeta function: Œ∂(s) = 1 + 1/2s¬†+ 1/3s¬†+ 1/4s¬†+ ... The Reimann hypothesis is that all the interesting solutions of¬†Œ∂(s) = 0¬†lie on a vertical straight line. For the first 1.5 billion solutions, mathematicians have checked and saw that he was right.¬† If you¬†prove¬†it is true, you get the check.¬† Fermat's Last Theorem went unsolved for hundreds of years. It said that no three positive integers¬†a, b¬†and¬†c¬†can satisfy¬† when integer¬†x¬†is greater than two.¬† Billionaire Andy Beal¬†had been working on Fermat's Last Theorem¬†when he stumbled upon a different problem. At the time, he was using computers to look at similar equations with different exponents.¬† Beal's Conjecture is related. If¬†a, b, c, x, y, and¬†z¬†are all positive integers and¬†x, y, z¬†are greater than two,¬† is only possible when¬†a, b¬†and¬†c¬†have a common prime factor.¬† Beal found during his computations that the only solutions to the equation were when a, b and c had a common factor ¬†so he contacted folks in academia to confirm that the problem was new, then set up a prize with the AMS for the person who proves his conjecture.¬† So, if you find a proof or counterexample to Beal's Conjecture that gets approved by the AMS-appointed committee and gets into a journal, you get a million bucks.¬† When you "mine a Bitcoin," you use a computer to solve a particularly difficult mathematical cryptography problem.¬† You're not actually doing the solving, and it's a simple brute-force effort, but the fact of the matter is you're technically trying to solve a math problem before anyone else.¬† Should your computer do this ‚Äî successfully solve the cryptographical problem before anyone else ‚Äî you will be rewarded with 25 bitcoins, as a way to encourage people to participate in the effort.¬† 25 bitcoins is currently retailing for around $2,500. If you're not mathematically endowed, this may be the best way to get paid to "do math."
Wikimedia CommonsThe U.S. stock markets have been having a banner year. And as big time companies hum along, small cap stocks ‚Äî which¬†tend to do better than the S&amp;P 500 during good times and worse during bad times¬†‚Äî¬†have been singing even louder. Small cap stocks have little exposure to foreign markets where growth has been slowing. Furthermore, they are less exposed to the negative effects of a strengthening dollar. In a new report to clients, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco offers his firm's calls for the best mid and small cap stocks right now. These buy-rated non-S&amp;P 500 stocks have market caps greater than $800 million, price-earnings ratios less than 25, 2013 EPS growth rates greater than 8%, and net debt/market cap less than 30%. Relative to Deutsche Bank's analysts' targets, these stocks offer return opportunities of 5% to 23%.
Wikimedia CommonsThe S&amp;P 500 8-day winning streak ended today. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidRather than having his various divisions work together for the mutual benefit of the company, Sears CEO Eddie Lampert turned the company into a series of warring fiefdoms fighting for money and attention, inspired in part by his fondness for libertarian icon Ayn Rand.¬† In a blog post, Paul Krugman points out the major issue with the strategy: "If the different divisions of Sears have no common interests, if the best model is competition red in tooth and claw, why should Sears exist at all? Why not just break it up into units that have no reason not to compete?" By making his divisions compete against each other, Lampert is basically eliminating the advantages of having a big, diversified company in the first place, Krugman argues.¬† There's a contradiction between having a large firm like Sears and free market ideology in its purest forms. Large firms that provide services at a certain volume require a degree of central planning and command and control. The market has confirmed that by virtue of the fact that large firms continue to be viable, and even thrive.¬† If you concede that, Krugman argues, you're getting ¬†close to agreeing that markets aren't the best way to provide certain shared services for millions of people. The solution might even (perish the thought) be the government. Lampert is at least staking his company on his ideals, trying to create the Ayn Rand version of the large firm. It just isn't going very well. 
There's an obsession in markets with WSJ reporter Jon Hilsenrath, who is frequently viewed as having a direct line to the Federal Reserve (a reputation that may not be justified). Today at 2:40 PM, a new Hilsenrath article hit the web, talking about some of the economic questions the Fed needs to wrestle with as it considers easing. But the hilarious part is that over an hour before the article hit, a rumor started spreading among traders that an article was coming. Here's proof. This is an IM we got from a sell-side trader. Business Insider Now traders are spreading rumors about the possibility that a Hilsenrath article will exist. It can only go down from here.
www.crazymoviepeople.comWe find symbols of wealth in everything we possess, such as the watches we wear, the cars we drive and the homes we live in. So, it‚Äôs no surprise that the credit cards in our wallets also allude to our ability to spend. At the bottom, you‚Äôll find secured credit cards, which cater to people with bad credit profiles for one reason or another. At the top, you‚Äôll discover elusive credit cards that are only available to a small group of consumers, those who don‚Äôt hesitate to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars at a moment‚Äôs notice. The credit card industry has discovered a market where the super-affluent takes pride in owning one of these elite credit cards. Unlike your typical credit card, these prestigious credit cards are not heavily advertised. Usually for the price of a high annual fee, cardmembers get extraordinary perks, ridiculously high credit limits and special treatment wherever they shop.
BAML BofA Merrill Lynch head of U.S. rates strategy Priya Misra calls this her favorite chart for determining when the market expects the Federal Reserve to end its quantitative easing program: the spread between 5-year/5-year breakeven inflation expectations and 5-year/5-year real rates. "5-year/5-year breakeven inflation expectations" refers to inflation expectations over the next five years, starting five years from now. Using 5-year/5-year rates in the calculation eliminates the influence of transitory factors arising from one-off spikes in energy prices and the like on inflation. Movement in this spread is telling because, as Misra explains, historically there has been a positive correlation between inflation expectations and real rates, "because as growth improves, normally inflation does improve ‚Äì so they're both cyclical economic indicators." When the spread is rising, then, it means that inflation expectations are for some reason outpacing growth expectations ‚Äì a phenomenon which in recent years has tended to coincide with the Fed's various quantitative easing efforts. Misra explained that this first became apparent in 2010, as the Fed geared up to launch QE2, and serves as a historical comparison for analyzing the spread today: We found this relationship in 2010, which is when the most stock of QE2 was being priced in. It was actually a great research exercise, because remember: with QE2, the Fed started to telegraph it way in advance.¬†So, the Jackson Hole August 2010 [was] the first Bernanke brought it up. Then, you had a lot of speeches. By early October, if you go back to what we were all saying, we all expected QE. I think the only question was size ‚Äì and even with that, most people were in the $600-900 [billion] camp, which is why the date it was announced, we actually didn't see a big reaction in the rates market. So, I would say it was fully priced in. So what we've done is we've calibrated that spread to that episode. (Here's how much the spread moved in 2010 as QE2 was [being] fully priced in.) That was QE2, back in 2010. What is the spread saying about QE3 today? Misra points out that it peaked in November, a month after QE3 was launched. At the time, fourth quarter economic data were showing weakness, and the open-ended nature of the Fed's third round of QE meant that participants in interest rate markets were still upping their expectations for how much additional bond buying the Fed had ahead of it. Of course, the big sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market this year has been accompanied by a surge in real interest rates, so this spread has fallen sharply. "Now, when I look at it, it's actually very little [additional quantitative easing] seems to be priced in," says Misra. According to the spread, says Misra, interest rate markets are pricing in an additional $200-300 billion of bond purchases. "When you end QE, that spread should actually be back to where you were when you ended, let's say, QE2," Misra says. "It could potentially be even lower, because remember: QE2 was a time period-limited program. [QE3] is open-ended." The spread is currently at 2.15. It was right around 2 when QE1 and QE2 ended, but given the nature of QE3, Misra says its possible that it goes to 1.9. Note: The formula used to calculate the spread charted above is¬†5-year/5-year breakeven inflation rate - 0.4 * 5-year/5-year real rate. The 0.4 coefficient accounts for the beta, or historical correlation between breakevens and real rates.
Reuters/Lucas JacksonBelow are my reactions to the†US Securities and Exchange Commission fraud suit†that began yesterday against ìFabulous Fabî Fabrice Tourre, a Vice President at Goldman Sachs for structured products. From what I gather in the press, the Feds are suing Fabulous Fab for the following reasons: Listening to the news last night I realized that people might actually think Fab is to blame here.† That is a travesty.† The SECís suit is a joke, albeit a really unfunny one if youíre Fab. Fab is no more to blame for investorsí losses in a CDO known as the Abacus 2007-AC1 than any broker who sold you shares in any publicly traded stock in the year 2007 which subsequently halved in value by the end of 2008. The SEC prosecution appears to rest primarily on the idea that Goldman brought together clients with opposite views of the mortgage derivative market, and then didnít tell all sides of the trade who everyone was. Factor #1 What?!!† You mean to tell me Goldman brought together clients with opposite views on the market? One of the extremely annoying aspects of William Cohanís†Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World†is Cohanís seeming misunderstanding of how a broker-dealer works.† Cohan seems shocked, as the SEC attorneys in the Fab trial want the jury to be shocked, that Goldman could match up clients with diametrically opposed views on the mortgage derivative market. Hey guys?† Let me give you pro tip:† Thatís how a broker-dealer works. Itís the job of a broker to find willing buyers and willing sellers, all day long, to take diametrically opposed views on the future direction of securities and markets.† Itís also the brokerís job to generally protect and make anonymous the counterparties to a trade. So the fact that Paulson and ACA had different views on mortgages means that Goldman did its job.† The fact that Goldman didnít overly advertise the central role of Paulson in the CDO structuring is not evidence of a crime. The level of expected disclosure in CDO structuring will be a combination of 1. law, and 2. informally agreed-to market standards. I spent enough time around the persnickety legal compliance folks at Goldman to have confidence that Fabís team complied with the letter of the law over counterparty disclosure, or what is called in the business ëname give-up.í Some types of trades require it, some types of trades forbid it, and some types of trades will rely on market standards to determine the correct level of disclosure. At the moment of structuring the Abacus CDO itís less clear to me, from a distance, whether Fabís team reached a less formal level of ëmarket standardí when it came to disclosing Paulsonís role.† But market standard is a kind of nebulous concept for which I canít believe Fab can be found guilty by the SEC Factor #2 Why go after Fab and not bigger fish?† Because heís the only one from whom you could find with embarrassing emails to his girlfriend?† (Give him a break.† Heís French.) Fab was a relative nobody.† Like†Greg Smith (of Muppets fame),†or†like me, Vice Presidents are in charge of very little at a Wall Street firm.† From his ill-advised emails we gather he was an over-worked, under-sexed, anxious, and narcissistic guy, but what 31 year-old on Wall Street isnít all of those things?† If thatís a crime, then lock ëem all up. Iím not a fan of the Eliot Spitzer- trademarked prosecution-and-trial by embarrassing email.[2]† That appears to be why Goldman settled for $550 million, because of Fabís anxious, flirty emails to his girlfriend.[3] Iím not saying you shouldnít bother to prosecute bad actors even if they are low on the totem pole, but Iíve gotta say two things: 1. Fab was a small cog in a big machine doing exactly what he was paid by his bosses to do, and 2. Thereís nothing bad about what he did except try to sell squirrely investments to willing, professional, sophisticated buyers. †But thatís his job!† CDOs are squirrely.† Everybody knows that.† CDOs, we used to say on the desk, are ìsold, not bought.î† Meaning, once youíve placed them in a clientís portfolio, pray they never ask to sell them back to you. †You do not want to buy them back.† Theyíre too squirrely. Factor #3 ACA was no innocent victim ACA was not an ëinnocent victimí of mean, nasty brokers tricking them into buying destined-to-soon-fail derivatives.† These were highly compensated, professional, CDO investors.† ACA charged their customers millions of dollars in fees, and collectively paid themselves millions of dollars in compensation, to provide their ìunique insightî into buying complex financial products. As Michael Lewis pointed out before in†The Big Short, if any fraud or crime was being perpetuated, it was by ACA on their own customers, for pretending they knew how to separate the profitable from the unprofitable, the gold from the dross, the good from the garbage.† If you canít do that, youíre just tricking your own customers.† If you lose money buying a terrible product in the way ACA did, you should only blame yourself. Factor #4 But ACA was on the wrong side of John Paulson without knowing it.† Paulsonís a genius!† Itís so unfair! John Paulson in 2007 was not John Paulson.† He was just another contrarian hedge fund guy taking a swing at the overly frothy mortgage and housing market.† Everybody who had done this type of trade previously ñ betting big against mortgage credit and housing in the run-up ñ from 2001 to 2007 ñ had lost their shirt, as the market moved against them. Everybody who took Paulsonís side of the trade before things broke in 2007 was an idiot and a money loser.† Whatís obvious now in retrospect was not obvious then.† The ACAs of the world ñ buying the stupid, illiquid, highly-levered subprime, garbage CDOs ñ had made†much more†money†in the previous years than the John Paulsonís of the world. Thatís why Paulson was so damned successful.† Because there were only a few Paulsons around to take the other side of the mortgage derivative trade in 2007. Being on the short-side, like Paulson dared to be, appeared to be for suckers. ACA must have been laughing all the way to the bank. If Fab is guilty, then Iím the big bad wolf. Bloomberg News wrote that ìU.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest, who will oversee the trial in Manhattan, summed up the SECís allegations this way in a June 4 opinion: ìTourre handed Little Red Riding Hood an invitation to grandmotherís house while concealing the fact that it was written by the Big Bad Wolf.î The SECís version of the case is so absurd itís hard for me to believe theyíre pursuing it.† Itís a fairy tale. [1]†In my opinion, this is the only valid reason of the three. [2]†For more on this, as well as a great primer on why Spitzer should never, ever, be elected dog-catcher,†I recommend this blast-from-the-past article. [3]†Broker-dealers always, always, always settle with regulators because the cost of fighting regulators in court is that youíre out of business. Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to†sign-up for my newsletter†so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on†Facebook†and†Twitter†to keep the conversation going. †
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschStocks of 3-D printers are getting killed today. ExOne is off nearly -13% after BB&amp;T downgraded them to "hold" over skepticism about the company's prospects of selling itself. Meanwhile, 3D Systems Corp. is down more than -3%, and Stratasys Inc. is down more than -5.5%.¬† The sector have been on a tear for most of the year, but some commentators have argued it's now entered a temporary bubble.¬† ExOne now sees 34.4% of its float in short positions, while and 3D Systems' has hit 28.7%.¬†
REUTERS/Keith BedfordIf you want to measure the pulse of the global casino business, you have to have your eye on Macau. Or you can just keep tabs on Jason Ader and he'll keep you up to date. Ader's an award winning former gaming analyst who now serves as the Director of Las Vegas Sands and runs his own hedge fund, Ader Investments. He just got back from a trip across the world to a place where casinos are still King, and this is what he saw. "Banking issues... the slowing economy, you wouldn't believe it walking around the casino in Macau," Ader said, adding "everybody in Macau seems to be enjoying prosperity for the time being... I just see a whole lot more demand than supply in the next 18-24 months." It helps that the government limits how many tables can be on a casino floor, he pointed out. But onto specifics ó the hot new game Asia's gamblers are going wild for is Fast Action Baccarat, which launched at The Venetian Macau at the end of last year. Ader says he saw a crowd of 250 Filipino and Thai women playing, screaming, fighting, and yelling around a table. In short, they were going nuts, and a security guard told him that this kind of stuff happens all the time. In Macau, it's all about Asia's middle class. Cranes are in the air everywhere pulling up not just casinos, but also hotels, water parks, and anything else for the kids that can round out the middle class family vacation experience. This is obviously a big contrast to the U.S., where gambling centers like Las Vegas and Atlantic City have competition from Native American casinos, river boats and more. Additionally, the specter of online gambling is looming extremely large. Ader told CNBC that online gambling is "probably the single worst threat to land-based casinos that Iíve seen in twenty-plus years.î So what's Las Vegas doing about it? They're catering to more than just gamblers. Las Vegas casinos are now competing to book the hottest DJs and build most luxe clubs to attract 20-something revelers looking for a weekend getaway. Meanwhile, the brains behind these operations are watching Asia to see what they can bring home to keep the industry innovative. "The wagering [in Macau] happens very fast and with a lot of volume so if it works there it'll work here," Ader said. Awesome. We'll be brushing up on our baccarat.
Tesla is now down 14%. Earlier today it was down 8.5% to $116. The stock has surged ever since the company reported its first quarterly profit back in May. Today's sell-off comes after a note by Patrick Archambault of Goldman Sachs who wrote that in the worst case the stock would be worth $58. In the mid-case scenario he sees the stock at $84, and in the bull case scenario he sees a stock price of $113. In the mid-case scenario,¬†Archambault expects Tesla will sell 150,000 units and an operating margin of 14.8%. Goldman Sachs has a price target of $84 which they arrive at by taking an average of all three scenarios. They also have a neutral rating on the stock. Here's a look at how the stock is doing today. Google Finance
Since pulling back somewhat during the bond market selloff, stocks have had a furious rally, with many stocks and major indices at multi-year or all-time highs. I reluctantly sold Zillow yesterday, a stock I‚Äôve publicly cheerleaded over the past couple years, as it‚Äôs now trading at around 10x next year‚Äôs sales. That‚Äôs a valuation that may make sense around this time next year, but in a somewhat frothy environment was too much risk for me to carry at the moment, even with the generous cushion I give the company and its management. It got me thinking that maybe all asset prices have gotten ahead of themselves, with stocks possibly up too much too soon, and bonds pricing in a tightening path that may turn out to be too aggressive. If that‚Äôs the case, then instead of thinking about 2014 risks (we‚Äôre already priced for a bullish 2014), we have to stretch and start thinking about 2015-16. And when doing so, I was more cautious than I thought I‚Äôd be. It‚Äôs taken us so long to get over the trauma of 2008 that we may forget just how long this recovery has already lasted. We‚Äôre 2 months away from the 5-year anniversary of Lehman weekend. By 2015-16, it‚Äôll have been 7-8 years, a good-sized recovery cycle.¬†Courtesy of Aswath Damodaran, here are the years for peak S&amp;P 500 earnings going back to the 1960‚Äôs: -1969, 1974, 1981, 1989, 2000, 2006 The average length of time between peaks has been 7-8 years ‚Äî the shortest was 5 years and the longest was 11. I highly doubt that 2013 will turn out to be the peak year for earnings given the ongoing housing and employment recovery, but 2014? That will have been 8 years since the last peak. By 2015, 2016 we‚Äôre talking 9, 10 years. This may not be a normal business cycle, but the odds favor some sort of earnings peak in 2014-16. What could cause such a peak? The scenario I find most likely is one where fiscal and monetary policy tighten faster than the private sector can handle. As much as we‚Äôd like to think we‚Äôve evolved into a new economic age in the 21st century, recoveries are still driven by autos, housing, and household borrowing. Looking at this chart of auto sales, maybe there‚Äôs still some pent up demand that could result in a brief overshoot, but we‚Äôve more or less normalized. Conor Sen The area for most growth optimism remains housing, where housing starts/building permits could continue to grow strongly into 2015, maybe even 2016.Conor Sen But where I struggle is the household borrowing/federal budget outlook. Until now, we‚Äôve been going through what Ray Dalio has called ‚Äúthe beautiful deleveraging." Housing and autos have grown, which has been offset by a falling budget deficit. Household debt is no longer shrinking, though the deficit is now shrinking aggressively. Conor Sen The blue line is household debt growth, and the red line is the budget surplus/deficit inverted (it shows 7% of GDP, though¬†the CBO is projecting 4% of GDP for 2013. Looking at page 8 of that CBO report, it shows the 2013-2015 deficit forecast is 4.0%, 3.4%, and 2.1% (of GDP). Should tax revenues recover faster than expected and Congress continue to cut spending, we could be running a surplus by 2015. Thrown into that mix is a Federal Reserve with many members that are uncomfortable with continued large-scale asset purchases and 0% interest rates, and will use any better than expected economic news to tighten monetary policy sooner than expected. So here‚Äôs the scenario I see for 2015: better than expected housing growth in 2013-2014 leads to aggressive tapering in 2014 and rate hikes in 2015. Household debt growth remains sluggish relative to past recoveries. The House GOP continues to refuse to spend more as the economy recovers, throwing the budget into a surplus in 2015. By that point, President Obama and candidate Clinton, looking to play to downscale whites and selling the fiscal bonafides of the Obama administration, declare mission accomplished on the budget heading into the 2016 election, and we get a mild profits recession in late 2015-16. Maybe it seems silly to project that far out, but with stocks up here, I think you have to look beyond the next 12 months if you‚Äôre looking to buy. This guest post previously appeared at the author's blog &gt;
WeiboZeng Shan's Weibo page includes a picture of her father while he was in prison. Zeng Chengjie, a businessman in China's Hunan province, has been described as "China's Madoff." The†real estate developer allegedly defrauded more than 57,000 investors out of approximately RMB2.8 billion (US $460 million), of which RMB1.7 billion had been returned. China has a history of dealing harshly with white collar criminals, and Zeng's case is a prime example. The self-made magnate, once lauded for his success, was executed last week for fraud and illegal fundraising. What's truly heartbreaking about the case is that Zeng apparently didn't see his family before his death. On Friday Zeng's 23-year-old daughter Zeng Shan wrote a post revealing the execution on Weibo. Here's a rough translation of the post: The bad news came this morning, my father has been executed by lethal injection. We did not see him one last time! Didn't hear his last testament! Even now the Government has not notified us!†I did not expect them to act so fast!†My father has been killed unjustly!†We will reverse the verdict for him!†Thank you for your continued attention, thank you!†------- Zeng Shan Tears of Blood The post has made a big impact on the Chinese internet. At the time of writing it has been forwarded over 73,000 times on Weibo and has almost 50,000 comments.  Zeng Shan's message clearly touched a lot of people concerned about China's justice system. For one thing, she claims that her father is not guilty of the crime, and that he was only implicated after left after local†Party members withdrew their their investments from her father's projects in 2009, creating a panic amongst normal investors. Whether he was guilty or not, another big issue, as Josh Chin at the WSJ's China Real Time points out, is that Zhen appears to have not been allowed to see his family before his death. Exactly why the family wasn't contacted is unclear ó the court initially claimed it was not legally obliged to, then a Chinese news agency reported that the court didn't have contact information for the family. Neither answer has satisfied the family and their online supporters.
US policy uncertainty is at its lowest level since the global financial crisis. "That‚Äôs noteworthy against the view that US monetary policy has become more difficult to read in light of recent Fed communications," said UBS economist Andrew Cates. "It bodes well moreover for the broad US economic outlook from here inasmuch as business and consumer confidence have clearly suffered in recent years owing to the uncertainty about which direction economic policy might take." UBSIt can be risky to read too much into "economic certainty" indices. Everyone feels pretty certain about economic policy until they don't.
McDonaldsJoin their ranksMcDonald's kicked off its annual Monopoly sweepstakes today, so of course we are thrilled to devour the stats.† Lottery probabilities are a ton of fun, and Monopoly statistics are even more interesting, so a Monopoly-themed lottery may as well be Christmas for stat geeks.† Here's how it works. Every time you purchase certain items at McDonald's over the next couple weeks ó †any one of 26 different menu items ó you'll get to peel off a game piece comprised of two stamps.† These game stamps can correspond to either an instant prize, or they can correlate to a space on the Monopoly board. For spaces on the Monopoly board, if you get all the properties of a single color ó or the Railroads ó you win a prize.† So, let's take a look at your odds of winning prizes by buying McDonald's.† Before we get into the stats, there are a few basic elements of the game you need to know.† First of all, nobody cares about the online sweepstakes games. This is the last we will mention it, ever, because it's boring. All we care about is the in-store game, where you peel game pieces and win.† If you win a prize on McDonald's Monopoly, it is probably going to be a food prize.† There's 1 in 4.45 odds ó a 22.5% chance ó you win a food prize when you get a McDonald's game piece.† As we mentioned earlier, the odds you win any prize is approximately 1 in 4, a probability of 25%.† So what does this mean? †Well, comparing the two probabilities, 89.9% of the prizes will be food prizes.†Hope you're hungry.† In fact, 4 out of every 11†prizes allocated will be a medium fries.† So let's look at the potential food prizes: Since there's a 25% chance of winning an instant prize, and a 22.5% chance of winning a food prize, that means that there is roughly a 2.5% chance of winning one of the other instant prizes. These range from a red box DVD (1 in 101 chance) to a pair of headphones (similar probability of drawing the Ace of Spades from a shuffled deck of cards four consecutive times) to $100,000 (drawing the Ace of Spades five consecutive times). But let's get to the real fun.† Here's the secret to McDonald's Monopoly.† Many people assume that all the spaces are equally likely. For instance, most people think if McDonald's wants the Brown prize probability to be 1 in 1,000,000, they'll make the probability of drawing Baltic 1 in 1,000 and Mediterranean 1 in 1,000, making the probability of getting both 1 in 1,000,000.† Instead, McDonalds was much smarter about it. They make Baltic show up 1 in 10 times and Mediterranean show up 1 in 100,000 times. This means that almost all the game pieces are entirely worthless, and only one game piece from every set is actually tantamount to winning the prize. It's easy to get a hold of some of the worthless properties. They're outstandingly common, most with a 1 in 10 or so chance of popping up. Just hit Craigslist or something. So here are the only game pieces that are actually very valuable. Don't trade these away:
BofA Merrill Lynch just released the results of its July Fund Manager Survey, which polls 238 fundies around the world responsible for a combined $643 billion in assets under management on various topics. One of the most striking results of the survey is how investor perceptions toward China can completely turn on a dime. "China is the biggest area of concern for investors," says BAML Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett. "[The] number of investors expecting stronger China growth collapsed to a net -65%, a massive reversal from 67% in December 2012." All it takes is two quarters of slowing economic growth, and sentiment among fund managers toward China is now at the lowest level since January 2009, during the height of the global financial crisis. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Research Meanwhile, fears of a hard landing for the Chinese economy now far and away eclipse anything else as the largest perceived outlier risk to investor portfolios among managers. The percentage of survey respondents that view China as the biggest tail risk nearly doubled just from June to July. "Investors continue to view a China hard landing and commodity collapse (56%) as the biggest tail risk," says Hartnett. "In fact, they view [emerging markets] as the greatest potential threat to Financial Market Stability." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Research
Warner Bros.The bond vigilantes may be back for retribution, argues UBS economist Paul Donovan. Harken back to 1994, where in a kind of economic protest of expansionary government spending, investors sold off bonds to raise yields, thus increasing the net cost of borrowing. When these "bond vigilantes" felt as though policy was inflationary in nature, they just went ahead and ditched bonds, effectively stifling the government's ability to over-spend. The Clinton White House was forced to abandon its stimulus plan. Yields returned to normal. So when the Fed launched quantitative easing in the wake of the crisis, some observers warned we would see the bond vigilantes back protesting perceived inflation as the Fed flooded the financial system with liquidity. They never showed up, according to UBS economist Paul Donovan. "The threat of 'implement plausible policies or we won‚Äôt buy your bonds' was itself implausible, when confronted by the lack of alternative investment options," Donovan wrote to investors this week. Now, as the Fed begins to outline how it will scale back QE, market expectations are shifting. And bond vigilantes may have a role to play, governments beware. From Donovan: Emboldened by a sense of the power of policy and the persistence of market failure, governments have pursued a wide range of policies ‚Äì some valid, some subject to criticism. The inability of¬†markets to chide politicians for unwise policies has, perhaps, encouraged a sense of complacency in government circles. With global circumstances altering, that complacency is likely to be tested, as bond market vigilantes seek retribution for past as well as for current sins. Donovan admits, however, that many investors are required by regulation (or encouraged) to own government bonds, limiting the power of bond markets to reprimand governments. Still, Donovan argues many governments' policy errors were never rebuked in the market thanks to extraordinary financial circumstances. Now markets can afford to be more critical.
BloombergVery early this year, during the Fiscal Cliff negotiations, while everyone was losing their heads, analyst Sean West of the Eurasia Group was one of the more optimistic observers. He was proved correct, as the debt ceiling part of the Fiscal Cliff melted away, and the tax cuts were largely resolved. So we're a little disturbed, and worried to get his latest note, which is titled: Nasty fall fiscal fight shaping up. The gist: This time the debt ceiling fight is more like Summer of 2011, and an "accident" could occur, resulting in a government shutdown or worse. The only difference is the dynamics. This time it's the Democrats who might be willing to go down, and spoil for a fight, and it's the GOP that might lack the leadership to be able to come to a deal. Of the two factors, the Democratic willingness to play hardball is probably the most surprising. West writes: Democrats gearing up for a fight The risk this time around is different because it is driven by Democrats rather than Republicans. In contrast to the last three years--where the core question was whether Democrats could satisfy Republican demands for clearing a CR and a debt ceiling--the new dynamic is one where both parties need to build leverage to secure policy changes. The President's party is increasingly worried that a tactical loss on the sequester earlier this year will turn into a strategic defeat of its government spending vision without resolution before the next batch of sequestration in January. The economic recovery is strengthening despite sequestration, and the deficit is falling toward sustainable levels partly as a result of it. The Budget Control Act is designed such that Fiscal Year 14 is the last year that sequestration threatens nominal cuts-discretionary spending will actually grow under sequestration in future years, with a lower baseline effectively locked in and harder to argue against. Moreover, Democrats are worried that if they negotiate on the debt ceiling in November-amid a material ongoing deficit decline-they will have permanently validated the idea that spending must be cut alongside any increase in borrowing level. Democrats are increasingly convinced that this is the moment to "break the fever" of sequestration and debt ceiling pay-offs. They will attempt to break up the upcoming deadlines by cutting a short-term deal on the 30 September continuing resolution-insisting on a clean debt ceiling increase with no pay-off for Republicans-and then gearing up for battle later in the fall when the short-term CR expires if necessary to get a sequester deal before January. In reality, Democrats would prefer to trade mandatory cuts and other piecemeal fiscal reforms for a sequester offset that can be implemented around the same time as the debt ceiling, without a direct negotiation on the latter issue. But Democrats have less appetite to agree to large-scale reforms amid a declining deficit: If Republicans demand too high a price for the Democrats' key goal of offsetting the sequester, Democrats, are willing to threaten shutdown even though they don't actually want it. Watch out.
Every week, the BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategy team breaks out data on how many stocks clients are buying and selling. According to the latest data out this morning, BAML private clients (retail investors) were the only group buying stocks last week as the S&amp;P 500 advanced, while hedge funds and big institutions were selling. The chart below shows that while private clients have done quite a bit of buying in 2013, the big institutional players have really been doing nothing but rotating out of stocks. And although the retail investors are the only ones buying, they've given up picking stocks, and are now just putting new money into ETFs: Last week, during which the S&amp;P rallied 3.0% to a new all-time-high of 1680, BofAML clients were net sellers of U.S. stocks after being net buyers the previous week. Net sales were $1.3 billion, with outflows across the size spectrum. By client type, net sales were led by institutional clients, who have sold U.S. stocks for the past four weeks. Hedge funds were also net sellers, following two weeks of net buying. Private clients were the sole net buyers,¬†and this group has now bought stocks for seven consecutive weeks, beginning the week after the S&amp;P peaked in late May.¬†However, this group finally broke its recent trend of being a net buyer of single stocks, with inflows last week entirely due to ETFs.¬†This is also the case [year-to-date]: private clients are sole net buyers of U.S. stocks, but entirely due to ETFs. In our view, continued purchases of single stocks by this group would suggest ongoing confidence in the bull market. So far in 2013, BAML's retail clients have put $7.37 billion into equities, while big institutions have taken $10.69 billion out of the stock market, and hedge fund clients have reduced their holdings of the asset class by $423 million.¬† Bank of America Merrill Lynch
REUTERS/Rupak de ChowdhuriThe Indian rupee has been extremely weak recently. The currency crossed 60 late last month i.e. it would take over 60 rupees to buy one dollar. To curb exchange rate volatility the Reserve Bank of India surprised markets by increasing its key in benchmark interests rates by a whopping 200 basis points. The Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) rate to 10.25%, and the Bank Rate was also increased to 10.25%.† The central bank also decided to†sell government bonds in the amount of Rs. 120 billion ($2 billion) through† open market operations. This move to tighten liquidity helped support the rupee which strengthened by 0.9% to 59.27 per dollar. The rupee has also been hurt by the nation's current account deficit problems, which policymakers attribute to massive oil and gold imports. This makes India vulnerable to external funding risks. And the nation's fiscal deficit also hurts the economy. From the press release:  "The market perception of likely tapering of US Quantitative Easing has triggered outflows of portfolio investment, particularly from the debt segment. Consequently, the Rupee has depreciated markedly in the last six weeks. "Countries with large current account deficits, such as India, have been particularly affected despite their relatively promising economic fundamentals. The exchange rate pressure also evidences that the demand for foreign currency has increased vis-a-vis that of the Rupee in part because of the improving domestic liquidity situation." But the net outflow of foreign investments in India has been unprecedented, according to Lombard Street Research's Shweta Singh. Foreign investors pulled $7.5 billion out of the market in June. But she thinks the sell-off in the rupee has been overdone because India has less commodity exposure than other underperforming currencies like the South African Rand, the Brazilian Real, the Russian Rouble. While the central bank's move to tighten liquidity and bolstered the rupee "by making it more expensive to speculate and by attracting more investments in bonds," Singh doesn't think the measures will work in the long term. "Foreign investments are skewed towards growth-sensitive stocks rather than bonds. As tighter liquidity conditions choke off already modest growth, foreign investments may dwindle further, putting pressure on the Indian Rupee." Lombard Street Research
Reuters/Karl PlumeWalls are generally bad. Just ask the Chinese, the East Germans, or Roger Waters. ¬† The U.S. is about to slam head-first into its own barrier: the renewable fuel "blend wall." This is the limit on the amount of ethanol ‚Äî aka corn byproduct ‚Äî refiners are capable of adding to consumer gasoline. The reason why they aren't adding more: Americans aren't using as much gas as they did when the current renewable fuel standard was passed. That was 2007 ‚Äî the idea was to both curb fossil fuel use and reduce dependence on overseas oil. Congress said refiners must blend an ever-increasing amount of ethanol into their products, and must hit 36 billion gallons of renewable fuel by 2022 ‚Äî regardless of how much fuel is actually in demand. And since 2007, U.S. fuel use has plummeted. According to Bloomberg's Mark Drajem,¬†average daily gasoline use in 2012 was 8.3 percent lower than in 2007. In theory, refiners could get around the problem by using a higher concentration of ethanol. But that's actually another constraint: refiners are basically confined to using a blend with very low ethanol concentration ‚Äî E10 (which is 10% ethanol). That's because there are lots of hurdles to using blends with the highest ethanol content. E85 can only be used in flex-fuel vehicles, and the infrastructure capable of transporting and storing even E15 remains limited.¬† So what's the answer? Refiners seeking to bypass the requirement are supposed to buy renewable identification numbers ‚Äî RINs. But as Reuters' Gerard Wynn writes, demand ‚Äî and prices ‚Äî for RINs have been skyrocketing, suggesting we're careening into the wall.¬† RIN prices surged $0.12 yesterday to reach a new all time high of $1.32.¬†And those prices are going to be passed on to consumers.¬† The ethanol industry has denied there's a correlation¬†between higher gas prices and increasing RIN rates.¬† But that was in March, when prices were barely over a dollar. The EIA says there's some evidence RIN prices could already be driving diesel and jet fuel higher. The EPA is expected to finalize its targets for ethanol consumption in 2013 within the next two weeks. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs really not a pretty picture next year,‚Äù an East Coast ethanol blender told him.
So far, about 30 of the 500 companies in the S&amp;P 500 Index have reported their earnings for the second quarter of 2013. This week the ball really gets rolling with about 80 companies scheduled to report,¬†with about half of the 500 companies due to report by the end of this month. The trend has not been kind, with estimates for profit growth continuing to fall for the second quarter over the past year. Second quarter earnings per share (EPS) for the S&amp;P 500 were expected to increase 10% on October 1, 2012 +8% on January 1, 2013 +6% on April 1, 2013 and +3% on July 1, 2013. Overall, the consensus of Wall Street analysts now expects the growth rate for EPS to come in at about 2.4%. Given the usual 2-3% amount by which companies historically tend to exceed the estimates at the time of reporting, we can expect another quarter of mid-single-digit earnings growth. What We Are Watching While investors are very focused on what the profits were for the past quarter, it is what they may turn out to be over the next several quarters that will likely have the most impact on the markets. We will be watching for key trends that may impact future quarters: fiscal drag, slower global growth, wider profit margins, rising buybacks, and rising interest rates. Fiscal Drag -¬†The government spending cuts known as the sequester may have trimmed a sizeable two percentage points off of gross domestic product (GDP) in the second quarter of 2013. The implementation of the sequester late in the first quarter may result in the government spending cuts having some impact on results in the second quarter‚Äîon top of the combined drags of higher taxes, high gasoline prices, sluggish job and income growth, not to mention the overhang of more fiscal cliff battles to come and the roll out of the Affordable Care Act. On the other hand, U.S. consumers have benefitted from a return to all-time highs in the stock market and the return to a strong housing market. We will be watching to see how these drivers may have offset each other in the second quarter. We expect the drag to ease considerably in the second half from what the impact may have been in the second quarter. Slower Global Growth -¬†Sluggish global growth is contributing to slow the pace of sales. About 40% of S&amp;P 500 corporate profits are derived from global sources. On a year-over-year basis, Europe‚Äôs economy shrank, and growth from larger emerging market economies, China and India, slowed. Also, the value of the dollar relative to that of our major trading partners rose a modest 2% from the second quarter of last year. That can act as a drag on foreign-derived profits when they are translated back into dollars and reported. In particular, the dollar surged against the yen by 23%. This may have had some effect on reported results from companies in the health care, industrial, and technology sectors‚Äîwhere S&amp;P 500 companies‚Äô sales to Japan are concentrated. The pace of depreciation has slowed, but the overall year-over-year impact may linger in the third quarter.¬†The extent to which sluggish global economic growth impacted results will be worth noting, since the trend may continue in the second half. Wider Profit Margins -¬†While revenues are likely to remain close to flat, we will be watching for signs that profit margins may rise to all-time highs in the second half.¬†Estimates for earnings growth in the third and fourth quarters average about 10%. These estimates are likely to decline, as they did last year when second half EPS growth proved to be only about 3%. Analysts‚Äô year-over-year earnings growth expectations are out of sync with their much lower revenue growth forecasts for the second half. Given weak productivity growth and already wide profit margins, it is unlikely profit margins can further expand enough beyond all-time highs to produce double-digit earnings growth on low single-digit revenue growth later this year. However, some margin expansion is likely. About 70% of the cost of production for S&amp;P 500 companies is tied to labor. Both wages and benefits costs are rising at a very tame 1-2%. In addition, raw materials costs have generally been falling. We expect these trends to continue in the second half. LPL Rising Buybacks -¬†One way companies can drive EPS growth is to shrink the number of outstanding shares. We will be watching for new share buyback authorizations and reports of enacted buyback programs.¬†Corporations themselves were the biggest buyers of stocks in the first half of 2013.¬†The second quarter marked a strong surge in share buyback activity, according to data tracked by Trim-Tabs. With this trend likely to continue in the second half, we will continue to account for the impact of buyback activity on EPS growth. Rising Interest Rates -¬†For some companies, the rise in interest rates can improve pension funding significantly by lowering the liability. We will be listening for comments about pensions this earnings season by the industrial companies. For most S&amp;P 500 companies, interest expense is only a small percentage of costs. However, changes in interest rates can be a significant driver of results in some industries, especially those tied to housing. Interest rates increased from the second quarter a year ago, from averaging 1.8% in 2012 to 1.97% in 2013.¬†We will be watching for the impact on bank loan profits and refinancing activity along with demand at homebuilders. We may not see major downward revisions to earnings estimates for the second half of the year in the coming weeks as second quarter reports come in. Instead, given the balance of the above trends, gradual downward revisions to growth expectations are likely to continue. Stocks may reflect greater volatility and increasing sector dispersion of returns as market participants focus on these trends.
YouTube/VICEThe gonzo journalists at VICE figured the best way to really understand a Russian oligarch is to¬†eat, hunt, and drink lots of vodka with one. VICE's Ryan Duffy cavorted with billionaire business magnate Sergey Veremeenko for a day, providing some insight on just how nice it can be to own vast swaths of snowy Russia. Forbes had Veremeenko's net worth at $1.4 billion in 2008, largely from coal, metals, and banking. "It‚Äôs an American thing to pay taxes, no one here paid any taxes," Veremeenko tells Duffy over vodka." So basically it was a free-for-all until we elected Putin." Some highlights include: A meal with Veremeenko's wife (2006 Miss World winner, although some argue Veremeenko rigged the competition), a hunting excursion, and some intimate time in the sauna. Check out the whole video: 
REUTERS/Gary Cameron The NAHB Housing market index (HMI) crushed expectations rising to 57. Economists were looking for the HMI, a read of homebuilder confidence, to fall to 51. This is the highest level since January 2006, and was the third straight monthly rise. A reading over 50 shows that more builders think sales conditions are good rather than poor. A regional breakdown showed that homebuilder confidence climbed to 40 in the Northeast, 54 in the Midwest, 50 in the South, and 51 in the West.¬† ‚ÄúToday‚Äôs report is particularly encouraging in that it shows improvement in builder confidence across every region as well as solid gains in current sales conditions, traffic of prospective buyers and sales expectations for the next six months,‚Äù NAHB Chairman Rick Judson said in a press release. ‚ÄúThis positive momentum could be disrupted by threats on the policy side, particularly with regard to the mortgage interest deduction and federal support for the housing finance system.‚Äù All three components of the HMI increased in July. Investors track this index because it is a leading indicator for housing starts. But Paul Diggle at Capital Economics tweeted that the NAHB has a "history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts." But note NAHB homebuilder confidence has a history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts pic.twitter.com/JN2iMZaMQe US home-builder index has the biggest 2-month surge in over 20 years, and the 4th biggest on record: pic.twitter.com/i71hEyd8yp

A hedge fund manager known for his prominent Twitter presence is under investigation and has attempted suicide, The¬†Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation reports. The Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation is a project of veteran investigative reporter Roddy Boyd. Akron based hedge fund manager,¬†Anthony Davian of Davian Capital Advisors (on Twitter as @hedgieguy) is facing doubts from observers, investors and former employees about claims that his hedge fund has a $200 million AUM and has produced consistent returns. In late June the Secret Service and¬†¬†U.S. Postal Service searched Davian and confiscated computer drives and records, according to the report. And while it is unclear how the investigation started,¬† SIRF also reports that has taken a serious toll on Davian himself. From the SIRF: Things got even worse: After Anthony Davian‚Äôs wife found him passed out in their car suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning, he was rushed to the intensive care unit of a hospital. Meanwhile, a growing number of regulators swarmed over the fund asking some very pointed questions about what had happened. Davian built his reputation through YouTube videos and a widely circulated newsletter of trading tips. As of last week, Davian maintains that there are no problems at the firm. We've reached out to Davian's lawyers, and they've decline to comment. For the full report head to¬†the Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation&gt;
With Ben Bernanke's term as Federal Reserve Chairman ending this year, everyone is speculating about who may fill his seat should he decide not to return. The current frontrunner is current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen. There are other contenders, but many doubt they'll be able to secure the votes needed to be confirmed. However, UBS's Art Cashin points to the research of Strategas, who argues that the Fed appoint game may be changing. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: In an overnight note, part of Jason Trennert's outstanding team at Strategas explored whether the current Senate showdown might change more than what is currently being debated.† In a paper titled "Change In Senate Rules For Nominations May Change The Dynamics For The Fed Appointment"; Dan Clifton, and Jeff Rubin postulate: While this fight over filibusters may sound like an arcane ìinside the Beltwayî discussion, the consequences could be significant for monetary policy Ö...† For example, our theme for who will be the next Fed Chair is to focus on which nominee can get 60 votes. We wrote last week that Larry Summers, Tim Geithner, and Christina Romer would be unlikely to garner 60 votes. But some, if not all, may be able to gain confirmation under the proposed new rules given that they are likely to garner 51 votes in the Senate with 54 Democrats voting. If the debate on the rule change were directly on a successor to Bernanke, they would be nuclear indeed.† Yet, the rules may be changed on some secondary posts, only to set precedent for some major decisions.† Small changes can reshape great democracies.† Let's hope crisis is averted.
REUTERS/Mike SegarWhitney TilsonValue investor Whitney Tilson, who runs KASE Capitalóa hedge fund named after his three daughtersó had a tremendous response to one of the disturbing lines in the New York Times front page story the other day about women hooking up in college.† From the New York Times: (emphasis ours)† A friend of hers, Kristy, shared a story about a different kind of coercion. She had been making out with a guy at his house, not sure how far she wanted to go, when he stood up and told her, ìGet down on your knees.î At first she froze. ìI was really taken aback, because I was like, no one has ever said that to me before,î she said. Then he said something like, ì†ëI think thatís fair,í†î she recalled. When she still hesitated, he pushed her down. ìIt was at that point that I was like, ëIíll just do it,í†î she said. ìI was like, ë†ìIt will be over soon enough.í†î Tilson (who is a leader in the education reform space) sent the following in an email out to his education reform listserv. † I certainly hope that my daughters would never spend a second with a guy who would ever dare say ìget down on your kneesî ñ but if that happened, they would: a) walk away b) better yet, punch him in the mouth and walk away c) better yet, kick him in the balls and walk away d) better yet, pretend to go along with it, but when he pulls it out, squint, laugh, and walk away e) better yet, bite it! Lastly, after doing any of a-e, come home and tell me his name†so†I†can†buy my first gun and...well, you get the idea! ;-) You've been warned.
REUTERS/Jim YoungA worker assembles a pinball machine at Stern Pinball in Melrose Park, just outside Chicago, Illinois, July 10, 2013.U.S. industrial production grew 0.3% in June, which was right in line with expectations. "For the second quarter as a whole, industrial production moved up at an annual rate of 0.6 percent," said the Fed. "In June, manufacturing production rose 0.3 percent following an increase of 0.2 percent in May. The output at mines advanced 0.8 percent in June, while the output of utilities decreased 0.1 percent." Capacity utilization ticked up to 77.8% from 77.6% a month ago. From the Federal Reserve's G.17 report: The production of consumer goods increased 0.5 percent in June following a decline of 0.3 percent in May. The output of durable consumer goods advanced 1.1 percent in June. Every major component of consumer durables either increased or was unchanged, with automotive products and home electronics posting the largest gains‚Äî1.4 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. After having decreased 0.4 percent in both April and May, the output of nondurable consumer goods rose 0.3 percent in June. The index for non-energy nondurables stepped up 0.5 percent, driven by gains in the indexes for foods and tobacco and for paper products. The output of consumer energy products declined 0.3 percent, marking the third consecutive monthly decrease for this index. The index for total consumer goods moved up at an annual rate of 1.4 percent in the second quarter, a rate of expansion substantially below the increase of 5.6 percent in the first quarter but about the same as in the fourth quarter of 2012. The smaller increase in the second quarter reflected a deceleration in the output of both durables and non-energy nondurables. The index for business equipment moved up 0.5 percent in June after having fallen 0.1 percent in May and 0.2 percent in April. The gain in June reflected increases of 0.5 percent for transit equipment and 1.1 percent for the industrial and other equipment category. Conversely, the production of information processing equipment dropped 1.0 percent. For the second quarter as a whole, the output of business equipment rose at an annual rate of 2.2 percent, about half of its rate of increase in the previous quarter. The indexes for information processing equipment and for industrial and other equipment recorded substantially slower gains in the second quarter than in the first quarter. By contrast, the index for transit equipment rose at an annual rate of 6.4 percent last quarter to more than reverse a decrease of 2.9 percent in the first quarter. The output of defense and space equipment increased 0.1 percent in June, the first monthly gain for the index in 2013. The index decreased at an annual rate of about 3 1/2 percent in both the first and second quarters. Among nonindustrial supplies, the production of construction supplies edged up in June after having edged down in May; output decreased more than 1 percent in both March and April. The index fell at an annual rate of 4.9 percent in the second quarter after having jumped 14.3 percent in the first quarter and 7.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. The index for business supplies edged up 0.1 percent in June, its first increase since March; the index decreased at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter to reverse about half of its gain in the previous quarter. The production of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector advanced 0.2 percent in June, the same rate of increase as in May. The output of durable materials gained 0.4 percent in June, led by an increase of 0.8 percent for equipment parts; the index for consumer parts moved down a little, and the index for other durable materials was up slightly. The production of nondurable materials edged down 0.1 percent, as decreases for paper materials and for chemical materials outweighed the rise for textile materials. The output of energy materials stepped up 0.4 percent. For the second quarter as a whole, energy materials advanced at an annual rate of 5.2 percent after having increased 2.2 percent in the first quarter. In contrast, the indexes for both durable and nondurable materials decreased last quarter after having recorded increases in the previous quarter. The output of total industrial materials increased at an annual rate of 0.9 percent in the second quarter, well below the gain of 3.4 percent in the first quarter.
Goldman Sachs may have just crushed earnings estimates, but that's in no way the whole story here. To get the bigger picture of how the bank (and thus The Street) is fairing you need to look at debt and equity underwriting, sales and trading, and the bank's return on equity (ROE)† all together. That's when things get a little more complicated. Even though things are looking great year over year, a slight rise in interest rates and additional volatility in the market held Goldman down in Q2. Yes, that was expected across the Street, but it still contributes the bank's less than stellar ROE and shows that the banking business is still struggling toward boom times. This isn't to take away from Goldman's earnings beat.†Q2 is a traditionally tougher quarter all around as companies tend to issue more debt (generating more business for banks) at the beginning of the year. Wall Street's army of analysts estimated that Goldman would post an†adjusted EPS of $2.88 and a revenue of $7.972 billion. The bank posted an adjusted EPS of $3.70 and a revenue of $8.61 billion. Goldman continued its leadership in one of the hottest businesses in investment banking right now, debt and equity underwriting. The bank earned $1.06 billion in that business, and like a lot of what you'll see in Goldman earnings, this figure is down slightly from Q1 2013, but up 45% from this time last year. Goldman also leads Wall Street in sales and trading revenue, so you have to check that out. Wall Street was concerned that rising interest rates would take everyone to the cleaners, but that wasn't necessarily the case here. Goldman's net revenue in fixed income, currencies, and commodities client execution fell 23% from Q1, but rose 12% from Q2 2012. From Goldman's earnings release: Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $2.46†billion, 12% higher than the second quarter of 2012, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in currencies, credit products and commodities. These increases were partially offset by significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and lower net revenues in interest rate products. Although Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities Client Execution operated in a generally favorable environment during the first half of the quarter, market conditions across products became more challenging during the latter part of the quarter, as interest rates and market volatility increased. About a month ago, Bloomberg reported that Wall Street was headed toward the smallest percentage drop in trading revenue between Q1 and Q2 since 2009. The main reason for that, though, was the fact that there was no end-the-world-disaster news coming from Europe (or anywhere else really). And that's just it ó Wall Street has become accustomed to it's annual beating in Q2. Since the paddle didn't come down, it looks like the time for optimism, but you still have to remember that last quarter everyone knew sales and trading was still on life support. Goldman's sales and trading team was down 7% y/o/y last quarter ó this year they're up 12% y/o/y, but without the face melting European crisis to contend with. Additionally, rising interest rates didn't cause the destruction analysts expected.† So Goldman's numbers are better than a dip, but not every quarter should be considered in contrast to the post-apocalyptic disaster The Street's been living in since 2008. At some point, we have to start trying to figure out when Wall Street will be healthy, not just surviving. When you look at the big picture, as Bloomberg TV's Erik Schatzker pointed out, Goldman has a ROE of 10.5%, which is essentially the cost of capital for a bank of its size. If shareholders are going to really, really love the bank's stock, ROE has to rise to the mid teens.  For now, we'll take it, but just remember we're not out of the woods yet.
This morning, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategist Sebastien Galy notes that since the big sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market finally abated a few weeks ago, his readership has dropped by a third. "Activity and liquidity have dropped sharply," says Galy. "My readership dropped by a third, which is pretty much the loss of volume on the UST market according to my rates colleague." Trading volume in the Treasury market surged to all-time highs in May and June alongside soaring bond yields. In just the past few weeks, however, that excess trading activity has completely collapsed as markets push through the summer doldrums. Business Insider
ShutterstockConsumer prices rose more than expected in June. The headline consumer price index jumped 0.5%, which was more than the 0.3% expected. "The gasoline index rose sharply in June and accounted for about two thirds of the seasonally adjusted all items change," said the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Other energy indexes were mixed, with the electricity index rising, but the indexes for natural gas and fuel oil declining. The food index increased in June as the index for food at home turned up after declining in May." Excluding food and energy, prices climbed 0.2%, which was right in line with expectations. Year-over-year, prices climbed 1.8%, or 1.6% excluding food and energy. "In general, we do not believe there is much disinflation in the economy," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna and Carl Riccadonna in a note to clients before the report. Here's the BLS on core inflation: The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.2 percent in June. The shelter index, which rose 0.3 percent in May, increased 0.2 percent in June. The indexes for rent and owners‚Äô equivalent rent both increased 0.2 percent. The index for medical care, which declined in May, increased 0.4 percent in June, its largest increase since last July. The index for medical care commodities, which declined 0.5 percent in May, rose 0.5 percent in June as the prescription drug index turned up. The index for medical care services rose 0.4 percent in June after being unchanged in May. The apparel index increased 0.9 percent in June, its largest increase since August 2011. The index for new vehicles, unchanged in May, rose 0.3 percent in June. The indexes for household furnishings and operations, personal care, and tobacco also increased in June. In contrast to these increases, the index for airline fares declined in June, falling 1.7 percent after rising 2.2 percent in May. The index for used cars and trucks fell for the second month in a row, declining 0.4 percent. The recreation index also declined, falling 0.1 percent. The index for all items less food and energy increased 1.6 percent for the 12 months ending June. The shelter index increased 2.3 percent over that span, the index for medical care rose 2.1 percent, and the new vehicles index rose 1.2 percent. The index for used cars and trucks was one of the few to decline over the last 12 months, falling 2.3 percent. Here's break down via the BLS: BLS Click Here For Updates ¬ª
REUTERS / Brendan McdermidGoldman Sachs posted¬†adjusted earnings per share of $3.70 for the second quarter beating Wall Street analysts' expectations. Revenue for the second quarter came in at $8.61 billion.¬† On average, analysts expected the bank to post adjusted EPS of $2.88, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was expected to come in at $7.972 billion, according to analysts polled by Bloomberg. "The firm‚Äôs performance was solid especially in the context of mixed economic sentiment during the quarter," Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein said in a statement. "Improving economic conditions in the U.S. drove client activity and the strength of our global client franchise allowed us to deliver positive performance across a number of our businesses. While the operating environment has shown noticeable signs of improvement, we continue to put a premium on disciplined risk management, particularly in regard to the firm‚Äôs strong capital and liquidity levels." Shares of Goldman are trading about 1.5% higher in the pre-market. The bank's stock is up more than 23% this year. Here's an excerpt from the bank's earnings release:¬† NEW YORK, July 16, 2013 - The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS) today reported net revenues of $8.61 billion and net earnings of $1.93 billion for the second quarter ended June 30, 2013. Diluted earnings per common share were $3.70 compared with $1.78 for the second quarter of 2012 and $4.29 for the first quarter of 2013. Annualized return on average common shareholders‚Äô equity (ROE)¬†was 10.5% for the second quarter of 2013 and 11.5% for the first half of ¬†2013. Highlights ‚ÄúThe firm‚Äôs performance was solid especially in the context of mixed economic sentiment during the quarter,‚Äù said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ‚ÄúImproving economic conditions in the U.S. drove client activity and the strength of our global client franchise allowed us to deliver positive performance across a number of our businesses. While the operating environment has shown noticeable signs of improvement, we continue to put a premium on disciplined risk management, particularly in regard to the firm‚Äôs strong capital and liquidity levels.‚Äù Net Revenues Investment Banking Net revenues in Investment Banking were $1.55 billion, 29% higher than the second quarter of 2012 and essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $486 million, slightly higher than the second quarter of 2012. Net revenues in the firm‚Äôs Underwriting business were $1.07 billion, 45% higher than the second quarter of 2012. This increase primarily reflected significantly higher net revenues in debt underwriting, due to leveraged finance activity, and in equity underwriting, primarily reflecting an increase in industry-wide activity. The firm‚Äôs investment banking transaction backlog was essentially unchanged compared with the end of the first quarter of 2013. Institutional Client Services Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $4.31 billion, 11% higher than the second quarter of 2012 and 16% lower than the first quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $2.46 billion, 12% higher than the second quarter of 2012, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in currencies, credit products and commodities. These increases were partially offset by significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and lower net revenues in interest rate products. Although Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities Client Execution operated in a generally favorable environment during the first half of the quarter, market conditions across products became more challenging during the latter part of the quarter, as interest rates and market volatility increased. Net revenues in Equities were $1.85 billion, 9% higher than the second quarter of 2012. Excluding net revenues from the firm‚Äôs reinsurance business, net revenues in Equities were 23% higher compared with the same period last year, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in equities client execution, which reflected significantly higher net revenues in derivatives and cash products.Commissions and fees were higher, primarily in Asia, due to an increase in activity and higher market ¬†values. Securities services net revenues were lower compared with the second quarter of 2012. Excluding the decline attributable to the sale of the firm‚Äôs hedge fund administration business in 2012, securities services net revenues were essentially unchanged. During the quarter, Equities operated in an environment generally characterized by higher volatility levels, particularly in Asia. The net gain attributable to the impact of changes in the firm‚Äôs own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $59 million ($32 million and $27 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the second quarter of 2013, compared with a net gain of $6 million for the second quarter of 2012. Investing &amp; Lending Net revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $1.42 billion for the second quarter of 2013. Results for the second quarter of 2013 included net gains of $462 million from investments in equities, primarily in private equities, net gains and net interest income of $658 million from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $295 million related to the firm‚Äôs consolidated investments. During the quarter, the firm sold its remaining investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited. Investment Management Net revenues in Investment Management were $1.33 billion, essentially unchanged compared with the second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013. Net revenues in the second quarter of 2013 included higher management and other fees, primarily due to higher average assets under supervision, and higher transaction revenues compared with the second quarter of 2012. These increases were offset by lower incentive fees. During the quarter, long-term assets under supervision¬†decreased $4 billion, reflecting market depreciation of $11 billion, primarily in fixed income assets, partially offset by net inflows of $7 billion. Net inflows primarily included inflows in fixed income assets, partially offset by outflows in alternative investment assets. Liquidity ¬†products¬†decreased $9 billion during the quarter. Total assets under supervision decreased $13 billion during the quarter to $955 billion.¬† Expenses  Operating expenses were $5.97 billion, 14% higher than the second quarter of 2012 and 11% lower than the first quarter of 2013. Compensation and Benefits The accrual for compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, estimated year-end discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits) was $3.70 billion for the second quarter of 2013, 27% higher than the second quarter of 2012, reflecting a significant increase in net revenues. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for the first half of 2013 was 43.0%, compared with 44.0% for the first half of 2012. Total staff¬†decreased 1% compared with the end of the first quarter of 2013. Non-Compensation Expenses Non-compensation expenses were $2.26 billion, essentially unchanged compared with the second quarter of 2012 and 5% lower than the first quarter of 2013. Non-compensation expenses for the second quarter of 2013 included lower expenses as a result of the sale of the firm's reinsurance business and lower expenses related to consolidated investments compared with the second quarter of 2012. These decreases were partially offset by increased net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings and higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees which principally reflected higher transaction volumes in Equities. The second quarter of 2013 included net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings of $149 million. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate for the first half of 2013 was 30.4%, down from 33.0% for the first quarter of 2013, primarily due to a determination that certain non-U.S. earnings will be permanently reinvested abroad, as well as changes in the earnings mix. Capital  As of June 30, 2013, total capital was $240.08 billion, consisting of $78.04 billion in total shareholders‚Äô equity (common shareholders‚Äô equity of $70.84 billion and preferred stock of $7.20 billion) and $162.04 billion in unsecured long-term borrowings. Book value per common share was $151.21 and tangible book value per common share¬†was $141.62, both approximately 2% higher compared with the end of the first quarter of 2013. Book value and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 468.5 million as of June 30, 2013. On April 25, 2013, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) issued 40,000 shares of perpetual 5.50% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J (Series J Preferred Stock), for aggregate proceeds of $1.00 billion. During the quarter, the firm repurchased 10.5 million shares of its common stock at an average cost per share of $152.80, for a total cost of $1.60 billion. The remaining share authorization under the firm‚Äôs existing repurchase program is 75.9 million shares. Under the regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank holding companies, the firm‚Äôs Tier 1 capital ratio¬†was 15.6% and the firm‚Äôs Tier 1 common ratio¬†was 13.5%¬†as of June 30, 2013, up from 14.4% and 12.7%, respectively, as of March 31, 2013 (in each case under Basel 1 and reflecting the revised market risk regulatory capital requirements which became effective on January 1, 2013). Other Balance Sheet and Liquidity Metrics  Dividends  Group Inc. declared a dividend of $0.50 per common share to be paid on September 27, 2013 to common shareholders of record on August 30, 2013. The firm also declared dividends of $244.79, $387.50, $261.11, $261.11, $371.88 and $401.04 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock, Series D Preferred Stock, Series I Preferred Stock and Series J Preferred Stock, respectively (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock), to be paid on August 12, 2013 to preferred shareholders of record on July 28, 2013. In addition, the firm declared dividends of $1,022.22 per each share of Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock, to be paid on September 3, 2013 to preferred shareholders of record on August 19, 2013.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchBack in January, there was some buzz¬†about the "1994 scenario," referring to the episode that year in which the Federal Reserve began tightening monetary policy as the economy improved, leaving a bloodbath in the bond market. This year, the big bond sell-off didn't begin until May, but by the end of June, the magnitude of the rise in bond yields that accompanied the selling was already outpacing that in 1994. After topping out at 2.76% in July, the market has stabilized somewhat, and yields have headed back down to today's levels at 2.53% as bonds have received some support in the marketplace. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale FX strategist Sebastien Galy says as we've headed into mid-summer and the sell-off has abated, he's seen a sizable decline in readership. And despite the support bonds have received recently, volatility still remains high, says Galy: Activity and liquidity have dropped sharply. My readership dropped by a third, which is pretty much the loss of volume on the UST market according to my rates colleague. This is an environment where vol declines but to higher levels than you would expect as market makers with their depleted balance sheet don't want to have to manage large short term positions. It is a tactical and technical environment where the market will try to trigger large stop losses given its higher impact. BofA Merrill Lynch Head of U.S. Rates Strategy Priya Misra makes a similar point about volatility in a note to clients: The other unique aspect of the sell-off has been a rise in volatility. It is remarkable that even though the market seemed to stabilize last week and imminent tapering is already priced in, volatility is still high. Volatility has been highly correlated with term premium and that explains why higher volatility has resulted in higher rates (Chart 1). Volatility was initially caused by the changed Fed response function. The reaction last week to the FOMC minutes, Ben Bernanke‚Äôs Q&amp;A and even to a well-known hawk such as Charles Plosser, tells you how skittish investors have become regarding the Fed‚Äôs response function. Further, duration shedding from the mortgage community as durations extended, central banks, and bond fund managers in response to outflows added fuel to the ‚Äúvolatility fire‚Äù. Until these technical factors subside, we do not expect volatility to decline much. The next big focus for global markets this week will be Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's semi-annual Humphrey Hawkins testimony to Congress beginning on Wednesday. We could see more volatility. "Bernanke will be a dove in his testimony and it will continue to surprise me that it is actually not fully priced in," says Galy.
APFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus, a very quick guide traders are chatting about on this quiet morning. Morning ‚Äì Futures in the USA are basically flat this AM, but remain near highs of the overnight session. ¬† The DAX has lost small, dragged lower as Fins over in Europe are hit for 50bp as spreads widen slightly in the PIIGs and rough Economic data abounds ‚Äì doubtful the strike in Greece any factor. ¬†In Asia, Japan closes at a 2M high following a 3day weekend (Buyback activity at a 8Y high), but India was smacked hard as India‚Äôs CB raises short-term borrowing costs to prop up the Rupee. ¬†Shanghai added small, led by Solar companies ‚Äì while EAsia was under pressure. ¬† In Aussie, the ASX was up small but miners acted well as Rio‚Äôs update was better than expected. The US 10YY is testing Friday‚Äôs lows of 2.52% as the street readies for Bernanke's Testimony on Weds (House) - released at 8:30, Hearing at 10, Q&amp;A at 10:45 - ¬†The DXY is under some pressure as Aussie$ Rallies on RBA comments ‚Äì The Rupee jumps on RBI tightening ‚Äì and the ‚Ç¨ is breaking higher. ¬†This is a natural tailwind for commodities ‚Äì and Gold is your best performer, popping toward $1300/oz helped by a Barrick project coming offline in Chile. ¬†The Crude Complex is jumping to new peaks as well, but Gasoline continues it‚Äôs surge north ‚Äì hitting YTD highs as Ethanol Credits leapt higher again overnight. Focus will be heavy on US CPI this AM - If the US consumer price index to climb significantly from May‚Äôs 1.4% figure, it would undercut the dovish argument that asset purchases must continue to avoid deflation. Definitely, as Lutz notes, the focus will be on CPI at 8;30 AM ET.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China added 7.25 million jobs in the first half of this year, slightly higher than the number created in the same period a year earlier, and the job market remains stable, the official Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday. The Xinhua report quoted Yin Weimin, minister of human resources and social security, as also saying that the services sector would play a big role in absorbing new labor, as each percentage point of growth in that industry would create about 700,000 jobs. More efforts will be made to create jobs in services as well as emerging businesses and the private sector, Xinhua quoted Yin as saying at a meeting. It did not give details of the meeting. "Maintaining a steady job market will be a long-term and arduous task," he said, adding that the number of workers between the ages of 20 and 59 will peak around 2020. China's leaders have been at pains to say employment remains stable, even as the economy slows, citing a growing services sector and a demographic shift that reduces surplus rural workers. They are worried that if the slowdown leads to high unemployment, there could be social unrest. China's annual GDP growth slowed to an expected 7.5 percent in April to June - the ninth quarter in the last 10 that expansion has weakened, and growth prospects for the rest of the year look subdued, especially if global demand remains weak. Yin added that the registered urban unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.1 percent in the first half. (Reporting by Jonathan Standing; Editing by Clarence Fernandez and Sanjeev Miglani) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
REUTERS/Amr Abdallah DalshSupporters of deposed Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi run from tear gas fired by riot police during clashes at Ramses Square in Cairo, July 15, 2013. Police fired tear gas in central Cairo on Monday when protesters calling for the reinstatement of the ousted Islamist president, Mohamed Mursi, scuffled with drivers and passers-by annoyed that they had blocked major roads. Supporters of Mursi, Egypt's first freely elected president, threw rocks at police near Ramses Street, one of the capital's main thoroughfares, and on the Sixth of October Bridge over the Nile in the first outbreak of violence in Egypt in a week.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
An important nugget here from Markit on the bad situation in the UK for workers. Annual wage growth is running far behind the rate of inflation, which means that on a "real" basis, workers are making less and less. UK inflation running at 2.9% while regular pay grows at an average annual rate of just 0.9% http://t.co/b2YPJ1VaL5 pic.twitter.com/OV9VtfDzDd FRED
REUTERS/Steve MarcusOne of the biggest concerns right now for the US economy is the fact that rates are rising, and potentially threatening to choke off, or at least slow down the housing recovery. The housing recovery has been integral to the overall economic recovery, so the way this issue gets resolved is of major importance. This week we get a fair amount of housing data (most of it tomorrow) but today we get a key datapoint. From Calculated Risk: †ï At 10:00 AM, the July NAHB homebuilder survey will be released. The consensus is for a reading of 52, the same as in June. Any number above 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as good than poor. Housing data takes many shapes, including data on starts, existing sales, prices, etc. But this gauge of homebuilder sentiment actually has been useful, and it will be interesting to see what is gleaned in light of the rising rate environment.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonFacebook is the perfect platform for eccentric¬†author Nassim Taleb, whose knack for thinking outside the box and waxing poetic is¬†unparalleled. Here's how the acclaimed author of "The Black Swan," describes his Facebook account: "This is for philosophical discussions. Please, no finance (or similarly depraved topics), and no journalists." Oops. Taleb's Facebook ‚Äî¬†which boasts¬†33,000+ followers¬†‚Äî¬†is truly a must-like for anyone interested in success, failure, Brooklyn, the modern condition, philosophy, the sordid state of journalism, or all of the above. Here are Taleb's 35 most important observations. Each is a quote.
From @pawelmorski, here's a great chart from a BofA/ML survey, showing how wildly bullish folks are on the dollar. @pawelmorski As you can see, the % of investors who think the dollar will rise is at the highest levels of the decade. Note also the marked shift pre- and post-crisis. Virtually the entire pre-crisis era, there was a bearish bias to investor opinions. That's shifted in recent years. Among the reasons for being optimistic on the dollar: An improving an economy, rising domestic energy (fewer imports) and a general sense that perhaps the Fed is closer to the "exit" among major central banks.
Recently the IMF made it clear that the current euro area leadership needs to address its ongoing banking problems. The Eurozone's banks are continuing to deleverage, with total loan balances to euro area residents now at the lowest level in 5 years. What makes the situation even more troubling is that many Eurozone banks banks are repeating the Japanese experience of the 90s. They are carrying poor quality and often deteriorating assets on their balance sheets, refusing to take writedowns that will require recapitalization. The IMF: - Faced with high funding costs, weak [Eurozone] banks are unable to recognize losses. This perpetuates uncertainty about the quality of their assets, hinders fresh private capital injections, and ultimately restrains credit. To reverse these dynamics, bank losses need to be fully recognized, frail but viable banks recapitalized, and non-viable banks closed or restructured. This is exactly what created the "lost decade" in Japan by stifling credit growth for years. Loss recognition was not part of Japan's banking culture, as loan officers consistently kept bad loans at par and refused to move to workout/liquidation. There was little room for new credit creation in that environment. SoberLook And now numerous banks in the Eurozone are facing similar issues. Failure to recognize losses combined with new Basel III requirements has created Japan-style credit stagnation. The latest data from the ECB shows such weakness in loan growth that even some of the more pessimistic Eurozone economists have been surprised. SoberLook SoberLook In order to have any hope of a sustained economic recovery, the euro area's leadership needs to take some decisive action now. That may include recapitalizing or shutting down banking institutions. Allowing the banking sector to sustain itself via the ECB funding while maintaining the appearance of being sufficiently capitalized in the face of deteriorating loan portfolios will undermine economic growth for years to come. The Eurozone could be repeating the costly mistakes of the Japanese banking system of the 90s. The Economist: - Banks are central to Europe‚Äôs prospects. The fear, especially in peripheral economies, is a repeat of Japan‚Äôs experience in the 1990s, when ‚Äúzombie‚Äù banks staggered along for years, neither healthy enough to lend to firms nor weak enough to collapse. There are the same unvital signs in Europe. The average price-to-book ratio for European banks remains below one, suggesting that investors think lenders are worth more dead than alive. In America, where banks were recapitalised quickly, the ratio exceeds one. Italy‚Äôs two big lenders, UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, have ratios of 0.34 and 0.42 respectively.  The suspicion of European lenders is well-founded. The amount of shaky loans keeps climbing: worryingly, there are more non-performing loans in the Italian banking system than there is core ‚ÄúTier-1‚Äù capital. Lots of peripheral banks have been loading up on their own governments‚Äô bonds: Portugal‚Äôs three biggest banks increased their holdings of Portuguese sovereign debt by 16% in the first quarter of the year. Mortgages account for even more bank assets‚Äô and house prices keep falling‚Äîat the fastest pace on record in Spain in the first quarter.
Flickr via pagedooleyIt's veeeeery quiet. Markets around the world are doing very little, on virtually no news. US futures are set (at this point) to open with no real change. European stocks are down a tad. In Asia, markets were up slightly. But not enough to really be worth mentioning. The big event this week comes tomorrow when Bernanke (him again) talks to Congress to give his semi-annual testimony on monetary policy. Of course, the Fed has said so much already in the last three weeks that it's hard to imagine too much new coming from it.
