Wikimedia CommonsCyprus finally reached a deal with the EU on how to bail out its troubled banking system tonight. Nonetheless, the events of the past week have likely shattered confidence in Cypriot banks. In a new piece, Moody's analyst Sarah Carlson argues that the financial crisis in Cyprus "will have profound long-term negative consequences for the†sovereign," and that†"even in the best-case scenario, where the Cypriot†parliament passes and implements measures that the euro area governments of the European Union,†European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund (collectively known as the Troika) find†acceptable, the sovereign will remain at risk of default and exit from the euro area for a prolonged period." (The Cypriot parliament actually doesn't have to approve the measures agreed to tonight because they already did on Friday, but Carlson's point still stands.) The big problem is that the financial services sector has been a big growth driver in Cyprus in recent years, and the past week's events will probably be a big negative for continuation of that trend. The hit the Cypriot economy will take as a result means Cyprus will remain at risk of default, writes Carlson: These measures have already damaged the financial sectorís reputation and business model, and the systemís profile as an offshore financial centre is unlikely to survive this crisis. In spite of the global financial crisis, the sector has consistently made positive contributions to Cyprusí growth (see exhibit). The only other sector that made a positive contribution to growth in 2012 was professional services, a related industry. In recent years, Cyprus has established itself as a hub for European business services, such as accounting, actuarial and legal services. However, it is not clear if Cyprusí business services sector, which†we had regarded as a key source of future growth given the tourism sectorís competitiveness challenges, can survive against the backdrop of a weak financial services sector. These factors make it unclear from where future growth will come, thereby undermining economic strength and increasing the sovereignís vulnerability to shocks. At some point, the exploitation of offshore gas fields†is likely to make a meaningful contribution to growth, but this is unlikely to materialise over the next two to three years. Meanwhile, Cyprus has limited options for fiscal consolidation and debt reduction. Even with a bailout from the Troika, there will still be a high risk of sovereign default until growth prospects improve. A sovereign debt restructuring would be more difficult to execute in Cyprus than it was in Greece owing to the composition of the debt stock and the holders of debt. Around 50% of the debt is comprised of domestic securities and bank loans, the latter of which are governed by local law. Domestic banks and cooperative institutions hold a large proportion of this debt, so any haircut would deepen the banking sectorís solvency problems and prompt further questions about the sovereignís continued membership of the euro area. In fact, only one quarter of the debt stock is comprised of foreign securities that are governed by English law. A default on this debt would not be as damaging to the domestic banking sector, but could be much more difficult to execute owing to a high threshold for triggering the collective action clauses. The chart below shows the financial services sector's contribution to growth in Cyprus. Eurostat, Moody's calculationsClick to enlarge
Bloomberg TVCypriot President Nicos Anastasiades has been in Brussels this weekend to negotiate a deal with the EU to bail out the country's troubled banking system. The two sides have finally come to a deal, which will see a big hit to uninsured deposits at the country's two largest banks ñ Bank of Cyprus and Laiki. Last weekend, after Cyprus and the EU worked out a similar deal, it was struck down in the Cypriot parliament.†However, this time around, the Cypriot parliament won't have to approve the new deal. The difference lies in the way the bailout will be handled. Before, money was to be raised by implementing a nationwide "tax" on deposits at all banks, for both insured and uninsured depositors. That required a vote to establish a new tax. Now, haircuts will be forced only on uninsured depositors at Bank of Cyprus and Laiki, tracing the path of a more typical bank restructuring process. The Cypriot parliament passed nine laws on Friday giving them new powers to resolve Cypriot banks. Because of this, they won't need to vote on the new deal hatched with the EU tonight.
ECEurogroup President and Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem at Sunday night's press conference.The Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers met in Brussels tonight to approve a plan to bail out the Cypriot banking system. The new deal will see uninsured deposits at the country's two largest banks take a substantial haircut, but insured depositors ‚Äì those with less than 100,000 euros in their bank accounts ‚Äì will be spared from the one-off "tax" that was being considered just a week ago. Reports of a deal between Cypriot and EU officials being reached prior to the Eurogroup meeting caused the euro and the Australian stock market to spike. Now, the Eurogroup has signed off on the deal as well. CNBC's Kelly Evans tweets that Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades is pleased with the outcome: Cypriot President Anastasiades just left, saying deal had been reached, he was happy &amp; in best interests of EU. It will mean that Popular Bank of Cyprus, the island's second largest bank which is also known as Laiki, will effectively be shut down. Deposits below 100,000 euros in Laiki will be transferred to Bank of Cyprus, the country's largest bank. Deposits above 100,000 euros, which under EU law are not insured, will be frozen and will be used to resolve debts. It remains unclear how large the writedown on those funds will be. No charges will be incurred against any Cypriot bank account with less than 100,000 euros in them, the officials said. Because the process will be treated as a bank restructuring as opposed to a nationwide "tax" on bank deposits, it seems that the plan will not be subjected to another vote in the Cypriot parliament, which on Friday passed new laws enabling them to navigate the restructuring process more easily. At the Eurogroup press conference,¬†Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, President of the Eurogroup, told reporters that details on how to re-open Cypriot banks will be discussed between Cyprus and the troika tomorrow (which is another bank holiday in Cyprus). Dijsselboem also said that this deal was better for Cyprus than the one proposed last week as it tackles the problems where they have actually arisen ‚Äì in the two largest Cypriot banks. European Commissioner Olli Rehn said the Commission would do what it could to mitigate the social impact of the economic shock the past week's episode has had on Cyprus. Rehn also said that recent events had a negative impact on the country's growth outlook, and that the European Commission would offer a revised debt sustainability analysis and macroeconomic projections for the Cypriot economy in a final memorandum by mid-April. IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said she expected the country's public debt-to-GDP ratio to fall to 100 percent by 2020, thanks in part to the recent divestiture of Greek units of Cypriot banks. Dijsselbloem welcomed a contribution from the IMF to the bailout package. Lagarde said she would make a recommendation to the IMF board regarding the matter in the coming weeks, but declined to give a figure. Regarding the 5.8 billion euros demanded by the EU from Cypriot depositors as their contribution to the bailout, Dijsselbloem said, "Let's forget that number." A revised figure will be determined after the banks are restructured. Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris would not give a date for when banks in Cyprus ‚Äì which have been closed since March 15 ‚Äì would reopen, but he said they would like it to happen as soon as possible. Furthermore, Sarris sought to reassure that Cypriot savings and living standards would recover from the crisis relatively quickly. Sarris also said it would take a few days to determine the size of the haircut to uninsured deposits at Bank of Cyprus. Below is the full Eurogroup statement. ---------------------------------------------------------------- Eurogroup Statement on Cyprus The Eurogroup has reached an agreement with the Cypriot authorities on the key elements¬†necessary for a future macroeconomic adjustment programme. This agreement is supported by all euro area Member States as well as the three institutions. The Eurogroup fully supports the Cypriot people in these difficult circumstances. The programme will address the exceptional challenges that Cyprus is facing and restore the viability of the financial sector, with the view of restoring sustainable growth and sound public finances over the coming years. The Eurogroup welcomes the plans for restructuring the financial sector as specified in the annex.¬†These measures will form the basis for restoring the viability of the financial sector. In particular, they safeguard all deposits below EUR 100.000 in accordance with EU principles. The programme will contain a decisive approach to addressing financial sector imbalances. There will be an appropriate downsizing of the financial sector, with the domestic banking sector reaching the EU average by 2018. In addition, the Cypriot authorities have reaffirmed their commitment to step up efforts in the areas of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and privatisation.¬†The Eurogroup welcomes the Terms of Reference for an independent evaluation of the implementation of the anti-money laundering framework in Cypriot financial institutions, involving Moneyval alongside a private international audit firm, and is reassured that the launch of the audit is imminent. In the event of problems in the implementation of the framework, problems will be corrected as part of the programme conditionality. The Eurogroup further welcomes the Cypriot authorities' commitment to take further measures.¬†These measures include the increase of the withholding tax on capital income and of the statutory¬†corporate income tax rate. The Eurogroup looks forward to an agreement between Cyprus and the Russian Federation on a financial contribution. The Eurogroup urges the immediate implementation of the agreement between Cyprus and Greece on the Greek branches of the Cypriot banks, which protects the stability of both the Greek and Cypriot banking systems. The Eurogroup requests the Cypriot authorities and the Commission, in liaison with the ECB, and the IMF to finalise the MoU at staff level in early April. The Eurogroup notes the intention of the Cypriot authorities to compensate potential individual¬†victims of fraudulent practices, in line with established legal and judicial procedures, outside the¬†programme. The Eurogroup takes note of the authorities' decision to introduce administrative measures,¬†appropriate in view of the present unique and exceptional situation of Cyprus' financial sector and to¬†allow for a swift reopening of the banks. The Eurogroup stresses that these administrative measures ill be temporary, proportionate and non-discriminatory, and subject to strict monitoring in terms of scope and duration in line with the Treaty. Against this background, the Eurogroup reconfirms, as stated already on 16 March, that ‚Äì in principle - financial assistance to Cyprus is warranted to safeguard financial stability in Cyprus and the euro area as a whole by providing financial assistance for an amount of up to EUR 10bn. The Eurogroup would welcome a contribution by the IMF to the financing of the programme. Together with the decisions taken by Cyprus, this results in a fully financed programme which will allow Cyprus‚Äô public debt to remain on a sustainable path. The Eurogroup expects that the ESM Board of Governors will be in a position to formally approve the proposal for a financial assistance facility agreement by the third week of April 2013 subject to the completion of national procedures. Annex Following the presentation by the Cyprus authorities of their policy plans, which were broadly¬†welcomed by the Eurogroup, the following was agreed: 1. Laiki will be resolved immediately - with full contribution of equity shareholders, bond holders and uninsured depositors - based on a decision by the Central Bank of Cyprus, using the newly adopted Bank Resolution Framework. 2. Laiki will be split into a good bank and a bad bank. The bad bank will be run down over time. 3. The good bank will be folded into Bank of Cyprus (BoC), using the Bank Resolution Framework, after having heard the Boards of Directors of BoC and Laiki. It will take 9 bn Euros of ELA with it. Only uninsured deposits in BoC will remain frozen until recapitalisation has been effected, and may subsequently be subject to appropriate conditions. 4. The Governing Council of the ECB will provide liquidity to the BoC in line with applicable rules. 5. BoC will be recapitalised through a deposit/equity conversion of uninsured deposits with full¬†contribution of equity shareholders and bond holders. 6. The conversion will be such that a capital ratio of 9 % is secured by the end of the programme. 7. All insured depositors in all banks will be fully protected in accordance with the relevant EU¬†legislation. 8. The programme money (up to 10bn Euros) will not be used to recapitalise Laiki and Bank of¬†Cyprus. The Eurogroup is convinced that this solution is the best way forward for ensuring the overall viability and stability of the Cyprus financial system and its capability to finance the Cyprus economy.
Markets all around the world are enjoying the talk of a Cyprus deal. Here's Australia. SMH.com.au (HT: @brookecorte)
Everyone's been talking about Russia's super rich oligarchs lately ó first because of the banking crisis in Cyprus, and now because of the mysterious death of one oligarch, Boris Berezovsky, in London this weekend. Expect the talk to continue. Berezovksy's death will lead to questions for the Kremlin, his former partner Roman Abramovich and a whole host of other super wealthy, powerful individuals that inhabit the world of Russia's elite. So before we all dive in, it's important to know how those on top got to where they are. The oligarchs are the product of the privatization of state companies after the fall of the Soviet Union. The Russian economy was in disarray and the government wanted to redistribute badly managed state-owned companies in just about every industry you can imagine in an effort to move towards capitalism. In 1994, executives at Russia's only Swiss Central Bank accredited bank, Oneksim Bank came up with a †plan to help then-President Boris Yeltsin and his administration raise some cash while distributing the companies. The plan was called "loans for shares." Russian banks lent the government money in exchange for temporary stakes in state-owned companies. If the government defaulted on its loan, the banks got to keep their stakes. Of course, the government did default, and those with the capital to take advantage of this fire sale, like Oneksim Bank's then-president and Russia's 4th richest man†Vladimir Potanin, became wealthy beyond belief. At the time, reported the†New York Times,†Russian voters called this policy†"prikhvatizatsiya," or "grabification." From the NYT IN 1996: When the auctions began last fall, it became all too obvious that a fix was in. Foreign investors were barred from bidding for the most desirable assets, and the same banks that were assigned by the Government to organize the auctions ended up winning them, and usually at only a fraction over the minimum bid. Oneksim Bank, for instance, organized the auction for 38 percent of Norilsk Nickel, which produces platinum and a quarter of the world's nickel, and won it for $171 million, only $100,000 above the minimum bid and half as much as the rival Rossiisky Credit bank was prepared to pay. Oneksim Bank spokesmen say they disqualified Rossiisky Credit because it filed its applications late and wanted to guarantee its bid with treasury bills as well as cash. Rossiisky Bank said it would sue. Shares in some of Russia's largest oil conglomerates, including Lukoil and Yukos, were sold off for what Western analysts considered to be a fraction of their real value. When the buying frenzy subsided, the Government collected $1 billion, half of what it had expected to collect. When "loans for shares" started Boris Berezovsky was already a very wealthy man. He got into the auto business when the Soviet Union was crumbling and parleyed that into more successful businesses, including a super-elite club for Russia's new money in Moscow. Berezovsky also kept a pretty high profile. His chauffeur was decapitated when a bomb went off near his Mercedes in 1994. That was also the year he met his far less flashy former partner, Roman Abramovic (Russia's 7th richest man), on a friend's sailboat in the Caribbean. The two men figured out how to use "loans for shares" to take control of the state oil company, Sibneft. Berezovsky would use his influence to ensure that he and Abramovic's bid won the company, and Abramovic would run it. No papers were signed in this agreement and there are no documents to unseal. That ambiguity lead Berezovsky to file a $5 billion lawsuit against Abramovic last year, alleging that Abramovic intimidated him into selling his shares in Sibneft at a rock bottom price. Berezovsky lost. Some say that the fear of losing his fortune lead Berezovsky to commit suicide. He had a lot to lose, as estimates put it around $3 billion. That means, compared to some of his fellow oligarchs, Berezovsky wound up just... okay. According to Bloomberg's Billionaire Index, Roman Abramovic is worth about $13.4 billion, another oligarch, Brooklyn Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov is worth $13.1 billion, and the richest oligarch of all, Alisher Usmanov, is worth $21.1 billion. The lesson here ó It's good to be at the right place at the right time.
Talk of a 'deal' is dribbling out. Nothing is official yet, but the Euro has surged. FinViz
Futures markets have begun trading to start the week as Cyprus attempts to negotiate the final details of a plan with the EU to bail out its troubled banking system. This is ahead of an ECB ultimatum that a deal be reached by Monday or the liquidity taps will be turned off. Despite the heated backdrop, markets are mostly flat Sunday evening. S&amp;P 500 futures are trading around 1551, down just 0.03 percent from where they closed on Friday. The very far right side of the graph shows Sunday evening's trading session. FINVIZ.com
Flickr / alles-schulmpfAS FOUNDER of a new Eurosceptic party, Bernd Lucke, an economics professor, is among the most controversial figures in Germany. The website of his Alternative for Germany party went online this month. Its first gathering is in April, and it has until the summer to collect up to 2,000 signatures in each of Germany's 16 states in order to get on the ballot for the federal election in September. Supported by an impressive list of fellow professors, Mr Lucke has three main goals. The most urgent is an "orderly dissolution" of the euro, with a return to national currencies or to new, smaller and more homogenous currency blocks. He wants a decentralised European Union with less bureaucracy and more emphasis on the single market. He favours more direct democracy, with Swiss-style plebiscites. In its own mind, the Alternative is classically liberal in philosophy and otherwise pro-European. Mr Lucke argues that the euro, far from being the "peace project" that was intended, nowadays causes strife among Europeans. Cyprus is a case in point. Starting when the "no-bail-out clause" in the EU treaties was first ignored in 2010, successive euro rescues have in his view broken rules and undermined the single currency beyond repair. Anywhere else such a voice might count as just another in the political spectrum. Not so in Germany, where any form of Euroscepticism remains taboo. The German media, ever vigilant against creeping populism or right-wing extremism, are now applying a magnifying glass to the party's supporter lists. That is "grotesque," snaps Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former head of Germany's main industry association, who supports the Alternative. "We are not fishing on the left or right," insists Frauke Petry, a member of the party's board. Membership applications are being screened to ferret out potential extremists, even though this slows down the party's growth. Around 4,000 people have become members since March 7th. They are coming from across the political spectrum, says Mrs Petry. Even if the Alternative qualifies in time, hardly anybody expects it to reach the 5% needed to enter the Bundestag. But the election looks increasingly likely to be a tight race between the centre-right coalition of Chancellor Angela Merkel and the centre-left opposition. Since the Alternative appeals most directly to disillusioned voters on the centre-right, its mere appearance on ballots could prove to be "incredibly dangerous for Mrs Merkel," says Mr Henkel. He points to a state election in Lower Saxony in January, where Mr Lucke ran as a candidate for another mildly Eurosceptic party, the Free Voters, which got barely over 1%. In a race that hinged on a few hundred votes, this mattered. It would be undemocratic to obstruct a new party because of such tactical considerations, says Michael Wohlgemuth, the director of Open Europe Berlin, a Eurosceptic think tank. A large minority of Germans--one in four, according to one recent poll--are unsupportive of the euro. So far, Mrs Merkel has presented rescue efforts as "alternative-less." Sooner or later, something called an Alternative for Germany was bound to come along. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
WikimediaMarch 24 (Reuters) - A special committee of Dell Inc's board is evaluating separate takeover proposals from Blackstone Group and billionaire investor Carl Icahn to decide whether either or both are likely to trump an existing $24.4 billion take-private deal, a source familiar with the discussions said on Sunday. Icahn and Blackstone put in preliminary bids late last week, potentially upsetting the plans of the No. 3 PC maker's founder, Michael Dell, and private equity firm Silver Lake to take Dell private. Dell could make an announcement as soon as Monday about whether either of the rival offers were reasonably likely to lead to a superior bid, the source familiar with the matter said. But the source warned that the special committee of the board may also decide to take longer to reach a decision. Blackstone declined to comment. Dell and Icahn could not be immediately reached for comment. The unexpected rival bids for Dell throw the future of the PC-maker into question. A "go-shop" period - during which the target company actively looks for rival offers - for a deal of this size rarely evokes competing offers. The bids now could potentially turn the sale of Dell into a three-horse race, which could drag out for months. It also could threaten the future of Michael Dell, who founded the technology giant at the age of 19 with just $1,000. Under the Silver Lake plan, he planned to contribute his roughly 16 percent share of Dell's equity to the deal, along with cash from his investment firm MSD Capital, and to remain CEO of the company. Under Silver Lake and Michael Dell's offer, Dell would be taken private for $13.65 per share. Silver Lake is putting up $1.4 billion in the deal. But that plan has come under attack from several high-profile Dell shareholders such as Southeastern Asset Management and T. Rowe Price. The shareholders have said that his offer undervalues the company and pledged to vote against the deal, which requires a majority of shareholders, excluding the founder, to pass. RIVAL BIDS Icahn has offered $15 per share for 58 percent of Dell's stock, the source said. Under his proposal, the shareholders will have a choice of electing cash or stock, but there would be a cap on the amount of cash they could get, the source said. In other words, if all Dell shareholders chose to cash out, they could only sell 58 percent of their stock, retaining the other 42 percent that will remain publicly traded. Icahn is being advised by investment bank Jefferies Group Inc. The activist investor, who has taken a stake in Dell, earlier this month demanded Dell pay out $15.7 billion in special dividends. He is no longer asking for that, the source said. Icahn plans to fund his bid with his own money, Dell's cash as well as new debt, the source said. Jefferies declined to comment. Blackstone, meanwhile, has offered to pay in excess of $14.25 per share for Dell, the source said. The New York-based alternative investment firm has not specified a range of the bid, but has two other equity partners - Francisco Partners and Insight Venture Partners. Francisco and Insight could not be reached immediately for comment. Under Blackstone's proposal, Dell also would have a certain amount of stock publicly traded, the source said. But unlike the Icahn proposal, Blackstone has proposed buying out any shareholder that wants to cash out of Dell. Instead, Blackstone is proposing to cap the amount of stock that would be outstanding in the publicly equity stub, the source said, adding that the private equity firm has not specified what that cap is. Blackstone is being advised by Morgan Stanley, which has also given it a highly confident letter of financing, the source said. Morgan Stanley declined to comment. There have also been some conversations about the Blackstone group selling Dell's financial services business, but that is not part of the current proposal, the source said. NEXT STEPS Dell was regarded as a model of innovation as recently as the early 2000s, pioneering online ordering of custom-configured PCs and working closely with Asian component suppliers and manufacturers to assure rock-bottom production costs. But as of 2012's fourth quarter, Dell's share of the global PC market had slipped to just above 10 percent from 12.5 percent a year earlier as its shipments tumbled 20 percent, according to research house IDC. Michael Dell returned to the company as CEO in 2007 after a brief hiatus, but has been unable to engineer a turnaround thus far. Dell's focus on corporate computing in recent years has yet to yield results, critics note. Competing successfully against incumbents, including IBM and Hewlett-Packard, will not be easy no matter what the corporate structure. A source earlier said that Dell had slashed its internal forecast for fiscal 2013 operating profit to about $3 billion - down sharply from the $3.7 billion it had predicted previously. The source added that more details will be revealed in a proxy filing which is expected by the end of this week. Meanwhile, if the special committee of the board decides that either - or both - of the rival bids for Dell are reasonably likely to lead to superior offers, Icahn and Blackstone will have to present firm bids for Dell. The negotiations are likely to take weeks, the source said. At that point, the special committee will again need to decide whether the firm bids from Icahn and Blackstone, which include features such as committed financing, were superior to the Silver Lake-Michael Dell agreement. If they are superior, Silver Lake and Michael Dell will get one shot at revising their original bid. Unlike most other go-shop processes, where the original bidders get several chances to match rival bids, Dell has given its founder and Silver Lake the right to do so only once. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The Financial Times' Wolfgang M¸nchau is famous for his gloomy prognostications about the eurozone, and he's made predictions in the past that the currency bloc would break apart. In a new piece he freely admits to having been wrong, but says he's doubling down, having been inspired in part by the event this week in Cyprus. First the small picture. He thinks the Cypriot president made three big blunders this week in the wake of his parliament rejecting a one-off deposit levy that would have saved the banks: The Cypriot parliament was right to reject this mad deal. But the Cypriot government then committed three subsequent blunders. The first was the decision by President Nicos Anastasiades to seek help from Russia. Instead of working with the eurozone, he worked against it. The Germans, in particular, saw this as an openly hostile move. It was also ill-judged because the Russians rejected the offer. The second was the decision not to communicate with the European finance ministers and the euro working group for three critical days last week. The third was the Cypriot governmentís proposal on Thursday to create a sovereign wealth fund backed by a raid on the pension fund and other state assets. On Friday Angela Merkel swiftly dismissed it. Ultimately he sees Cyprus as a symptom of an inability to seriously address issues, in part because there are so many actors all working at cross-purposes, and because the economies of Greece/Cyprus/Portugal are just radically different than the economies of Germany/Finland/Netherlands. This time he's not giving a timeframe on a Euro breakup (In November 2011 he predicted that Europe had 10 days, and of course he was wrong about that.), but he's confident it's going to happen at some point. Read his full column at FT.com &gt;
wwitv.comTonight is a crucial night for Cyprus, as it attempts to cobble together a deal that can rescue its banks via a combination of outside aid and domestic taxation, pleasing both European partners and the Cypriot parliament that must vote on the law. A meeting of the Eurogroup ‚Äî which would have to agree to any plan ‚Äî is currently scheduled for 8 p.m. in Brussels. That in itself is a delay from the original scheduled start. It's going to be a long night in Brussels. And now another dramatic report: Faisal Islam ‚Äî the economics editor at U.K.'s Channel 4 ‚Äî reports on what's being said in local media in Cyprus. Athens news agency: Anastasiades has threatened to resign over IMF plan, and let the people decide most Greek media reporting Cypriot president has threatened to resign over bank of cyprus resolution... Greek press reporting Cypriot president told Lagarde "you're putting me in a position where I'll have to resign... You'll regret this." Peter Spiegel at the FT has a fantastic report about how the Troika (the ECB, IMF, and EU) is seeing tension within for the first time since the crisis began. According to Spiegel, IMF chief Christine Lagarde has taken a hard line on not agreeing to deals that don't involve real restructuring. But since Mr Strauss-Kahn‚Äôs exit and his replacement by Christine Lagarde, another former French finance minister, EU officials say the IMF has relied more heavily on what one eurozone official termed ‚Äúthe ayatollahs on the fund‚Äôs staff‚Äù. They have insisted on more credible debt projections before committing IMF lending. ‚ÄúLagarde lets the bureaucrats say the way it is and then she can make the political judgment,‚Äù said one official involved in multiple bailouts. ‚Äú[Strauss-Kahn] didn‚Äôt want to massage it, but he was a deal maker. Lagarde wants to have an unbiased view of the situation and most of the time she takes that.‚Äù In other words, no doing deals just for the sake of getting a deal done and moving on. It's more painful in the short-term, but it may be better than the long, slow bleed of unrealistically high debt levels and a never-ending austerity morass.
Bloomberg TVLast week after the Cyprus story first exploded, we pointed out that Twitter proved to be a far more useful source of serious analysis on the topic than Wall Street, which was fairly slow in producing research on the subject. This was partially due to the fact that it was a weekend as well as the lack of expertise. SocGen currency strategist Kit Juckes ‚Äî who is on Twitter and grasps the medium better than most ‚Äî has written a great post on his blog (who knew he had one?) about just this topic. He explains exactly what it is about Twitter that makes it so disruptive to the traditional model of Wall Street houses providing research and analysis to their trading clients: The tightening up of standards and rules surrounding research published by investment banks, has left a gap which social media are filling enthusiastically. A traditional research note on the impact of events in Cyprus this weekend can't clear compliance much before 9 a.m on Monday morning, too late for markets in search of instant gratification. But then, what market participants want isn't a traditional research note, with 'buy' and 'sell' recommendations carefully vetted and caveats strewn around like confetti. "What has happened, and what does it mean?" is the first question, followed by a deluge of follow-ups "yes, but what if ..." and so on. Whether you are a trader, a salesperson, a fund manager, a Master of the Universe to indeed an interested by-stander, what you want is information, opinion and debate and Twitter gives it to you. For the traditional common-or-garden sell-side analyst, this demands a change of approach. The public dissemination of non market-moving information and broad macro-economic views should not be subject to restraint by regulatory authorities. At the same time, the analyst does not necessarily know for sure how markets will react to news. In the instance of Cyprus' woes, we have all known for a long time that a bailout was needed as a result of losses incurred by over-leveraged banks as the Greek crisis deepened. Whether the terms of a bailout will cause further risk aversion and contagion is a matter of opinion, and the best way to establish how the mood in financial markets will evolve, is to express an opinion and open it up to a wider debate. There's a lot of meat there, but this is something that might not be well understood or appreciated by many people outside of the financial world. Analysts create a lot of value by providing good information and data. Investors managing billions of dollars crave that more than "recommendations" or the analyst's "take," although there are some individuals out there (Kit is one of them) whom people actually want to read due to their unusual intelligence or insight. In a case like Cyprus, there's just no way to beat the instant access to data, insight, and on-the-ground observations that can be obtained through a well-curated twitter stream. In a fast-moving story that combines lots of moving parts (economics, markets, politics) no research shop could compete. This story has legs for the industry, in part because regulations and guidelines will clash more and more. Just this week, a bank economist we spoke to expressed some of the same points Kit made above: that communicating through Twitter is just natural given end-user demands for information. Watch this space.
From Luke Baker at Reuters with word that tonight's Eurogroup meeting has been delayed: Luke Baker, Reuters 20:00 Brussels time is 3 p.m. ET. Gonna be a loooong night.
Wikimedia CommonsBoris Berezovsky, an exiled Russian oligarch, was found dead in his British home Saturday. Exactly how he died remains unexplained. Given that Berezovsky was a high profile enemy of Vladimir Putin, there are bound to be some wild theories about his death. However, even those who suspect something fishy couldn't deny that Berezovsky's state of mind seems to have been a problem in the last years of his life. For a sad glimpse into his recent mindset, take a look at this Facebook message he posted just over a year ago. In it, he clearly begs Russia for forgiveness. The translation below (from Google) is a little messy, but gets the gist across: Up until today, I did not plan to open Facebook, did not want to live in social networks. Yesterday, on Forgiveness Sunday, I decided to repent, and wanted to publish it on his blog on "Echo of Moscow". Repentance to the people of Russia for the mistakes that I made. However - was refused. It seems to me quite intolerable that an Orthodox person in today's Russia prohibit public penance. I do not have any claims to the editor of "Echo of Moscow" Alexei Venediktov the opposite - I am grateful to him. He held on to the end, allowing me to keep a blog. Now I use the last independent media in Russia - Facebook. Mark Zuckerberg will not be able to call the Kremlin and was forced to sell its social network of "Gazprom" threatened to send in the "Sailor's silence." Boris Berezovsky. Repentance "Now every one from his evil way, and amend your ways and your doings," prophesied the Lord through the prophet Jeremiah, and so it is today, Forgiveness Sunday, I tell you. Years of exile have allowed me a different look at my life, the life of my country and are keenly aware that without repentance, without the recognition of past mistakes, without the courage to build a future, there is no development. Neither I personally nor each of you, none of the country. I live a long, wonderful life. And along the way made a lot of actions, and inevitably wrong. Unrighteous deeds I committed consciously and even more - not knowing what I was doing. According to the penitential prayer - "maintain and ignorance, will and not the will." I know that many of my actions are condemned by you, the people of Russia, of which I am, and whose fate, fishing Lord, execute assigned me the role. I repent and ask for forgiveness for greed. I longed for riches, not thinking that this is to the detriment of others. Covering his sin "historic moment", "brilliant combinations" and "exciting features", I forgot about fellow citizens. And what did that I am not alone, does not justify me. I'm sorry. I repent and ask for forgiveness for me trampled free speech. Justifying themselves striving to save Russia from red-brown plague, I determined the policy of the Central Information horn country, neglected democratic values. My actions have begun the destruction of independent journalism. So I did not one, but that does not excuse me. I'm sorry. I repent and ask for forgiveness for what led to the power of Vladimir Putin. For what was required, but was unable to see in him the future of greedy tyrant and usurper, a man trampled freedom and stop the development of Russia. Many of us do not recognize it then, but that does not excuse me. I'm sorry. I blame myself more to Russia than not. I understand that repentance - not just words, but the point. And it's coming. Boris Berezovsky,February 26, 2012: The message has been rediscovered in the wake of Berezovsky's death, and is seeing a lot of new comments debating whether Berezovsky should be forgiven or not. The Russian businessman was well-known in the country for his big, brash personality, but evidently things may have been tough for the oligarch. The 67-year-old was exiled from his country of birth for over a decade by the very person whose power he had helped create (Vladimir Putin). He also recently lost the biggest private court case in history against rival oligarch Roman Abramovich ‚Äî another protege ‚Äî and was facing serious financial trouble. More recent accounts clearly suggest Berezosky was depressed. Less than 48 hours before his death, Berezovsky met with a journalist with Forbes Russia. In an interview, the oligarch made clear he wanted to return home, apparently telling the reporter: ‚ÄúI‚Äôve lost the point ‚Ä¶ there is no point [or meaning] in my life. I don‚Äôt want to be involved in politics. I don‚Äôt know what to do. I‚Äôm 67 years old. And I don‚Äôt know what I should do from now on.‚Äù According to Putin's press secretary, Dmitry Peskov,¬†Berezovsky had written to Putin recently to ask if he could be allowed to return to Russia. A politician who was attempting to broker the deal told Russian radio that Berezovsky "was prepared to return to Russia under any conditions." It is not clear if the Kremlin had accepted Berezovsky's plan.
Wikimedia CommonsBanco de Intercambio, Argentina, 1980Europe is currently scrambling to structure a deal to save the Cypriot financial system. Without a doubt, the most controversial aspect of the bail out proposals has been the condition that bank depositors would be hit with a levy on their accounts. "This is a nuclear war on savings and wealth - something that will likely crush animal spirits," wrote Jefferies' David Zervos. Bank deposits are considered sacred, even more sacred than money market funds. And back during the financial crisis, panic ensued when one money market fund "broke the buck." "I guess I'm a little surprised at how complacent the markets are on this," Zervos said later on Bloomberg Television. The Naked Capitalism blog pointed us to a quote from¬†The Economist, which puts this into some historical context: ...and the Cypriots, perhaps bullied by some creditors, then decided to clobber all the banks‚Äô depositors, even the insured ones. This was ingeniously loopy. Cyprus is odd, because virtually all its banks‚Äô liabilities are deposits (as opposed to longer-term bonds). Yet, of the 147 banking crises since 1970 tracked by the IMF, none inflicted losses on all depositors, irrespective of the amounts they held and the banks they were with. Now depositors in weak banks in weak countries have every reason to worry about sudden raids on their savings. Depositors in places like Italy have not panicked yet. But they will if the euro zone tries to ‚Äúrescue‚Äù them too. We have yet to hear about depositors closing their accounts in a big way in other countries.¬† But if they did, it could be a disaster as deposits are one of the pillars of the financial system.
Getty Images/TragoNicolas Sarkozy's lawyer on Sunday launched a fresh salvo against the judge who charged the former president with taking financial advantage of France's richest woman, as a public outcry among Sarkozy supporters grows. But according to an opinion poll, the allegations made against Sarkozy last week as part of an illegal party funding probe appeared not to have affected his chances of staging a presidential comeback in 2017 -- which he has hinted at. "One can in the very least question the impartiality of this judge," Sarkozy's lawyer Thierry Herzog told Sunday newspaper Journal du Dimanche. Judge Jean-Michel Gentil caused a huge stir on Thursday by summoning Sarkozy and placing him under judicial investigation for allegedly abusing the weakness of 90-year-old L'Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt. Investigators suspect up to four million euros ($5.2 million) of Bettencourt's cash made its way into the coffers of Sarkozy's UMP party. Sarkozy has repeatedly denied claims he accepted cash-stuffed envelopes from the world's richest woman -- whose mental capacity began to deteriorate in 2006, medical experts say -- to fund his successful 2007 campaign. Since Thursday, Sarkozy's backers have railed against the judge, who in turn has made it known through his lawyer that he is "tired of being abused while trying to conduct his work as honestly as possible." In the interview Sunday, Herzog said Gentil was among 81 other judges who had put their names to an opinion column -- published on June 12 last year by leading newspaper Le Monde -- accusing Sarkozy and his predecessor Jacques Chirac of "wishing to protect the corrupt". "Five days after signing this column, the same judge ordered four raids in Sarkozy's home, his office and his secretary's house," Herzog said. The lawyer said there was "not one witness, or a single sign" to prove that "Liliane Bettencourt has given even a centime to Nicolas Sarkozy," calling the ruling "grotesque" and "unfair". He has said he will appeal. Bettencourt's former accountant, Claire Thibout, told police in 2010 she had handed envelopes filled with cash to Bettencourt's right-hand man on the understanding it was to be passed on to Sarkozy's campaign treasurer, Eric Woerth. Woerth has already been charged in the affair. Sarkozy faces allegations of obtaining significant amounts of money from Bettencourt, breaching electoral spending limits and taking advantage of a person weakened by ill health. Anyone convicted of exploiting a person's weakened mental state can be punished by up to three years in jail, fined up to 375,000 euros ($484,000), and banned from holding public office for up to five years. But on Sunday, a poll of 1,088 people published in the Le Parisien newspaper showed 63 percent did not think the scandal would affect Sarkozy's career. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Son of Groucho / FlickrIt's going to be a late night in Brussels, as Cyprus and its EU partners look for a deal that will allow Cyprus to raise enough money to keep its banks solvent. Last weekend, the plan was to impose a one-off tax on all deposits that would be used to fund the banks, but that was shot down. And so this recent week was spent looking for a possible solution. But after all this, it still looks like some kind of deposit tax is the best or only reasonable plan. However, there are still some extreme scenarios being talked about. Nick Malkoutzis, the editor of Greek newspaper Ekathimerini tweets that an "unimaginable" solution is still being discussed. From Ekathimerini's report: The main question surrounds the future of the islandís largest lender, Bank of Cyprus. If unsecured deposits (above 100,000 euros) at all Cypriot banks are taxed then large savings at Bank of Cyprus are likely to be taxed between 20 and 25 percent. If the levy is not imposed on deposits at other lenders, the haircut for Bank of Cyprus customers will be much larger. The option of a full bail in of Bank of Cyprus depositors is still on the table. As with the Popular Bank of Cyprus (Laiki), which is to go through a resolution process, the full bail in option could lead to deposits above 100,000 euros being lost. The only compensation for unsecured depositors will be shares in the ìgoodî bank that will be created by a possible merger between the "healthy" Laiki and Bank of Cyprus entities. What's wild is that a week ago, Cyprus probably could have passed a bill that taxed depositors above 100K at 12-15 percent, while sparing insured depositors, and although that would have been painful, it would have been over. Now we're talking about capital controls and the threat of a complete wipeout of depositors.
One of the big emerging economic stories in the world today is the American manufacturing renaissance.¬† This is the idea that low energy prices, increasing productivity, and rising costs overseas would invigorate the production of goods in the U.S. Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius acknowledges that much of the recent economic data seems to support the idea that U.S. manufacturing is improving. However, Hatzius argues that all of the signs reflect a recovery that is "squarely cyclical," not structural.¬† In other words, U.S. manufacturing has yet to demonstrate that there is a major long-term shift going on in the world. "Evidence for a structural renaissance is scant so far," writes Hatzius. "Measured productivity growth has been strong, but US export performance ‚Äî arguably a more reliable indicator of competitiveness ‚Äî remains middling at best. And at least so far, there is not much evidence for large positive spillovers from the U.S. energy cost advantage to broader manufacturing output." Hatzius takes a close look at export market shares because they are "relatively easy to measure and are an intuitive gauge." Here's what the data tells him: The picture shows that U.S. exporters have only tended to gain share following significant dollar depreciations. There has been no discernible change in this relationship in recent years. If anything, U.S. export performance has tended to fall short of what one would have expected based on currency movements. Goldman Sachs Hatzius considered the possibility that U.S. export gains were "obscured by an even bigger improvement in China‚Äôs performance."¬† To address this, he considers trade among with just Europe ...U.S. export performance looks only middling even if we restrict our attention to European trading partners. Exhibit 6 compares real export growth for the U.S. and the Euro area, stripping out intra-Euro area trade in order to avoid contamination by the weakness in Euro area domestic demand. The two series continue to track one another closely, suggesting that both are driven by the global trade cycle as opposed to structural changes on one side of the Atlantic or another. Goldman Sachs As we mentioned earlier, one of the pillars of the American manufacturing renaissance thesis is the low energy cost advantage.¬† But if this were true, the energy intensive industries would've expanded int he U.S. But Exhibit 7 shows that we have not yet seen a material pickup in output in the parts of the manufacturing sector that should benefit most from low natural gas prices, such as aluminum, steel, plastics, basic chemicals, and fertilizer and other agricultural products. At least so far, the benefits from the increase in U.S. energy production seem to have been confined to the direct effects on output and income. Goldman Sachs Hatzius isn't intending to poo-poo on American manufacturing altogether. He expects the sector to outperform, and he also expects it to be a driver of job growth. "But we believe the reason for this will be broad economic improvement that benefits all sectors, especially the more cyclical ones, not a structural U.S. manufacturing renaissance," he writes.
I came across this 53-minute documentary quite by accident, on why active investing doesn't work for most people. A few minutes in I realized they had Yale's Charles Ellis, Vanguard's Jack Bogle, Rick Ferri and the whole galaxy of anti-active management priests. It's a good watch; find some time for this: 
From CNBC's Michelle Caruso-Cabrera Woah. Laiki Bank withdrawals now limited to ‚Ç¨100. Employee takes down old sign that said previous ‚Ç¨260 limit. #Cyprus twitter.com/MCaruso_Cabrer‚Ä¶
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) ‚Äî A single ticket sold in New Jersey matched all six numbers in Saturday night's drawing for the $338.3 million Powerball jackpot, lottery officials said. It was the 13th drawing held in the days since a Virginia man won a $217 million jackpot Feb. 6. Thirteen other tickets worth $1 million each matched all but the final Powerball number on Saturday night. Those tickets were sold in New Jersey and 10 other states. Lottery officials said there was also one Power Play Match 5 winner in Iowa. The New Jersey Lottery said Sunday that details about the winning ticket would be released Monday, declining to reveal where it had been purchased and whether anyone had immediately come forward. It was the sixth largest jackpot in history. The numbers drawn were 17, 29, 31, 52, 53 and Powerball 31. A lump sum payout would be $221 million. Lottery officials said the 13 tickets worth $1 million apiece ‚Äî matching the first five numbers but missing the Powerball ‚Äî were sold in Arizona, Florida (2), Illinois, Minnesota, North Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina and Virginia. Powerball said on its website that the grand prize jackpot has now been reset to an estimated $40 million or a lump sum cash amount estimated at $25 million for Wednesday's next drawing. No one had won the Powerball jackpot since early February, when Dave Honeywell in Virginia bought the winning ticket and elected a cash lump sum for his $217 million jackpot. The largest Powerball jackpot ever came in at $587.5 million in November. The winning numbers were picked on two different tickets ‚Äî one by a couple in Missouri and the other by an Arizona man ‚Äî and the jackpot was split. Nebraska still holds the record for the largest Powerball jackpot won on a single ticket ‚Äî $365 million. That jackpot was won by eight workers at a Lincoln, Neb., meatpacking plant in February 2006. Powerball is played in 42 states, Washington, D.C., and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The chance of matching all five numbers and the Powerball number is about 1 in 175 million. Powerball said on its website that the game is played every Wednesday and Saturday night when five white balls are drawn from a drum of 59 balls and one red ball is picked from a drum with 35 red balls. It added that winners of the Powerball jackpot can elect to be paid out over 29 years at a percentage set by the game's rules ‚Äî or in a lump sum cash payment. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Cyprus is zeroing in on a solution to avoid getting ejected from the EMU. It's simple. Since taxing everyone's account by a few percent didn't work, it's time to raid all the larger accounts. NY Times: - With Cyprus facing a Monday deadline to avoid a banking collapse, the government and its international negotiators devised a plan late Saturday to seize a portion of saversí deposits above 100,000 euros at all banks in the country, in a bid to raise money for an urgently needed bailout. A one-time levy of 20 percent would be placed on uninsured deposits at one of the nationís biggest banks, the Bank of Cyprus, to help raise 5.8 billion euros demanded by the lenders to secure a 10 billion euro, or $12.9 billion, lifeline. A separate tax of 4 percent would be assessed on uninsured deposits at all other banks, including the 26 foreign banks that operate in Cyprus. This action will really upset the Russian mafia, but is not going to save the the nation's banks. Once the financial system opens for business, the run on banks will ensue - no matter what sort of controls the authorities will try to impose. No sane depositor who is able to open an account in Germany, France, or even Italy would leave cash in Cyprus. As far as the depositors are concerned, if the Cypriot authorities have done it once, they can do it again. Some of those deposits will quickly move back to where they came from - Russian banks. Given the size of deposits at Cypriot banks, there isn't enough in eligible collateral for MRO financing (short term secured borrowing from ECB) to replace these lost deposits. The flight of capital will increase the funding needs far beyond the Ä10bn Cyprus is trying to raise. And it's unclear if the ECB should continue to provide further emergency loans (ELA). After all, the Eurosystem's exposure to Cyprus is simply insignificant on a relative basis. The ECB's balance sheet is still massive. It can generate more than enough interest income in a few months to cover the losses of Cypriot banks' defaulting on their ECB loans. So why throw good money after bad? Sober Look Of course there are geopolitical implications of walking away from Cyprus. Letting banks fail will likely result in Cyprus exiting the EMU and some fear that will trigger a contagion effect. However if the ECB sticks with its OMT program (commitment to buy unlimited amounts of periphery bonds) for the rest of the periphery, the effect of "Cyprexit" could be contained. But when it comes to the Eurozone, there is rarely a decisive action, and this mess will likely persist for some time.
The planned raid will be put to Europe‚Äôs finance chiefs in Brussels for approval on Sunday evening, hours before the deadline set for an agreement without which the European Central Bank will remove support for the island‚Äôs banks. Their collapse would set Cyprus on a path to becoming the first country forced to exit the euro. The government in Nicosia is considering a levy of 20 per cent on deposits of more than ‚Ç¨100,000 (¬£85,300) held at the Bank of Cyprus, one of the island‚Äôs most troubled lenders, according to a senior Cypriot official. There are said to be 10,000 such accounts at the bank, though their total value has not been made public. Similar high-value deposits in other Cypriot banks may face a levy of 4 percent. The move is among a package of emergency fundraising measures designed to persuade eurozone officials to agree to a ‚Ç¨10‚Äâbillion (¬£8.5‚Äâbillion) bail-out deal over the weekend. Late on Friday night, the Cypriot parliament also backed a revenue-raising levy of less than 1 percent on bank deposits below ‚Ç¨100,000 ‚Äî a rate seen as fairer than the 6.75 percent levy rejected by legislators last Tuesday. However, the 20 percent rate on high-value accounts at the Bank of Cyprus is likely to cause further ructions on the island, which has seen widespread protests in the last week. It is expected to particularly hit Russian investors, who make up the bulk of the Cypriot financial sector's high-value clients. Chris Drake, a retired BBC journalist who lives on the island, said he believed that few of Cyprus‚Äôs 60,000 Britons would be at risk. ‚ÄúThe Bank of Cyprus has been in deep trouble for a long time so most people I know moved their money out some time ago,‚Äù he said. The announcement came as Michael Sarris, the Cypriot finance minister, said ‚Äúsignificant progress‚Äù had been made in talks in Nicosia with officials from the European Union, European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Cypriot president, Nicos Anastasiades, is due in Brussels shortly for further discussions with senior EU leaders, including Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council president, and Christine Lagarde, the IMF‚Äôs managing director. Olli Rehn, the European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner, said it was essential that eurozone finance ministers reached an agreement on a rescue deal on Sunday. ‚ÄúThere are only hard choices left,‚Äù he said. The government has been given the power to impose limits on how much can be drawn from banks, which are due to reopen on Tuesday. More measures are due to be debated by the Cypriot parliament, aimed overall at raising ‚Ç¨5.8 billion as collateral for the bail-out package. About ‚Ç¨2.8 billion of that will come from the restructuring of Cyprus Popular Bank, the country‚Äôs second largest lender, and the sale of Greek branches of Cypriot banks, which are laden with toxic assets. Other measures approved by the Cypriot parliament late on Friday night include a plan to nationalize state pensions and split failing lenders into good and bad banks. The government has also been given the power impose limits on how much can be drawn from the country's banks, a move designed to stop a mass cash-flight from the island next week. The banks, which have been shut since last Saturday, are due to reopen on Tuesday, after an official Bank Holiday on Monday. It remains to be seen, however, whether eurozone finance chiefs will deem the Cypriot proposals up to scratch. If not, the country could ultimately become the first country to depart the eurozone altogether. The Dutch head of the eurozone finance ministers' group, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, said it wanted to keep Cyprus within the currency union, but when asked about an exit did not rule it out. "All kinds of scenarios are possible," he said. "The scenarios we're focusing on are to come to a joint solution in which Cyprus is saved but in which the banking sector continues in a smaller but healthier form." Cypriot MPs, meanwhile, said that the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, had told them that Cyprus would now have to reduce drastically the size of its banking sector, effectively ending its lucrative years as an international financial services centre. The tax of less than 1 percent on all bank deposits was described as "the least worst option" by Averof Neophytou, deputy head of the governing DISY party. "We owe an apology to the Cypriot people because we all share in the responsibility of bringing this place to this state," he said. It also got grudging acceptance from ordinary Cypriots, most of whom are now desperate for financial security after a week which many feared they could lose their savings altogether. "If we have Europe's support so our banks won't collapse, I wouldn't have a problem with a deposit tax," said pensioner Demetrakis Papanicolaou, 64. Economic life in Cyprus has all but ground to a halt in the last few days, as the closure of the banks has turned the country into cash-only economy. Town centers are all but deserted, and retailers, facing cash-on-delivery demands from suppliers, have warned that stocks are running low. "At the moment, supplies will last another two or three days," said Adamos Hadijadamou, head of Cyprus's Association of Supermarkets. "We'll have a problem if this is not resolved by next week." 
Corporate profit margins are near historic highs, and analysts project they could go higher. Most agree that these fat margins have come at the cost of the American worker.¬† The unemployment rate is high and wages are low as companies squeeze their employees. Here's a chart from Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite that shows the inverse correlation between margins and wages. Credit Suisse Last week, Garthwaite cranked up his year-end target on the S&amp;P 500 to 1,640 from 1,550. Among other things, he noted that he expects corporate profit margins to stay high. "According to his research, margins don't turn until months after wages bottom," he said. Here's his evidence: Credit Suisse "We note that all the signs are that wage growth is still muted and we doubt that it accelerates until unemployment falls to c6.5%," he wrote.
Of eight indexes on my world watch, China's Shanghai Composite was the only one finishing the week with a gain, up a handsome 2.19%. All the others lost ground. The US's S&amp;P 500 slipped slightly, down 0.24%. The other losers ranged from -1.49% for the UK's FTSE 100 to -3.56% for India's SENSEX. It's impossible to determine how much of the week's losses were attributable to the Cyprus Effect, but the three eurozone indexes, FTSE, DAXK and CAC 40 posted losses ranging from about 1.5% to 1.9%. The Shanghai remains the only index on the watch list in bear territory -- the traditional designation for a 20% decline from an interim high. See the table inset (lower right) in the chart below. The index is down 32.93% from its interim high of August 2009. At the other end of the inset, the S&amp;P 500 is the closest to its interim high from the previous week. The Nikkei, in fourth place, would have had the top spot, a new interim high, had it not been for its Friday selloff.  Here is a table highlighting the 2013 year-to-date gains, sorted in that order, along with the 2013 interim highs for the eight indexes. The sustained advance of the Japan's Nikkei puts it solidly in the top spot, more than double the gain of the second place S&amp;P 500. Two three of the Asia-Pacific indexes, Hong Kong's Hang Seng and India's SENSEX, have YTD losses, and third, China's Shanghai, has the smallest YTD gain. A Closer Look at the Last Four Weeks The tables below provide a concise overview of performance comparisons over the past four weeks for these eight major indexes. I've also included the average for each week so that we can evaluate the performance of a specific index relative to the overall mean and better understand weekly volatility. The colors for each index name help us visualize the comparative performance over time.  The chart below illustrates the comparative performance of World Markets since March 9, 2009. The start date is arbitrary: The S&amp;P 500, CAC 40 and BSE SENSEX hit their lows on March 9th, the Nikkei 225 on March 10th, the DAX on March 6th, the FTSE on March 3rd, the Shanghai Composite on November 4, 2008, and the Hang Seng even earlier on October 27, 2008. However, by aligning on the same day and measuring the percent change, we get a better sense of the relative performance than if we align the lows.  Click for a larger image A Longer Look Back Here is the same chart starting from the turn of 21st century. The relative over-performance of the emerging markets (Shanghai, Mumbai SENSEX, Hang Seng) is readily apparent, especially the SENSEX, but the trend over the past two years has not been their friend (make that three years for the Shanghai).  Click for a larger image Check back next week for a new update. ¬† Note from dshort: I track Germany's DAXK a price-only index, instead of the more familiar DAX index (which includes dividends), for constency with the other indexes, which do not include dividends. 
In the wake of the financial crisis, everyone has made efforts to deleverage their balance sheets, which has been a tremendous hindrance on economic growth. "In the US, we consider this well-advanced for households, but more is needed in the government sector," write the analysts at Societe Generale. "Turning to Europe, we still see icy headwinds from deleveraging, and notably in Spain and the UK." Here's a set of charts SocGen provided, which gives a snapshot of leverage in the developed world: Societe Generale
