FBIBOSTON (AP) ó The surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings is in serious but stable condition and likely can't communicate, Gov. Deval Patrick said Saturday after a pregame ceremony at Fenway Park to honor the victims and survivors of the attack. "I, and I think all of the law enforcement officials, are hoping for a host of reasons the suspect survives," Patrick told reporters outside the ballpark. "We have a million questions, and those questions need to be answered." Two bombs exploded at the finish line of Monday's Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring more than 180 others. The suspects also shot a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer to death Thursday night, authorities said. Twenty-six-year-old suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed Friday, and his 19-year-old brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was captured later Friday hiding inside a boat parked in a Watertown backyard. He is being guarded by armed officers while he recovers at a Boston hospital. Patrick declined to specify how Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had been injured. The governor also declined to comment on other explosives found on the suspects. He said there was no evidence any other explosives were in the area. Patrick joined the chorus of praise for the police who tracked the suspects and captured the younger Tsarnaev. He also commended the people who rushed to the sites of the explosions to help the wounded. "This was several days of great highs and great lows," Patrick said. "The tragedy was apparent and horrific, and the acts of grace and kindness people showed, and the extraordinary acts of kindness by the first responders, the law enforcement agencies, all of it spoke so well of the best in us." Patrick appeared on the field with dozens of local and state police before Boston Red Sox's first home game since the bombings. A game scheduled for Friday night was postponed until Sunday while the manhunt for the suspect continued. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Earlier today, Jeroen Dijsselbloem (the Eurogroup chief that was making numerous headlines after Cyprus for saying that the bail-in would be a blueprint of future crises) tweeted the following. Growth agenda #Eurozone focused on fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and reforming financial sector. #IMF #Eurogroup First, fiscal consolidation is another way of saying austerity. Reforming the financial sector basically makes having banks lending money less. And structural reforms may be necessary to some extent, but to the extent that they involve depressing wages (internal devaluation), laying off public employees, and privatizing state businesses, they mean less income and less growth for now. So the Eurozone's growth agenda is to not grow.
The Massachusetts State Police (via its Twitter) has just published some stunning photos of the boat where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found hiding after a massive manhunt. The most incredible ones are the infrared ones, which show the body of Tsarnaev emitting heat underneath the canopy. @massstatepolice Mass State Police Mass State Police (Via @zerohedge)
APOn the face of it, income inequality is high on Americaís agenda. President Barack Obama has made it a signature issue of his second term, bluntly stating that the US wonít succeed ìwhen a shrinking few do very well and a growing many barely make it.î Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke decried inequality for ìcreating two societies.î Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz blamed the ìconcentration of income and wealth at the top, the hollowing out of the middle and increasing poverty at the bottomî for disrupting the American dream. Even Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein called for ìsome redistributionî to create a stable and just society. But despite the growing consensus in Washington, Wall Street and academia, there hasnít yet been concrete action and the situation is only taking a turn for the worse. The US has the highest level of income gap of any of the advanced countries, with the top 1% capturing over 90% of the income growth. A Gini coefficient (the most commonly used measure of inequality)†of zero represents perfect equality, while 1.0 indicates maximum inequality where one person takes all the income. A reading above 0.4 is widely seen as an indicator of potentially destabilizing inequality.†In 2011, the†Gini coefficient†for the US rose sharply to 0.475 from the 0.469 recorded in 2010†(pdf, p.2),†and not a single state managed to reduce inequality. The growing divide in America comes at a time when emerging nations in Asia and Latin America are directing a significant portion of their resources to eliminate extreme poverty and reduce inequality. Indonesia is working to provide health insurance to all 240 million citizens starting in 2014; Thailand introduced pensions for its informal sector in 2011; and India expanded its job guarantee scheme to include every rural district in 2008. In January this year, China officially reported its Gini coefficient for income inequality for the first time in 12 yearsóa step seen by many as an indication of the administrationís commitment to narrow the gap between the rich and poor.†China scored 0.474 in 2012, down from its peak of 0.491 in 2008. South America, which has historically been the most unequal continent, has also made considerable progress. The regionís average Gini coefficient in 2010 was 0.5, the lowest in the last 30 years, on the heels of significant rise in the income levels of the poorest citizens. Brazil, where successive governments pursued policies aimed at boosting social and economic inclusion, made significant progress, with its Gini coefficient declining from 0.55 in 2002 to 0.5 in 2011. It is in the context of the growing divergence between the US and the rest of the world, that the New Yorker magazine has made a simple, yet powerful attempt to change the discourse on inequality, using New Yorkís subway system as its laboratory. So why is America faring so poorly in its attempt to curb inequality when less prosperous nations are making rapid progress? Stiglitz, who has been one of the leading voices in challenging the belief that uncontrollable technological and social change is producing an unequal society, had this succinct explanation: The ìsame global forces are at work everywhere, but some countries have made a commitment to go against them and have succeeded,î he said in a talk earlier this month at the Asia Society. Maybe a virtual ride through New York Cityís income inequality is just what the powers that be in Washington need. More from Quartz: Click here†to sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with the latest intelligence on the new global economy.
McDonald's hopes three new menu items will get cash-strapped Americans back in its restaurants.† The fast food giant recently revealed that sales are down 1.2% from a year earlier.† The reason for this decline is simple: many American consumers are too worried about money to even splurge on a Big Mac.† McDonald's CEO Don Thompson named three new products that he hopes will lure customers back to fast food:† 1. Premium McWraps. McDonald's employees at headquarters call this wrap the "Subway crusher," AdAge reported. The McWraps are already popular in Europe, and flavors include†Chicken &amp; Bacon, Sweet Chili Chicken and Chicken &amp; Ranch. The brand hopes that these wraps, which are seen as healthier than a burger and fries, will draw in the calorie-conscious millennial customer.† 2. Egg White Delight. This sandwich is a yolk-free version of McDonald's popular, core Egg McMuffin. It's another nod to the health-conscious, with 40 fewer calories than the original version. White cheddar instead of yellow gives the sandwich an artisanal feel.†3. Blueberry Pomegranate Smoothie. This flavor is already popular in Canada, Thompson said. McDonald's already offers strawberry banana and wild berry flavors as part of its McCafe line. If the smoothies sell, they'll be great for business since they're cheap to make, resulting in high margins for McDonald's.† In addition to these items, McDonald's is aggressively promoting its dollar menu.†
AP Photo/Lefteris PitarakisSecurity personnel use sniffer dogs to check vehicles at the Mall in central London, Saturday, April 20, 2013, where the London Marathon finish line will be on Sunday, April, 21.  The London marathon takes place on Sunday, less than one week after Monday's fatal explosions at the Boston marathon, which killed three people and injured close to 200. British authorities have beefed up security in the wake of the tragedy, deploying hundreds more officers than previous races, The New York Times' Alan Cowell reports.¬† Chief Superintendent Julia Pendry said: "It is a good 40 percent increase on last year on numbers of officers on the ground. We‚Äôve got more search dogs out; we have got more on high-visibility patrols." More than 36,000 runners are expected to take part in one of the world's largest marathons. The 26.2-mile race, which ends at The Mall, typically pulls in one million spectators and $180 million in economic activity, a spokeswoman for London's official tourism agency told NBC News' A. Pawlowski.¬† Runners will honor a 30-second moment of silence at the starting line for the Boston victims.¬† AP Photo/Lefteris Pitarakis
The most intriguing nugget from the big Boston Globe profile of the Tsarnaev†Brothers†(the brothers suspected of carrying out the Boston Marathon attack) is this one: Gym owner Allan said that Tamerlan had once introduced him to an American, Brendan Mess, whom Tamerlan described as his best friend. Two years ago, Mess and two other men were brutally killed in a Waltham apartment where they were found by police with their throats slit and their bodies covered with marijuana. The murders remain unsolved. Nobody states that there's a connection, but obviously now everyone's wondering if there is one. The murders were a big deal at the time, due to the disturbing, grisly nature of the crime. This video by the local CBS affiliate captures the reaction:  As months went by without a resolution, the case got more attention. From The Braindeis university paper in November 2011: Nearly two months after police officers rushed to 12 Harding Ave. on a September afternoon and found three men dead in a triple homicide; nearly two months after reporters from every Boston TV station stood behind the yellow crime scene tape, surrounded by flashing red and blue lights, demanding updates from Middlesex District Attorney Gerard Leone and airing interviews with neighbors on the nightly news; and nearly two months after three men under the age of 40 were stabbed to death in the neck just three miles from Brandeis University, law enforcement is still searching for answers, officials said Thursday. The seasons have turned since the warm night on Sept. 12 when detectives began an investigation into the triple murder of Brendan Mess, 25, of Waltham; Erik Weissman, 31, of Cambridge; and Raphael Teken, 37, of Cambridge, who graduated from Brandeis in 1998 and majored in history. Updates on the investigation have not been noticeable. After describing the apartment that night as a ìvery graphic crime sceneî Leone later released a statement saying that ìbased on the present state of the investigation, it is believed that the victims knew the assailant or assailants, and the attacks were not random.î And a year later from the Waltham Patch (September 2012): A year after the triple murder at 12 Harding Ave., investigators say they are still actively investigating the case and pursuing leads. Today, Sept. 12, marks one year since the murders of Raphael Teken, of Waltham, Erik Weissman, of Cambridge and Brendan Mess, of Waltham, at 12 Harding Ave.† Nobody has been arrested in connection with the case and police never publicly named any suspects. Mess had been living in the second floor unit of the house.† ìSolving this case remains a priority for this office. We have not forgotten about Brendan, Erik or Raphael. Our hope remains that we are eventually able to provide justice for the victimsí families,î said Stephanie Chelf Guyotte, the Middlesex District Attorney's office spokesman, in an email to Waltham Patch. Almost certainly, this case will get renewed attention.
Bloomberg TVThe gold price plummeted last week, falling 13.4% in two days. In a report published at the beginning of April, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale analysts explained how a "perfect storm" of fundamental and macro factors†could come together to precipitate a crash in the gold market. One of the themes most central to the argument for selling gold this year is founded on expectations that interest rates will rise in 2013 and the Federal Reserve will begin to taper quantitative easing. "Currency Wars" author and prominent gold bull Jim Rickards partly agrees, but he's bullish on gold because he doesn't see that happening. Rickards told Business Insider: What would make me bearish on gold, what would make me want to sell gold? Well, if the President and the Chairman of the Fed came out and said, "We're going to raise interest rates, we're going to stop quantitative easing ó in fact, we're going to reverse it a little bit ó we're going to cut corporate taxes to zero, we're going to eliminate the capital gains tax, we're going to reduce regulation, we're going to make America a magnet for savings and investment. We're going to have an investment-driven model rather than a debt and consumption-driven model, and we're going to have positive real rates." I would say, "Great. Sell your gold, or put it to one side, because gold is over." But none of those things are true. Not one of those policies that I just mentioned is on the table. In fact, the opposite is true. We're getting higher taxes, more regulation, more quantitative easing, zero interest rates as far as the eye can see. For their part, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale analysts wrote in a report published Friday, "After the yen, we are seeing the demise of gold, another asset that had performed very strongly through the financial crisis. Whatís next? Treasuries, we think, but only when the U.S. economy picks up again this summer and the Fed exit talk heats up."
It is now official: "We will be mindful of unintended negative side effects stemming from extended periods of monetary easing." This is how the G-20, the most important country grouping today, put it in the communique they issued Friday night. But what exactly are they talking about? It all started with the difficulties that most advanced economies faced in generating adequate growth and employment after the 2008 global financial crisis. Rather than catalyze the political system into action, this "new normal" worsened polarization. Feeling a "moral obligation" to step in, central banks (led by the Federal Reserve) embarked on a series of bold and unprecedented policies ñ or what became known as "QE infinity." QE, or quantitative easing, refers to the use of central banks' balance sheets to manipulate financial prices. It follows the flooring of policy interest rates at zero for a prolonged period of time, and also commitment to keep them there for a lot longer. The idea is simple: manipulate key financial markets in order to "push" investors to take more risk, thus also stimulating spending and investing. With time, improving fundamentals would validate the artificial prices, thus also allowing central banks to exit. Most investors have responded to QE as very few wished to take on institutions with a printing press in the basement. Yet, despite the manipulation of financial markets, growth and jobs have consistently fallen short of expectations. Facing insufficient demand, structural impediments and policy uncertainty, the real economy has not responded as envisaged by central bankers. In response, officials have widened the scope and scale of QE. The G-20 now recognizes what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke told us back in August 2010: the intended "benefits" of unconventional policies come with "costs and risks." So, what exactly are these collateral damages and unintended circumstances? Modern market-based economies are not wired to function well at artificial prices for any prolonged period of time. The pricing system loses its critical signaling role. Markets operate less well. And, critically, resources are misallocated ñ both in the financial sector and also in certain parts of the real economy. So, less than five years after a global crisis triggered by irresponsible risk-taking, concerns are again surfacing about bubbles. The worry is heightened by the fact that both governments and central banks now have fewer weapons to counter the detrimental effects of another financial crisis. There are also worries about the integrity of central banks, institutions critical to sustaining high, non-inflationary growth. Prolonged QE exposes them to possible losses, potentially undermining their political autonomy. Then there is the risk of inflation. While not an issue today, some understandably question the optimistic view that central banks will have no problem in soaking up all the liquidity they have injected should this become necessary. These "costs and risks" are not limited to the country pursuing QE. Since the U.S. is the issuer of the worldís reserve currency, many other countries end up importing complex economic and financial challenges. All this explains why the G-20 is now recognizing what was already obvious to many others. That is the good news. The bad news is that neither the G-20 nor any other official entity can deliver a solution as long as politicians remain divided. So, we are all like patients compelled to take a medication that has not been clinically tested. We were initially told it was good for us ñ indeed necessary. Now we are being warned that there may be unpleasant side effects. Pending good alternatives, we should do more than hope for the best. We should also take steps to manage exposure to the damage should central bank experimentation eventually end in tears.
Jim ChanosJim Chanos gave a devastating presentation on China at Mish Shedlock's Wine Country Conference. Chanos has been bearish on China for quite a while.¬† However, his new presentation is particularly fascinating because it has some pretty graphic cartoons. "The cartoons/illustrations, gruesome/silly, as they are, are FROM Chinese sources!" said Chanos in an email to Business Insider.¬† "That's why we put them in-so that people know that the media inside China is becoming more skeptical itself." Chanos has shared this presentation with the WCC and now with us for the benefit of the amazing Les Turner ALS Foundation.¬† Read more about it here. The Wine Country Conference was hosted by Mike Shedlock of Mish‚Äôs Global Economic Trend Analysis and Sitka Pacific Capital Management to raise funds in the fight against ALS, the disease that took Mish‚Äôs wife Joanne.¬† In total, Mish has raised nearly a half million dollars for the Les Turner ALS Foundation ‚Äî¬† please consider making a donation. Please check out www.winecountryconference.com for videos of the speaker presentations and more information about the April 2014 event where Mish and John Hussman will team up to raise money for Autism research and programs.
A couple of updates ... From Goldman Sachs economist Alec Phillips: The Federal Budget Deficit: Shrinking Faster: The federal deficit continues to shrink. Through the first six months of the fiscal year, revenues have come in higher than expected, while spending has come in lower than expected. As a result we are lowering our deficit forecast for the current and next two fiscal years. Earlier this year we lowered our FY2013 deficit forecast from $900bn (5.6% of GDP) to $850bn (5.3%). In light of recent trends, we are lowering it again to $775bn (4.8%). Spending in the fiscal year to date is lower than a year ago and the nominal growth rate is lower than it has been in decades. Revenues have also exceeded expectations, with a 12% gain fiscal year to date. What is more notable is that the strength in revenues preceded the payroll tax hike at the start of the year, and the spending decline does not seem to reflect sequestration, which has just started to take effect. We expect the improvement to continue for the next few years. Although we had already expected additional cyclical improvement and residual fiscal policy tightening to reduce the deficit further in 2014 and 2015, we have reduced our estimates a bit further, to $600bn (3.5% of GDP) and $475bn (2.7%). There are still longer term issues, but the deficit is shrinking fairly quickly. The Controller of California has a website showing daily income tax collections compared to last year. The California budget expects personal income taxes of $51.4 billion as if April 30th. Right now, as of Thursday April 18th, net income taxes are at $53.3 billion - ahead of plan with more collections to come.  Just one state, but we are seeing an improving fiscal situation at¬†the Federal and State levels.
FBI Now that the fog of yesterday is starting to lift a bit, there are some really fabulous longer pieces coming out about the brothers Tsarnaev (Tamerlan and Dzokhar). For the best in biographical details, you can't beat the Boston Globe's story on them. That story includes this mysterious nugget. Gym owner Allan said that Tamerlan had once introduced him to an American, Brendan Mess, whom Tamerlan described as his best friend. Two years ago, Mess and two other men were brutally killed in a Waltham apartment where they were found by police with their throats slit and their bodies covered with marijuana. The murders remain unsolved. Tsarnaev hadn‚Äôt been to Allan‚Äôs Wai Kru Mixed Martial Arts center in years, instead going to another nearby boxing gym. Until this month. Allan, who is currently traveling in Thailand, said he got an e-mail within the past week saying Tsarnaev showed up at the gym acting rude and disrespectful, using other people‚Äôs equipment, walking on the mats with his shoes. The other great piece is by The New Yorker's David Remnick, who fits their story into the broad sweep of Chechen history in Russia. Gregory Shvedov, the editor of a Web site based in Moscow called Caucasian Knot, visits the Caucasus regularly and studies both the jihadist movement and the Russian government and military‚Äôs draconian behavior in the region. He was hardly shocked that two ethnic Chechens, raised largely in the U.S. but with a strong attachment to their homeland, might carry out such an act on a ‚Äúsoft target‚Äù like the marathon. ‚ÄúThese days there are social networks, and people make their decisions from them,‚Äù he said from Moscow. ‚ÄúI would not be surprised if they had another life over social media. What kind of videos are they watching? What kind of lectures and YouTubes about jihad?‚Äù If Tamerlan did what he is suspected of doing, he might not have got his education, or instructions, entirely through digital means. On January 12, 2012, he flew from New York to Moscow, a regular target of Chechen rage; he didn‚Äôt return until seven months later. Read the full Globe story here and the New Yorker piece here.
Justin HartfieldThe accelerating legalization of marijuana has brought about an entirely new, legal industry around the drug.† Until recently, the marijuana business was solely a black market, fueled by drug traffickers and gangs. However, as more and more states move to legalize or decriminalize marijuana,†several legitimate business enterprises have sprung up with the goal of profiting off of the drug.† To find out more about the growing legal marijuana industry, we spoke to Justin Hatfield, the entrepreneur behind WeedMaps.com, a juggernaut site that pulls 50,000 unique visitors per day and generates $1.5 million in listing fees alone each month,†according to documents put out by the company. We talked to Hartfield about the current state of the business, the future of pot in America, and the unrealized potential of a marijuana industry in the U.S.† Business Insider: So what is WeedMaps? Justin Hartfield: I was a patient in early 2008 and me and my friends wanted to know where the dispensaries were. There was no really good way to find out where they were, their hours, let alone what was on their menu. WeedMaps is a medical marijuana dispensary finding website. It was founded in 2008 and we help patients connect to each other and let them see menus and pricing for most of their favorite dispensaries. I was already in the internet business. I had a SEO company, and just for fun I made the site. I had a really cool name ìWeedMaps,î and it just started to take off way more than my consulting business did. So eventually I just dropped consulting and started doing WeedMaps full time. BI: What is it like being a marijuana entrepreneur? JH: Itís really fun, especially when I get to tell people what I do . Iím in a little bit of a different position than most people in the marijuana business because iím only tangentially related. I donít actually touch the stuff. I at least have one layer of separation, so I can be a little be more free and open telling people exactly what I do, something people who sell marijuana donít have the same way. BI: So this is legal? JH: Itís absolutely legal. How? First Amendment. APBI: As a result of your business, youíre now on the board of a number of groups, including NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). Tell us a little more about your advocacy work.† JH: Iím also on the board of Marijuana Policy Project as well as National Cannabis Industry Association, so Iím very busy on boards. What I do exactly I still havenít figured that out yet. Iíve always been especially interested in ending the drug war. Itís always something I thought was wrong on a number of levels. Ending the prohibition on marijuana would just make so much sense. I think organizations like NORML and MPP are doing amazing work changing not only the cultural perception but also the laws, what weíve seen in Colorado and Washington in November. BI:†In November, Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana on the state level. How has this changed the outlook for legal marijuana in the U.S.? JH: I think it changes everything. Monetarily there hasnít been an impact yet, but obviously the laws still need to be implemented. They will be on the first of January 2014.† I think what itís doing now is itís bringing really professional investors and players into the space that I havenít seen before. Iíve been doing this since 2008, the level of the business actors hasnít always been †the ìhighest.î But now, Iím beginning to see some really serious, sincere, business people ó with credentials, with backgrounds ó ††starting to get more interested and involved in the industry. Thatís always a great thing to see because thatís going to make the pie bigger, make the industry grow and †mature and become more accepted. Itís people with experience and backgrounds ó 10, 15, 25 years ó †in industry bringing that level of professionalism, their technology, the discourse itself has been very powerful. I think there are starting to be a lot more impressive business opportunities emerging †from this growing acceptance, especially in the kind of tangentially related †industries like paraphernalia and electronics ó †vaporizing pens, vaporizers in general, even storage devices, You name it, thereís this incredible amount of technology thatís being applied. Itís been in the closet so long, itís been a contraband industry so long . These professional people and this kind of high technology hasnít been applied †to the industry yet, and weíre finally seeing it emerge. Itís becoming evident everywhere. BI: Whatís the future for pot in America, looking at the next three to five years? JH: I think weíre looking at a few more states adding medical, then in 2016 thereís going to be the next big push. Itís a presidential election, theyíre expecting a lot of younger folks to vote. When young folks come out to vote, they typically vote for legalization. I expect [Progressive Insurance chairman and marijuana legalization advocate] Peter Lewis and his group to have something on the ballot in California, and then hopefully a few other states. BI: How about New York? JH: Medical [marijuana legalization] in New York looks very promising. Theyíre pushing stuff up in Albany now. This bill that theyíre pushing right now is very restrictive form a commercial standpoint and also in terms of just a medical standpoint. Theyíre not allowing doctors to recommend marijuana, theyíre trying to control what †diseases marijuana can be used for and in that kind of system it just limits the market. Itís going to be very heavily regulated there but I think in 2016 there could be possibility of a legalization bill there too. I know [The Drug Policy Alliance] is working really hard in New York. BI: What about long term? Has marijuana already won? JH: I think the culture war is over, as Allen St. Pierre [Executive Director of NORML] likes to point out. Culturally, thereís no doubt about it that my generation and the generation thatís older than me, theyíve come to accept this should be regulated like alcohol. So for long term? I see federal legalization on the horizon within the next ten to twelve years. Hopefully sooner. Hopefully itís tomorrow. Itís kind of ridiculous the federal government is even considering not letting the states move forward with this experiment, but regardless, I think the long term prospects for the marijuana industry are really good, probably comparable to the wine industry, probably a lot bigger. Galileo55 via FlickrNapa ValleyBI: The wine industry? Most people seem associate the future of pot with the tobacco industry.† JH: Everyone always compares it to tobacco, I think that tobacco is $35 billion depending on who you ask, the wine market is a little bit less than that. I think the recreational market is going to be very similar to the wine market with an extra added huge market for medical; because there are a lot of patients that need to have a guaranteed medical product. BI: Wine has independent producers, whereas tobacco is heavily consolidated. JH: Exactly. The wine business is going to be a closer model of what the legal cannabis market will be eventually. If California really does legalization right ó either through [California Lieutenant governor and presumed 2014 gubernatorial candidate] Gavin Newsom, the legislature or in 2016 ó †if they really do it right theyíll specify zones like the Emerald Triangle or Humboldt County that are special, just like they do with Napa Valley or Sonoma. When you have a product thatís comes of these areas itís allowed to have stamps of approval ó ìthe Humboldt stamp of approvalî ó †and I think this is going to revitalize a lot of local industry there and create a whole cottage industry ó like Sonoma has with the French model ó †by designating special areas.  BI: You have another business, Cannabinoid Science Systems. Whatís with that? JH: Cannabinoid SS is a research company that develops and applies for patents †for cannabis intellectual property, medical and recreational. Weíve got a lot of really cool stuff. Weíve done so much research on cannabis. We know so much about the plant and extracting things from the plant. We know so much about processing and post-processing that we may as well get these patents so when it does become legal federally we have them.† BI: What needs to happen now? JH: I want to commend Colorado for passing Amendment 64, and ensure that the four congressmen do the right thing and pass a bill thatís not only timely but also fair to the local businesses †and people in the community. Thereís a world spotlight on Colorado and Denver. If they get this right, if they really find a good way to regulate marijuana I think the whole world will benefit.
Flickr / Felipe KatsumataFrom the department of interesting timing. This week we saw our first real market rattling in awhile. Commodities got absolutely hammered, and the renewed deflationary chill law to a series of violent up and down swings, resulting in the worst week in some time. Also, US data is softening (and things aren't hot in Europe or China either). And yet. At least as of very recently, big money managers are bullish on historical levels. From Barron's cover story: The stock market isn't the only thing that has set records this spring. Barron's semiannual Big Money poll of professional investors also is setting a record -- for bullishness, that is. In our latest survey, 74% of money managers identify themselves as bullish or very bullish about the prospects for U.S. stocks -- an all-time high for Big Money, going back more than 20 years. What's more, about a third of managers expect the Dow Jones industrials to scale the 16,000 level by the middle of next year, notwithstanding a dismal week of selling that left the blue-chip index at 14,547.51 on Friday. This fits with conversations we've had in recent weeks. This past week aside, there's been a view that you had to own US equities, and that US growth was the only real game in town with everyone else flagging.
The Bang! MomentThe Purpose of DebtAusterity Is a Consequence, Not a PunishmentSan Francisco, Carlsbad, Tulsa, Nashville, and Brussels Two seemingly different questions and comments from readers and friends crossed my path the last few days, but I saw a definite connection between them. The first question was, Why do we pursue austerity when it seems not to work? And then many readers wrote to ask this week, What do I think about the real problems that are surfacing in the Rogoff and Reinhart assertion that debt above a ratio of 90% debt to GDP seems to slow economic growth by 1% (especially since I have quoted that data more than a few times)? Weíll deal with each question separately and then see if we can connect the dots. The first question comes from correspondence I have had with Ms. Aga Barberini, who works in the investment world in Milan, Italy. She came there from Poland some 20 years ago. The first part of her note contains the question on austerity, but Iíll pass along more of her letter, as I think it will give us all some insight into the seeming chaos that voters are facing in choosing a path for Italy. (And I hope my editors leave some of the charming grammar in her letter. You can almost hear the musical tones of her Italian English.) I am worried for Italy, too. When I came here 20 years ago Italy was beautiful and rich; it was very good for a girl from Eastern Europe. Nowadays a lot of Italians go to Poland and settle down. I guess itís going to get worse, the austerity will be tighter. Please tell me why should we go ahead with austerity when IMF last month came out† saying that for every point of tax lifting in Italy we lose 2.5 points of GDP? First they said that the tax lifting would produce only 0.5 points of GDP slip, now they say they were wrong. The political chaos is lasting. My husband says, why don't we vote for the comedian in June (as it is almost sure we are going to vote again soon)? Sure, Grillo is right in a lot of things and would clean the politics a lot. (By the way, did you know that the oldest bank in the world, Monte dei Paschi di Sienaís mess is reaching 20 billion euros? They took away the money doing ... the bank transfers ;-) The Banka d'Italia didn't see; CONSOB, the Italian SEC, didn't see...). But how can a serious person vote for the comedian? But I say sometimes the one who is good for the revolution isn't necessarily good to rule the country.† Do you remember the guy called Lech Walesa? Thanks to him the communism [in Poland] was fallen ñ we all agree. Polish people were so thankful to him that we appointed him for the first democratic president. Than we found that he didn't have enough background to rule the country and enough culture to represent us on the international stage. I will vote Berlusconi again. I can't stand communists even if they call themselves ìthe left.î (Sidebar:† I was in Siena last summer and visited the ancestral home of the bank mentioned above, the worldís oldest, founded in 1472. I marveled that any bank could last so long. At the Palio last summer we met one of the senior managers of the bank. It turns out that it was local politicians who ran the board of the bank, and now the authorities are saying management hid the problems from them.) So let me try to answer you, Aga. Austerity has come to have a rather bad name of late. The complaint is that it just doesnít work. Which is somewhat like complaining that the roof is leaking because someone else hassnít fixed it. If by ìworkingî we mean that austerity is supposed to produce growth, then of course it doesnít work. By definition, austerity means you are reducing a fiscal deficit, and doing so will reduce growth in the short term. That begs the question, why would you want to do that? Donít we want growth? Letís look at why a country might need to endure austerity. ìAusterityî is now the name we give to the situation where a government has to limit its spending during an economic downturn or recession. The governments of the developed world amassed huge sovereign debts in the course of what is known as the Debt Supercycle. As interest rates fell, borrowing to finance consumption and spending became easy. But now that decades-long supercycle has ended. One way of looking at the problem of swollen sovereign debt is to tsay that it goes back to Keynes (although one cannot actually blame the current problems on his economic theory). Keynes argued (roughly) that when there is a normal business-cycle recession a government should spend money to counterbalance the private-economy slowdown. That means that the government should borrow money and run fiscal deficits to help boost spending and the economy. According to his theory, this would make the recession not as deep and help bring the economy back to recovery sooner. This was tried after World War II in numerous countries in the developed world, and it seemed to work. "We are all Keynesians now" is a famous phrase uttered by Milton Friedman and attributed to US President Richard Nixon. It is popularly associated with the reluctant embrace of Keynesian economics in a time of financial crisis, by individuals such as Nixon, who had formerly favored less interventionist policies. (The phrase was first attributed to Milton Friedman in the December 31, 1965, edition of Time magazine. In the February 4, 1966, edition, Friedman wrote a letter clarifying that his original statement was, "In one sense, we are all Keynesians now; in another, nobody is any longer a Keynesian.") (Wikipedia) The problem that arose was that most countries rarely followed through on the second part of Keynesís prescription, which was to pay back the debt when times were good. Rather, the debt just continued to accumulate. But, because interest rates were dropping, the size and cost of the debt became less of an issue. And, as Rogoff and Reinhart showed through their massive data collection and work on sovereign debt crises, published in This Time Is Different and elsewhere, debt is not a problem until it becomes one. And then it reaches a critical mass and you have what they called the Bang! moment. I want to review some of their work, which will help us understand the reasons for austerity, but first letís deal with the controversy of the moment. There has been some considerable debate this week among economists about a paper Rogoff and Reinhart published after they wrote their book. Recent detailed work suggests the analysis in that paper is flawed and that there are actual programming errors in their spreadsheets. My inbox almost exploded the last two days as friends and colleagues sent me links to multiple sources talking about the problems with Rogoff and Reinhartís work and asked for my thoughts. Given that I find This Time Is Different one of the more important books of the last decade, let me provide some context. In 2010, economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff released a paper, "Growth in a Time of Debt."†Their main result was that ìÖ median growth rates for countries with public debt over 90 percent of GDP are roughly one percent lower than otherwise; average (mean) growth rates are several percent lower." The work suggested that countries with debt-to-GDP ratios above 90 percent have a slightly negative average growth rate. This has been one of the most cited stats†in the public debate during the Great Recession. Paul Ryan's Path to Prosperity budget states that their study "Ö found conclusive empirical evidence that [debt] exceeding 90 percent of the economy has a significant negative effect on economic growth." The Washington Post editorial board takes the R&amp;R conclusion as an economic consensus view, stating that "Ö debt-to-GDP could keep rising ñ and stick dangerously near the 90 percent mark that economists regard as a threat to sustainable economic growth."†(from the Next New Deal site and many other links sent to me) Next New Deal (nextnewdeal.net) had this analysis: In a new paper, "Does High Public Debt Consistently Stifle Economic Growth? A Critique of Reinhart and Rogoff,"†Thomas Herndon, Michael Ash, and Robert Pollin of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst successfully replicate the results. After trying to replicate the Reinhart-Rogoff results and failing, they reached out to Reinhart and Rogoff, and they were willing to share their data spreadhseet. This allowed Herndon et al. to see how how Reinhart and Rogoff's data was constructed. They find that three main issues stand out. First, Reinhart and Rogoff selectively exclude years of high debt and average growth. Second, they use a debatable method to weight the countries. Third, there also appears to be a coding error that excludes high-debt and average-growth countries. All three bias in favor of their result, and without them you don't get their controversial result. (You can get further details at http://www.nextnewdeal.net/rortybomb/researchers-finally-replicated-reinhart-rogoff-and-there-are-serious-problems. And there are other sources here and here.) I and many others who are concerned about the growth of debt quoted that research. As we approach that 90% level in the US, it has become a prominent feature in certain circles. But I want to emphasize that The Rogoff and Reinhart paper mentioned above is a later work than their book. To my knowledge, no one is disputing the work in their book. Their book, This Time Is Different, is basically just an analysis of their very large and masterful accumulation of data about sovereign debt crises. For the last two weeks I have talked about economists and their use of data. I pointed out that inflation as measured by the CPI is an average for the country and not reflective of any one personís actual experience. Something similar can be said about the later work of Rogoff and Reinhart. Yes, there was an unfortunate formula in one cell of their rather complex spreadsheet; but more importantly, they made assumptions about what is important and what is not in creating their analysis, and the assumptions in their model gave one set of results. If you make different assumptions, you get other results that show that 90% is not all that bad. Just as economists argue about how we should compute inflation, there will now be arguments about what the debt-to-GDP numbers really mean. I am willing to bet that by this time next year we will see several studies, all arriving at different conclusions. But in any case, whether in their original work or in the later paper, R&amp;R describe a problem with excessive debt that is true on average. Actual experience shows that in some countries debt will create a problem at quite low levels, while Japan climbs toward 250% debt to GDP (and will get there all too soon) and hardly anyone blinks. Different pokes for different folks. Iím going to toss in a quick note as I sit here in Hong Kong waiting for my next plane. I read the Financial Times while on the way up here from Singapore. There were several articles that seemed to rejoice in the fact that Rogoff and Reinhartís later paper has some flaws. They jumped on those errors to discredit the whole idea of austerity, the association between too much debt and a lack of growth, and the need to bring oneís fiscal house into order. Why pursue austerity when it does not lead to growth, which everyone knows is the only real way to deal with debt? You can almost hear the critics wanting to dismiss Rogoff and Reinhartís entire book, which clearly establishes the link between excessive debt and sovereign debt crises ñ a pattern that has played out some 266 times over the last few centuries, if I remember correctly. The point is that there is no magic number that says ìThis far and no farther.î There is a mythical line where confidence and trust is lost, but no one knows where that line of demarcation is until it is crossed. And right up until the last minute, there are always those who look for ways to add more debt, who assure us, ìThis time is different.î But it never is. A country can restore its fiscal house to order, pay back its debt, and grow its way out of the problem over time; there are numerous examples. But continuing to grow that debt-to-GDP number is to court a disaster that looms right in front of you. If politicians want to keep the borrow-and-spend party going ìjust one more election cycleî and if no one takes away the punchbowl, the Bang! moment will most certainly arrive. That is the clear lesson of history. It is almost irrelevant whether that number is 90% or 120% or 80%. It will be a different number for each country, depending on the confidence that investors have in the ability of a country to pay back its debt. Investors in sovereign debt are almost by definition the most risk-averse investors there are. You do not invest in a countryís debt to increase your risk exposure; you expect to get paid. There are other factors at play in determining the critical threshold, too: What was the purpose of the debt? How fast is the economy growing? Can Italy, beset by recession, high unemployment, and a political crisis, grow its debt-to-GDP to Japanís 240% level? I think any serious observer would say no. Can it get to 130%? 140%? Maybe. We will not know until itís too late whether Italy or any other country (Spain, Japan, France, or the US) has more debt than the market is willing to absorb. But that is a line any politician should want to avoid crossing. To cobble together an understanding of why Italy needs to deal with austerity ñ and to give Aga a good answer ñ we first need to revisit something I wrote in my own book, Endgame. One of the most important sections of Endgame is a chapter in which I review (and compare with other research) This Time is Different and include part of an interview I did with Rogoff and Reinhart. This chapter turned into a real economic epiphany for me, because the R&amp;R data confirms other research about how things seem to go along swimmingly, and then the end comes all at once ñ the Bang! moment. Letís review a few paragraphs from my book, starting with a paragraph from the interview I did: KENNETH ROGOFF: Itís external debt that you owe to foreigners that is particularly an issue. Where the private debt so often, especially for emerging markets, but it could well happen in Europe today, where a lot of the private debt ends up getting assumed by the government, and you say, but the government doesnít guarantee private debts, well no they donít. We didnít guarantee all the financial debt either before it happened, yet we do see that. I remember when I was first working on the 1980í Latin Debt Crisis and piecing together the data there on what was happening to public debt and what was happening to private debt, and I said, gosh the private debt is just shrinking and shrinking, isnít that interesting. Then I found out that it was being ìguaranteedî by the public sector, who were in fact assuming the debts to make it easier to default on. Now back to the book [quoting Rogoff and Reinhart]: If there is one common theme to the vast range of crises we consider in this book, it is that excessive debt accumulation, whether it be by the government, banks, corporations, or consumers, often poses greater systemic risks than it seems during a boom. Infusions of cash can make a government look like it is providing greater growth to its economy than it really is. Private sector borrowing binges can inflate housing and stock prices far beyond their long-run sustainable levels, and make banks seem more stable and profitable than they really are. Such large-scale debt buildups pose risks because they make an economy vulnerable to crises of confidence, particularly when debt is short-term and needs to be constantly refinanced. Debt-fueled booms all too often provide false affirmation of a governmentís policies, a financial institutionís ability to make outsized profits, or a countryís standard of living. Most of these booms end badly. Of course, debt instruments are crucial to all economies, ancient and modern, but balancing the risk and opportunities of debt is always a challenge, a challenge policy makers, investors, and ordinary citizens must never forget. And the following is key. Read it twice (at least!): Perhaps more than anything else, failure to recognize the precariousness and fickleness of confidence ñ especially in cases in which large short-term debts need to be rolled over continuously ñ is the key factor that gives rise to the this-time-is-different syndrome. Highly indebted governments, banks, or corporations can seem to be merrily rolling along for an extended period, when bang! ñ confidence collapses, lenders disappear, and a crisis hits. Economic theory tells us that it is precisely the fickle nature of confidence, including its dependence on the publicís expectation of future events, which makes it so difficult to predict the timing of debt crises. High debt levels lead, in many mathematical economics models, to ìmultiple equilibriaî in which the debt level might be sustained ñ or might not be. Economists do not have a terribly good idea of what kinds of events shift confidence and of how to concretely assess confidence vulnerability. What one does see, again and again, in the history of financial crises is that when an accident is waiting to happen, it eventually does. When countries become too deeply indebted, they are headed for trouble. When debt-fueled asset price explosions seem too good to be true, they probably are. But the exact timing can be very difficult to guess, and a crisis that seems imminent can sometimes take years to ignite. How confident was the world in October of 2006? John was writing that there would be a recession, a subprime crisis, and a credit crisis in our future. He was on Larry Kudlowís show with Nouriel Roubini, and Larry and John Rutledge were giving him a hard time about his so-called ìdoom and gloom.î ìIf there is going to be a recession you should get out of the stock market,î was Johnís call. He was a tad early, as the market proceeded to go up another 20% over the next 8 months. And then the crash came. But thatís the point. There is no way to determine when the crisis comes. As Reinhart and Rogoff wrote: Highly indebted governments, banks, or corporations can seem to be merrily rolling along for an extended period, when bang! ñ confidence collapses, lenders disappear, and a crisis hits. Bang! is the right word. It is the nature of human beings to assume that the current trend will work itself out, that things canít really be that bad. The trend is your friend Ö until it ends. Look at the bond markets only a year and then just a few months before World War I. There was no sign of an impending war. Everyone ìknewî that cooler heads would prevail. We can look back now and see where we have made mistakes in the current crisis. We actually believed that this time was different, that we had better financial instruments, smarter regulators, and were so, well, modern. Times were different. We knew how to deal with leverage. Borrowing against your home was a good thing. Housing values would always go up. Etc. Until they didnít, and then it was too late. What were we thinking? Of course, we were thinking in accordance with our oh-so-human natures. It is all so predictable, except for the exact moment when the crisis hits. (And during the run-up we get all those wonderful quotes from market actors, which then come back to haunt them.) The Purpose of Debt Countries and governments, small and large, can go into debt for numerous reasons. As noted above, Keynes advocated going into debt during business contractions.† But there are different types of debt. There is debt that is used to build productive assets such as roads, airports, bridges, schools, and civic centers. Then there is debt that is used for current consumption. When debt creates assets, future generations at least get some benefit when they have to participate in paying the loan back. In the case of current consumption, they get none. In essence, debt applied to consumption is spending today rather than spending in the future. You are borrowing money to spend on goods and services in the ìnow,î with the promise to pay for that consumption later. Next week, if all goes right, I am going to borrow money to buy two apartments in a high-rise in Dallas that will become, after we do a little remodeling, my future home. I will get an asset that I hope to pay off in about ten years. If I am lucky, that asset will then be worth more than I paid for it. That is different from borrowing money to go on a vacation or to buy food or other goods that will have no future value. Austerity Is a Consequence, Not a Punishment But borrowing against the futureis what Italy has essentially done, Aga. Just like other countries all over the world, Italy borrowed for consumption and ran up a rather large debt. And then the crisis came, and lenders were not as willing to provide Italy money at low rates. That is the nature of investors who buy government bonds: if they perceive higher risk, they want higher rates. The crisis arrived, and Italy lost cheap access to the bond market. The ECB had to step in and begin to buy bonds to lower their rates. But Italy had to promise to lower its deficits, and the way to do that is called austerity. Italy is in a currency union called the Eurozone. A currency union cannot allow its members to run up debts beyond what the market is willing to finance, or the whole currency union will collapse. The central bank (in this case the ECB) can only print so much money before inflation and valuation becomes an issue. If the ECB allows Italy to run whatever debt it wants to, then it must allow everyone else the same privilege. Eurozone officials may elect to help a smaller state like Greece paper over some of its problems, but at the end of the day countries must be able to handle their own debts you are going to keep your currency union up and running. Italy must deal with austerity because if they donít they will lose access to the bond market. They ran up a huge debt and now must figure out how to pay it back. They borrowed money to spend, on the pledge that future generations would pay for it. Unfortunately, the future is now. Yes, Germany and other countries could lend the Italians money, but they have their own problems. Egan Jones, the only truly independent rating agency, downgraded Germany this week. The Dutch too are having ìissues,î as my kids would say. Europe in general seems to be slipping into recession. Some would argue that the ECB should just fire up the presses and print money, as Japan is going to do. Outright monetization. But that approach is highly problematic. Why should Finland want to see that happen if they are not also running large deficits? What about countries with lower debt ratios? The documents everyone signed when they joined the euro dictated that each country would be responsible for its own debt and that the ECB would not monetize debt. It is one thing for a country to fall on hard times and for its fellow currency-union members to agree to help, but it is another thing to make that help open-ended. Italy has come a long way toward getting back to a sustainable fiscal situation in the last few years. I know it has been hard. I have always maintained that Italy has its own fate in its own hands. Aga, if you just cut the number of cars and drivers you provide to every small-time politician, you could eliminate about 20% of your deficit. Everyone in Italy knows there is a lot of waste and corruption. That is why a comedian like Grillo can get almost 25% of the vote! The neo-Keynesians are right about this. In the short term, austerity will result in less growth. All but the mathematically challenged will agree with that. The scholarly literature seems to suggest that the short term is about 4-5 quarters, but that estimate is based on averages for a number of countries. Whether the actual interval is longer or shorter, it means that austerity will not produce growth in the short term. And if you have to cut 1-2% a year for several years, then that means little or no growth for those years. But the reason you have to do it is that you did not reduce your debt during the good times. Austerity is a consequence, not a punishment. A country loses access to cheap borrowed money as a consequence of running up too much debt and losing the confidence of lenders that the debt can be repaid. Lenders donít sit around in clubs and discuss how to ìpunishî a country by requiring austerity; they simply decide not to lend. Austerity is a result of a countryís trying to entice lenders into believing that the country will change and make an effort to restore confidence. If Italy or any other country does not inspire confidence, then it must suffer the consequences when it loses access to the credit markets. Sure, the ECB or the IMF could lend you money, but their members are essentially investors as well. If there was unlimited money available, I can think of a country or two that might choose to run 10% and then 20% deficits. Why choose to tax when you can borrow and not repay? That is what politicians would all love to be able to promise. Argentina has pursued such a policy for almost a century. After multiple devaluations, their currency is now a fraction of one billionth of a cent of what it was 100 years ago. It is rather hard to operate as an investor or businessperson in such an environment. One of the reasons why Italians wanted to get into the euro, Aga, was to take away from your politicians the opportunity to run up large debts and then devalue. The lira was a byword for fleeting value, not a currency for long-term investment. You avoid austerity by not borrowing and consuming in the first place. After the market loses confidence, your choices are rather stark. If you default, then you are clearly out of the market for some time and suffer a very quick and deep recession as the government loses its ability to pay the salaries of government workers, provide healthcare, etc. If you elect to try to keep borrowing, you will have to implement a change in policy that will restore confidence ñ or find someone who will lend you money on better terms. Bluntly speaking, Germany and the EU might do that for Italy for a while but not unless they see the country actually controlling its deficit. The problem Italy now faces is that any government that is elected will have to make hard choices. Trying to reverse the austerity already agreed to will almost certainly result in loss of access to the bond market. Is it possible to develop a plan to cut spending at a slower pace? Sure, if you can get the rest of the EU to agree, at the same time that Spain, Portugal, Greece (and soon France) all want the same policies. If Italy were in control of its currency, might it make sense to print a little in the meantime, as the US, Great Britain, and Japan are doing? There is certainly a school of thought that says yes. But in a currency union of multiple countries that are all at different places on the economic journey, it is almost impossible to have a one-size-fits-all monetary policy. If the spigot is opened for Spain, Italy, et al., then Germany and others get inflation. That is a tough sell to German and Finnish voters (among others). You cannot force the rest of Europe to fund your deficits. You can negotiate with them to try to lessen the severity of the crisis, but there is no pain-free path ahead from where Italy is today, Aga. Your debt to GDP is 126% and rising. Without ECB support, you would have already lost access to the bond market. If you want to stay in the euro, you just have to deal with it. By the way, leaving the euro would be a VERY expensive option. The ìnew liraî would drop in value like a stone in Lake Como (Italyís deepest lake, for those not familiar with it, and one of the most beautiful lakes in the world). The cost of borrowing would skyrocket. The banks would be bankrupt overnight, requiring massive infusions of new currency that would further drive the lira down. You are frustrated with politicians now, Aga? What would it be like in the chaos of a depression? No one can manage well in such an environment. There would be no good choices, only a choice among disasters. Tiny Cyprus might choose in the next few weeks to exit the euro. With bank accounts frozen and the economy shutting down, they might feel they have no choice. Pay close attention to what happens; it will not be pretty. (As an aside, I am seriously tempted to go to Cyprus in late June, just to see the country firsthand. I will be in Europe between speaking gigs and have not yet decided where to go.) Italy must first of all choose a government. Cleaning up its political corruption and wasteful spending would be a good move, but even clean new politicians (if there is such a thing) will be faced with the same economic choices. Which, I should note, is roughly the same choice voters everywhere are faced with. The US is also approaching an uncomfortably high debt level. It was less than ten years ago that I was writing about what the US investment market would look like with no government debt. Yes, that possibility now seems a distant memory, but we were paying down the US debt that fast. And then came the Iraq war and larger deficits and a Republican Congress that got drunk on spending increases. Cheney told them that deficits donít matter, and they took it to heart. They doubled down on debt. If the US had entered the 2008 crisis with little or no debt, we could have spent that $1 trillion a year (or even several trillion and made Krugman and McCulley ecstatic), and no one would have really cared, from a total debt perspective. (We would have cared what the money was spent on). But we didnít. We squandered our surplus with new programs and spending. We borrowed and consumed. We wasted the good times by running up even more debt. And now we are close to paying a price. So, Aga, I donít have any easy words for you, but I do think Italy will pull through. I will visit your country again and again in the future, because I love Tuscany. But if you can take comfort in the company of others in similar situations, then there are a host of countries in the developed world that are going to have to face austerity in one form or another. That is just what happens when you reach the end of the Debt Supercycle. You are no longer left with merely difficult choices; they are more like very tough, bad, and disastrous. The worst choice is not dealing with the problems as soon as possible. I only hope my own country can make the difficult choices soon, before we too are faced with a crisis. San Francisco, Carlsbad, Tulsa, Nashville, and Brussels I finish this letter in the Singapore airport before I begin the rather long journey back to San Francisco, where I will rest and recover from jet lag at the Fairmont, one of my favorite hotels over the years. I speak in SF Monday morning before heading back to Dallas and my ìhome hotelî for a week. As noted above, I am buying a property as my primary residence and had to move out of my leased home early, so Iím between places. As I have promised, when the deal for the new place gets done, I will write about my experience ñ the terms and negotiations and why I decided to buy now after all these years. This is a bit of a first for me, as I fly to Hong Kong to catch a plane to San Francisco. I will leave very early Friday morning and arrive late on Thursday night, crossing the international date line and arriving the ìday beforeî I left, getting back the day I lost coming here. My Strategic Investment Conference is almost here. I am so looking forward to catching up with old friends. And Iím just as excited about the exchange of views we will have on how to navigate the coming economic transitions. It seems everyone is on the ìshort Japanî side of the boat, including me. Is the boat listing, or is there still room for others? The debate on whether there is a bubble in the US bond market will be intense. Europe will be a hot topic. China, too. Will the US see 3% growth this year or fall further behind? And underlying our discussions will be an intense debate about the future of world growth and stability. I have purposely sought out thought leaders who steer independent courses. Kyle Bass, Niall Ferguson, Nouriel Roubini, Drs. Lacy Hunt and Gary Shilling, David Rosenberg, Charles and Louis Gave, Anatole Kaletsky, and Paul McCulley will all be there, among others. You can see the entire line-up for the May 1-3 conference (co-sponsored with Altegris Investments) right here, plus see highlights from last yearís conference. There are still a few spots left, so I encourage you to register and join me and my friends as we think about our future. I think this is clearly the best investment conference of its kind this year, and I, along with Jon Sundt and his team at Altegris, am proud to be able to offer it to you. I continue to be impressed with Singapore. This city/country just works. I was able to take a few hours and tour their magnificent Garden Domes. The entire place is a marvel of human engineering and vision. I want to return for an extended visit and explore the amazing variety of plants and trees they have assembled from the worldís cloud forests. They built an indoor, 115-foot-high waterfall system and replicated a cloud forest that you can walk through. Every time I come here there are new towering buildings and projects to reclaim land from the ocean. A sustainable future is a constant theme. Low taxes and a climate that is ideal for business have made this nation a center for commerce. Issues here and there? Sure, this is a human enterprise, and we come with built-in issues, but the problems are positive ones. They are calling my flight, so it is time to hit the send button. Charley &amp; Lisa Sweet, my long-suffering editors, will have extra work cleaning up this weekís letter, but I donít think the plane will wait for me to go through it one more time. Have a great week, and come see me in Carlsbad. John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved.
Recent rail trends have weakened substantially from very strong levels earlier this year. ¬†The latest weekly reading came in at 3.3% year over year, but continues a trend of low single digit readings. ¬†This latest data brings the 12 week average to 4.4%. ¬†That‚Äôs still a healthy level, but well off the March high of 3.6%. ¬†In this environment I guess any growth is good growth so this has to go down as a moderate positive for the economy even though the trend is negative. Here‚Äôs more via AAR: The Association of American Railroads (AAR) reported mixed traffic for the week ending April 13, 2013, with total U.S. weekly carloads of 275,675 carloads, down 0.6 percent compared with the same week last year. Intermodal volume for the week totaled 241,987 units, up 3.3 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. traffic for the week was 517,662 carloads and intermodal units, up 1.2 percent compared with the same week last year. Four of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, including petroleum and petroleum products, up 51.2 percent, and motor vehicles and parts, up 10.9 percent. Commodities showing a decrease included metallic ores, down 13.8 percent, and grain, down 12.1 percent. For the first 15 weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 4,127,296 carloads, down 2.4 percent from the same point last year, and 3,558,668 intermodal units, up 4.9 percent from last year. Total U.S. traffic for the first 15 weeks of 2013 was 7,685,964 carloads and intermodal units, up 0.8 percent from last year. Chart via Orcam Investment Research: PragCap
This post is a speculation from my experience of an Android phone I think from Saudi Arabia. I am speculating that Apple is going to have a much tougher time in China than anyone imagines. To see why you need to go back to my original Samsung Desire HD - which I¬†blogged about in June 2011. I purchased this phone on Ebay and it came shiny and new in a white box, however the operating system was dodgy. It had a limited choice of language - Arabic, English (UK), Farsi, Urdu. Most importantly it did not contain any access to the Google market place (Google's equivalent of the App store). It had limited apps and no possibility of adding more. It contained a non-standard web browser and a non-standard email client (leaving open the possibility of the State watching what I wrote and said). It was not possible to put a Voice over IP app on it. That phone was almost useless - a smartphone without apps. The smartphone of an oppressive regime. The solution was to root it and load something great (insanely great even). I loved that phone until my wife put it through the washing machine. Saudi Arabia (or whatever Middle East state it was) could demand smart-phones that were neutered because - well - they had a copy of the source code for Android and could demand and implement any changes they liked. Open source is a force for good or evil and in this case it was evil. Google could distribute "good Android" and the oppressive authorities could force their phone companies to distribute "bad Android". There will always be an elite who can root their phone and load¬†CyanogenMod¬†or similar - but that will be an elite.Will this be the oppressive phone of China? My guess is that will suit China just fine. The phone companies are controlled by the State and they will sell handsets controlled by the State. You can't really do that with Apple. Apple is not open source and there is no root operating system that an oppressive state can modify to suit their whims. So the State needs to lean on Apple to do their evil work for them - and that doesn't work brilliantly. Apple is not going to give away its secrets and the Chinese state will demand more and more. ==== So I am assuming that if Apple goes mass-market in China it will sell systems with enough "apologies" to the cultural differences of China. Those "apologies" will make a rooted Android massively superior to a botched-up Apple. The elite will want their Samsungs...¬†Some bulls¬†on Apple and China may be just flat wrong... Just a speculation... J Postscript. The WSJ comes to a similar conclusion.... The key observation - Android in China comes without an App Store as per my Saudi phone... Here is the quote: Ironically, Google's Android mobile operating system dominates the smartphone market in China, despite the company's strained relationship with the government. But those devices don't come with Google services that are standard elsewhere, such as YouTube, search, and Google Maps. Also, without access to the Google Play store, Chinese users have a weaker selection of apps to choose from.
On Friday night, shortly after 9 p.m., police in Boston arrested Dzokhar Tsarnaev, a suspect in the bombing of the Boston Marathon, which killed three people. Tsarnaev's picture had been shown to the public the previous afternoon. Within a few hours, police were in pursuit of Dzokhar¬†and his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev,¬†first in Cambridge, then in Watertown, which spent virtually the entire day in lockdown, as authorities searched every residence, door to door. Not long after the lockdown was lifted, police responded to reports of activity in a boat behind someone's home. Shots rang out, and after more than an hour, the suspect was eventually arrested alive. Imagine seeing this out your window. 
SoberLook A confluence of recent events has been pressuring emerging countries' equity markets. Over the past couple of years emerging and developed markets have been moving in lockstep, but the two have diverged recently. What's behind this underperformance in emerging markets stocks? It seems that a number of simultaneous developments has contributed to the sell-off: 1. The spectacular decline in shares of Apple has put downward pressure on some of its Asian suppliers and related technology firms. 2. Weaker than expected growth in China (see post) is contributing to the sell-off (see Bloomberg story from earlier this week). 3. The emerging strength of Japan's exporters due to rapid yen devaluation (see post) is hurting the regional competitors, particularly in South Korea. The¬†KOSPI index is down over 6% year-to-date. 4. The recent violent commodity sell-off¬†especially in metals and energy¬†is pressuring commodity producers such as Russia. Russia's export sector is a one-trick pony, except for some arms sales and a sprinkle of IT services. That's why with oil sharply lower (see post), the Russian stock market is down 13% year-to-date. Other commodity exporters, from Brazil to South Africa, got hit as well. 5. Negative economic surprises in the US are not helping. The US¬†index of leading economic indicators and the¬†Philadelphia Fed Survey both disappointed today. As discussed, the US has entered its fourth year of seasonal spring slowdown (see post). Expectations of weaker demand from the US are hurting emerging market indices. Bloomberg: - Emerging-market stocks dropped to the lowest level in almost five months as Apple Inc.'s Asian suppliers retreated on speculation sales are slowing and concern grew that the global economy is faltering.LG Display Co. slid the most in four months in Seoul after audio-chipmaker Cirrus Logic Inc. reported an inventory glut that suggests slowing iPhone sales. Jiangxi Copper Co. sank 2.5 percent in Hong Kong, while Russia‚Äôs Micex Index reversed earlier gains, closing at the lowest level since June 25.  Brazil‚Äôs Bovespa index rebounded from a nine-month low, as Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA jumped 11 percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.4 percent to 997.33 in New York, the lowest level since Nov. 28. Stocks joined losses in the U.S. equity market as data on leading economic indicators and Philadelphia-area manufacturing trailed estimates. Earlier this week, the International Monetary Fund trimmed its global growth forecast. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs global, very much like a cold that seems to be going around,‚Äù Lawrence Creatura, a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $380 billion, said by phone. ‚ÄúEarlier in the year, the macro data was on a more reliably upward trajectory. Now there appears to be a moderation going on.‚Äù There is "moderation going on" indeed.
