Equity market weakness has been a story this week, but the real global market story is the drubbing we're seeing in the commodity space: Oil, copper, gold, etc. Ominously, this could mean that global growth is slowing sharply. Optimistically, this could represent a big speculative unwind. Either way, the big ones are all getting worked tonight. Via FinViz, here's copper, oil, and gold. Copper FinViz Oil FinViz Gold FinViz
One of the big ongoing stories is the selloff in commodities. Gold is the most notable loser, but industrial ones like oil and copper are taking a beating too. Copper fell all day, and continues to be weak into the evening. From FinViz: FinViz

Quick market heads up. After the ugly day in the US, the selloff continues. Japan is down 1.2%. Nikkei.com Meanwhile, today's Apple crumbling is having more ripple effects. Japanese and Korean $AAPL suppliers seeing red this morning. Taiwanese names likely too, when trade starts there twitter.com/deeCNBC/statusÖ
Citigroup's recently published its Global Equity Quarterly report to clients. It includes the favorite charts of the firm's regional strategists. Tobias Levkovich, Citi's top U.S. equity strategist, submitted a chart of credit conditions, which is a leading indicator of stocks. Here's some of the commentary that Levkovich provided with his chart: Evidence that the economy has accelerated, predicted by improved domestic credit conditions nine months earlier, has pushed US equity prices higher since January, with the S&amp;P 500 slightly below its 2007 all-time high while the DJIA already has exceeded its prior peak. US equities appreciated 10% in 1Q13, with Japan being the only other major developed market to post better returns. Market strength was anticipated for 1H13, but we suspect some volatility could descend in early 3Q13 given Europeís tight bank lending standards holding back any chance for a second half recovery... Levkovich expects the S&amp;P 500 to close the year at 1,615. Citi Research
Citigroup's recently published its Global Equity Quarterly report to clients. It includes the favorite charts of the firm's regional strategists. Tobias Levkovich, Citi's top U.S. equity strategist, submitted a chart of credit conditions, which is a leading indicator of stocks. Here's some of the commentary that Levkovich provided with his chart: Evidence that the economy has accelerated, predicted by improved domestic credit conditions nine months earlier, has pushed US equity prices higher since January, with the S&amp;P 500 slightly below its 2007 all-time high while the DJIA already has exceeded its prior peak. US equities appreciated 10% in 1Q13, with Japan being the only other major developed market to post better returns. Market strength was anticipated for 1H13, but we suspect some volatility could descend in early 3Q13 given Europeís tight bank lending standards holding back any chance for a second half recovery... Levkovich expects the S&amp;P 500 to close the year at 1,615. Citi Research
Now, two weeks after an Exxon-owned pipeline spilled more than 10,000 gallons of oil in the small hamlet, Sobanski says she applauds the progress Exxon has made in the clean up. But nuisances remain.† They've now been able to move back, she said, but her daughter was late to school twice because of traffic and will have to make up classes. Meanwhile, the noise of clean-up crews working 24 hours remains intolerable.† "I had to go to the doctor to get something to knock me out at night," she said. She also complained about having to show her license just to get back to her home, and that cleanup trucks have practically invaded her neighborhood.† "I hear diesel horn honks 100 times a day," she quipped. Still, she said, conditions are much better today.† The worry for many now, she said, is property values. Neighbors have retained lawyers in the event the market sours on their homes. "No one is going to buy a house in a subdivision with an oil spill," she said. "We're concerned we'll never be able to sell our house."† Dow Jones' Alison Sider reported today that Exxon is now in talks to buy affected homes in addition to a $10,000 payment for each household to cover "disruption and inconvenience."†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Should Not Consider A TIPS Portfolio To Be A Risk-Free Inflation Hedge (Vanguard) Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) have become popular among investors as they being to expect inflation to rise. While Vanguard does think diversifying portfolios to include bonds like TIPS is smart, they do think investors should be aware that these aren't risk free. "Like conventional Treasury bonds, TIPS can decline in value over any short-term period. In other words, investors should not view a TIPS portfolio as a risk-free inflation hedge. Considering that the best long-term predictor of bond returns is the starting yield, with TIPS real yields near zero today, long-term expected real return of TIPS would also be near zero. "‚Ä¶Investors should consider TIPS as a long-term investment to mitigate the impacts of unexpected and high inflation. As with most investments, the short-term performance of TIPS, both positive and negative, is an unreliable basis for long-term return expectations. Given the current low-yield environment, the return outlook for TIPS (as with most U.S. bond investments today) is muted and likely to be more volatile than in the past. Nevertheless, the strategic case for bond diversification remains strong ‚Äîincluding that for TIPS ‚Äî given the uncertainty of the future inflation outlook." Broker-Dealers Pose A Threat To Financial Stability (The Wall Street Journal) Boston Fed president Eric Rosengren said that Wall Street's broker-dealers still pose a threat to financial stability.¬† ‚ÄúDespite this history of failure and substantial government support, little has changed in the solvency requirements of broker-dealers. The status quo represents an ongoing and significant financial stability risk.¬† In my view, then, consideration should be given to whether broker-dealers should be required to hold significantly more capital than depository institutions, which have deposit insurance and pre-ordained access to the central bank‚Äôs Discount Window."¬†  Now Is A Good Time For Investors To Dial Back On Risk (UBS) Sell in May and go away is an old investment adage. Jonathan Golub at UBS believes that recent data points to another sell-off in Spring.¬† "Looking at incoming data, we believe 2013 is ready to provide us with a fourth spring break in as many years. ...Since mid-November the market's advance has been out of sync with weak earnings and economic trends (consensus GDP is for 2% growth in 2013). More recently, a number of market indicators that typically move with equities have begun to point south. These include economic surprises, bond yields, inflation expectations, commodity prices, and investor sentiment. ‚Ä¶Earnings growth has slowed to a crawl, and is likely to remain anemic." UBS How To Identify High Quality Stocks - Lessons From Warren Buffett And Ben Inker (Smead Capital Management) William Smead, CIO at Smead Capital Management agrees draws on Warren Buffett and writes that investors should determine whether to own a company's stock or a business based on qualitative and quantitative factors. In qualitative terms he writes that investors should own "businesses with 'addicted' customer bases." This is because "the pricing power of an addicted customer base business is described above." In terms of quantitative attributes Smead draws on research from Ben Inker of Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo. There are four quantitative factors too look for, namely 1. Strong balance sheet 2. Profit margins 3. Low earnings volatility, and 4. Low share-price volatility.  Investors Buy And Sell Stocks At Exactly The Wrong Times (BlackRock) "Unfortunately, investors often take actions counterintuitive to investing best practice. In an ideal world, investors 'buy low, sell high.' Though the rule seems simple, we've often seen investors do the exact opposite, especially during volatile times." BlackRock
Note: This piece was originally published on April 16. A ‚ÄúReversal‚Äù Sort of Morning So far everything that went down is up and everything that went up is down. Not surprising given the magnitude of some of the moves and how unexpected they were. Was yesterday the start of a bigger move down for risk assets, or just a one-day blip as equities attempt to resume their QE-fueled rally? I think we have more downside ahead of us, but what concerns me more is that the downside may be larger than we realize because of how the market dynamics are playing out. ETF Flows Matter For some time now, people have speculated what would happen if ‚Äúretail‚Äù pulls out of ‚ÄúETFs‚Äù and ‚Äúfixed income ETFs‚Äù in particular. That question is too broad and has too much of an agenda. For many of the big ETFs, assuming that they are ‚Äúretail‚Äù flows is wrong as they are institutional as well. The ‚Äúflows‚Äù in big liquid products don‚Äôt make much of a difference. On things like SPY, it doesn‚Äôt matter much as SPY flows could be moving in or out of single stocks, sector ETFs, futures contracts, etc. Even Treasury ETF flows signal little as they are a blip on the radar screen relative to actual Treasury trading. So it is only in thinly-traded, isolated asset classes that this should be more of a concern. And I think we have seen that in gold. Is GLD The First ‚ÄúETF Lead Death Spiral‚Äù? We all know what gold did. ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg In 2 days it gave up gains that took over 2 years to accumulate. It is down 13% in two days.¬† What triggered the move? There are all sorts of explanations: It is hard to pinpoint the ‚Äúcatalyst‚Äù but the ensuing steps have seemed all too predictable. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg¬† There are now fewer shares outstanding than at any time in the past 2 years. The outflows accelerated during the crash. The interesting part is that the NAV is "cheap." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg¬† So the ‚Äúarb‚Äù would be to buy the ETF and sell more gold. It is cheaper to own gold outright than via the ETF and the ‚Äúarb‚Äù appears rather large now. This NAV is tricky, not because it is hard to value, but because the volatility is so great ‚Äì but it is a decent signal. While in theory buying the ETF and selling gold is risk neutral, we have argued that this act is actually negative. That the ‚Äúunderlying‚Äù asset, when relatively illiquid, has a bigger impact on the direction than the ETF. We will send the ‚ÄúETF death spiral‚Äù article along in a separate e-mail, but that is our strong view. That ‚Äúcheapness‚Äù in a down market is bad, as we saw it time and again in CDX indices. Hedge Funds Need To Be Involved Too If it was just ETFs and some retail money, then it wouldn‚Äôt be so bad. The real problem comes from hedge funds. While mom and pop and the die hards might sit on their gold holdings, hedge funds don‚Äôt have that luxury. Funds have monthly and quarterly performance targets. Watching a market meltdown doesn‚Äôt bring out buyers, it forces selling. This is especially true in assets that have seen ‚Äúmission creep‚Äù. It is one thing for a commodity focused hedge fund to lose on gold. It isn‚Äôt even so bad if a global macro fund does, but the problem is when funds that really don‚Äôt have much business being in gold have added positions. As a ‚Äúhedge‚Äù or as an ‚Äúalternative‚Äù. Whatever the excuse was, many funds had accumulated some gold, if for no other reason than it was working and seemed like a good ‚Äúhedge‚Äù to something. The Death Spiral Conditions Here are what I consider to be conditions for a ‚Äúdeath spiral‚Äù to occur: It is those three conditions that I think interact to make for big, fast, price swings. The ETF has given the ‚Äúillusion‚Äù of liquidity. More people participate in the asset than would otherwise, and not just retail. Institutions get sucked into it as well. Then everyone owns the same assets and needs to sell at the same time. Whatever catalyst starts the selling, there are real sellers whose fundamental view has changed, and then forced sellers, who have to manage their daily returns. Finally, either because of the ‚Äúarb‚Äù or because investors flock to the only place to get liquidity the ETF) we see continued selling in the underlying, dragging the ETF ever lower. Sound Familiar? I see nothing fundamentally wrong with high yield. I think the economy is not as strong as people think, and credit risk is underpriced, but nothing major. I wouldn‚Äôt expect more than a couple point pullback. A 2% move in high yield is nothing to get excited about. What does concern me is that some of the things that seemed to hit gold are applicable here. I can‚Äôt find anyone who would argue that HYG and JNK aren‚Äôt major factors in the high yield space. BKLN while smaller, has also taken a greater role in the leveraged loan flows. Even EMB is noticeable in the EM space. So you have 3 asset categories that I think fit the description of being relatively illiquid, with no direct substitute (except each other) that are impacted by ETF flows. While NAV is vague sometimes on fixed income ETFs like these,¬†I am seeing each and every one of these ETFs trade at a discount.¬†The discount is 0.25% for BKLN and 0.6% for JNK according to Bloomberg. Again, I take these NAV calculations with a grain of salt on a day like yesterday, but it is a concern. Then there is the ‚Äúhedge fund‚Äù factor. If you are trying to make 10% in a 5% yield world, you need to be levered 2:1 or more.¬†It is simple math. You could be short, but anyone short has probably been stopped out, so the reality is ‚Äúcredit hedge funds‚Äù are long. The bears are long and nervous. The bulls are long and have already booked the next 8 months of carry. Then there are the investors who have stretched into high yield. Vol people playing the options market, IG focused investors dabbling.¬†The search for yield has been all encompassing leaving many with positions outside of their core focus.¬† Will any of these markets play out like gold? Will the Mexican homebuilder (GEO that dropped 50 points) have an impact? Will concerns in Brazil have an impact? We had asked the question,¬†"Does HY ever sell off due to credit concerns ?"¬†a couple of weeks ago. That question seems very relevant today. The risk/reward seems skewed to the downside. Neither fundamentals nor technical can drive any of these markets much higher in price. While fundamentals shouldn‚Äôt drag them much lower, technicals could and I don‚Äôt think that is priced in. Relative Value versus Positioning Watch for risk management groups to run some numbers on gold and come up with higher VAR calculations across risk assets. Precious metals will see risk limits reduced. So will other commodities, but it wouldn‚Äôt surprise me to see ‚Äústress‚Äù calculations that force funds to cut back on exposure, or at very least will limit them from buying the dip. These are our thoughts on how and why gold could have moved so much. Relative Value versus Positioning TF Market Advisors We remain bearish here. Fundamentals have deteriorated for most asset classes, and we are seeing many assets positioned to extreme mismatches of sentiment. Views &amp; Positioning US Stocks We remain short US stocks with a target of 1,500.¬†The morning bounce is strong as QE, which has failed to help the economy continues to be touted as saving the economy. Maybe it will, but this market is built on the faith in QE and if that faith is lost, well, look out. Treasuries We remain long treasuries here with a 1.6% target on the 10 year and a 2.75% target on the long bond.¬†We like the 10 year trade better than the long bond as less ‚Äúfear‚Äù is needed to support the 10 year. We are watching the yen trade carefully. We adjusted our targets lower in part because we saw a change in global investing philosophy based on continued yen devaluation and we aren‚Äôt sure if that will occur. Credit Markets We now recommend IG19 CDS long versus short HY ETF on a 4:1 ratio.¬†That ratio is lower than we had last week when we were more aggressively positioned. I think we are on the cusp of a ‚Äúpain‚Äù trade here where investors are long bonds and short CDS and are going to be wondering where the bid for bonds went, and why there is still no bid for CDS. This trade still does better in a ‚Äúrisk on‚Äù world, but I think can do surprisingly well in a ‚Äúrisk off‚Äù world given some price action in other worlds. Europe We continue to recommend being short 10 year Italian bonds.¬†It has been a bad trade as yields have rallied back as part of the global bid for sovereign debt, but the rationale remains the same, there is no OMT, EU is having difficulty, and Italy itself has problems and no real political leadership. We are looking at potential shorts in French bonds, and longs in Spanish and Italian stocks, but are not comfortable yet. Japan We are neutral Japan and China.¬†We had dropped our long Nikkei recommendation last week and the market is now lower than where we closed that trade out. We got comfortable last week with a view that the yen would not break 100 and with all the strange price action, we are looking at long Chinese stocks versus short Japanese stocks as a trade, but are analyzing various currency scenarios before recommending that. IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES This writing discusses general market activity, industry or sector trends or other broad-based economic, market or political conditions and is provided for general information purposes, education purposes and entertainment purposes only.¬† Nothing contained herein should be relied upon for any other purpose, including making investment decisions.¬† It is not, and is not intended to be, a research report, a recommendation or investment advice, as it does not constitute a substantive research or analysis, nor an offer to sell or the solicitation of offers to buy any product or service in any jurisdiction.¬† It does not take into the account the particular investment objectives, restrictions, tax and financial situations or other needs of any specific client or potential client.¬† In addition, the information is not intended to provide a sufficient basis on which to make an investment decision.¬† Any investment decision about buying securities or other assets should only be made after consulting appropriate tax, legal, financial and any other relevant advisors.¬† This writing is for institutional investors only and is not for retail investors.¬† The information and opinions herein are current only as of the date appearing on the cover or on the date upon which the writing was originally sent or posted on the website.¬† Economic, financial and market assumptions and forecasts are subject to high levels of uncertainty that may affect actual performance and may change instantaneously and materially as market, financial, economic, political, regulatory or other conditions change.¬† Any past performance is not indicative of future performance or results which may vary significantly.¬† The value of any investment can decrease in price as well as go up in price and future returns are, in no way, guaranteed nor assumed.¬† All information herein, including statements of fact, opinion and forecasts, do not provide any assurance or guarantee as to returns that may be realized from investment in any securities or other assets.¬† This writing is the opinion of the author and TF Market Advisors, LLC, and does not provide or purport to contain all of the information that an interested party may desire and provides only a limited view of a particular market.¬† TF Market Advisors, LLC, depends upon third parties such as Bloomberg LP to provide data and information which we believe to be reliable.¬† TF Market Advisors, LLC, is not a broker-dealer nor investment advisor and does not sell securities nor advise individual clients based on specialized needs.¬† TF Market Advisors, LLC, does not advise on the suitability of any trade or investment and provides no legal, tax or other type of advice.
Leslie Garfield Real EstateTwo years ago, George Soros' son bought a townhouse in Little Italy with a domed basketball court on the roof for $11,999,900. Now he's selling it for $12 million, says Curbed NY. Wonder what he'll do with that extra $100... The five story townhouse has four bedrooms, a sick roof terrace (there's a basketball court up there, remember), and a garden. Jed Garfield, Matthew Pravda, and Christopher Ricchio of Leslie Garfield Real Estate have the listing.
Flickr / RazZzielI've seen better days.It was a pretty rough day in the markets. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,618, -138.1 pts, -0.9%S&amp;P 500: 1,552, -22.5 pts, -1.4%NASDAQ: 3,204, -59.9 pts, -1.8% And now the top stories:
Today there was another embarrassing incident for the media, as several networks reported that an arrest had been made in the Boston Marathon bombing, only to take them back. Hilary Sargent at Chartgirl.com made this great chart to break it all down. Hilary kindly gave us permission to run her work. You can click the chart to enlarge. Chartgirl.com
Switzerland is under siege By 2020 the country will have lost its position as the number one destination for the wealth of the world's super rich to Singapore, says a report from private banking research group WealthInsight. The report is their annual Family Office briefing, a deep dive into where money is moving in the most exclusive investment clubs in the world ó in elite wealth management, family and multi-family offices. In 2011, it was a $19.3 trillion industry. Switzerland had $2.8 trillion of that money. That's 34% of the pie, and more than anywhere else in the world. But that's changing, and fast. Partly because governments have been scrutinizing traditional private banking centers like Luxembourg and the Caribbean lately, so the rich are looking for quieter places to base their cash. However, WealthInsight also points out that the newly rich in countries like China and Indonesia are contributing to this move as well. Most emerging markets have a growing number of rich people, but lack the banking structure to service them. Enter Singapore, a quick plane ride for Asia's wealthiest with a well-regulated banking sector. It also has a head start in the private banking. Singapore-based Portcullis TrustNet, for one, was mentioned in a recent International Consortium of Investigative Journalists report about how the super rich invest in tax havens with the help of talented private bankers. In 2011 Singapore had $550 billion worth of private banking assets under management, in 2000 it had only $50 billion. That's massive growth that WealthInsight doesn't see that slowing any time soon. So it sounds like they'll have no problem playing catch up.
CNBC/screenshot A WCCB reporter inside the Boston federal courthouse said that it was evacuated because of a "code red," and sources told CBS that a bomb threat was called in. Courthouse evacuated, press cleared by police from in front of courthouse, armored cars forming barrier in front of court. #Boston Earlier media descended on the courthouse after CNN and Fox News reported that an arrest had been made in the Boston Marathon bombing case. The Associated Press reported that the suspect was in custody and en route to the courthouse. All three have retracted their stories. The courthouse has now been given the "all clear," but the events have apparently forced the FBI to cancel its scheduled 5 p.m. press conference on the Boston Marathon investigation. All clear at the #Boston courthouse. RT @adamgabbatt: Man waving green flag to declare Boston courthouse open twitter.com/AdamGabbatt/st‚Ä¶ State police have also evacuated a plaza in front of one of the entrances to Brigham and Women's Hospital, a hospital spokesman told¬†Business Insider. He denied reports that the entire hospital had been evacuated.¬†
The folks at BlackRock are quick to remind people that they are terrible investors. In a recent¬†Chart Of The Week, BlackRock overlays the performance of the S&amp;P 500 with equity mutual fund flows. "Unfortunately, investors often take actions counterintuitive to investing best practices," they write. "In an ideal world, investors 'buy low, sell high.' Though the rule seems simple, we've often seen investors do the exact opposite, especially during volatile times." As you can see from the chart below, fund flows are low when prices are low, and they are high when prices are high. But Barry Ritholtz of The Big Picture blog notes that it's not that simple. "It is much more nuanced than BlackRock is explaining," said Ritholtz in an email to Business Insider. "Yes people buy and sell at the wrong time ‚Äîbut that's HOW tops and bottoms occur.¬† You could not get those lows WITHOUT lots of sellers dumping stocks at once. "People respond to prices, and those prices respond to what people are doing," he added. BlackRock
Reddit While the world waits for the FBI to identify and arrest suspect(s) in the Boston marathon bombings, people are attempting to "crowdsource" the identify of "suspects" through online information sharing and analysis of crowd photos. A new section of the popular online community Reddit, for example, has been created that is called "FINDBOSTONBOMBERS." This "subreddit" features links and comments by Reddit users who are exchanging the latest information, links, and theories about the bombings. One of the Reddit users linked to some annotated photos and videos, which have been uploaded to a site called imgur, in a gallery titled "4Chan ThinkTank." The latter is a reference to a popular web forum called 4Chan. The photos and videos in the gallery have no time stamps, but they appear to show crowds around the finish line at the Boston Marathon before the bombs went off. The annotations on the photos focus on a couple of people in the crowd, highlighting, among other things, a backpack that appears to match pictures of a shredded backpack released by the FBI, as well as shapes in the backpack that might represent hidden bombs. The annotations describe these people as "suspect 1" and "suspect 2," and they highlight other people in the crowd as well. Buzzfeed has identified and interviewed the Reddit user who created the FINDBOSTONBOMBERS subreddit.†He calls himself Oops777 and is a 23-year old poker player from England. Importantly, we know nothing about the source of the Imgur photos or who uploaded them or why. The photos themselves may be doctored or entirely fake. The annotations, meanwhile, may also unfairly focus attention on people who had absolutely nothing to do with the bombings. We just find this phenomenon of crowdsourced online analysis fascinatingóthe modern equivalent of amateur analysis of the "Zapruder" film of the Kennedy assassination.† You can view the Reddit page here &gt; You can view the annotated photos here &gt;
Courtesy of Brooks BrothersBrooks Brothers has just revealed a new "Great Gatsby" collection based on the costumes in Baz Luhrmann's upcoming film adaptation. The brand is quick to point out that F. Scott Fitzgerald was a lifelong Brooks Brothers customer, and so the clothier's partnership with the filmmakers was ideal. "Brooks Brothers is mentioned several times in Fitzgerald's writing as a representation of the ultimate gentleman's purveyor of fine clothing to the American man of distinction," Catherine Martin, the Academy Award-winning †costume designer for the film, says on the company's website. Many of the film's costumes were inspired by 1920s images or products in the company's archives, and Brooks Brothers even manufactured more than 500 outfits for the film. The new retail collection was adapted from those dapper costumes.
The FBI just released a scathing statement slamming media organizations for erroneously reporting that a suspect had been taken into custody in connection with the Boston Marathon bombings.¬† Here's the full statement: Contrary to widespread reporting, no arrest has been made in connection with the Boston Marathon attack. Over the past day and a half, there have been a number of press reports based on information from unofficial sources that has been inaccurate. Since these stories often have unintended consequences, we ask the media, particularly at this early stage of the investigation, to exercise caution and attempt to verify information through appropriate official channels before reporting. CNN first reported that¬†an arrest has been made in the case, reports that were echoed by Fox News, the Associated Press, and The Boston Globe. Within about an hour, however, CNN and the other outlets began retracting¬†those reports. Here's video of CNN retracting its report, as¬†former assistant FBI director Tom Fuentes said that his sources were denying any arrest.
Flickr / alexpgpOil prices are way down†after the Energy Department's Wednesday supplies report fell short of expectations. Brent is off -2.3%, while WTI has fallen -2.6%.†Oil supplies fell by just -1.2% compared with -2.4% expected per Citi. Oil markets guru Stephen Schork says it's another sign the economy is stalling. "The weakness that we are seeing is a continuation of selling; we've been in a bear market since the first of the month," he told us. He noted the DOE report also showed a large supply build in Cushing, Oklahoma ó a key transmission point for shipping crude stocks ó as well as a sharp build in gasoline supplies on the East Coast. Since that hit a low of -12% versus the five year average in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, regional gas supplies are now at a 7.5% surplus compared to the average. The report was only the third negative draw this year, he said, and oil reserves remain near all-time highs. "You can't have inflation if you don't have economic growth," he said.
Reports of the arrest of a Boston Marathon Bomber are already turning into a media SNAFU Not long after 1:30 PM, CNN, ABC Boston, The Boston Globe and the AP all¬†claimed to have "independently verified"¬†that an arrest had been made in the attack, which occurred on Monday. Since then, the reports have been retracted. On CNN, former assistant FBI director Tom Fuentes says his high placed sources deny any arrest. Here's video of Fuentes. // <![CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', '1tbmYxYjosbyYb2YImuKQ054yy-JqALl'); });// ]]> To be clear it's not just CNN. Observe these tweets from Boston Globe. Note the bottom tweet and the top. Boston Globe And here's AP with the exact same deal. AP Meanwhile, the FBI has issued a report blasting the media for its coverage &gt;
In a crowded conference hall filled with digital ad marketers, Citibank North American head of consumer marketing Vanessa Colella explained why it made perfect sense that one of her first orders of business was, in fact, "eliminating the digital marketing department." While having a group of digital specialists who "all come with incredible backgrounds, they speak in jargon, and wear blue jeans" could be comforting, Colella explained at Ad Age's Digital Conference, that it is often a crutch. Why? Because everyone in a company's marketing department needs to be fluent in digital strategy. "There's no path for you if you don't," she said. So Citibank trained everyone, from those who specialized in bus shelters to TV marketing, to be digitally savvy.¬† "That, as you might imagine, was not an overnight thing," Colella said. "We did a lot of internal training, and we hired strategically," taking on people from Yahoo, Microsoft, and Google. Colella believes in streamlining the marketing process, keeping things quick and simple. LinkedInVanessa Colella's LinkedIn page.When Citi had a Facebook campaign that helped people pool their credit card points to take a group vacation or buy their friend a big gift, Colella said she told her new team, "Welcome to Citi, here is where the bathroom is, you have eight weeks [to develop the campaign]. You are forcing people to strip it down and keep it simple." But campaigns don't just stay in the digital realm ‚Äî thus why marketing employees have to be able to float between different mediums. One of Citibank's greatest successes is Connect, a women's professional network on LinkedIn. "It became not just a digital program because women on the network decided they wanted to get together, and we started going to those," Colella said, admitting, "They didn't ask us in the beginning." But now Citi throws events for participants of what has become one of LinkedIn's most successful groups. On the flipside, the physical bike sharing initiative, called Citibike,¬†is getting turned into an app. "It started in the physical space and grew up into the digital," Colella said. Evolution is key, she said, noting that a campaign doesn't have to live in a single publisher or ad network. "Digital is not a department," Colella said. "It's not a department at Citi, not at our agency ... I don't want it to be at our partners."
The Beige Book is out. The Federal Reserve says "moderate" growth in the U.S. was led by housing and auto markets. 5 of the 12 Federal Reserve districts reported "modest" economic growth while two districts reported a pace of growth that rose "slightly." According to the release, consumer spending "grew modestly," and retailers expect continued sales growth in the near term. Loan demand was "steady to slightly up," but upward wage pressures "continued to be fairly modest." Most districts reported real estate markets "improved markedly," while auto sales "remained strong or increased." Below is the full text from the release. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Most Districts noted increases in manufacturing activity since the previous report. Particular strength was seen in industries tied to residential construction and automobiles, while several Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in defense-related sectors. Consumer spending grew modestly, and firms in some Districts cited higher gasoline prices, expiration of the payroll tax cut, and winter weather as factors restraining sales growth. Retailers in several Districts expect continued sales growth in the near term. Overall vehicle sales remained strong or increased, but sales of used automobiles declined in some Districts. Travel and tourism expanded across most reporting Districts, boosted by both business and leisure travel. Demand for nonfinancial services increased at a modest pace, and several Districts noted growth in freight and transportation services. Most Districts said residential and commercial real estate improved markedly since the last report. Home prices were rising in many areas of the country. Loan demand was steady to slightly up in most Districts. Reports on agricultural conditions were mixed, as drought or cold weather adversely impacted some Districts while others reported a strong agricultural sector. Oil and natural gas activity remained robust over the reporting period, with contacts in the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expecting a rise in activity in coming months, while coal production continued to decline. Employment conditions remained unchanged or improved somewhat, and reports of hiring were most prevalent in the manufacturing, residential construction, information technology, and professional services sectors. Wage pressures were generally contained, although several Districts cited upward pressures in occupations experiencing labor shortages, such as information technology, construction, and engineering. Aside from reports of increases in home prices and residential construction materials, price pressures remained mostly subdued across Districts. Outlooks among respondents remained optimistic across sectors and Districts, with growth mostly expected to continue at the same or a slightly improved pace. Some uncertainty remained, primarily regarding fiscal policy and health care reform. ManufacturingManufacturing activity held steady or increased in most Districts since the previous Beige Book. The pace of growth picked up in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, while the Richmond and Chicago Districts noted that the pace of growth in production was slower than earlier this year. Contacts in the Boston District reported mixed conditions, and manufacturing activity held steady in the New York District. Manufacturing conditions in the Kansas City District continued to soften, driven by weaker durable goods production, although factory managers project a rebound in coming months. Firms in the New York, Philadelphia, and Dallas Districts were broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013, while cautious optimism was expressed by manufacturers in the Cleveland District, and mixed outlooks were expressed in the Boston District. Contacts in the Atlanta District do not expect future production to be as high as previously projected. Strength in residential construction spurred manufacturing increases in several Districts. There were widespread reports of growth in demand for wood products; a contact in the Philadelphia District noted the best growth prospects in five years, a sawmill in Montana restarted production after idling for more than four years, and a Dallas District lumber firm noted a seasonal demand increase for the first time in several years. The auto industry remained a source of strength for several Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. Gains were reported by food manufacturers in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts, and food contacts in the St. Louis and Dallas Districts plan to expand operations or make significant capital expenditures. In the Cleveland District, suppliers to the shale gas industry cited strong activity, and increased activity in natural-gas related industries was seen in the Chicago District. Electronic equipment and instruments manufacturers in the Philadelphia District and high tech firms in the Kansas City District noted gains over the reporting period, while reports on high tech orders in the Dallas District were mixed across customer groups, and semiconductor firms in the Boston District said sales continued to languish. Numerous Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in military or defense-related sectors. San Francisco District defense-related manufactures noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant closures at some production facilities, and military customers in the Chicago District were taking measures to lower costs in anticipation of tighter future defense budgets. Lower activity was indicated by makers of primary metals in the Philadelphia District, and Chicago District specialty metal manufacturers noted declines in new orders. Demand for steel was relatively flat in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts, while firms in the San Francisco District saw an increase in demand for steel products used primarily in transportation infrastructure and nonresidential construction projects. Reports from fabricated metals producers were mixed across Districts, with increases noted in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts while weaker production was noted in the Kansas City District. Consumer Spending and TourismMost Districts reported increases in retail spending. Firms in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted sales increased at a modest to moderate pace. Most retailers in the Boston District said demand was slower than expected. Sales activity was mixed according to the Atlanta District's report, and retail spending declined in the Richmond and Chicago Districts. Demand for apparel rose in the Boston, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, and sales of furniture and appliances in the Chicago District were buoyed by improvements in the housing market. Sales of electronics rose in the Cleveland District, and the San Francisco District report indicated strong demand for mobile computing devices. Contacts in some Districts cited higher gasoline prices, expiration of the payroll tax cut, and winter weather as factors restraining sales growth. Looking ahead, retailers in several Districts expect modest sales growth in the near term. In particular, the St. Louis District reported new store openings, and some retailers in the Dallas District said they have added employees in line with expanding operations. Overall, automobile sales remained strong or increased moderately since the last report. The exception was a slight decline in sales of used vehicles in the New York and Cleveland Districts. A number of contacts in the St. Louis District reported plans to open new dealership locations, and dealers in the Chicago District were building inventories for the spring selling season. Used vehicle prices remained high. Outlooks were mostly positive, and contacts in the Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expect sales to increase in coming months. However, some auto dealers in the Cleveland District expressed concern about the potential negative impact of fiscal policy on consumer spending. Reports from most Districts pointed to continued strength in travel and tourism, bolstered by both the business and leisure segments. Business travel remained robust in the Boston, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts, and foreign visitors continued to boost convention travel according to the Atlanta District. The Minneapolis District noted that winter tourism activity was stronger than last year, and spring-break related travel bolstered tourism in the Richmond District. Restaurants in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts noted increased sales. Bookings were strong at some resorts in the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts, and hotels in Manhattan, Hawaii, and the Kansas City District noted solid gains in occupancy rates. In contrast, business at restaurants and museums in the Boston District softened in part due to unfavorable weather conditions. Attendance and revenues were slightly lower at Broadway theaters, casino revenues fell in the Philadelphia District, and tourism activity weakened in Southern California during the reporting period. Nonfinancial ServicesDemand for nonfinancial services expanded at a modest pace since the previous report. The Kansas City and San Francisco Districts noted solid growth in information technology services, and contacts expect demand to remain robust through year-end. The Boston District reported strong demand for healthcare consulting services partly due to changes resulting from the Affordable Care Act, while healthcare firms in the San Francisco District indicated plans to freeze hiring and scale back capital expenditures in response to federal spending cuts. Defense-related and other firms dependent on the federal government in the Philadelphia District said they expect a decline in activity for the remainder of the year. Activity expanded for professional and business services, such as accounting, advertising, marketing, consulting, and legal services. Consulting services remained strong in the Boston District, and firms in the Dallas District noted strength in accounting services. Advertising and marketing firms in the Boston District said an uptick in growth for their services was buoyed by stronger financial positions of clients. The St. Louis District noted plans for hiring and expansion in social and legal services, while the Dallas District report indicated weaker-than-expected growth in demand for legal services. Transportation service activity increased since the previous report. Air travel improved in the Dallas District, in part due to spring-break related activity. Intermodal cargo volumes moved higher in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts, and activity at logistics and transport firms in the Philadelphia District grew at a moderate rate. Trucking traffic picked up in the Kansas City District, and trucking cargo volumes were above year ago levels according to Atlanta's report. Railroad contacts in the Dallas District said shipments grew, particularly for petroleum and construction-related products, and freight transportation volumes were higher than expected in the Cleveland District. According to Richmond's report, container traffic increased at larger ports in the District because of continued strength in shipments of auto parts. Air freight volumes rose in the Atlanta District, and small parcel shipments grew strongly in the Dallas District. However, railroad shipments were flat to slightly down in the Atlanta District, and a contact in the Richmond District said that European-bound vessels were leaving the port lighter than in the past, particularly due to a decline in construction and agricultural equipment exports. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity continued to improve in most Districts, and some Districts, including Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco, noted increased momentum since the last report. The New York District, in particular, noted especially strong improvement in residential real estateóboth in for-sale housing and apartment markets. Home sales continued to rise in most Districts. Although homebuyer demand was high in the Boston District, low home inventories were restraining sales, keeping growth modest. Home sales were reportedly strong in both the Atlanta and Dallas Districts. The Richmond District noted low inventories were pushing up contracts to well above listing prices, and the Boston and New York Districts said multiple bids on properties have become more common. Tight inventories and strong sales led to rising home prices in many Districts, including Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Within the New York District, condo sales volumes strengthened and low inventories have begun to drive up selling prices in New York City and surrounding areas, while New Jersey home prices were rising modestly and inventories were shrinking with a marked reduction in the number of distressed properties. Contacts in the Boston District also noted a decline in the stock of distressed properties. New home construction continued to pick up in most Districts, although the Richmond District said that a low supply of residential building materials had stalled construction. Only the Philadelphia District noted that residential construction decelerated somewhat, although home sales were still growing moderately. Multifamily construction increased in several Districts including Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco. The New York District noted apartment rents accelerated in early 2013, due to stronger demand coupled with historically low inventories. The Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts said apartment demand remained strong. Commercial real estate and construction activity improved in most Districts. Office vacancy rates declined in the Boston District and contacts said the construction of mixed-use projects was picking up. The New York District reported that office vacancy rates continued to decline and rents rose in Manhattan. The Philadelphia District commented that there was not much change in nonresidential activity during the reporting period, but that contracts for repair work from Hurricane Sandy have yet to be approved. Contacts in the Richmond District cited a tight supply of class A office space and said there were several large projects under construction in the Washington D.C. area. Commercial construction saw widespread improvement with the New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts noting increases. Both commercial real estate development and leasing activity increased across the San Francisco District, mostly fueled by growth in the technology industry. Several Districts, including Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City said commercial property investment sales activity increased during the reporting period. Contacts in the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts were somewhat optimistic in their outlooks for the commercial real estate and construction markets in general, but contacts in the Cleveland District were cautious about near-term construction activity. Dallas District contacts said office and warehouse markets were improving, and Atlanta District respondents noted growing optimism for the office and industrial sectors. Banking and FinanceLoan demand was steady to slightly up at most District Banks that commented on lending. The Philadelphia District, however, said loan volumes softened somewhat since the previous report. The New York District noted widespread increases in loan demand, particularly for commercial loans and residential mortgages, and the Cleveland District said business and consumer loan demand picked up since the last report. The Dallas District saw broad-based improvement in loan demand as energy-related lending remained strong and commercial real estate and home equity lending bounced up from low levels. The San Francisco District said increased growth in automobile and mortgage loans spurred overall improvements in loan demand. Several Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco, said loan pricing was very competitive. Reports on mortgage lending were mostly favorable. Stronger refinancing activity was cited by the New York and Atlanta Districts. The Cleveland and Kansas City Districts noted a shift from mortgage refinancing to new purchases, and the New York, Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported an uptick in residential mortgage loans. Most District banks said credit conditions remained favorable, with improved credit quality for business and consumer loans. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions were mixed across Districts, largely due to varying weather patterns. Drought persisted in the Kansas City District and worsened slightly in the Dallas District, straining the respective winter wheat crops and causing continued losses in the livestock sector. However, drought conditions improved significantly in much of the Atlanta District, and the winter wheat crop in the St. Louis District was largely in good condition. Cold weather delayed field preparation for spring planting in the Richmond and Chicago Districts. The Minneapolis District's agricultural sector remained strong, and producers in the San Francisco District noted increased production as well as higher demand. Farmers in the Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts plan to increase soybean acreage this year but were mixed in their plans for corn and other grain acreage. Contacts in the Chicago District noted that corn and soybean prices dropped over the reporting period based on expectations of a larger crop this year and current stocks not being as tight as anticipated. Oil and natural gas production generally held steady at moderate to high levels since the last report. Drilling activity was stable over the reporting period, but contacts in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts expect a rise in coming months. Output in some wet gas regions of the Cleveland District is expected to increase later in the year as new gas processing units come online. The energy sector was a bright spot in the Atlanta District, as projects to increase the Gulf Coast's liquefied natural gas (LNG) export capacity drove capital and labor demand. Across the country, coal production continued to decline, with lower output reported by the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor market conditions remained unchanged or improved slightly, and reports of hiring were more widespread in the manufacturing, residential construction, information technology, and professional services sectors. Several Districts noted robust demand for workers tied to the residential construction sector, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco. In particular, a lumber and wood products firm in the Philadelphia District said the firming housing market had resulted in the best growth prospects in five years. Demand for information technology professionals and engineers was strong in the New York, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. Staffing firms in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts noted an increase in orders from the manufacturing sector, and several manufacturers in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts said they planned on expanding their payrolls. Reports from the New York and Richmond Districts indicated strong demand for temporary workers. The Minneapolis District noted a tightening labor market, and along with the Dallas District cited continued challenges in attracting and retaining workers in areas close to oil-drilling regions. The Chicago District cited a stronger job market for new college graduates and more competition among employers to fill intern positions. Contacts in several Districts faced difficulties finding highly trained or skilled workers, especially in the information technology and engineering fields. In contrast, hiring activity was limited in the Boston and Cleveland Districts, demand for staffing services softened in the Dallas District, and some Districts, including Richmond and Atlanta, reported restrained hiring due to uncertainty over fiscal policy or healthcare reform. Overall upward wage pressures continued to be fairly modest. There were a few exceptions, however. Several Districts reported wage pressures in sectors experiencing labor shortages, such as information technology, construction, and engineering. The Kansas City District noted wage increases for commercial truck drivers, and the Richmond District reported widespread wage increases in the service sector. Rising healthcare costs were a concern among contacts in a few Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago. The majority of Districts said overall price pressures remained minimal during the reporting period. Several Districts, including Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, said prices for some construction materials rose since the last report, but there were few reports of pass-through. Kansas City District contacts said price increases for raw materials used in manufacturing led to higher selling prices in some instances and retail prices edged up. New York District respondents noted some increased selling prices in the service sector, and the Atlanta District reported that contacts in the transportation sector were able to cover cost increases with fuel surcharges. The Atlanta and Dallas Districts said that cotton prices rose since the last report. Contacts in the Richmond District noted input and finished goods prices rose at a slower pace since the last report, and Chicago District contacts said commodity prices were down slightly. Return to top Retail and TourismRetailers contacted for this round cite mixed results for first quarter 2013. One reports that year-over-year comp store sales were up 2.5 percent to 2.6 percent, while others report slower than expected sales. Some contacts attribute their slowdowns partly to the prolonged winter weather, noting that while this winter has been unseasonably cold in some regions, winter 2012 was unusually mild. Demand remains strong for clothing, shoes, and home furnishings. Inventories are in good shape, and any price increases are moderate. Contacts continue to expect that 2013 sales increases will be in the modest single digits. The tourism business softened in February and March compared with a year earlier; some of this slowdown is also attributed to weather-related factors, especially for restaurants and museums. January through March is seasonally the slowest period for leisure travel. Tourist activity from Europe dropped about 5 percent this quarter compared to a year ago. Corporate business travel and entertaining remain strong. Manufacturing and Related ServicesConversations with a dozen manufacturing contacts paint a mixed picture. More than half report that demand for their products improved in the first quarter versus the previous quarter or a year earlier.† The two firms reporting the strongest sales growth were in the health care sector--a drug company and a medical device manufacturer--and both reported spectacular growth. At the other end of the spectrum, two firms in the semiconductor business report that sales continue to languish. One, a maker of analog devices, acknowledged that the semiconductor business is cyclical, but said that the duration of the current slowdown is unlike anything he had encountered in his years in the industry.† Hiring patterns largely mirror sales growth, with four firms reporting substantial hiring, three citing stability, and five firms reporting staff reductions. The two health care-related firms led the pack, increasing staff at annualized rates of 15 percent to 18 percent. For the medical device manufacturer, the hiring was largely support personnel such as sales, marketing, and back office. Weakness in demand is not yet translating into lower capital expenditures, with only one firm reporting a reduction. Half the firms noted increases in spending and the rest reported no change. One of firms engaged in substantial capital spending relative to sales is the analog semiconductor firm reporting continued weakness in sales; the firm's managers indicate they remain confident that the long-term growth patterns in the industry will justify their investment.† Looking forward, only one-third of manufacturing respondents were negative about the outlook.† Most of the rest were optimistic or "cautiously optimistic."† Selected Business ServicesConsulting and advertising contacts in the First District report a generally strong first quarter and were positive about their firms' recent performance and near-term outlook. Marketing and advertising contacts note an uptick in growth due to clients in stronger financial positions and with more money to spend. Several contacts report robust demand for health care consulting services as the industry adapts to massive changes attributable in part to the Affordable Care Act. Economic consulting remains strong because of high levels of complex high-stakes litigation; management and strategy consulting contacts cite improved business conditions as clients have become more optimistic and seem to believe that it is time to invest for future growth. The only contact to report a bad quarter works mostly with the federal government and has been heavily affected by fiscal contraction. Contacts generally report cost increases around 2 percent and most firms either raised their rates between zero and 5 percent, or plan to do so later in the year. Several firms have done no hiring because of strong recent hiring or a desire to wait until stronger demand seems more certain. Other firms report stronger hiring, particularly related to health care consulting, in order to deal with increasing demand. Most contacts expect growth to remain strong or to pick up through the rest of 2013. One exception is a government contractor who is too uncertain about future fiscal policy to offer a forecast. Other respondents seem minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the European debt crisis, and the state of the macro economy, a change from the recent past. One contact specifically notes that client businesses seem to have become comfortable with the level of uncertainty in the economy and are deciding to move forward with investment and business expansion rather than wait for more clarity; several other contacts' reports are consistent with this characterization. Commercial Real EstateReports from commercial real estate contacts in the First District contain much good news. Boston contacts uniformly remark that the office leasing market has firmed up in recent months and that the vacancy rate is down significantly from one year ago. Activity is particularly strong in the seaport district, but financial district towers are also seeing absorption of long-vacant space. Investment sales activity in greater Boston remains brisk, especially for multifamily structures. Planned construction projects in Boston picked up considerably, with a focus on mixed-use projects, and should lead to job gains for the sector moving forward. In Hartford, the state government purchased a large downtown office tower, absorbing a large block of Class A space, boosting business sentiment and, it is speculated, helping put upward pressure on rents. In Portland, the retail property market saw healthy leasing activity and investment sales activity picked up modestly. In Providence, progress continues on some large office leasing deals (despite not yet leading to completions), investment sales activity continues to rise, and business sentiment is seen as increasingly optimistic. On the downside, Hartford saw stagnant office leasing and virtually no construction activity, while Portland's office vacancy rate remains stubbornly high at 12 percent. Small-scale commercial real estate loan demand remains well below last year's pace, according to one regional lender. Construction materials costs are on the rise, putting pressure on profit margins at small firms in particular. In Portland, property fundamentals are expected to remain flat despite forecasts of healthy transaction volume and a possible increase in hiring by some large firms. In Hartford, the outlook remains cautiously optimistic. In Providence, upside risks to absorption and rents remain, while the federal sequester poses a threat to the state's defense industry. In Boston, one contact expects improvement in fundamentals to remain slow while another expects absorption to accelerate if employment growth continues at its current pace. Boston is expected to remain a magnet for investors owing to its strength in the health and education sectors. However, Boston contacts continue to express concern over property valuations that appear high in relation to income-growth potential. Residential Real EstateStrong consecutive months of year-over-year growth in single-family homes sales halted in February, with some New England states experiencing marginal increases and most observing a decline. According to contacts, buyer demand remains strong, but dwindling inventory levels have hampered growth in sales. Meanwhile, median sale prices across the region rose from a year ago. Contacts attribute the price rise to the declining stock of distressed properties compared to a year ago as well as to the general decline in inventory reducing supply relative to demand. Particularly in urban areas throughout New England, decreasing inventory levels have placed upward pressure on prices. In the Greater Boston area, contacts report that multiple bids on properties have become more common as inventory continues to dwindle. Contacts express concern that low inventory levels in the next several months could discourage buyers and continue to be a significant factor limiting the growth of sales. On the other hand, inventory levels may rise with the beginning of the busy spring season. In addition, rising prices will eventually lure into the market sellers who have been waiting for the value of their homes to pick up before listing them. Return to top Consumer SpendingRetailers report that sales were generally brisk in March. One major chain reports that same-store sales were ahead of plan--especially in and around New York City--and up modestly from March 2012 levels. A contact in upstate New York also reports that mall sales were brisk in March and up from a year ago, following a tepid performance in February; some of the recent strength is attributed to Canadian shoppers. Inventories are reported to be in good shape, prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is reported. Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales have remained fairly strong since the last report. February sales were roughly on par with comparable 2012 levels, despite an exceptionally strong performance a year ago; March appears to be shaping up as a solid month as well. Used vehicle sales are reported to have softened a bit, but this is largely attributed to attractive deals in the new car market. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are reported to be in good shape. Tourism activity has been mostly robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report continued brisk business in February and March: revenue per room was up nearly 15 percent, driven by a combination of high and rising occupancy rates and escalating room rates. Hotels in the outer boroughs continue to see fairly strong business, partly reflecting ongoing demand from Sandy recovery workers, and also from displaced residents. On the other hand, Broadway theaters report some weakening in both attendance and revenues since mid-February; they have been running below comparable 2012 levels by roughly 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively. Finally, consumer confidence in the region has ebbed somewhat. The Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence retreating in March after rising in February, and Siena College's survey of New York State residents shows a similar pattern. Construction and Real EstateResidential real estate markets in the District have shown increasingly widespread signs of improvement in recent weeks. New York City apartment rents, which had flattened out in the final months of 2012, have accelerated in early 2013 and are reported to be up 6-7 percent from a year ago in Manhattan and by somewhat more in Brooklyn. With respect to the city's co-op and condo market, a major appraisal firm reports that sales volume has strengthened, while the inventory of apartments for sale is down sharply to one of the lowest levels on record. Most of the new development is at the upper end of the market, while low inventories across the rest of the spectrum have begun to drive up selling prices across New York City, as well as in Westchester County and Long Island. Multiple offers (bidding wars), though hardly the norm, are becoming more frequent across the region. Prime areas of Brooklyn, where market conditions are particularly strong, are reported to be seeing a good deal of commercial-to-residential conversion. Similarly, an expert on northern New Jersey's housing market reports continued improvement in market conditions: the volume of distressed properties there has been shrinking, with noticeably fewer homes moving into delinquency or foreclosure recently. Still, prices have moved up only modestly, held back by a slow foreclosure process. Buffalo-area Realtors also report strong market fundamentals--declining inventories and fairly rapid price appreciation. Commercial real estate markets across the District have also shown signs of improvement in the first quarter. Office vacancy rates continued to decline across Manhattan, and asking rents rose--particularly in the Midtown South area--while vacancy rates edged down and asking rents were little changed in Long Island and northern New Jersey. Office vacancy rates in New York City and Long Island are currently at their lowest levels in a number of years. In contrast, office vacancy rates remain near multi-year highs in northern New Jersey, as well as in Westchester and Fairfield counties; one New Jersey contact describes new construction activity there as "moribund". In New York City, though, commercial construction activity has been more robust, particularly in Lower Manhattan, reflecting ongoing work on the World Trade Center complex and a new major transit hub and complex. Industrial markets have been mixed: vacancy rates are down and rents up fairly sharply on Long Island, whereas both are little changed at sluggish levels in northern New Jersey, and in Westchester and Fairfield counties. Other Business ActivityContacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report steady business activity in recent weeks, while they remain broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013. In general, price pressures are reported to be steady and moderate in the manufacturing sector but more widespread among service-sector businesses; a small but growing number of service-sector contacts say they are increasing their selling prices. There are growing signs of improvement in the job market. In general, more business contacts indicate that they plan to increase than reduce staff in the months ahead. A major employment agency reports that demand for temps remains strong, and that firms are also hiring more full-time workers, as well as transitioning more temps to full-time positions. Qualified job candidates are increasingly hard to find, and more job-seekers are now getting multiple job offers. An employment agency contact reports increased hiring activity from a broad cross-section of industries, including financial services and publishing, which had been sluggish. Another contact in the employment services industry notes particularly strong demand for IT workers. While starting salary offers remain fairly stable in general, employers are reportedly often willing to pay top dollar for tech workers with specialized skills. Financial DevelopmentsSmall- to medium-sized banks report an increase in demand for commercial loans and mortgages but little change in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages. Bankers report an uptick in demand for refinancing. Credit standards are reported to be unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly for consumer loans, where roughly one in four bankers reports lower spreads and no respondent reports higher spreads. Respondents also indicate continued decreases in average deposit rates. Finally, bankers report continued modest declines in delinquency rates on all categories of loans. Return to top The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as those views expressed in the last Beige Book. While some uncertainty remains as sequestration unfolds, contacts express greater confidence in the underlying strength of the economy. However, many contacts continue to hold off on their plans to expand capacity and hire more staff. ManufacturingSince the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments have risen slightly. The makers of food products, lumber and wood products, fabricated metals, industrial machinery, electronic equipment, and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige Book. The makers of primary metals reported lower activity. Contacts have attributed the greatest gains to ongoing auto-related demand and growing demand from housing-related sectors; the greatest uncertainty was attached to military-related sectors. Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business conditions will improve over the next six months; their optimism is expressed broadly across nearly all sectors. A contact from a lumber and wood products firm reported the best growth prospects in five years due to a firming housing market; another wood products firm was hiring to expand capacity to meet growing demand. However, firms overall have somewhat lowered their expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers reported modest growth overall in February and March. After a falloff in sales (year over year) at many malls in February, contacts report that March sales were stronger and that an early Easter should boost the month's final results. During March, stores had increased their promotions to move spring apparel to make way for the arrival of the summer lineup; meanwhile, lingering cold weather had shoppers still searching for appropriate winter wear. In contrast, shoppers enjoyed warmer overall temperatures last year, including one 80-degree day during March to splurge on spring clothes. Although February ended with softer sales, auto dealers have continued to report a moderate pace of overall sales growth since the last Beige Book. Growth in sales has been as strong as last year despite worse weather, which has created up-and-down weekly sales patterns. A late March snowstorm and an early calendar-year appearance for Passover and Easter may have dampened sales in the final week of March. Dealers sustained a positive outlook but maintained lean inventories. Contacts reported that nearly half of the dealers plan to add staff, especially for sales and service. Most of the remaining dealers expect no change in staff levels. FinanceOverall, loan growth among Third District financial firms has softened somewhat since the previous Beige Book ñ growing little if at all. Contacts suggested the lull might be partially explained by the relative dearth of big deals in the wake of the fourth quarter frenzy, plus more immediate concerns for the pending sequestration impacts. Mortgage refinancings as a percent of total mortgages fell at many firms (often from as much as 90 percent to 75 percent). Total loans secured by any real estate fell slightly during the period. Most bank contacts report little change in credit standards and slow, steady gains in quality; many continue to report aggressive behavior from some of their bank and nonbank competitors. Financial institutions remain optimistic about future growth; however, the horizon for this growth appears farther away. Real Estate and ConstructionHomebuilders reported that contract activity was near plan for February and March. Modest year-over-year growth rates were slower than last period; however, more new homes were rising from the ground in the first quarter of 2013 than in any year since 2008. Compared with historical patterns, current new construction tends to be smaller, more affordable, more rental, and more urban. Builders are prepared to hire if current trends continue but are reporting that good labor is increasingly scarce. Residential brokers reported little change in the moderate pace of sales; however, year-over-year growth in February was modest compared with last year when weather was unseasonably warm. The existing inventory of homes continues to fall, and bank contacts reported that investor loans used to convert residential properties to rentals are increasing. Nonresidential real estate contacts reported little change overall--maintaining modest growth in overall leasing activity and slight growth in construction. A drop-off in the recently high level of contract values being bid for construction of public utilities projects was partially offset by bids for residential construction (including a $200 million high-rise apartment and a university dorm project). Many contracts for repair work from Hurricane Sandy have yet to go to bid. Investors appear to have increased development activity in Delaware's shore communities in expectation of attracting more tourists from New York and New Jersey. Overall, contacts are more optimistic, citing increased inquiries, more commitments to decisions, rather than deferrals, and more deals to approve. ServicesThird District service-sector firms have maintained a modest pace of growth overall since the last Beige Book. Resorts in the Poconos were still enjoying an extended ski season, as their golf season was getting underway. Moderate growth through their winter season was boosted by early spring holiday weekends. Expectations that the positive trend will continue were buoyed by strong bookings for Memorial Day. Strong, early bookings for summer were also reported by the operators of Delaware shore hotels, who report getting more inquiries from New Jersey and New York residents this year. However, casino revenues for February fell by double digits in Atlantic City and by nearly eight percent throughout Pennsylvania from the prior-year levels. In other sectors, staffing firms reported small increases in billable hours over the past month and project the trend to continue for three to six weeks based on their flow of work orders. Activity at logistics and transport firms grew moderately. However, firms with defense-related work and other entities dependent on federal money (e.g., higher education) are now anticipating somewhat lower levels of employment and activity for the remainder of this year. Overall, service-sector firms remain generally optimistic about future growth. Prices and WagesOverall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported only modest cost pressures and a slight decline in prices received--essentially unchanged from last period. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Homebuilders continued to note higher prices, especially for lumber and labor costs. Higher-end homebuilders reported some ability to make price increases stick. Real estate contacts continued to report that low-end house prices are firm or rising slightly, while high-end home prices are still falling in most markets. Outside of homebuilders, contacts continued to report that wages rose only slightly, if at all. Contacts continued to relay a wide range of costs and strategies to provide medical insurance benefits for their employees; their decision processes remain fraught with confusion and uncertainty. Return to top Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors, although the pace has picked up among home builders since the start of the year. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements rose slightly, with vacancies found primarily in industrial production. Wage pressures were contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in construction materials. ManufacturingReports from†District factories indicated that new orders and production were mostly higher during the past six weeks. Companies seeing the most activity were suppliers to the residential construction, shale gas, and transportation industries. Manufacturers serving the defense and commercial building industries experienced some weakening in new orders. Exports to Pacific Rim countries improved, while exports to Europe diminished. Compared to a year ago, manufacturing activity was mixed. Steel producers and service centers reported that the pickup in shipping volume early in the first quarter has leveled off. Excess steel produced in China and Europe is now being imported into the United States in larger quantities. Auto production at District plants rose at a moderate pace during February on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, production numbers were little changed. Many manufacturing contacts remain cautiously optimistic about near-term growth prospects. Capacity utilization rates stood within their normal ranges. Steel producers reported reducing inventories during the past six weeks, while inventories at other factories held steady. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Most outlays are allocated for technology that will be used to enhance productivity. Little capacity expansion is planned. Raw material and finished goods prices were flat or trended lower. Many manufacturers noted that their ability to raise prices during 2013 is likely to be very limited. Manufacturing payrolls were stable and wage pressures are contained. Real EstateSales of new and existing single-family homes continued on an upward trend since our last report, and sales were higher than a year ago. Contracts were found mainly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multi-family housing remains strong. A developer of market-rate apartments described activity as very good. Another developer said that demand for affordable rental units is surging. While builders expressed confidence that the improvement in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months, they still see the appraisal process and the availability of financing as headwinds to more robust growth. Reports indicated that list prices of new homes increased by 1 to 2 percent this year, which was attributed to shrinking inventories and rising prices for building materials, especially lumber and drywall. Builders have cut back on discounting. Nonresidential contractors saw a modest increase in activity, relative to the January/February time period. The number of inquiries is rising, but many builders are underbidding in an effort to keep their resources engaged. As a result, tight margins are being compressed even further. Project work is found mainly in manufacturing, large multifamily developments (affordable, market rate, and senior), and shale gas infrastructure. Our contacts are cautious about near-term activity. Many builders pointed to uncertainty in the market and clients who are unwilling to take risks at this time. In addition, the time-consuming process of financing a project is holding back some clients. Little change was reported in prices of building materials. General contractors (residential and nonresidential) expect subcontractors will attempt to raise their rates and push through price increases for materials by the second half of this year. The potential rise was attributed to a dwindling number of subcontracting businesses and stronger demand. Residential builders are hiring at a moderate pace, especially field personnel. Nonresidential builders are looking to hire a few project managers and back-office employees. Concerns about difficulties in finding qualified workers and escalating healthcare benefit costs were widespread. Consumer SpendingMost retailers reported that sales volume for the period from mid-February through mid-March was higher relative to the previous 30-day period. Rising volume was particularly evident in apparel and electronics. Store managers who experienced a downturn in sales cited higher gasoline prices and taxes as contributing factors. Second-quarter sales are expected to be up slightly, when compared to the same quarter last year. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. A food producer commented that agricultural commodity prices, though elevated, are fairly stable, and he anticipates little upward pressure on prices attributable to food during 2013. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. One retail chain projected significantly higher capital investment this year, but much of it is allocated for remodeling older stores. No hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores. Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase during February compared to the same time period a year ago. A few dealers noted that cold weather had curbed consumer enthusiasm. Buyers continue to prefer smaller, fuel-efficient cars and compact SUVs. Large pick-up trucks were big sellers in regions with significant shale gas activity. New-vehicle inventories were higher than most dealers would like. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects for the year, with most projecting 5 percent to 10 percent growth over 2012. However, some are concerned about fiscal policy decisions and the potentially negative impact they could have on the economy and consumer spending. Sales of used vehicles declined during February. Leasing is trending higher, which should help to replenish the used-vehicle inventory. Financing continues to loosen except for those buyers with low credit scores. Dealers are reluctant to add to their sales staff at this time. BankingDemand for business credit has picked up since our last report. Although requests originated from a broad range of sectors, commercial real estate and manufacturing stood out. Loan pricing remains under pressure. Reports on consumer credit also showed a small rise in demand, mainly for home-equity products and auto loans. Bankers noted a slight drop-off in residential mortgage activity; however, there was a definite shift in applications from refinancing to new purchase. Delinquency rates held steady or declined across consumer and commercial loan categories. No changes were made to loan-application standards. Aggregate core deposits grew; customers continue to transfer monies from non-liquid to liquid accounts. Bankers remain very concerned about shrinking net interest margins. In response, some are considering raising fees in all areas. On balance, there was little change in payrolls. Two bankers reported rising employment numbers due to acquisitions. EnergyCoal production continued to trend down across the District, with lower production projected for the near term. One producer commented that demand from electric utilities has risen slightly due to an extended period of cold weather and an uptick in natural gas prices. Spot prices for metallurgical and steam-coal are up somewhat. Output from conventional and unconventional oil and natural gas wells was steady during the past couple of months. In the wet gas regions of Ohio and West Virginia, output should begin to increase later in the year as newly constructed gas processing units come on line. Well-head prices for oil and gas rose slightly. Rig count in the District was stable during the first quarter. Capital expenditures were at targeted levels, with little change expected. Production equipment and material prices were flat across most categories. Oil and gas payrolls held steady, while coal operators reported additional layoffs. Freight TransportationFor the most part, our contacts reported that shipping volume was somewhat higher than expected for this time of year, although no product area stands out. Freight executives are more optimistic about growth prospects than earlier in the year, and some believe that their growth projections for 2013 may be too low. Diesel-fuel prices have started to trend down from high levels, which carriers passed through via surcharges. Costs associated with equipment and maintenance items were stable. Capital spending was generally down in the first quarter of this year relative to late last year. However, our contacts believe that spending will begin to pick up in the second quarter. One executive stated that he has an aggressive spending plan in place, which includes capacity and footprint expansion. Hiring is for replacement and capacity expansion. New hours-of-service regulations (federal) may prompt additional hiring, but it will put upward pressure on shipping prices. Wage pressures are contained. Return to top ManufacturingFifth District manufacturing production expanded at a somewhat slower pace since our last report. A textile maker reported that his business was slow with the exception of automotive products. He expected a pickup in non-automotive business during the next few months, however. A producer of electrical components told us that business was poor in the U.S. but good in Europe and Latin America. Additionally, a textile manufacturer indicated that while sales levels had improved, his outlook remained cautious. Moreover, a dental equipment producer noted that work volumes had increased earlier this year, but that the market recently softened. On the other hand, a manufacturer of technical foam products commented that sales through the first quarter of 2013 had been solid and he expected a strong year. According to our latest survey, prices grew at a slightly slower rate for both raw materials and finished goods. PortsWe received a variety of reports on District port activity. A port executive commented that European-bound vessels were leaving the port lighter than in the past, which he attributed to weaker economies there. In particular, exports of construction and agricultural equipment were down since the start of 2013. In a smaller District port, container shipments matched year-ago levels, while exports of lumber and plywood recently picked up, and corn and grain exports from the Midwest were up over last year's low, drought-related levels. A contact in West Virginia remarked on port bottlenecks of coal exports. Container traffic increased at larger District ports, with continued strength in trade of auto parts. Drivers of import growth in recent weeks were consumer housing goods such as furniture and flooring. The inland port in Greer, South Carolina remained on target to officially open in the third quarter of 2013; that port is expected to shift cargo from trucks to railroads. RetailRetail sales fell in recent weeks in most categories, and shopper traffic was down. In Virginia Beach, a store manager at a chain discount store commented that persistent cold weather softened overall sales, particularly sales of seasonal items. In contrast, a few surveyed retailers and wholesalers in construction-related lines indicated that revenues rose over the reporting period. Also, auto sales remained constant at high levels. Consumer confidence, improved stability in middle-class home values, and low interest rates underpinned strong sales and good performance on auto financing. Contacts in the industry noted that used car prices remained relatively high, narrowing the spread relative to new car prices. Survey respondents indicated that overall, retail price increases were less prevalent since our last report. ServicesActivity at services firms remained steady at a moderate pace. Seasonal businesses such as tax services and landscaping reported higher revenues, while most other services providers noted little change. Prices at services firms rose at a slower pace, according to our latest survey. Tourism generally increased over the past month, although most areas reported delayed spring weather. Cold weather in the nation's capital moved the Cherry Blossom Festival's peak bloom time into April. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina commented that despite cool weather, Easter and spring break brought plenty of tourists. In addition, an upscale resort in western North Carolina had higher bookings. A contact in Charleston, South Carolina noted that the addition of a national airline is expected to strengthen the local hospitality industry. Several hoteliers and rental agents across North Carolina expected to be able to raise transient rates by three to six percent this year, but they anticipated a decline in government-rate bookings as a result of sequestration. FinanceLoan demand remained relatively stable since our last assessment. Although most bankers reported a slight uptick in demand for residential mortgages, they noted that demand for both commercial mortgages and other business loans flattened. An exception was a banker in North Carolina who cited a modest increase in business loan demand driven by the need to replace assets. In addition, no significant changes in delinquencies or credit quality were reported, apart from improvement reported by an Eastern Shore banker and a West Virginia contact. Bankers indicated that competition continued to intensify, compressing already-tight margins. A few lenders said that their competitors were lowering collateral requirements and fixing interest rates for a longer period, just to close deals. Contacts also reported a decrease in customers' willingness to take on debt. For example, a Virginia banker observed that prospective homebuyers now request a specific monthly payment and no longer inquire about the maximum amount for which they could qualify. Real EstateResidential real estate activity generally strengthened in this reporting period. A contact in North Carolina stated that residential real estate was booming and inventories were low. A Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area reported an increase in purchases for renovation and resale. He stated that inventory was down thirty-five percent from last year, and some developers were offering all cash, non-contingent contracts for well above list price. Similarly, a Realtor in the metro-Richmond area said foot traffic rose, which he attributed to the limited supply of homes, pent up demand, and low interest rates. A contact in Charlotte reported that low inventories of residential building materials had put building permits on hold. Similarly, a source in Hampton Roads, Virginia reported that sequestration had put potential buyers on the sidelines. Commercial real estate and construction markets improved since our last report. A Richmond Realtor reported a steady increase in leasing activity. A source in Charlotte cited a rise in land and retail investment transactions and more hospitality-related renovations. Most contacts described a tight supply of Class A office space, with positive absorption and declining vacancy rates. Several Realtors said that discounts could still be found for Class B or C space. A representative of a large construction firm in Baltimore reported that activity was very strong, especially for healthcare buildings and data centers, and the outlook was "extremely positive." A contact in the Washington, D.C. area also reported several large projects under construction. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesCold temperatures and wet weather delayed land preparation and hindered spring plantings in the agricultural sector. Hay supplies were running low in some regions, resulting in higher demand for supplemental feeding. However, a contact on the Eastern Shore of Maryland stated that poultry production and agriculture were doing well, grain and land prices were good, and the overall outlook was positive. Conventional oil and natural gas production maintained a moderate pace and the rig count in West Virginia was little changed since our last report. Coal production declined. A source in West Virginia attributed the drop to displacement of coal by natural gas, although coal exports had partially offset lower domestic demand. Labor MarketsAssessments of labor market activity were mixed since our last report. On the one hand, manufacturing firms in the Carolinas reported temporary layoffs due to softness in orders, and contacts in sectors from real estate to wholesale trade to manufacturing said that they were reducing staff or not expanding due to the Affordable Care Act. On the other hand, a Maryland firm planned to add 200 to 250 engineers as a result of the recent pick-up in construction, and a lumber firm increased its average employee work week. Moreover, contacts from a number of temp agencies cited stronger demand for workers, resulting in part from uncertainty about federal fiscal policies. The highest demand was for information technology workers; short supply pushed up their wages. Demand for telecommunication workers picked up, as carriers upgraded systems. Additionally, demand for automobile industry workers strengthened. According to our latest surveys, average wages at non-retail services firms rose more quickly, while manufacturing wages rose at a slower pace in recent weeks and retail wages declined. †Return to top Retail reports were mixed with some retailers citing improved sales and others feeling the pinch from a constrained consumer. Hospitality contacts reported healthy activity in both leisure and business travel. Homebuilders and brokers experienced further improvements in sales and prices of new and existing homes, and inventories continued to decline on a year-over-year basis. Commercial contractors noted a strong year to date as construction levels improved from late last year. Overall, manufacturing activity remained positive as new orders and production increased. Loan demand remained steady according to bankers. Payrolls continued to grow at a tepid pace as firms remained reluctant in hiring due to uncertainty over fiscal policy and healthcare reform. Prices remained stable and most firms continued to report having relatively little pricing power. Consumer Spending and TourismDistrict merchants reported mixed results from mid-February through March. Several contacts indicated improvements in profit margins and sales over the last three months, while others noted that they experienced the result of consumers taking a hit with the expiration of the payroll tax cut, increased fuel prices, a delay in income tax refunds, and increased health insurance premiums. Yet, even with these challenges, most retailers remained reasonably upbeat. District automotive contacts cited favorable sales for the same time period. Travel and tourism activity remained robust and continued to exceed expectations, especially in the leisure segment. Although government and business bookings decreased due to location restrictions and/or budgetary constraints, overall demand remained healthy. Concerns that gas prices could dampen summer travel continued; however, hospitality contacts anticipate activity to still exceed 2012 levels. International visitation for leisure and convention travel continued to be a strong contributor to growth despite the strength of the dollar. Real Estate and ConstructionAccording to District brokers, housing markets across the region continued to improve. Recent sales growth was described as strong on a year-over-year basis. Existing home inventories continued to contract and brokers noted that this was restraining sales. Furthermore, many reported receiving multiple offers on properties, particularly at the low-end of the market. Most indicated that home prices rose modestly compared with a year earlier. Appreciation was strongest among Florida contacts. Overall, the outlook for existing home sales growth over the next several months remained positive. Similar to our last report, homebuilders reported that recent new home sales were ahead of year earlier levels, and they noted improving levels of buyer traffic across the region. Just over half said that new home inventories were below the year-ago level. The portion of builders characterizing home prices as up relative to a year ago also rose compared to our previous report. Reports also cited that new home construction was ahead of last year's level. Contacts remarked that access to construction financing had improved somewhat from late last year, but the majority continued to report that the number of actual loans made was still short of demand. The outlook for construction activity and new home sales over the next several months remained positive with most anticipating levels to be slightly ahead on a year-over-year basis. District commercial real estate contacts indicated that the first quarter of this year had started off solid compared with the end of last year. Commercial brokers reported that net absorption was positive. Contacts also noted growing optimism as businesses in the office and industrial sector began to position themselves for growth over the next 12 to 18 months. However, the demand for retail space remained soft across most of the region. Contacts remarked that investor interest had spread to secondary and tertiary markets, particularly in the apartment sector where demand had been especially strong. Commercial contractors cited that construction improved from late last year and backlogs were up as well. Activity was dominated by build-to-suit projects. Most contacts expect District commercial real estate markets to improve further this year. Manufacturing and TransportationRegional manufacturers reported that activity expanded for the third consecutive month in March. Increases in new orders, production, employment, and finished inventory contributed to the highest level of manufacturing activity since May 2012. Contacts noted profit margins slightly improved from mid-February through March. However, they do not expect production to be as high in the coming months as they had in our previous report. District trucking contacts reported a slowdown in volume, citing reduced imports of retail goods from west coast ports, along with poor weather conditions. Still, volumes were ahead of year earlier levels. Strong movement of housing-related materials was cited as the housing recovery continued. Railroad companies described activity as flat to slightly down. Chemicals and oil and gas showed the strongest growth, while coal reflected some softening, particularly in export of thermal coal. Intermodal growth remained solid and the movement of forest products also improved. Domestic air freight traffic was up slightly, and international tonnage grew compared to the same period last year, marked by increases in Asian volumes and exports to Europe and Latin America, specifically Brazil. Banking and FinanceDriven by historically low rates, consumers continued refinancing mortgage loans and businesses continued restructuring debt. Competition remained intense for high quality loan applicants and community bankers noted that large regional and national banking organizations were more willing to offer lower fixed-rate, longer-termed loans to attract these customers. Many community banking contacts indicated that their institution had exited the mortgage lending business altogether because of increased regulations. Some stated that commercial real estate loan demand had increased, particularly for branded hotel construction, healthcare, and multi-family projects. Banks also cited more willingness to lend to small businesses; however, the overall demand for loans and credit line usage continued to remain low. Credit spreads remained tight and some bankers reported downward pressure on loan pricing. Employment and PricesSince our last report, payroll growth continued to increase at a lackluster pace across the District, though contacts continued to report that uncertainty over fiscal policy and healthcare reform were contributing to reluctance in hiring. In Florida and Georgia, the two states in the District with the largest concentrations of employment, unemployment rates declined slightly since the previous report, while unemployment rates have fluctuated in the four other states due to changes in the size of those states' labor force. Input costs remained mostly stable. Increases in prices for fuel and construction materials were viewed by most firms as transitory. Year-ahead unit cost expectations were 1.9 percent in February and March, roughly unchanged since the beginning of the year, according to the Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations Survey. Most businesses noted very little pricing power. Exceptions were transportation contacts who were able to successfully cover cost increases using fuel surcharges, and retailers, whose profit margins improved as sales levels ticked up somewhat over the reporting period. Natural Resources and AgricultureThe energy industry remained an especially bright spot in the region. In particular, projects to increase the Gulf Coast's liquefied natural gas (LNG) export capacity--through investment in new LNG export facilities at ports and new transportation infrastructure, like pipeline and LNG tanks--were strong drivers of capital and labor demand. Drought conditions improved significantly in Georgia, southeastern Alabama, and the Florida panhandle. Since the last report, monthly soybean and corn prices rose moderately, while broiler prices reached record highs. Cotton prices continued to be below year-ago levels, but rose modestly since the last report. Driven by increasing global demand and low interest rates, contacts reported continued investment in new, more efficient equipment reducing both labor and fuel costs. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending edged lower in March. Retailers reported higher inventory levels in part because lingering winter weather delayed the introduction of spring-related merchandise sitting in their warehouses. Some contacts indicated that the end of the payroll tax credit was having an increasingly negative effect on retail sales. Nonetheless, sales during the Easter holiday were largely in-line with expectations. Home improvement and clothing stores reported lower sales than during the previous reporting period, but discount stores noted an increase in sales of apparel. Sales of furniture and appliances also rose, buoyed by the recent upswing in the housing market. In contrast, auto sales leveled off. Dealers are still optimistic that sales will rise further year than last year, and are building inventory for the spring selling season. Used vehicle prices remained elevated, boosting trade-in values. In addition, dealers noted that customers' credit profiles continue to improve, allowing more of them to qualify for auto loans. Business SpendingGrowth in business spending picked up in March. Inventory levels increased slightly, and spending on equipment and software and on structures picked up. However, a number of manufacturing contacts reiterated that they plan to make capital expenditures this year only as necessary, delaying investments because of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. Labor market conditions improved slightly. Hiring continued to increase. Contacts indicated that there is still strong demand for talent in skilled professional and manufacturing jobs, and that shortages of qualified candidates remain in many of these occupations. In addition, a staffing firm reported an increase in demand for its services from the manufacturing sector. Other signs of improving labor demand also were reported, such as greater competition among employers to fill internships this year and a stronger job market for new college graduates. Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity increased in March. Demand for residential construction rose, reflecting both continued strength in multifamily construction and an improving single-family housing market. The gains have helped buoy confidence among homebuilders. Development of single-family homes in urban areas picked up some after years of limited activity. More generally, home prices have increased for both new and existing homes, with inventories of homes for sale shrinking. Growth in nonresidential construction, particularly for smaller retail stores and in the industrial sector, continued to be moderate. Commercial real estate conditions also continued to improve, with rents increasing and vacancy rates decreasing. ManufacturingGrowth in manufacturing production slowed in March. Several contacts speculated that the uncertainty surrounding sequestration had affected their customer's orders. However, they had yet to see much evidence of this in their shipments. That said, a contact did note that his military customers were actively seeking to squeeze out any potential inefficiencies in their supply chain in an effort to lower their costs in anticipation of tighter future defense budgets. Demand for steel was flat, and steel service center inventories were slightly above desirable levels. Specialty metal manufacturers reported declines in new orders, although backlogs remained elevated. Activity in the energy sector was mixed, with natural gas-related industries reporting stronger activity but the coal industry remaining weaker. Demand for heavy equipment was also mixed. Mining activity, particularly for coal, continued to decline. However, contacts indicated that construction equipment distributors and rental companies remain optimistic, pointing to the ongoing recovery in the housing market as a potential source of strength in the second half of the year. Demand for heavy and medium-duty trucks remained firm; and the auto industry continued to be a source of strength. Manufacturers of building materials and consumer products also noted an increase in demand with the exception of lawn and garden equipment. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions remained favorable over the reporting period. Credit spreads and financial market volatility continued to be low. Banking contacts reported moderate growth in business lending, especially to small businesses and for the purposes of expanding and upgrading of facilities. Real estate lending also reportedly picked up. Increased competition for borrowers was noted to be putting downward pressure on pricing and loosening commercial and industrial loan standards. Consumer borrowing also rose modestly, with a further increase in auto lending reported over the reporting period. Several financial contacts noted that the recent rise in equity and home prices appear to be boosting consumer confidence and spending. That said, a financial services industry contact indicated that consumer borrowing had been lower than anticipated given recent increases in consumer spending. Prices and CostsCost pressures were roughly unchanged, on balance, in March. Commodity prices were down slightly, and energy prices remained elevated. Scrap metal prices continued to decline, and a contact in the industry speculated that weaker demand from China was largely to blame. Contacts did note some upward price pressure on raw materials such as chemicals, lumber, and concrete as well as on transportation costs, but said that pass-through to downstream prices was limited. Retailers reported mostly modest wholesale price increases. Wage pressures remained moderate, although several contacts indicated increasing concern over the rising cost of healthcare. Other cost pressures that were mentioned included higher property taxes and regulatory costs. AgricultureCold weather delayed field work during the reporting period, but there was little concern expressed by contacts that planting would be seriously delayed. Corn and soybean prices dropped based on expectations of a larger crop this year and current stocks that are not as tight as anticipated. Contacts indicated that the number of soybean acres should be higher than the prior year in the District, while corn acres should be lower. Farmers seemed to increase their levels of crop insurance relative to last year. Milk prices moved lower during the reporting period, but remained above the levels of a year ago. Hog prices fell and were under year-ago levels. Cattle prices moved sideways during the reporting period, but were below the levels of a year ago. Some livestock producers were reportedly taking advantage of low long-term interest rates by refinancing and lengthening the maturity of their debt. Return to top Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to lay off workers. Firms in printing, food, housewares, automobile parts, jewelry, metal, lumber products, and beverage manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the near future. In contrast, a firm that manufactures aircraft parts announced plans to lay off workers in the District. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been mixed since our previous report. Firms in social and legal services reported plans for new hiring and expansion in the District. In contrast, firms in religious, information technology, business support, healthcare distribution, data processing, print and publishing, and transportation services reported plans to lay-off employees. Reports from retail contacts showed increases in sales and new store openings. Sales reports from auto dealers have generally been positive, and a number of contacts in the District announced plans to open new dealership locations. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, February 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 12 percent in Louisville, 14 percent in Little Rock, 4 percent in Memphis, and 11 percent in St. Louis. February 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 16 percent in Memphis and 36 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 8 percent in Little Rock and remained unchanged in Louisville over the same period. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve throughout most of the District. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported that commercial real estate activity was strong in the Jonesboro and Paragould area but remained flat in other areas. Contacts in Louisville noted that vacancy rates of commercial and industrial properties improved. A contact in central Arkansas reported an increase of commercial real estate activity in Little Rock, and a contact in St. Louis reported strong office leasing activity in the northwest and south portions of St. Louis County. Commercial and industrial construction activity is picking up throughout most of the District. Contacts in south central Kentucky continued to report that commercial real estate construction was strong in the downtown Bowling Green area, while contacts in Louisville reported that industrial real estate construction was strong in the Shepherdsville area. A contact in Arkansas also reported several ongoing commercial construction projects in southwest and west Little Rock. Banking and FinanceTotal loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks were virtually unchanged from mid-December 2012 to mid-March 2013. Real estate lending, which accounts for 72.8 percent of total loans, increased 1.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.1 percent of total loans, increased 3.9 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total loans were largely unchanged. All other loans, accounting for 7.3 percent of total loans, decreased 14.1 percent. During the same period, total deposits at these banks increased 4.3 percent. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesFarmers in the District's states expect to plant more sorghum and soybeans in 2013 than was planted in 2012; they also anticipate planting less corn, cotton, and rice. Additionally, Arkansas and Mississippi farmers expect to significantly increase corn acreage while reducing cotton and rice acreage. As of early April, over 90 percent of the District's winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better condition, and over 60 percent was rated as good to excellent. Year-to-date coal production in the District's states (excluding eastern Kentucky) at the end of February was 4.7 percent lower than the same period last year. Similarly, coal production for February was 5.7 percent lower than February 2012. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased moderately. March sales at a Minneapolis-St. Paul area restaurant chain were up about 6 percent from a year ago; demand for catering services was very strong. Sales activity at a Montana mall was level from a year earlier, but warmer weather was helping boost traffic over the past few weeks. Meanwhile, same-store sales at a Minneapolis area mall were down slightly, while cold, wintry weather during March reduced traffic levels. A Minnesota auto dealer noted a solid start to 2013, and is cautiously optimistic for a very good year. Truck sales were strong at dealerships in eastern North Dakota. The winter tourism season finished stronger than last year. Ample snow cover and cold temperatures kept winter tourism active during March in northern Minnesota and Wisconsin. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that leisure travel to warm-weather destinations was softer than last year as airfare was up from a year ago; however, bookings to Europe were higher. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity continued to increase at a very fast pace since the last report. The value of March commercial permits in Billings, Mont., increased over 900 percent from last year. In Sioux Falls, S.D., March permits were $14 million, up from nearly zero a year ago. A contact at a Fargo, N.D., real estate company noted that "the medical field is building like crazy." Residential construction increased rapidly from a year ago. The value of March residential building permits in Billings nearly doubled from last year, and the value of March permits in Sioux Falls was up over 63 percent from a year ago. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, March residential permits were up 21 percent compared with March 2012. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A Minneapolis-St. Paul area commercial real estate broker noted increased strength in the office and industrial markets. Minneapolis-St. Paul office vacancy rates during the first quarter of 2013 were down 1.9 percentage points from a year ago to 17.7 percent. A Fargo broker noted that recent activity has increased a "fair" amount and that office vacancy is at 4.8 percent and warehouse vacancy is at 1.6 percent. Residential real estate market activity increased at a strong pace. Recent home sales were up 12 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 30 percent, and median sale prices rose 16 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, March home sales were up 5 percent, inventory was down 18 percent and the median sale price increased 6 percent relative to a year earlier. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased at a moderate pace since the last report. A home inspector noted an increase in business due to more homeowners who were considering selling. A Minnesota travel agency noted an increase in business travel compared with a year ago. A Minnesota freight trade group expects volumes and rates to increase this year. A financial institution noted a significant increase in demand for loans. ManufacturingThe District manufacturing sector continued to grow since the last report. A March survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A Minnesota architectural glass producer announced a $30 million expansion at a plant. A transportation vehicle maker in Minnesota was expanding its facilities. A sawmill in Montana restarted production after sitting idle for more than four years. Meanwhile, a paper mill in Minnesota cut production. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector was steady at high levels, while mining slowed. Late-March oil and gas exploration decreased slightly in Montana and North Dakota from the last report, but production remained near record levels. A $2.2 billion modernization of Minnesota's electrical grid is under way, with an estimated $1 billion to be spent this year. A diesel refinery broke ground in North Dakota, and a separate $400 million refinery that will break ground this year was also announced. A copper-nickel mining development in the Upper Peninsula halted construction in response to "economic headwinds" and volatility in metals markets. An iron ore mine in the Upper Peninsula idled at the end of March. AgricultureThe District agricultural sector remained in strong condition heading into the planting season, though persistent drought remained a threat. Early indications of planting intentions suggest District farmers plan to increase corn, soybean and hay acreage this year, with a reduction in wheat acres. An agricultural cooperative announced $50 million in investments in the District, including a grain terminal in North Dakota and a fertilizer depot in Minnesota. Prices received by farmers increased in March from a year earlier for wheat, corn, soybeans, hay, chicken, milk and eggs; prices decreased for cattle, hogs, turkeys and dry beans. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets tightened somewhat. A company recently announced plans to add 300 information technology consultant jobs in South Dakota and North Dakota. A retailer recently announced plans to build a distribution center in Minnesota that would create 300 jobs. Businesses in eastern Montana noted continued challenges attracting and retaining quality workers due to competition from the nearby oil-drilling region. A record number of companies participated in a job fair in eastern South Dakota, reflecting the relatively high availability of jobs in the area. However, a Minnesota food company laid off 125 workers. Overall wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 48 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, while 49 percent expect no change. In last year's survey, 42 percent expected to increase compensation, while 54 percent expected no change. A contract agreement was recently reached with a union representing janitors in Minnesota that would improve wages and health care coverage. Overall price increases were modest. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased about 20 cents per gallon from late February to early April. Some metals prices also decreased since the last report. Meanwhile, bank directors noted increases in health care insurance costs. Prices for framing lumber have increased steadily over the past couple months. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending was stronger than expected in March and was expected to strengthen further in the coming months. After falling during the last survey period, District retailers reported modest, but stronger-than-expected sales in March and positive expectations for future sales growth. Lower-priced items such as apparel and hardware sold well, while demand for higher-priced premium and custom goods remained weak. Some store owners noted that the payroll tax increase and cold weather during March limited sales growth. Auto sales bounced back in March, and most dealers were optimistic that sales would rise further during the next few months. Smaller cars and used vehicles continued to sell well, while dealers reported slower demand for larger cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles. Tourism contacts reported a rise in visitor counts compared to the last survey and expected a seasonal increase in tourism spending with warmer weather. District hoteliers indicated that occupancy rates rose with a slight drop in average room rental rates. Restaurant owners reported solid sales and slightly higher average check amounts. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity rose sharply in March, and commercial real estate activity strengthened. In addition to a seasonal rise in home sales during the spring, real estate agents commented that pent-up buyer demand, an improving economy and low interest rates were driving stronger sales. Low- and mid-priced homes in good condition continued to sell quickly, and some real estate contacts noted increased demand for investment properties. Brisk sales and lower home inventories spurred further home price increases. Residential mortgage lenders reported a jump in loan applications for home purchases, and some real estate contacts were concerned that appraisals were not reflecting current market conditions amid rapid price increases. Housing starts were up sharply from the previous survey, but some builders noted that a lack of available sub-contractors could constrain construction in the coming months. Sales at construction supply firms rose with increased building activity. Commercial real estate markets improved, and District contacts expected additional strength in coming months. New commercial construction edged up and was expected to gain momentum as vacancy rates trended down and rents moved higher. Commercial sales activity and real estate prices rose well above year-ago levels. Developers reported no change in access to credit. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityAfter softening in March, District manufacturing activity was expected to rebound in the coming months, and sales at transportation and high-tech service firms improved during the survey period. District manufacturing activity remained slightly below year-ago levels driven by weaker durable goods production, particularly for machinery and fabricated metal products. In contrast, non-durable goods production rose modestly with an uptick in food and chemical processing. After falling during the last survey period, the volume of new orders and shipments stabilized in March and was expected to strengthen during the next six months. Export orders, however, remained weak. Looking ahead, more plant managers planned to add workers and increase work hours to handle an expected rise in production. Some District factories and transportation firms were also making capital investments. Trucking traffic picked up, but qualified drivers were still in short supply. Business activity at high-tech firms expanded further, and sales were expected to remain strong. Some high-tech companies reported difficulty finding software developers and experienced IT technicians. BankingIn the recent survey period, bankers generally reported stable loan demand, improving loan quality, and stronger deposits. Bankers reported steady demand for commercial and industrial loans, residential and commercial real estate loans, and consumer installment loans. Although residential real estate loan demand increased for purchases, bankers noted fewer loans for home refinancing. Bankers reported that interest rates trended lower on commercial and industrial loans. A majority of bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and they expected further improvements during the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported stronger deposit growth. AgricultureAgricultural growing conditions remained poor in most of the District. March precipitation provided little relief to persistent drought, and the winter wheat crop was still in fair to poor condition. Despite recent declines, crop prices remained elevated due to short crop supplies, and District farmers did not plan to significantly alter their current crop mix. Livestock operators continued to post losses with falling cattle and hog prices and high feed costs. Pork exports remained weak, but beef exports edged up, partly due to less restricted trade with Japan. Operating loan demand remained soft as crop insurance payments bolstered farm income. Farmland values rose further and were expected to stay elevated. EnergyIn the energy sector, District activity remained solid and was expected to strengthen slightly heading into summer. An upswing in oil prices and an anticipated seasonal rise in demand kept the number of active oil rigs in the District above year-ago levels. Even though colder than usual temperatures reduced natural gas inventories and boosted prices, the effect was expected to be temporary and the number of active natural gas rigs in the District dipped during March. Looking ahead, some District contacts were concerned that permitting delays could constrain oil and gas exploration. Wyoming's coal production remained well below year-ago levels as more electricity was being generated from natural gas. District ethanol production held steady, but profit margins improved recently due to lower corn prices. Wages and PricesWage pressures remained relatively subdued during the survey period, raw materials prices climbed, and some finished goods prices rose. More firms indicated they would be adding staff in the coming months to handle an anticipated increase in business activity, but most were not planning to raise wages. However, some companies, particularly those recruiting workers with specialized skills such as engineers, software developers, and commercial truck drivers, were increasing salaries. The cost of raw materials for manufacturing remained elevated, and some firms were raising finished goods prices. Some construction supply companies reported passing along higher prices for building materials, particularly lumber, to customers. Retail prices edged up, and retailers expected prices to trend higher during the next few months. Restaurant owners planned further menu price increases due to rising food costs. Return to top PricesMost responding firms said prices were stable, although housing contacts said home prices increased at a fast pace, and cotton prices increased according to agriculture contacts. Staffing firms noted no change in rates, and accounting firms said rates were flat to slightly up. Food producers said selling prices were up since January but do not expect more increases going forward. One airline said ticket prices were up slightly. Retail prices and auto prices were steady. Financial services contacts said loan pricing was flat to down. Oil prices fell slightly, as the price of WTI averaged under $94 per barrel over the past six weeks. A late winter reduced natural gas inventories and pushed prices above $3.65. Gasoline and diesel prices increased since the last report. Labor MarketEmployment held steady or increased at most responding firms. Food manufacturers and airlines said employment had increased, and reports of scattered hiring came from some accounting and finance firms, retailers, auto dealers and transportation manufacturers. Several contacts noted difficulty finding qualified people to fill open positions, particularly in banking, auto sales and manufacturing. Staffing firms said the supply of labor was tight in the Houston energy sector. Wage pressures remained largely subdued, although wage increases for experienced or top-performing workers were reported in accounting, legal and financial services. Increased labor costs were also noted in energy services. ManufacturingConstruction-related manufacturers said demand was flat to up slightly. A lumber contact noted a seasonal increase in demand for the first time in several years. A cement producer said demand remained strong, particularly for residential construction projects. Expectations among construction-related producers are for increases in demand, and contacts believe 2013 will be stronger than 2012. Fabricated metals producers reported a broad-based increase in demand over the reporting period. Demand reports from primary metals manufacturers were mixed and below year-ago levels. Reports on high tech orders were mixed across customer groups. Semiconductor producers reported stronger demand from industrial users, such as automotive, but continued weak demand from communication device and personal computer manufacturers. Most contacts expect moderate improvement over the next three to six months. Demand for paper products fell over the reporting period; contacts remained cautious in their outlooks but expect to see an increase in May or June. Food contacts noted demand was much better than anticipated and was up from the last report and from a year ago. Respondents were making significant capital expenditures in anticipation of further increases in activity. Transportation manufacturers noted a pickup in demand. Sales of recreational vehicles increased after experiencing a seasonal slump during the last reporting period. Demand for aviation equipment continued to rise due to a recent large project. Transportation manufacturing contacts expect 2013 to be about the same or better than 2012. Petrochemicals producers said Gulf Coast chemical production was stronger than a year ago. Contacts noted refinery operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period, partly due to normal seasonal trends. Retail SalesRetail sales were up since the previous report and from a year ago, according to contacts. Texas continued to perform well, and according to one national retailer the rate of sales growth in Texas outperformed the nation during the reporting period. Prices remained stable since the last report. Some contacts added employees in line with expanding operations. Outlooks for the quarter ranged from cautiously positive to good, and contacts expect steady growth for the remainder of the year. Automobile sales were strong and picked up since the last report, partly due to seasonality. Inventories varied by manufacturer, but all contacts noted inventories were slightly lower than desired. Selling prices held steady, as the market remained very competitive. Head count was up slightly from a year ago, and hours worked were flat over the reporting period. Outlooks for the second quarter and the rest of the year were good. Uncertainty and increasing expenses are challenges that dealerships continue to face. Nonfinancial ServicesStaffing firms said demand was flat or down since the last report. Responding placement firms noted activity in most sectors was sluggish, with the exception of energy-related activity in Houston and overall demand for residential construction workers. Outlooks were mixed, but better than earlier in the year. Accounting firms noted continued strong demand for their services. Demand for energy, audit, insurance, consulting work and transactions was robust, while demand for tax services remained flat. Outlooks were optimistic. Legal firms said growth in demand for their services was weaker than expected, with the exception of strong real-estate related activity. Outlooks were optimistic, with contacts expecting a pickup in activity over the next three months. Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Railroad contacts said volumes picked up since the last report. Petroleum shipments continued to be strong, and contacts noted healthy volumes of some construction-related products, including lumber and wood and crushed stone. Intermodal cargo volumes increased slightly, and shipping companies said small parcel shipments grew strongly, propelled by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were flat during the reporting period as increases in domestic shipments were offset by declines in international shipments. Airline contacts said passenger demand increased slightly since the last report, in part due to spring-break related travel. Contacts expect demand to strengthen in the summer months and the outlook is for slight improvement in 2013 over 2012. Construction and Real EstateTexas home prices rose rapidly due to strong demand and very low inventories. Some builders were still finding financing difficult. Outlooks for the single-family housing sector were positive, but price gains are expected to slow later in the year as building activity picks up. Contacts said apartment demand remains strong, in part, thanks to strong job growth and migration. Commercial real estate contacts reported that gains in occupancy and rents may be slowing property sales as owning has become more profitable. Most contacts noted banks were more aggressive with lending, and Texas office and warehouse markets were improving. Financial ServicesFinancial institutions reported broad-based growth in loan demand. Consumer lending improved, with solid growth in mortgage and automobile lending activity. Commercial lending grew at a moderate pace, and energy-related activity remained strong in Houston, Austin, San Antonio and the Eagle Ford area. Commercial real estate and home equity lending activity has started to bounce back from low levels, noted contacts. Non-performing loans continued to decline. Loan pricing remained very competitive. Deposits and deposit rates remained mostly unchanged. Outlooks were optimistic, and contacts expect growth in loan demand and deposits to continue in the near term. EnergyEnergy activity was slightly improved, and respondents at energy-related service firms seemed more confident that the number of active drilling rigs may have bottomed out. Margins for services, particularly pressure pumping, remained tight, and contacts reported little change in pricing pressures otherwise. Contacts said drilling activity was flat over the reporting period and continue to expect improvement in the second half of the year, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. AgricultureDrought conditions worsened slightly across the District over the reporting period. Nearly half of the Texas wheat crop was in poor or very poor condition, and spring crops were largely being planted into very dry soil. Texas feedlots continued to run negative margins, due in part to feed costs remaining elevated. Cotton was a bright spot, with continued strong demand and rising prices. Return to top Prices and WagesPrice increases for most final goods and services were limited. Reports were mixed for construction materials, with prices for some products such as cement, logs, and lumber edging up further; meanwhile, prices for some other metal and wood products were mostly flat. Contacts from retail grocery and restaurant chain establishments reported largely constant food prices as the prices of some of the underlying commodities have stabilized. Health-care price increases were limited, and fees for legal services held steady. Contacts reported that wage gains were contained across most occupations, industries, and regions in the District. Restrained hiring plans and ready worker availability have held down increases in wages and compensation for most sectors and regions. A shortage of trained engineers continues to prompt vigorous employer competition and significant compensation gains for this group across a number of industries. In a few areas experiencing significant rebounds in housing market activity, wages of construction workers and experienced mortgage underwriters have risen. Contacts mentioned downward pressure on the wages for some low-skilled jobs and government employees. Most firms expect wage growth between 2% and 4% this year. Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales rose on balance. New and used automobile sales remained at high levels. Among computer and electronic products, sales of personal computers remained weak relative to sales of mobile computing devices, including smart phones and tablets. Demand for some gaming products and apparel picked up, with e-commerce sales growth for these items outpacing sales growth at traditional retail stores. Retail grocers reported soft sales, experiencing intensifying competition from discount and online retailers. Demand was steady for retail pet products. Demand for most business and consumer services gained. Contacts expect more robust growth this year for various technology services, such as cloud computing and data processing, compared with modest gains at the end of last year. Food service providers reported strong sales on net, with some discount chains faring particularly well. Activity in the District's travel and tourism sector advanced, as visitor counts, expenditures, and occupancy rates climbed in Hawaii; however, reports indicated weaker activity in Southern California in recent weeks. Contacts in the health-care industry described plans to freeze hiring and scale back capital expenditures in response to the federal spending cuts. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity appeared to step up during the reporting period of late February through early April. Contrary to downbeat expectations from earlier in the year arising from product release challenges, production activity for commercial aircraft and parts continued to grow robustly. Manufacturers in defense-related subsectors noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant closures at some production facilities. Reports indicated that inventories of semiconductors fell at the end of last year but remain roughly in line with current demand. Pharmaceutical goods producers reported modest gains. Wood product manufacturers stated that demand grew further, fueled both by recent rebounds in domestic residential construction activity and demand from China. Demand for steel products used primarily in transportation infrastructure and nonresidential construction projects increased, although overall capacity utilization for steelmakers remained at a relatively low level. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesAgricultural producers noted increased sales and production activity. Demand for most crop and livestock products grew further. Agricultural producers faced mostly stable or somewhat lower petroleum-based fuel and natural gas costs. Supplies of most raw materials were adequate. However, some contacts communicated concerns that volatile weather conditions and limited water availability in parts of the District could pass through to lower seasonal hiring and reduced agricultural output in coming months. Reports indicated that electricity and natural gas sales remained strong for both households and businesses, and natural gas inventories declined a bit further. Real Estate and ConstructionActivity in residential and commercial real estate markets continued to gain momentum, with notable gains in selected locales. Home sales climbed further in most regions, and low inventory levels coupled with healthy demand supported stable or increasing prices. Reports indicated that the pace of residential housing permit issuance increased significantly in many regions throughout the District. Rental activity for both single-family and multifamily homes was strong, based on low vacancy rates and stable rental rates. Construction of multifamily residential projects expanded further. Commercial real estate development and leasing activity increased, particularly in major metropolitan areas across the District, fueled in large part by sustained growth in the technology sector. Financial InstitutionsContacts from financial institutions reported that loan demand improved. Ramped-up mortgage and automobile lending continued to spur growth in overall loan demand. Banking contacts again highlighted ample liquidity and generally stiff competition among lenders for well-qualified business borrowers. Contacts also pointed to a recent buildup of privately held technology companies poised for public offerings. Despite the clear potential for action, the pace of initial public offerings and new venture capital deals in the District's Internet and digital media subsectors has been relatively slow. By contrast, private equity financing has shown steady growth in recent months. Reports indicated modest improvement in credit quality for both business and consumer loans.
Google FinanceMarkets are selling off early in the U.S. trading session. The Dow is off over 140 points. Underperformers include Bank of America, which reported disappointing earnings this morning, and Intel, which reported in line earnings yesterday. Traders appear to have grown accustom to companies beating analysts' earnings expectations, which neither of these companies did. Shares of Apple are off by over 2%.† Some are attributing the sell-off to an earnings warning from Cirrus Logic, an Apple supplier.
Rachel_2007 via FlickrBefore I relay this, let me first make sure you understand that I am simply discussing a rumor here - I have no way of knowing whether or not it is true and have no opinion as to whether anyone should or should not act on it. Thank you for being an adult  OK. So hedge fund guys are like washwomen, every bit as susceptible to gossiping and rumor-mongering, every bit as inclined toward the salacious and the juicy. Especially as it pertains to the portfolios, victories and defeats of their contemporaries. This is why we have things like "Hedge Fund Hotel" stocks such as Apple last summer and AIG right now. This is why so many hedge funds - especially of the value or the activist variety - sometimes seem as though they are merely variations of each other. Oftentimes, the servicers to the hedge fund industry act as conduits for this gossip. I know an institutional sales guy who sometimes feels as though a majority of his conversations with hedge fund clients are about which analyst is moving to which firm and what the other guys he deals with are excited about or fearful of in a given niche. Even within the fund administration layer there is a grapevine of sorts. For example, you are probably unaware of this fact - 75% of all Wall Street professionals involved with prime brokerage were former college lacrosse players. It's true, based on my estimates. Three out of four guys who work prime brokerage for JPMorgan, Goldman etc were Brothers of the Stick. They all get each other jobs upon graduation, year after year, and before you know it, here we are! The entire trade execution and settlement complex would collapse in on itself if not for the predominantly east coast and mid-Atlantic fraternity of Lacrosse Bros who keep the machinery in motion. Anyway, my point is, everybody talks. And over the last week or so, the one rumor I keep hearing from different hedge fund people is that George Soros is currently massively short gold and that he's making an absolute killing. Once again, I have no way of knowing if this is true or false. But enough people are saying it that I thought it worthwhile to at least mention. And to me, it would make perfect sense: 1. Soros is a macro investor, this is THE macro trade of the year so far (okay, maybe Japan 1, short gold 2) 2. Soros is well-known for numerous market aphorisms and neologisms, one of my faves being "When I see a bubble, I invest."† He was heavily long gold for a time and had done well while simultaneously referring to it publicly as a speculative bubble. 3. He recently reported that he had pretty much exited the trade in gold back in February. In his Q4 filing a few weeks ago, we found out that he had sold down his GLD position by about 55% as of the end of 2012 and had just 600,000 shares remaining. That was the "smartest guy in the room" locking in a profit after a 12 year bull market. 4. Soros also hired away one of the most talented technical analysts out there, John Roque, upon the collapse of Roque's previous employer, broker-dealer WJB Capital. No one has heard from the formerly media-available Roque since but we can only assume that - as a technician - the very obvious breakdown of gold's long-term trend was at least discussed. And how else does one trade gold if not by using technicals (supply/demand) - what else is there? Cash flow? Book value? 5. Lastly, the last public interview given by George Soros was to the South China Morning Post on April 4th. He does not mention any trading he's doing in gold but he does reveal his thoughts on it having been "destroyed as a safe haven": Q: What is your view on gold? A: Thatís a complicated question. It has disappointed the public, because it is meant to be the ultimate safe haven. But when the euro was close to collapsing in the last year, actually gold went down, because if people needed to sell something, they could sell gold. Therefore they sold gold. So gold went down together with everything else. Gold was destroyed as a safe haven, proved to be unsafe. Because of the disappointment, most people are reducing their holdings of gold. But the central banks will continue to buy them, so I donít expect gold to go down. If you have the prospect of a crisis, you will have occasional flurries or jumps. So gold is very volatile on a day-to-day basis, no trend on a longer-term basis. He says he doesn't expect it to go down but within a day or so it began to... Taken in concert, these details indicate that it is very possible that Soros has a big short on against the precious metal, but by no means are these facts conclusive of anything. The real question here is whether or not this should or would matter to the markets and to other large pools of wealth who are now holding gold. Would Soros betting against it rattle their convictions even further? Would it induce other hedge funds to come in on the short side, given the Soros track record on these types of trades? This is all speculation but, even still, it sets up a marvelous example of George Soros's "reflexivity" concept - in which he explains how the participants in the market acting upon the market can actually make drastic changes occur within the market. It will be interesting to see if the rumor mill is wrong here (as it usually is) or if there's something to it after all.
Boston Globe The FBI denies¬†that an arrest has been made in the Boston Marathon bombing. Reuters sources also deny the reports. UPDATES:¬†CNN and other news organizations reverse reports that suspect has been identified &gt; FBI shreds the media over unverified Boston Marathon reports Today's Boston Marathon media fiasco in one huge chart Earlier¬†CNN's John King reported¬†that an arrest has been made in connection with the Boston Marathon bombing, according to federal law enforcement sources. CNN's Fran Townsend, who originally reported that an arrest has been made, then said that reports of an arrest was due to miscommunication on law enforcement's part. CNN's John King has also walked back on his reports that an arrest has been made. Fox News¬†confirmed the arrest independently, and the¬†Associated Press¬†the Boston Globe reported that the suspect was in custody and was being brought to court by federal marshals. Fox News,¬†the AP, and the Boston Globe¬†are walking back¬†on its reports. CBS¬†and NBC reported, according to their sources, that no arrest has been made. The¬†bombings¬†killed three and wounded more than 180. CNN reported that¬†video from a¬†Boston¬†TV station and a nearby Lord &amp; Taylor department store helped ID the¬†suspect. The Lord &amp; Taylor is right across the street from where the second bombing occurred (click to zoom): Google
The Webby Awards/FlickrApp designer Scott Snibbe and Artist of the Year Bjork at the 2012 Webby Awards The New York Times calls the Webbys "The Internet's highest honor," so Business Insider is psyched to be nominated for a Webby Award in the "Best Business Blog" category. The Webbys hands out awards each year to digital ground-breakers in 100 categories at a fancy party in NYC in May. Winners get to deliver one of The Webby Awards' famous 5-Word Speeches. (Don't you wonder what BI's would be? Suggestions welcome in the comments below.) Webby Winners are chosen by†The International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences. But you can play a role in voting for the "Peoples Choice" award. From Activism to Youth, there are hundreds of great sites to discover or celebrate. Vote here &gt; 
Apple is tanking, falling over 6%, putting the stock at the lowest it's been since December 2011. The stock has just dipped below $400, though it bounced back and is hovering at ~$403. The crash seems to be related to Cirrus Logic, which is an Apple supplier. Cirrus makes audio chips for iPhones and iPads. Cirrus Logic's stock is down ~10% this morning after it pre-announced earnings results that were below expectations. Cirrus's March revenue is expected to be $206.9 million compared to expectations of $210 million, said Canaccord analyst Bobby Burleson. Its EPS is $0.55 compared to expectations of $0.89. Cirrus also guided to $150-$170 million for the June quarter compared to consensus estimates of $195 million. Apple is one of their largest customers. Cirrus was one of those companies people invested in as an Apple proxy. So, if its guidance is down, some people might anticipate Apple's guidance coming in weak. It seems investors are running from Apple in fear of next week's earnings report. A few analysts have forecasted the possibility that Apple misses its own guidance, and delivers terrible June guidance. If the former happens, the stock is going to dive further. This Cirrus news isn't helping to make people feel less concerned about Apple.
Casey Research / YouTubeRichard RussellRichard Russell, the veteran technician and long-time author of "The Dow Theory Letters," has been a gold bull for as long as we can remember. And the latest plunge in gold prices doesn't have him worried. "Does this mean that the great gold bull market is over?," he asked via King World News.¬† "My intuition says no -- I believe we have not seen the end of the gold bull market. However, I do think that this is the ‚Äúwipe-out, clear-out‚Äù correction that will leave gold free of late-comers and non-believers." Russell finds some solace in the actions of billionaire investors Warren Buffett, John Paulson, and George Soros. He sees a bearish pattern in their latest trades. Via King World News: What do billionaires Warren Buffet, John Paulson, and George Soros know that you and I don't know?¬† I don't have the answer, but I do know what these billionaires are doing.¬† They, all three, are selling consumer-oriented stocks.¬† Buffett has been a cheerleader for US stocks all along.¬†  But in the latest filing, Buffett has been drastically cutting back on his exposure to consumer stocks.¬† Berkshire sold roughly 19 million shares of Johnson and Johnson.¬† Berkshire has reduced his overall stake in consumer product stocks by 21%, including Kraft and Procter and Gamble.¬† He has also cleared out his entire position in Intel.¬† He has sold 10,000 shares of GM and 597,000 shares of IBM. Fellow billionaire John Paulson dumped 14 million shares of JP Morgan and dumped his entire position in Family Dollar and consumer goods maker Sara Lee.¬† To wrap up the trio of billionaires, George Soros sold nearly all his bank stocks including JP Morgan, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs.¬† So I don't know exactly what the billionaires are thinking, but I do see what they're doing -- they are avoiding consumer stocks and building up cash. ... the billionaires are thinking that consumption is heading down and that America's consumers are close to going on strike. Read more at KingWorldNews.com.
Crude oil prices are getting hit again today. Right now, WTI crude futures are down 2.7%, trading around $86.30 a barrel. In the past few minutes, for no obvious reason, oil made a significant move lower. Thinkorswim Oil has taken a beating as part of a broader sell-off across the commodity complex in the past week. Today, while metals and soft commodities are holding up, energy commodities are deep in the red (gasoline and heating oil are both down around 2.3 percent on the day).
With Americans generally reluctant to commit to buying homes, the market for rentals has exploded. But Adam Artunian of John Burns Real Estate Consulting worries that things may be overheating in this market. "Apartment builders continue to feverishly build to capitalize on rising rental rates and favorable demographics, but construction is reaching dangerous levels in some markets," wrote Artunian. He notes two major headwinds to the apartment market: "Construction activity has been especially elevated in tech markets like Raleigh, Austin, and San Francisco, which are currently over 175% of historical norms," wrote Artunian. However, Artunian notes that much of the supply in the hottest markets should be filled by local job growth. Furthermore, construction in most cities are below peak levels. Nevertheless, participants in the rental market should be mindful of the warning signs. Here's his chart: John Burns Real Estate Consulting
ell brown / FlickrA British woman named Siobhon Peers took her father's ashes to a RBS bank branch to prove he was dead so she would stop getting letters about the†£6†($9.15) he owed.† From The Telegraph:† Although she sent a copy of her father's death certificate to close the account, the bank insisted the original certificate must be shown and letters kept coming as the outstanding overdraft amount mushroomed to £625 with interest. Eventually Ms Peers went to her local branch in Davenport, near Stockport, Greater Manchester with an urn containing her father's ashes and placed it on the counter along with the original death certificate. That got the point across and the bank later apologized.†
4Square, Hiro M.Bringing new meaning to the phrase, "this town ain't big enough for the both of us," Bloomberg reports that Goldman Sachs and Google employees are facing off for space at a Tokyo bar. And it looks like the Googlers are winning. The bar is called Heartland; it's a brewery, arcade and beer garden located in the super-chic Roppongi neighborhood of Tokyo. CNN called the area "Tokyo's most controversial night spot" ‚Äî it's loud, it's wild, and it's full of tourists and expats. Heartland is no exception to all that. In 2008, Gaijin Tonic, a Tokyo drinking blog called it "a notorious pick-up joint where gold-digging 30-something women go to ensnare generous foreign banker boyfriends." That was just after Lehman Brothers collapsed. The bank's Tokyo office was also very close to Heartland, and you can imagine what happened to the expense accounts that fueled many a drunken night at the "standing room only" bar. Gone. According to Bloomberg, belt tightening and staff reductions at Goldman have produced a similar result. Luckily for Heartland, techies from Google and companies like Apple and Lenovo have stepped up to fill the void. That means the vibe in the bar, however, has changed. From Bloomberg: The changes are visible at Heartland, located at the street level of the landmark Mori Tower, said Shioya, the manager ... ‚ÄúPeople used to be drinking more,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúSome customers opened seven bottles of champagne for their birthdays. Some would ask us to prepare 100 champagne glasses for celebrations, and they were offering them to bar staff and strangers.‚Äù With fewer bankers and more patrons from the tech world, the atmosphere has become more laid back, Shioya said. After business declined following the financial crisis, the bar began showing sporting events on its big-screen display to draw customers. Couches where well-dressed men and mini-skirted women once paired up to lounge and drink cocktails were replaced with tables and stools. What you think of those changes is a matter of taste (we suppose). Either way, it's cool to get an idea of what goes on at Heartland, so we've collected some pictures and video of a night at the bar. Party on.
Flickr / adactioThe old market adage "Sell in May and go away" has worked pretty well in recent years. "In each of the past three years, stocks have pulled back from May to August," notes UBS's Jonathan Golub in a note to clients. "We believe that unique fundamental factors and events were the cause each year." Unfortunately, Golub is convinced that the data is pointing to yet another sell-off in what he has dubbed "Spring Break IV." "We believe that another spring break is likely to materialize and that now is a good time to begin dialing back on risk," we writes. Here's more from his note: Looking at incoming data, we believe 2013 is ready to provide us with a fourth spring break in as many years....Since mid-November the market's advance has been out of sync with weak earnings and economic trends (consensus GDP is for 2% growth in 2013). More recently, a number of market indicators that typically move with equities have begun to point south. These include economic surprises, bond yields, inflation expectations, commodity prices, and investor sentiment. Golub currently has a 1,425 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500, which is 125 points below current levels. One of the uglier developments has been the stalling of earnings growth, which is arguably the most important driver of stocks.¬† "Earnings growth has slowed to a crawl, and is likely to remain anemic," writes Golub. UBS Having said all of that, Golub also notes that UBS continues to favor U.S. stocks relative to its international peers.
The euro has dropped a full penny against the dollar in the last hour or so on new comments from Bundesbank President and ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann. According to Weidmann, the ECB may cut interest rates if new economic data warrants such action. The ECB hasn't cut the benchmark refinancing rate since July 2012. Currently, it stands at 0.75%, so there is a little bit of room for the ECB to lower it further if it so chooses. Cr√©dit Agricole economist Frederik Ducrozet thinks this means a rate cut is now a done deal: Buba backing #ECB rate cut means it's a done deal. Question is, is it a concession to the doves to remain tough on non-conventional easing? ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
The new Bernie Madoff documentary "In God We Trust" premieres this Friday at the Tribeca Film Festival in Manhattan.† The film follows Madoff's personal secretary of 25 years Eleanor Squillari and how she helped authorities after the ponzi scheme was exposed. We're looking forward to checking it out. In the meantime, watch†the trailer here: 
Business Insider If you're living in America, getting an understanding for North Korean tastes is a little difficult. There was one notable North Korean restaurant in the D.C. area where the kitchen was run by a former spy, but it appears to have shut down last year (despite a 4/5 Yelp rating). However, there is one North Korean beverage you can get your hands on pretty easily. Pyongyang Soju, a 23% strong liquor imported from North Korea, is currently legal¬†for sale in the United States. That Pyongyang Soju is for sale in the U.S. is unusual, and the entire thing has an odd backstory. The liquor has been for sale in the country since 2007, the importing group (Korea Pyongyang Trading Inc.) apparently having a license from the Treasury to get around sanctions that prohibit North Korean trade. As Hunter Walker from Talking Point Memo reports, the group is operated by Il Woo Park, a South Korean national who lives in Manhattan. Park has extensive links to North Korea ‚Äî for example, he signed a contract to help relaunch the Mount Kumgang resort in 2011 for example¬†‚Äî and is a registered U.S. agent of the North Korean government. Incredibly, these links weren't severed after Park became embroiled in a spy drama in 2007, when Park was arrested for lying to the FBI. According to Walker, documents show that Park was "apparently working with a network of spies from North Korea‚Äôs sworn enemy, South Korea". Despite pleading guilty to all charges, Park was only sentenced to probation and his plea agreement remains sealed. Park was allowed to re-enter North Korea during his probation and his liquor business continued, Walker reports. While the liquor's backstory may be murky, Pyongyang Soju is surprisingly easy to find. Business Insider bought a bottle of Pyongyang Soju at Warehouse and Wines in Greenwich Village, New York, a couple of weeks ago. It appears to be possible to buy the drink online if you wish to taste it yourself. Business InsiderThe soju is inexpensive, and can be bought for just $5.99 for a 375ml bottle ‚Äî cheaper than many South Korean or Japanese sojus for sale in New York City. Quality may be an issue, however. Bon Appetit recently said that it "doesn't taste great" and had a "funky, fermenty smell." Others were less kind ‚Äî one user on the Giant Robot forums wrote in a 2001 discussion about brands of soju: "you ain't had s--- until you've had Pyongyang Soju. Then, and only then, can you say you've had s---..."  Reactions in the Business Insider office were mixed. One reporter grimaced and exclaimed "oh god" as he took a sip, immediately reaching for a beer. "It smelled and sort of tasted like rubbing alcohol," he said later. Others were more keen. "It tastes better than it smells," one editor said. "But it's sort of like a b-side saki mixed with well vodka." "It's so smooth," said one editor more accustomed to drinking soju, adding, "I can't get over how cheap it is." Ultimately, Pyongyang Soju tastes exactly like what you'd expect ‚Äî dirt cheap soju. Perhaps the strangest feeling when drinking Pyongyang Soju is the ethical concerns it brings up. A significant portion of the proceeds of your Pyongyang Soju purchase are likely going to the North Korean government ‚Äî a government known for its notorious labor camps. One disturbing report from 2007 on DailyNK (a news website run by opponents of the¬†North Korean government) even suggested that Pyongyang Soju was made using snakes caught in a¬†Yoduk political prison camp grounds by prisoners: In order to use the snake for brewery, the snake is first starved. Once the poison has risen to the top of the snake, the snake is immersed in alcohol. As the poison is highly dangerous, the job of catching snakes is left for the prisoners of the camps not common citizens. Comparatively, the region surrounding Yoduk is well-known for snakes. Pyongyang Soju's label, however, says it is made in Pyongyang City (not in a labor camp). Moreover, as snake soju usually keeps the snake in the bottle, it may be logical that the soju being imported is not the same soju as referenced by DailyNK. Of course, there are a lot of countries with questionable human rights records that we buy from. China, for example, also has a labor camp system and reports suggest prisoners in these camps may face torture. Also, given the strange backstory behind Pyongyang Soju and the fact that the Treasury is still allowing Il Woo Park to import it, you may be able to take some comfort in the idea that you are playing some small part in some kind top-secret soju-based diplomacy.
Yesterday, we brought you U-Haul's list of top U.S. destinations for movers. Houston won, followed by Orlando and Chicago. But U-Haul has also put out a list of cities with the largest proportion of inbound moves to outbound moves in 2012. By this count, Pittsburgh saw the most growth, followed by Vegas suburb Henderson and Austin. That compares with 2011's ranking, which saw Nashville, Oakland and Denver on top. ¬†Pittsburgh didn't even make the list that year! Here's the full 2012 list: RANK CITY %GROWTH ¬† 1. PITTSBURGH¬† ¬†9.04% ¬† 2. HENDERSON, Nev.¬† 7.54% ¬† 3. AUSTIN, Texas¬† 7.30% ¬† 4. RENO, Nev.¬† 7.15% ¬† 5. SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.¬† 6.82% ¬† 6. JERSEY CITY, N.J. 5.16% ¬† 7. RALEIGH, N.C. 5.06% ¬† 8. NASHVILLE, Tenn. 4.28% ¬† 9. COLUMBUS, Ohio 4.15% 10. TACOMA, Wash. 4.09% 11. VANCOUVER, Wash. 3.73% 12. LOUISVILLE, KY 3.62% 13. INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. 3.43% 14. DALLAS 3.16% 15. LOS ANGELES 2.83% 16. EUGENE, Ore. 2.11% 17. CHICAGO 1.87% 18. CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas 1.79% 19. DENVER 1.51% 20. HOUSTON 1.43% 21. RIVERSIDE, Calif. 1.41% 22. SPOKANE, Wash. 1.37% 23. SEATTLE 1.34% 24. WASHINGTON, D.C. 1.23% 25. PLANO, Texas 1.03% 26. ATLANTA 0.98% 27. OKLAHOMA CITY 0.59% 28. FRESNO, Calif. 0.53% 29. BROOKLYN, N.Y. 0.47% 30. TULSA, OK 0.45%
Denise Shull is President of The ReThink Group, a consultancy providing advanced market, risk and behavioral intelligence. She†holds a Masterís degree in Neuropsychology from The†University of Chicago. Conventional wisdom in trading psychology used to depend on two primary tenets†ñ discipline and "control your emotions." But that was before neuroscience started†putting traders, poker players and other risk-gamers into brain scanners. Now that†we know that all decisions depend on the presence of an emotion, most perception†occurs outside of our awareness and that how our bodies feel will influence what†we think, Trading Psychology 101 requires a re-write. Did you know that research indicates we can only make a few ñ maybe as little†as two ñ ìdisciplinedî decisions in a row? Researchers call this decision fatigue†or ego-depletion. For traders, it means that instead of sitting at the screen fighting†for every tick that that same quantity of discipline imbued into a structured plan†for getting out of the office and away from the quotes will most likely produce an†increase in P&amp;L. Research also shows that complex decisions, or those with many conflicting data†points, create the most satisfying results when they are made non-deliberately.†This means that letting a traderís unconscious ñ or all of his or her accumulated†knowledge ñ percolate or bake into the realization the trading brain has delivered†the decision equivalent of superb coffee or heavenly brownies. In other words, going to the gym not only in the middle of the day but even in the†middle of a trade will optimize your trading psyche to make the most profitable†judgment call on a tradeís exit point. Pumping iron or spinning those bike wheels†turns what we used to call physical energy into market-reading clarity. In fact, it†is likely that your better read on the marketís next dance will seemingly magically†come to you when your earbuds have your favorite song beating and not when you†are staring at every tick trying to force the screen to give up the futureís secrets. Which brings us to the inexorable connection between the body, feelings,†emotions and risk decisions: the maxim ìcontrol your emotionsî emanates from a†misunderstanding. Any of us can feel anything ñ and not act on. We do that all the†time. Logically we only have to control our actions. Senses, feelings and emotions†should be considered data and analyzed. Adopting the strategy of ìemotions as informationî leads to two primary benefits†ñ knowing the difference between and impulsive feeling and an intuitive (market†experience) one. And second, disengaging repetitive emotions and events fueled†from our past and acting in a fractal manner from our expectation of what the†market is doing. We all bring our personalities to our perceptions. A large part of†those personalities contain our characteristic reactions ñ the market is out to get†me, I will all snatch defeat from the jaws of victory, the price action (authority†figures) canít be trusted and on we could go. Antonio Damasio and his team got it started with the research reported in†Descartes Error but now the proof is in, every decision includes emotion. This†means every trading decision that turns out to be regrettable can be analyzed not†from what went wrong with the analysis but from what feeling or emotion was†really driving it. Everyone can look for FOMO or fear of missing out or what is†really fear of future regret. Decision theory indicates this feeling to be maybe the†most powerful one we have. To take another example of unconscious emotions and how the concept of fractal†applies not only to price but to perception, say a trader has a tendency to fight the†trend, most of the time this can be traced to a wholly unrelated mental context of†needing to prove how smart they are, needing to buck authority or being stuck in†feeling like a victim who missed the real move. Untangling emotional data (versus ignoring it) gives a trader the opportunity not only to be making judgment calls on†the here and now but opens up their whole perceptual and judgment toolbox to see†and act on the fundamental question, what are most of the other market participants†about to do. Given that most traders try to predict market movements based on numbers†alone, the trader who wraps the human question around the numbers while†simultaneously adopting what decision science now knows about risk perception†and judgment automatically derives a calculable advantage.

For those who donít know, a ìbearî market, or when someone is being ìbearishî in this context, is marked by investors being very conservative and pessimistic, resulting in a declining market generally marked by the mass selling off of stock.† A ìbullî market is simply the opposite of that, with investors being aggressive and positive, with stock prices rising as a result of this optimism.† This ìbullî and ìbearî terminology first popped up in the 18th century in England. There are a couple different possible sources for the ìbearî part of this tandem, but the leading theory is that it derived from an old 16th century proverb: ìselling the bearís skin before one has caught the bearî or alternatively, ìDonít sell the bearís skin before youíve killed him,î equivalent to, ìDonít count your eggs before theyíre hatched.î By the early 18th century, when people in the stock world would sell something they didnít yet own (in hopes of turning a profit by eventually being able to buy the thing at a cheaper rate than they sold it, before delivery was due), this gave rise to the saying that they ìsold the bearskinî and the people themselves were called ìbearskin jobbersî. One of the earliest references of this comes from an issue of The Tatler, April 26, 1709: Forasmuch as it is very hard to keep land in repair without ready cash, I do, out of my personal estate, bestow the bear-skin, which I have frequently lent to several societies about this town, to supply their necessities;† I say, I give also the said bear-skin as an immediate fund to the said citizens foreverÖ In a later edition, June 23, 1709, it goes on to state: I fear the word Bear is hardly to be understood among the polite people; but I take the meaning to be, that one who insures a real value upon an imaginary thing, is said to sell a Bear, and is the same thing as a promise among courtiers, or a vow between loversÖ Yet another early instance of the term is in Daniel Defoeís The Anatomy of Change Alley, published in 1719, around the time the term was popularized to something of the same type of definition we use today: Those who buy Exchange Alley Bargains are styled buyers of Bear-skins. The use of the word ìbearî in this way was popularized thanks to one of the early market bubbles known as the South Sea Bubble.† While it was a long and incredibly complex market scheme that led to the bubble, the gist of it was that the South Sea Company, formed in 1711, was granted by Britain a monopoly on all trade to South America and would be given an annual sum (6% interest plus expenses) from the government.† In exchange, the new company agreed to take over large portions of the governmentís debt. (In fact, this was primarily how the company actually made money throughout its century and a half it was in business, simply by dealing in government debt.) Thanks to this deal and an amazing amount of government corruption, insider trading, and other unscrupulous practices by certain shareholders who knew well that the companyís trade business had little hope of ever being profitable, the burgeoning companyís stock soared. At its peak, based on the stock price, the company was worth about £200 million (by purchasing power, today this would be about £24 billion or $37 billion; by average earnings, it would be £350 billion or $537 billion). Besides the fact that they didnít even have their first trading shipment until 1717, 6 years after the trading company first formed, one of the problems was that having an exclusive monopoly on trading to South America from the British government at the time wasnít saying much as most of the region was almost entirely held by Spain, who Britain was at war with.† Nevertheless, amid rampant and widely published rumors (deftly planted by certain stock holders to jack up the price) of the vast wealth from gold and other resources in those regions and the potential promise of soon securing trade rights from Spain, the stock prices soared, even though the company itself wasnít really doing any actual trading and their main asset, the monopoly on trade to Middle and South America, was essentially worthless, as the core stock holders knew well. Spain did eventually grant the South Sea Company rights to trade in the regions held by Spain, but only one ship load per year total was allowed in exchange for a percentage of the profits.† Needless to say, the inability to do any actual real volume of trading and the fact that war once again broke out in 1718 between Spain and Britain causing much of the companyís scant physical assets to be seized by Spain, the market crash that followed wasnít pretty. As to the ìbullî name for rising markets, in this case we have to do a little more speculation as the documented evidence just isnít there. The leading theory is that it came about as a direct result of the term ìbearî.† Specifically, the first known instance of the market term ìbullî popped up in 1714, shortly after the ìbearî term popped up.† At the time, it was something of a common practice to bear and bull-bait. Essentially, with bear baiting, theyíd chain a bear (or bears) up in an arena, and then set some other animals to attack the bear(s) (usually dogs) as a form of entertainment for spectators seated in the arena. While bears were one of the more popular animals to use in these games, bulls were also commonly used. More rarely, other animals were used such as in one instance where an ape was tied to a ponyís back and dogs were set on them.† According to one spectator, the spectacle of the dogs tearing the pony to shreds while the ape screamed and desperately tried to stay on the ponyís back, out of reach of the snapping jaws of the dogs, was ìvery laughableîÖ In any event, the popularity of bear and bull baiting, along with perhaps the association with bulls charging, is thought to have probably been why ìbullî was chosen as something of the antithesis of a ìbearî, shortly after ìbearî first popped up in the stock sense.† But, of course, we canít be at all sure on this one as there wasnít the more lengthy documented progression of definition as with the ìbearî† term.
Bloomberg TV screencapThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>¬† In the industry in which I grew up, the most tired sayings include: ‚ÄúOur people are our greatest assets‚Äù and ‚ÄúOur most important assets go up and down in the elevator every night.‚Äù And yet, here are some of the top HR mistakes I‚Äôve seen: Stack Rankings + Anonymous 360 Degree Reviews:¬†I can almost understand stack rankings employees within divisions. And I can even stretch and almost understand stack rankings that are directly correlated with compensation and job security, in certain types of businesses‚Ä¶.though there can certainly be an impact on teamwork. But stack rankings that impact compensation and job security, combined with anonymous 360 degree performance reviews? It‚Äôs a sure-fire recipe for work intrigue, passive-aggressive behavior and back-stabbing. (Put another way, would James Worthy, Sam Perkins, Michael Jordan, Jimmy Black and Matt Doherty have performed as well if Coach Smith had stack ranked them? Would being measured and rewarded against each other have impacted how unselfishly they played what is by its nature a team sport??) Treat people disrespectfully when you fire them:¬†This holds on both small and large scales. It can be everything from firing someone while he was on vacation with his family (yes, I‚Äôve seen that), giving someone less than 30 minutes notice from telling them they‚Äôre fired to issuing the public announcement (seen that too), to minimizing the impact of lay-offs. For example: ‚ÄúWe are¬†only¬†laying off x people or y% of our workforce.‚Äù It may ‚Äúonly‚Äù be y% in number, but that is 100% of someone‚Äôs livelihood, and the impact to their family is significant. Employees don‚Äôt ever want themselves or their colleagues to be referred to as ‚Äúonly‚Äù anything. Talk ill of people who leave the company:¬†Some folks just can‚Äôt seem to help themselves on this one. As soon as a colleague ‚Äì and particularly a direct report ‚Äì jumps ship for a competitor, out comes the old ‚Äúhe‚Äôs not a real loss‚Äù and ‚Äúwe were just about to fire him anyway,‚Äù regardless of ‚Äúhow important to the team‚Äù he was the day before. While this message typically translates into ‚ÄúI‚Äôm really just trying to make myself look and / or feel better,‚Äù the disrespect comes through loud and clear. And it makes the employees left wonder if they are ‚Äújust about to be fired‚Äù themselves. Give slap-dash performance reviews:¬†Amongst all the files I received on first promotion to manager was the write-up of my own performance review from the prior year. In reading it, I realized that I remembered many of the exact words that my boss had used. (One research report had been characterized as ‚Äúfine.‚Äù I spent more than a few minutes trying to figure out what ‚Äúfine‚Äù actually meant.) As a result, I have tried to be very thoughtful about the performance reviews, going so far as to script many of them. This way the messages were crisp, rather than just the words that came to my mind at the moment. Hire people just like yourself:¬†This one is easy for managers to do, without ever realizing it. And it‚Äôs particularly easy to do when one is under stress and feeling the pressure to deliver. I have heard numerous times, ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt have the luxury of hiring someone who‚Äôs different. Given ______________________ * , we need to hire the ‚Äòsure thing.‚Äô‚Äù Smart boards will push their managers to change their mindsets from the more typical standard of ‚Äúhire the best person for the job‚Äù to ‚Äúput together the best team.‚Äù Maybe the point is subtle, but the best team is often one that complements each other; it is not a set of clones of each other, no matter how brilliant or accomplished each individual is. (To extend my UNC basketball analogy, Phil Ford, Ty Lawson, Kendall Marshall, Raymond Felton and Jimmy Black would probably never have won a national championship as a team, despite being five extraordinarily talented point guards....and despite the point guard being arguably the most important player on the team.) *Fill in the blank with one of the following: the pressure from the Street for earnings; the severity of the downturn; the need to beat Goldman Sachs; the fact that we are behind on our five-year plan; the impatience of the Board; if we don‚Äôt give him the job, he may leave; the press loves him; we can't afford to lose market share; our competitors are focusing on this space; I think he was talking to a headhunter the other day etc etc‚Ä¶..
flickr/neologism If you believe the highest-paid interns are on Wall Street, you're wrong. They're mostly in social media and technology, according to a recent Glassdoor.com survey. The site, which touts itself as a jobs and career community, found that the top four companies pay interns more than $6,000 a month. VMware, a leading technology firm, ranks No. 1 in internship salaries, at $6,704. Rounding out the top five: eBay ($6,500), ExxonMobil ($6,268), Facebook ($6,084) and Google (5,891). In fact, Wall Street firms didn't even crack the top 10. The highest-paid financial services internships are Deutsche Bank ($4,943), Capital One ($4,930) and BlackRock ($4,698). Goldman Sachs, long considered the quintessential Wall Street firm, failed to make the top 25. It pays interns an average of $3,319 a monthó$590 a month less than two years ago.  Glassdoor.com's report validates the decision by Alex Barth, a 22-year-old senior at Seton Hall University, not to pursue a Wall Street internship, though his twin brother had one last summer. Barth now interns at a multinational corporation that makes electronic products; he's paid $18 an hour. "I understand the prestige of having a Wall Street firm on your rÈsumÈ," Barth said. "But between my lack of interest in the industry, commute and long hours, it never really made sense for me to pursue a Wall Street internship." Interning on Wall Street apparently isn't a prerequisite for securing a position in financial services after graduation, either: Barth will start a job as an operations associate in the sector this summer.
flickr/cobalt123Last Wednesday, before a massive sell-off in the gold market, Goldman Sachs strategists told clients to short the precious metal, targeting $1450 an ounce (at the time, gold was trading around $1580). One of the reasons for the call was a big outflow from gold ETFs that really picked up speed in the first quarter. Now, with gold trading at $1385, below Goldman's $1450 target, strategists at the bank are still warning that the downward move may have further to run. "We believe there is the potential for a further sell-off in ETF holdings given that a significant portion of the holdings, 8 moz or 11% of the existing holdings, were purchased at levels at or above current gold prices," writes Goldman's top commodities strategist Jeffrey Currie in a note to clients this morning. According to Currie, the big sell-offs in gold on Friday and Monday ‚Äì the worst days the market has seen in decades ‚Äì were caused by fears that the decision to sell gold in Cyprus to help finance a bailout could spread to other euro area countries. In the note, he writes: Over the past week this trend started to accelerate, with the extremely large move likely triggered by growing concerns that the central bank of Cyprus would sell its gold reserves, potentially triggering a larger monetization of gold reserves across other European central banks. The decline in prices was further exacerbated by the breach of a well-flagged key technical price support level at $1,530/toz and then at the $1,434/toz 200-week moving average, creating the largest one-day price decline since the inception of the COMEX. Although gold traded below the $1,450/toz target embedded in our short gold recommendation, we maintained our short recommendation, as we argued last week that prices could decline more than we initially thought as positioning is stretched and the momentum is to the downside. Accordingly, yesterday we lowered the stop to $1,400/toz as we wait for evidence of a near-term bottom to establish a new target; however, for now we are not changing our price forecasts. On ETF holdings, Currie writes (emphasis added): This stretched positioning was confirmed in the most recent data on ETF holdings through Tuesday. The report showed acceleration in the liquidation of length, falling nearly 2.0 moz over the past week for a total of decline of 8.5 moz or 10% since the peak at the end of last year. We believe there is the potential for a further sell-off in ETF holdings given that a significant portion of the holdings, 8 moz or 11% of the existing holdings, were purchased at levels at or above current gold prices. Finally, to put the size of the ETF holdings into context: at its peak of 84.6 moz, the ETF‚Äôs aggregate holdings were the third-largest in the world, ranking behind only the US and German central banks. The 8.5 moz liquidated from ETFs since the start of the year represent almost 10% of annual gold mine supply, which takes the aggregate ETF holdings down to a number four ranking, with only the IMF moving ahead. However one measures the aggregate ETF holdings, they are still extremely significant. Gold has rebounded a bit from the low of $1321.50 an ounce it put in on Monday. Today, it's trading around $1385 (down 0.2%).
The debate over the effects of heavy government debt loads on an economy is back in the forefront as economists wrestle with a flaw found in the work of Ken Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart, the foremost economists on the matter. The Guardian's Leo Hickman recently conducted a lengthy interview with investment legend Jeremy Grantham.† And during the interview, Grantham discussed his position on debt, monetary policy and austerity. Here's Grantham: Fiscal and monetary policies are extraordinarily difficult at the moment. The history is not clear as to what works. The theory is even less clear. My guess is that you want to be careful about how quickly you tighten the austerity screws and that the more austerity-orientated approaches look to me more dangerous and seem to be delivering greater pain on the economy. Eventually, you have to address the question of debt, but I'm on the record as saying that I think the world in general exaggerates the significance of debt. That isn't to say it's insignificant, but what it is to say is that it's a paper world and it takes our attention away from the real world of the quality of education and training and the quality and quantity of capital investment and legal structure. We don't build things on paper and yet we've begun to talk as if we do. People say that the Chinese have built all their railroads on debt, to which I say, "no, they haven't". They've built them with real Chinese people and real cement and real steel that are part of the real world. When you run out of people and capital capacity then you can't increase any more. America conducted the world's greatest experiment in debt. It tripled the debt-to-GDP level from 1982, where it was 1.25x GDP, up to 3.5x over the next 30 years. And during this time what effect did this have on the long-term growth of the system? And that's the only reason they do it, just to get more growth? Everyone says that, of course, the financial burst caused devastation and brought us to our knees. Yes, it was a terrible idea and eminently avoidable, but if you look at the breaking of the housing bubble in America and you realise how many trillions of dollars would evaporate if it went back to the trend line of the ratio of house price to family income, you must realise that people are going to feel devastatingly poorer than they were. They still have the same house, but, in perception terms, they thought they had a pension fund stored up in their house and it went away. They feel poor and they are going to spend less and it will be a drag on the economy. It was a well-behaved bubble. It went extraordinarily high then all the way back in three years to trend line, and slightly below, and is now moving back up to trend. It was a huge hit to the economy and guaranteed the recovery would be slow. And if that was not enough there was a second factor ó the price of oil quadrupled and the price of other assets, such as metals and food, tripled from 2002-2008. Every time that had happened before, like 1974 and 1979 in the two oil crisis, it was followed by global recession. That alone should have been enough to cause a recession. Add that to the housing bust and you don't need to create any space to explain why we had a recession and a slow recovery. I remain open to persuasion that debt is that big a deal. We have had it foisted upon us that the general idea that finance is so incredibly important that, if a corner bank goes bust, the whole of civilisation grinds to a halt. It's enormously helpful to the banking system to have believed such nonsense, but I think that's what it is.
Quick heads up. Markets are going to open in the red. US futures are a bit off their lows, but the seesaw continues. Monday was a big down day. Tuesday was a big up day. Yahoo Finance
U.S. Government via ReutersRemains of an explosive device found at the sceneInvestigators have several pieces of evidence believed to be part of the homemade explosive devices used in Monday's bombing at the Boston Marathon. By examining the physical remnants found at the scene and poring through a mountain of photos and video of the event, authorities will¬†to attempt to identify who placed the bombs near the finish line. The attack ‚Äî involving two blasts 12 seconds apart ‚Äî¬†killed three people and injured more than 180 others, many of whom now live with severed limbs. Photos of the crime scene show the remains of a pressure cooker, a shredded black backpack, pieces of shrapnel, a battery, and a partial circuit board. FBIPart of a pressure cooker and a piece of a nylon bag The FBI, which released the photos, said one bomb involved¬†a pressure cooker ‚Äî packed with metal including carpenter¬†nails and ball bearings ‚Äî¬†hidden inside a¬†dark-colored nylon bag or backpack. U.S. Government via ReutersA nail, a zipper pull, and ball bearings used as shrapnel in a bomb On Wednesday morning CNN reported, citing a law enforcement source, that investigators have found the lid to a pressure cooker on one of the rooftops in the area ‚Äî which¬†could hold a number of clues for technicians. FBIPart of a pressure cooker and a mangled nylon bagThe agency said that a metal container hidden in a backpack also housed the second bomb, but there's not enough evidence to determine whether it was also a pressure cooker. A law enforcement official told CNN that the bombs were likely detonated by timers connected to the circuits and batteries, but the FBI said they haven't figured out the detonating system or what exactly set them off. U.S. government via ReutersCircuitry found at the sceneTechnicians¬†at¬†FBI's national laboratory in Virginia will now try to¬†reconstruct the devices using fragments of¬†the pressure cooker, nails, and nylon bags in addition to the type of circuitry and batteries found at the scene. U.S. Government via ReutersSeveral reports detail¬†al-Qaeda's proliferation,¬†through "Inspire" magazine,¬†of how to build pressure cooker bombs. But it's important to note that¬†such knowledge was published¬†in the Anarchist Cookbook in 1971 and is widely available on the Internet.
WikipediaThe world of economics is going into convulsions about the news that Kenneith Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart made a Microsoft Excel coding blunder, which caused them to 'notably' understate average growth rates for countries that have debt surpassing 90% of GDP. Reports of the blunder came out yesterday. Reinhart and Rogoff admitted to the blunder today. As Tim Fernholz nicely laid out yesterday, the Reinhart/Rogoff study has been quoted by numerous officials around the world in their attempts to justify austerity and other measures to reduce the national debt. Some might think that if it hadn't been for this blunder, then maybe the world wouldn't have had this disastrous flirtation with austerity (which has been horrible for Europe) and which has been a constant threat in the US. But all of this would have happened anyway. As Paul Krugman states in one of his (several) posts on the Reinhart/Rogoff issue: "the larger story is the evident urge of Very Serious People to find excuses for inflicting pain." This impulse, to show your seriousness by promoting pain, is the real overriding drive behind austerity, not an academic study. For example after Obama publicly embraced a "chained CPI" (a form of Social Security cut). Economist Dean Baker told Business Insider: "You piss on the people who care about Social Security, then you're serious."  Austerity advocates think that through taking the pain we'll be better off. Or at least they claim they believe it. The 90% threshold added a nice bit of intellectual heft to the arguments that cutting the deficit was a matter of urgency, but it's hard to imagine it making a big difference.
Bloomberg TelevisionKen Rogoff in DavosThe big talk in the world of economics continues to be the famous study by Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff, which claimed that as countries see debt/GDP going above 90%, growth slows dramatically. Economists have always been skeptical of the correlation/causality on this. But yesterday, a new study emerged which claimed that Reinhart and Rogoff used a faulty dataset to make that claim and (most stunningly) had an excel error that exacerbated the growth dropoff for countries with debt/GDP higher than 90%. After the report dropped (and proceeded to blow up the internet), Reinhart and Rogoff rushed out a quick statement claiming that the new study (which was done by some UMass professors) supported their thesis that growth slowed as debt to GDP got higher. And Reinhart and Rogoff were quick to reiterate that even they weren't necessarily implying causation on this (which may be true, but the fact that they say this is not well known to the politicians who are always citing the dreaded 90% level). But in a new response,†Reinhart and Rogoff admit they did make an Excel blunder, and that it mattered! Here's the key part: The authors point out that there are three problems with our 1945-2009 averages and the paper itself: (i) a coding error that causes the first five countries in the alphabet to be omitted in forming averages for the 1946-2009 period in one figure, (ii) ìselective exclusionî of 1946-1950 for New Zealand, and (iii) ìunconventional weighting of summary statisticsîóthe implication being that these omissions are intentionally used to bias the results. They argue that the interaction of three problems magnifies their effects and leads to completely different conclusions, especially when they choose a different weighting scheme. On the first point, we reiterate that Herndon, Ash and Pollin accurately point out the coding error that omits several countries from the averages in figure 2. Full stop. HAP are on point. The authors show our accidental omission has a fairly marginal effect on the 0-to-90-per-cent buckets in figure 2. However, it leads to a notable change in the average growth rate for the over-90-per-cent debt group. The median growth rate we report is the right order of magnitude. The statement isn't a full cave. They still say that growth is slower as debt gets higher, and as stated in the statement above, they claim that median, rather than mean, growth rates are consistent with their original projections, even with the Excel change. STILL. This is dramatic stuff. The 90% threshold has taken on a huge role in the public economic/political/pop-culture discourse. And they admit that an Excel error lead to a "notable" change in what you'd get for the average growth rate above this level. Here is the full text of their response: † Response to Herndon, Ash and Pollin by Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, April 17, 2012 We are grateful to Herndon et al. for the careful attention to our original Growth in a Time of Debt AER paper and for pointing out an important correction to Figure 2 of that paper. † It is sobering that such an error slipped into one of our papers despite our best efforts to be consistently careful.† We will redouble our efforts to avoid such errors in the future.† We do not, however, believe this regrettable slip affects in any significant way the central message of the paper or that in our subsequent work. But first let us consider the specific points raised by Herndon Ash and Pollin (HAP) in their comment that we were sent yesterday. The authors point out that there are three problems with our 1945-2009 averages and the paper itself: (i) a coding error that causes the first five countries in the alphabet to be omitted in forming averages for the 1946-2009 period in one figure, (ii) ìselective exclusionî of 1946-1950 for New Zealand, and (iii) ìunconventional weighting of summary statisticsîóthe implication being that these omissions are intentionally used to bias the results.† They argue that the interaction of three problems magnifies their effects and leads to completely different conclusions, especially when they choose a different weighting scheme. † On the first point, we reiterate that Herndon, Ash and Pollin accurately point out the coding error that omits several countries from the averages in figure 2.† Full stop. † HAP are on point. † The authors show our accidental omission has a fairly marginal effect on the 0-90% buckets in figure 2.† However, it leads to a notable change in the average growth rate for the over 90% debt group. The median growth rate we report is the right order of magnitude. †Our interpretation of the errant data point in figure 2 was fortunately tempered somewhat by the parallel weight given to the median GDP growth rate for the various levels of debt in our discussion, an issue HAP selectively ignore.† To quote from our opening paragraph: ìmedian growth rates for countries with public debt over roughly 90 percent of GDP are about one percent lower than otherwise; There is also† Table 1 which immediately follows† figure 2, and does not have the same issues.† Table 1 gives all the individual country estimates for all the buckets and over a much longer time period than figure 2, and of course figures importantly in our analysis.† We are fortunate that we chose to present our results in several different ways, including means, medians, and individual country averages, in no small part as standard robustness checks. Nevertheless, the mistake in figure 2 resulting from the coding error is a significant lapse on our part. HAP go on to note some other missing debt data points, which they describe as ìselective omissionsî. This charge, which permeates through their paper, is one we object to in the strongest terms.† The ìgapsî are explained by the fact there were still gaps in our public data debt set at the time of this paper, a data set no one else had ever been able to construct before and which we now have filled in much more completely. Many readers of our work have followed this evolution on our data website.† For example, at the time the 2010 AER paper was written, there were gaps in the French data for the 1970s that we only filled in later.† Other data, including data for New Zealand for the years around WWII, had just been incorporated and we had not vetted the comparability and quality data with data for the more recent period. In effect, HAP only knew we had these data as we sent them the file we had used at that time.† We have no issues with to Herndon, Ash and Pollin for bringing attention to any data question regarding our work.† In this regard, we note that we have long since fully integrated the New Zealand data back to the early 1800s, once we were able to process it.† Every major high debt episode for advanced countries since 1800 and the underlying data is included in our 2012 Journal of Economic Perspectives paper co-authored with Vincent Reinhart. † But surely the authors do not mean to insinuate that we manipulated the data to exaggerate our results.† To what purpose would we ìmanipulateî the average growth rate for debt above 90% and show an average of -0.1% when in the same AER paper we report the median for 1946-2009 at 1.6%, and over the longer sample 1790-2009, we report and average of 1.7% and a median of 1.9%? (see table below)† Why, for that matter, would we provide all the data that we have gathered and used in our research over the years documenting in detail multiple sources to the public domain?† This brings us to the core conceptual issue, which Herndon, Ash and Pollin argue greatly biases our results.† They argue that we use an ìunconventional weighting of summary statistics.î† † In particular, for each bucket, we take average growth rates for each country and then take an average of the result.† This seems perfectly natural to us, and hardly unconventional.† We do not want to excessively weight Greece, for example, which has debt over 90% for 19 years in the 1946-2009 sample. The post-war Advanced Economy experience would quickly reduce to the experiences of Greece and Japan. Our approach has been followed in many other settings where one does not want to overly weight a small number of countries that may have their own peculiarities.† Our approach is quite clear from table 1, which also gives the averages for each individual country.† Our 2012 Journal of Economic Perspectives paper, based a much longer time period (1800-2011 versus the 1946-2009 Herndon et al focus on), gives episode-by-episode data for each country, including growth rates and number of years, so the results are quite transparent.† The problems with weighting long episodes much more heavily than short episodes, as Herndon et al. suggest, become much more apparent in the longer time series (an earlier version of which was also used in Table 1 of our original AER paper) As we noted in our initial comment yesterday upon just receiving the paper, our JEP paper anticipates most of the aggregation debate and diffuses it by using a case-study approach.† That is where this literature is now expanding. So do where does this leave matters on debt and growth?† Do Herndon et al. get dramatically different results on the relatively short post war sample they focus on?† Not really.† They, too, find lower growth associated with periods when debt is over 90% (they find 0-30 debt/GDP , 4.2% growth; † 30-60, 3.1 %;† 60-90, 3.2%,;† over 90, 2.2%.† Put differently, growth at high debt levels is a little more than half of the growth rate at the lowest levels of debt. They ignore the fact that these results are close to what we get in our Table 1 of our AER paper they critique, and not far from the median results in Figure 2 despite its coding error.† And they are not very different from what we report in our 2012 Journal of Economic Perspectives paper with Vincent Reinhartówhere the average is 2.4% for high debt versus 3.5% for below 90% . The table below makes the similarity of all these comparisons clear:† 1945-2009 † RR AER (2010) HAP (2013) Debt/GDP Mean Median Mean Median 0 to 30 4.1 4.2 4.2 NA 30 to 60 2.8 3.9 3.1 NA 60 to 90 2.8 2.9 3.2 NA Above 90 -0.1 1.6 2.2 NA † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † RR AER (2010) (Table 1) 1800-2009 0 to 30 3.7 3.9 NA NA 30 to 60 3.0 3.1 NA NA 60 to 90 3.4 2.8 NA NA Above 90 1.7 1.9 NA NA † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † RRR JEP (2012),† 1800-2011 Mean † † † Below 90 3.5 † † † Above 90 2.4 † † † NA implies not available There is also the question of whether these growth effects can be economically large.† Here it is very misleading to think of 1% growth differences without recognizing that the typical high debt episode lasts well over a decade (23 years on average in the full sample.) †It is utterly misleading to speak of a 1% growth differential that lasts 10-25 years as small.† If a country grows at 1% below trend for 23 years, output will be roughly 25% below trend at the end of the period, with massive cumulative effects.† Looking to the reaction to this comment in blogosphere, we note that this is not the first time our academic work is seen pandering to a political view. What is quite remarkable is that this claim has spanned polar opposites! This time, we are charged with misconstruing analysis to support austerity. Only a few months ago, our findings on slow recoveries from financial crises was accused as providing a rationale for the deep recession and weak economy the Obama administration has faced since 2007. Herndon, Ash and Pollin have written a useful paper, finding a significant mistake in one of our figures, and helped reconcile why one result is out of line with all the other results in our original paper as well as ones presented in our later research, not to mention those they present in their helpful comment.† Clearly more research is needed on debt and growth and we welcome all efforts, it is very exciting area. We now have debt data for a larger number of countries than the original sample and long time periods that allows this research to press forward.
ShutterstockGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
TinyTall / FlickrThe big market story this morning is the selloff in Germany, which happened in a flash, and without an obvious explanation. Sebastien Galy of SocGen sees this as a sign of rising jitters and instability. It took only some speculation of a German downgrade to send the DAX plunging sharply lower, before it partially recovered. The sensitivity of different markets to negative surprises seems to have risen sharply recently, particularly in Europe and the broad EM spectrum. It suggests that the period of consolidation is continuing. Until now, sharp corrections were met by sharp recoveries as they were in 2006 and 2007 typical of liquidity fuelled rallies. This is the second period of deep instability this year, the last one was end of February (ìinstability cubedî). Yesterday, Galy's SocGen colleague Kit Juckes noted that a lot of clients were wondering whether what happened to gold in recent days could happen to stocks. Markets are on knife's edge.
Shares of Bank of America are off 3% this morning. Long-story short: EPS missed by 2 cents, while revenue slightly beat. You can read the full press release here. image
As many people have noticed, George Osborne, the UK Chancellor, appears to be one of the few people in tears at the start of Margaret Thatcher's funeral. Here's our image that definitely does appear to show him crying: Screengrab This video shows Osborne apparently wiping tears from his eyes:  Osborne is too young to have ever worked directly with Thatcher, however he came of age during the 1980s and she no doubt played a big role in the formation of his political ideals. After her death this month he wrote a heartfelt article for the Times of London that recounted a time he took his son to meet Thatcher, who he describes as "a great figure from British history". Osborne's tears appeared to come as the Bishop of London recounted a story about the time a child wrote to Thatcher. Here's the story, via the BBC: "Nine-year-old David wrote to say, 'last night when we were saying prayers, my daddy said everyone has done wrong things except Jesus. I said I don't think you have done bad things because you are the prime minister. Am I right or is my daddy?" Perhaps the most remarkable thing is that the PM replied in her own hand in a very straightforward letter which took the question seriously. "However good we try to be, we can never be as kind, gentle and wise as Jesus. There will be times when we do or say something we wish we hadn't done and we shall be sorry and try not to do it againÖ If you and I were to paint a picture, it wouldn't be as good as the picture of great artists. So our lives can't be as good as the life of Jesus." Osborne may well feel something of a kinship for Thatcher, whose economic policies caused significant sectors of society direct their anger at her personally. Recent "austerity"-led budget cuts have seen an avalanche of personal criticism directed at the Chancellor, from "George Osborne" flashmobs to photographs of him parking in disabled parking spaces on the front page of newspapers.
Richard Bernstein‚Äôs latest research piece has a view that I very much agree with. ¬†The Fed is traditionally a reactive entity. ¬†When the economy is running hot they tend to lag the market and tighten too late. ¬†When the economy is running cold they show up late to the party as they did in 2008. ¬†On both sides they end up playing catch-up which results in whip-sawing the economy in a way that actually causes more economic volatility than necessary. Richard Bernstein expects this cycle to end the same way. ¬†He says: ‚ÄúThe Fed believes that reversing QE will slow the economy. However, a steeping yield curve and stronger business confidence argue otherwise. If we are correct, then the Fed could once again be forced to play catch-up to the markets during the mid- and late-cycle.As most cycles mature, the Fed typically realizes that their policies have been too accommodative for the maturity of the cycle. Production bottlenecks and shortages become more frequent, and inflation pressures begin to build. The Fed then rushes to tighten monetary policy in an attempt to make up for the earlier hesitancy to tighten. The traditional end result has been that the Fed‚Äôs late-cycle aggressive policies go to far (i.e., they over-tighten policy), the yield curve inverts, and a recession follows. This cycle seems poised to follow that historical pattern. The Fed remains fearful of tightening too early and has told investors that they will react to the economy‚Äôs strength. Their reaction time will probably be slow as well. If our contention that reversing QE might stimulate the economy is correct, then the frequency and magnitude of Fed tightening is likely to accelerate as they realize they‚Äôve created a monster. Their rush to equalize monetary policy with the strength in the economy could lead them to over-tighten and invert the yield curve. A recession would probably follow, and the cycle would end in a very traditional manner.‚Äù That makes a lot of sense given this cycle. ¬†We‚Äôve seen such a historic easing program that the Fed is going to be very hesitant unwinding the program. ¬†They want to be completely certain that the economy is healed before they jump the gun. ¬†And by the time they do that they‚Äôll almost certainly be behind the curve as a disequilibrium will already be building up in the economy. We live in a boom/bust era dominated by Fed policy. ¬†In my opinion, we can thank Milton Friedman for this obsession with Fed policy and the assumption that the Federal Reserve and a group of economists can control the economy with any sort of precision. ¬†The 30 year experiment with the Federal Reserve‚Äôs interventionist policies is far from over.
Just over a year ago, Morgan Stanley's analysts argued that the "four pillars" of a gold bull market would send the yellow metal to $2,175 by the end of 2013.¬† These pillars: But in the wake of the recent sell-off, the analysts led by Peter Richardson have published a note titled "Gold: Crumbling Pillars."¬† "In our view, the dramatic sell-off in the gold market since 12 April has all the hallmarks of panic-driven, stale long liquidation, stop-loss and capitulation selling in the face of a concerted short sale that began in New York on Friday April 12," says Richardson. "We trace the origins of the short sale assault to the 10% reduction in CME margins for gold futures contracts that took place in November 2012." "The subsequent the erosion of some of the major pillars supporting the gold bull market that occurred in the interim provided fertile ground for such a successful and attractively priced assault on the long skew to investor positioning in the market." They note three trends that have destroyed their old thesis: Richardson and his team have slashed their gold price target to $1,487 for 2013 (from $1,773) and $1,563 in 2014 (from $1,845). This is much higher than than the $1,370 level we're seeing today. But that's not to say gold will head straight up from here. "Given the magnitude of the volumes traded in futures markets over the past three days, the dramatic rise in open interest and the heightened volatility of recent days, we are reluctant to try and identify a hard floor in the retracement that we have seen in the spot market," they warn. Here's a look at the ugly gold chart of late: Morgan Stanley
Screenshot Today sees the funeral for former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, which the New York Times has described as "a state funeral in all but name". Before it even begun, it's proven incredibly controversial. The BBC reports that over 4,000 extra police officers had to be brought in to central London today, and the total cost for the funeral has been reported as over £10 million ($15 million). Despite this, the streets of central London certainly look packed with well-wishers hoping to see her funeral procession: Screengrab Either way, it looks set to be a huge event. We've embedded live-video below from the Telegraph. The event starts at 9am GMT (5am EST). NOTE: The funeral is over so the live-stream is no longer functioning.
One of America‚Äôs best known hedge fund managers John Paulson is thought to have lost as much as $1bn on the sudden collapse of the price of gold. The fund manager, who famously made billions forecasting the implosion of the US subprime lending market, has had an estimated $973m wiped off the value of his investments in the past few days, according to analysis by Bloomberg. Mr Paulson has bet heavily on gold arguing that the precious metal is the best hedge against inflation and currency debasement which he says is the obvious result of the money printing policies being pursued by central banks around the world. According to Bloomberg, Mr Paulson had 85pc of his $9.5bn assets invested in gold share classes at the start of the year. The price of gold plunged 9.3pc on Monday, through the $1,400-an-ounce level, the steepest decline in 30 years. Since August 2011, gold has fallen 20pc in value. Traders reported scenes of panic selling when the price dropped $30 in a matter of minutes. Analysts said that mounting concerns that gold was overpriced were suddenly fuelled by fears that Cyprus was about to off-load its reserves in a bid to raise desperately needed cash. On Tuesday the price rose marginally but stabilised at the low levels. Sources at Paulson said that the hedge fund group had started investing in gold in four years ago when the gold was around $950 an ounce, so the funds are still in profit. Mr Paulson hit headlines in 2007 with a $4bn payday from profits he made betting on the collapse of US house prices. He reportedly made even more in 2010, paying himself $5bn, after his funds, in which he has invested most of his fortune, delivered strong returns on bets on gold, commodities and a recovery for US banks. However, recent months have been far tougher for Mr Paulson with reports of heavy losses, even before the drop in price of gold. 
Brutal fact for UK workers. Earnings now growing slower than the financial crisis. UK earnings growth (ex-bonuses) just 1%, the lowest since records began in 2001. Chart: twitter.com/ReutersJamie/s‚Ä¶
More unimpressive news out of the UK, this time on the unemployment front. These tweets capture the problems. UK unemployment worsens +70k = fastest &gt;1yr, driving rate up = 7.9%. Pound drops -.03% vs $ UK workers getting squeezed more and more. Average earnings growth ex-bonuses falls to 1%, the lowest in over a decade. One is it's seen as a test for austerity. It's also going to be a challenge for incoming Bank of England chief Mark Carney, who will certainly have his work cut out for him.
European new car registrations fell by another 10.2 percent in March from the same month a year earlier, marking the 18th consecutive monthly decline, to 1.307 million vehicles, data released on Wednesday by the European Automobile Manufacturer's Association (ACEA) showed. Almost all main automakers suffered declines, with the exception of two high-end brands, Jaguar with a leap of 21.2 percent and Mercedes with a much more modest gain of 0.6 percent, the association said in a statement. The biggest drop was that of the French group PSA Peugeot Citroen, which sold 16.0 percent fewer vehicles, and US giant General Motors, which was off by 12.8 percent. Renault sales were 9.6 percent lower, but were spared a heavier drop owing to its Romanian subsidiary Dacia, which reported a jump of 20.2 percent. The Korean automaker Kia also posted a gain, turning in a rise of 3.7 percent while compatriot Hyundai fell by 9.5 percent. A breakdown by country showed that the British market held up better then the rest, posting an increase of 5.9 percent on the year and 7.4 percent in the period from January through March from the same period a year earlier. The biggest decline in March was in Germany, Europe's biggest car market, which was off by 17.1 percent, followed by France, which was down by 16.2 percent. For the first quarter of 2013 as a whole, new car registrations across the 27-member European Union fell by 9.8 percent, to 2.989 million vehicles. They have now been in a constant fall for a year and a half, and last year hit their lowest level since 1995, at 12.05 million units. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Goldman's chief economist Jan Hatzius ‚Äî who has been optimistic that the US economy will turn a corner in 2013 ‚Äî is the latest to talk more about signs of a soft patch. In a new note, he talks about 'A Consumption Setback.' He writes: Real consumer spending growth in the first quarter is tracking 2-1/2%, much stronger than we had expected at the start of the year. But the March retail sales and the dip in consumer sentiment in early April suggest that consumption is entering the second quarter on a weak note. The personal saving rate also looks somewhat low relative to our model, which is based on household wealth, bank lending standards, and labor market conditions. The most plausible explanation is that we are seeing a delayed impact from the January payroll tax hike. If this is the right explanation, we could see a couple of quarters of weaker consumption growth in the 1%-2% range, despite the increase in household wealth and the more recent decline in gasoline prices. Combined with the hit from the sequester to federal spending, this would probably make it difficult for real GDP to grow much more than 2%, even if homebuilding and business investment continue to perform well. Still, Hatzius remains optimistic about growth and even US consumption growth in the latter half of the year, as the benefits of America's low level of debt service and deleveraging kick in. Goldman Sachs
The see-saw continues. After yesterday's big up day, today is a red day. Europe had been in the green as of several minutes ago, but now stocks have gone into the red for no obvious reason. Germany, in particular, has dropped sharply, and is now down 1.5%. Bloomberg US futures, which surged yesterday, are negative to the tune of about 0.5%. Otherwise, things are pretty slow. Gold, which has been moving violently, didn't do much overnight. In terms of economic data this morning, the big news is that UK employment came in worse than expected.
