Reuters/China DailyOfficial Chinese manufacturing PMI climbed to 50.8 in May. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. This beat expectations for a fall to 50, and was up from April's reading of 50.6 The rise was driven by output which climbed to 53.3 in May, from 52.6 the previous month. The HSBC Flash PMI fell to a seven-month low of 49.6 in May. Here is the full table: The modest expansion in manufacturing activity comes as a bit of a relief. For now, the main bear argument on China continues to be that it is taking more and more credit growth, to deliver less and less economic growth. 
America is famously the most anxious nation in the world, with 31 percent of the country dealing with symptoms of anxiety, according to the World Health Organization. While there are a host of factors that contribute to anxiety, our work culture plays a big role. It's where people spend most of their waking hours; and how we process our work lives has a dramatic affect on our well being. "Surveys show that stress levels [in the US] have progressively increased over the past four decades," Paul J. Rosch, MD, Chairman of the Board of The American Institute of Stress, told the Atlantic's Maura Kelly. Technology is a huge part of this trend, as it's completely transformed how we live and work. We're now connected 24/7, and the rapid pace of innovation means that almost any industry is constantly on the verge of being disrupted. In a demanding world that's increasingly complex, "it‚Äôs almost logical that people would respond with anxiety,"¬†Tony Schwartz, founder of the Energy Project, tells Business Insider. "People respond with fear, and fear is anxiety." While healthy levels of stress are good and can be motivating; unhealthy levels lead to decreased productivity. That's why companies like Google and Zappos invest so much into creating a strong company culture. Google is a classic "Stage 5" company, according to the "Tribal Leadership" management philosophy; whereas many companies are stuck in "Stage 3," which is a fear-based culture focused on individualism vs. a higher purpose.¬† Schwartz's Energy Project works with individuals and companies to create a happier, healthier and more productive workforce. "Often anxiety is free-floating," he says. "Many people don‚Äôt know why they‚Äôre feeling it." Americans are in constant "fight or flight" mode Instead of simply living in that space, Schwartz says, people should recognize that "something's not right," and allow it to serve as a wake-up call: "If you can‚Äôt build a sense of safety and security, it will compromise every aspect of your life, including work." The physiology of anxiety and fear is they trigger a "fight or flight" mode in the brain. "If you perceive a threat, the body will move into fight or flight, what‚Äôs called sympathetic arousal," Schwartz explains. "It'll mobilize you to act very quickly ‚Äì if there‚Äôs a lion coming at you. The body makes no distinction between between a lion and other factors that make you feel threatened." The most common form of anxiety* is when people feel their sense of value is threatened. "Almost any time you move into a negative emotional state, you can trace it back to an experience where you perceive your value has come under some type of threat," Schwartz explains. "That awareness is power. I have the capacity to decide, is this a real threat? Almost always, it isn‚Äôt. It's much less of a threat to your body than you think." There are physical symptoms of stress including muscle tension and sleep disruption, along with emotional responses like restlessness and a lack of focus, according to the Mayo Clinic. How to respond to stress triggers¬†  Schwartz works with people to get them into what he calls "the performance zone," where people are performing at optimal levels. Because ultimately, how you feel is the biggest predictor of performance. "How much you sleep, what you eat, the number of emotional triggers that appear in front of you over the course of a day," he says, all affect performance. So beyond making these lifestyle changes, how can you best respond to perceived threats? "Quiet the physiology first. As long as your body is aroused, you‚Äôre stuck," says Schwartz. "You won't be able to respond well. What‚Äôs the best way to quiet the body? What can we do that‚Äôs simple and effective? Breathe deeply." The second most obvious way to do it is raise your heart rate through physical activity. Environmental factors are sometimes difficult to change; and the best way to respond is to take control of what you can change ‚Äî and that's how you think. *Schwartz emphasized that he's not necessarily referring to clinical anxiety; but rather, the stress that "you could empirically observe" among American workers.
AP Photo/Kin CheungOfficial China PMI for May is out at 9 p.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for manufacturing PMI to fall to 50, from 50.6 in April. The HSBC Flash PMI fell to a seven-month low of 49.6 in May. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. Ahead of the HSBC Flash PMI report,† Deutsche Bank's John Horner wrote that the datapoint was important because a weak number would heighten concerns of† a 'broken' Chinese growth dynamic that is no longer responding to rapid credit expansion." Chinese data has recently disappointed markets. And the main bear argument on China is that it's "taking more and more credit growth in China to deliver less economic growth, according to to CLSA's Christopher Wood. A poor manufacturing PMI number will only bolster that argument. Here's a look at Chinese PMI and industrial production from 2005 on: BAML
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Emotions Can Lead Investors Astray (BlackRock) "Each person has a different perspective on the markets. But many admit that buying low may never feel 'right.' Oftentimes, emotional instincts drive investors to do the exact opposite. Being aware of your emotional state is important to making clearly reasoned investment decisions," according to BlackRock. Using hypothetical emotions and a hypothetical $100,000 investment they show how emotions can misguide investors.†  BlackRock Advisors Are More Optimistic About Their Business Than The Economy (Advisor One) 91% of advisors expect business to be better in 2013, that in 2012, but they're not as optimistic about the economy, according to a poll at SEI Advisor Networkís conference in Dallas. 41% expect "slow but consistent growth," 40% expect a near-term correction, and 13% expect a recession.  A Valuable Lesson From Pre-Retirees That Dumped Stocks In Early 2009 (Fidelity Investments) A new report from Fidelity shows that 1.6% of pre-retirees, or the 55+ age bracket, that ditched stocks from their 401(k) by Q1 2009 and never rebalanced saw their balances grow 25.9%. Their average balance grew from $80,2000 to $101,000. Meanwhile, the average balance for pre-retirees nearly doubled from Q1 2009 to $255,000.† "There is a valuable lesson to be learned from the minority of pre-retirees who abandoned equities altogether and experienced significantly less progress," said James MacDonald, president, Workplace Investing, Fidelity Investments in a press release. ìIt underscores the combined importance of a proper asset allocation and savings behavior as they planned for retirement within all that life entails." Emerging Markets Capital Flight Has Been The Big Story This Week (Bank of America) Emerging market equity funds saw $2.9 billion in weekly outflows this week, the biggest in 18 months. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global † Broker Dealer Reportedly In Violation Of Capital Requirements (Investment News) Independent broker-dealer Allied Beacon Partners reportedly told its advisors that its capital reserves were below levels required by industry standards to continue operations, according to Investment News. This means that Allied brokers can now sell, but not buy securities for their clients. Two Allied Beacon subsidiaries have been the subject of investor lawsuits in the past.
I walked all the way to the west side highway from the east side just to get Fuel. Normally I'd hop a bus or a cab.On Saturday over 145,000 financial professionals will take the hardest exam on Wall Street, the Chartered Financial Analyst exam. Many of them will fail. After the exam, almost all of them will think that they've failed. And after the months and months of intense study the test requires (about 300 hours for each of the 3 Levels), you, ladies and gentlemen, deserve a drink. We put together a list of bars you can check out near the Javits Center, one big location where the test is being given in NYC. Here's the list. Aside from The Frying Pan and Sky Room, these are mostly pubs where you can get your grub on and maybe watch some sports or something. Your call. Gastro Market and Sky Room both have lovely outdoor situations as well. The Frying Pan (pictured) as you can see, is a boat. You're welcome: Work hard, play hard. Good luck. Oh yeah, and you may want to print this out.
API am having a few days of surfing lessons in Bali on the way home from a business trip. Its actually quite productive because I get back from two hours of lessons pretty close to wrecked at 9.30 AM and eat.  Then it is work for a bit, have a massage, work for a bit more, go out and be a tourist, eat, work and sleep.  I have taken to calling my room at the†surf camp†"the office" which horrifies the other guests (mostly younger European - especially German speaking backpackers).Yesterday however was unproductive. I rode a motor-scooter to†Tanah Lot†- a†kitsch†bunch of markets and an unusual coastal Hindu Temple. Now riding a motor-scooter in Bali is not risk free - indeed it is exhilarating with risk. However I thought I could reasonably list all the risks.I could not.I rode past a horse-drawn cart and the horse lent over and bit my shoulder.Lesson 1: Its the risks that you can't see that get you. No risk assessment is complete without leaving space for what†Donald Rumsfeld called the "unknown unknowns".Anyway a quick perusal of the internet raises my alarm. Bali was rabies free until 2008 when what was probably a single rabid dog came from Java. Bali being Hindu has dogs roaming around - symbols of good luck. They would not be tolerated like that in most of Moslem Indonesia. There have been well over 100 deaths from rabies in the past few years in Bali. A tourist recently died after being bitten by a monkey.A further perusal of the internet suggests that it is possible to get rabies from horses - indeed several cases have been confirmed in Canada. Horses it seems are curious creatures and have been known to walk up to strange-acting foxes leaving them vulnerable.After some advice from some regular Bali goers I wind up at the Bali Clinic in Seminyak (a suburb of the tourist-and-flesh haunt of Kuta). This clinic is run by a mix of Western and local trained doctors and the triage process sends infectious disease cases to one of the local doctors trained at†Sriwijaya University†in South Sumatra. Now I know nothing about that school and little about South Sumatra other than that it is a well known Petri-dish of infectious tropical diseases (and some very good surfing). My guess is that the average doctor coming out of a university in Sumatra knows more about infectious tropical diseases than all but a handful of Harvard graduates.So with some discomfort I conclude I am in the right hands.The doctor sends me home. He is aware that rabies is transmitted by horses sometimes (but rarely) in North America. He is also aware that bats are a vector in some parts of the world. But to his knowledge there has never been a case of rabies in Indonesia from any animal other than a dog, a cat or a monkey. He does however clean out the wound and gives me the expected superficial iodine treatment.The doctor is almost certainly right. Indeed I would put the chance of him being right at over 99.99 percent.But if he is wrong I die.This is a risk I hate taking. Every piece of my being hates taking this risk. In financial markets if you take a risk no matter how seemingly small where an outcome is total failure if you are wrong and you are taking it at the advice of a so-called expert you are likely to blow up.Partly that is because financial experts exist to make medical experts look good. And it is because financial experts are conflicted in a way that medical experts are not. Indeed it is often because most financial experts are really just salesmen selling you the risks that their employers do not want to take.Finally it is also because financial risks are distributed so abnormally and in financial markets you take them repeatedly - day-in-day out. Where I only got bitten by a horse once. And things you do repeatedly will get you in the end - but things you do only once probably will not if the risk-level is low enough. If you get into the habit of taking repeated wipe-out risk in financial markets you will eventually be got. I guess if I got into the habit of being bitten by strange animals in Bali I would eventually be got too.But here I am, lying in the "office" in Bali taking precisely a risk that I promise my clients I will never take: the risk of blow-up on the assurance of an "expert".Maybe this is the hypochondria of exotic risks. I am flying home with Garuda Airlines - and some will tell me that is an unacceptable risk too. They are now quoted as an airline with a "much improved" safety record. Whatever. It is a plane. I am in the hands of "experts" and I do it all the time.
AP With the Dow falling, a lot of people have been talking about a rare sighting in markets: THE HINDENBURG OMEN. The Hindenburg Omen is a technical analysis thing that some people think portends a stock market crash. From Wikipedia: The Hindenburg Omen is a combination of technical factors that attempt to measure the health of the NYSE, and by extension, the stock market as a whole. The goal of the indicator is to signal increased probability of a stock market crash. The rationale is that under "normal conditions" a substantial number of stocks may set either new annual highs or new annual lows, but not both at the same time. As a healthy market possesses a degree of uniformity, whether up or down, the simultaneous presence of many new highs and lows may signal trouble. Theoretically, the Hindenburg Omen could be applied to any stock exchange. However, some minor alterations to the omen might be needed to achieve similar results. And the critera are: According to Jonathan Krinsky, a technical analyst at Miller Tabak, the omen has appeared! In a note that went out to clients just an hour ago, he wrote: The Theory then goes like this:¬†¬† Two such signals within a 36-day period is consider ed a Hindenburg Omen. The Hindenburg Omen portends a serious decline within the next 40 days . (note: the 36 day period is somewhat ambiguous, as we have seen some say it is a 30 day period, and some say it must be 30 calendar vs. 30 business days). Let‚Äôs look at the first ‚Äúobservation‚Äù that occurred on April 15 th of this year. 1) NYSE New 52 Week Highs = 70 , New Lows = 77 . Both exceeded 2.2% of total issues that day. 2) The 10 Week (50 Day) Moving Average Was Rising 3) The McClellan Oscillator was negative 4) New 52 Week highs were NOT more than twice 52 week Lows¬†¬† All 4 criteria were met. Now on Wednesday, May 29 th , we got a second ‚Äúobservation‚Äù, which creates the confirmation of the Omen.¬†¬† 1) NYSE New Highs = 58 , New Lows = 104 . Both exceeded 2.2% of total issues that day 2) The 10 Week (50 Day) Moving Average Was Rising 3) The McClellan Oscillator was negative 4) New 52 Week highs were NOT more than twice 52 week Lows For more on today's big fall, see here &gt;
Stocks have been trending lower all afternoon, but the selling really accelerated in the last half hour or so before the closing bell at 4 PM. The chart below shows today's action in S&amp;P 500 futures. Right now, they are trading at 1628.75, just off the lows of 1626.25 and down 1.5% on the day. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelThings got really ugly during the last few minutes of the trading session. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,115, -208.9 pts, -1.3%S&amp;P 500: 1,630, -23.6 pts, -1.4%NASDAQ: 3,455, -35.3 pts, -1.0% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Much has been made about ballooning student loan debt and the rise of delinquencies. Many have called this a bubble, and some have even declared that the bubble has burst. But Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth isn't convinced we need to be freaking out about this just yet. First, while he acknowledges that student loans have been on the rise, he points out that this is largely due to more young people going to school and he also notes that the growth rate has been decelerating. "The growth rate of student loans has been on a long-term downward trend, while the contraction in other types of household debt has eased," he writes. "Both of these developments are positive."¬† Here's his chart. Capital Economics Second, he believes that the recent jump in delinquency rates may not be as big as everyone thinks.¬† From Ashworth: The dramatic jump in the delinquency rates for student loans is, at first glance, alarming. (See Chart 2.) But we suspect this jump owes more to a change in the definition the New York Fed uses to determine whether a loan is delinquent or not, which wasn't applied to the historical data. The sudden spike in student loan delinquencies in the second quarter of last year makes little sense given the downward trend in the overall household debt delinquency rate. The key determinants of delinquencies are the unemployment rate and interest rates. But the unemployment rates for 20 to 34 year olds have been trending lower and interest rates have also fallen. Here's a chart showing that spike. Capital Economics However, where Ashworth is encouraged by the falling unemployment rate, Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius notes that the labor force participation rate of college-eductated young Americans has plunged. Regardless, this is an interesting take by Ashworth.
CHICAGO¬†(Reuters) - For investors who piled into bond funds this year, the past week has been an abject lesson of how to get bruised in short order. An uptick in yields smacked bond prices, which move inversely to yields. Funds investing in high-yield and long-maturity issues got hit the worst. Yields on 10-year¬†Treasury¬†notes hit a peak of 2.23 percent, the highest since April of last year, before dropping to 2.16 percent on Wednesday. The pre-June bond swoon is a harbinger of things to come. The U.S. economy is heating up after years of decline, which will trigger greater demand for credit and lower bond prices. The good news? There are a bevy of alternative vehicles to help you hedge bond price declines. But first, some things to consider: Bond yields have largely been watered down by the Federal Reserve's bond-buying program in an effort to grow employment and the economy since the 2008 market and credit meltdown. The U.S. economy grew 1.7 percent in 2011 and 2.2 percent last year. The U.S. is expected to grow nearly 2 percent this year and about 3 percent in 2014, according to a report released on Wednesday by the¬†Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development¬†(OECD), which added fuel to the credit market flare up. The organization said a Fed retreat from its easing program could lead to lower bond prices. Now traders fear the Fed will take its hands off the throttle of its stimulus engine to slow its bond purchases. That has led to the yips in the most volatile bond funds of late. "While I don't believe the Fed's bond buying program will imminently cease," said¬†Jack Ablin, chief investment officer for BMO Private Bank in¬†Chicago, "I do think that 'taper talk' will lead to high bond yields. We have been bond skeptics for a while; however, we have added bearish bond positions in income-oriented portfolios." MOST¬†SKITTISH FUNDS In recent years, high-yield corporate or "junk" bond funds have been the darlings of income-oriented investors. These low-rated bonds have always had a high risk of default, but have paid healthy yields. Investors have been well compensated for the additional risk, which is closely linked to the stock market. Yet that risk can be biting. One of the largest junk-bond ETFs - the iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond fund - lost more than 1 percent in a week through May 29. It's up almost 3 percent year to date and yields 6 percent. The¬†SPDR Barclays High Yield Bond Fund, has had similar troubles, losing 1 percent in a week. It's gained 3 percent year to date and yields 6 percent. Keep in mind that these funds will always be subject to amplified volatility, so they should only be small holdings in your income portfolios. Most bond investors, though, probably sample the broad section of the U.S. bond market through a giant index fund such as the¬†Vanguard Total Bond Market Fund, which yields about 1.6 percent. It's also feeling the sting of lower prices, though, having lost 0.47 percent in the past week and 0.76 percent year to date. HOW TO HEDGE BOND MOVEMENTS Not all bond funds react the same to rate moves. Those with a shorter duration - which measures a bond's sensitivity to interest-rate moves - will hold their value better than long-maturity (20 years or more) or junk bond funds. The iShares 1-3 Year Credit Bond ETF, which holds short-term corporate debt, lost only 0.05 percent in the past week and is up 0.47 percent year to date. With this lower risk profile, though, comes a much lower yield of 1.5 percent. There are a bevy of alternative vehicles that can help you hedge bond declines. I've always liked I Savings Bonds, which are linked to the consumer price index. If inflation comes back, you will earn the current¬†Treasuryyield plus a bonus rate pegged to the U.S. cost of living. You can buy them for as little as $25 commission-free through Treasurydirect.gov. Interest is compounded semi-annually for up to 30 years. If you're working with a trusted adviser or want to do something daring, you can employ a hedging strategy using inverse ETFs. The prices on these vehicles rise when bond prices fall. You can "short" nearly any kind of bond. For example, let's say you owned long-maturity government bonds and wanted to protect yourself. You could buy an ETF such as the ProShares Short 20+¬†Treasury¬†ETF, which was up about 1 percent in the past week and gained 3 percent year to date. Just keep in mind that these vehicles are more volatile than junk-bond funds when rates are low or falling. The ProShares fund has lost an average 12 percent over the past three years. The simplest approach, though, is to buy a diversified portfolio of the highest-rated individual¬†Treasury, corporate or municipal bonds through a deep-discount broker. When yields rise, find the bonds with the best coupons and hold them to maturity. (Editing by Lauren Young and Andre Grenon)
Farmers shear an alpaca at a zoo in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province, May 30, 2013... REUTERS
One of the peculiar features that characterized the current rally in the stock market that started back in September ñ at least for the first few months ñ was the outperformance of defensive stocks versus cyclical names that tend to do better in times of economic expansion. Typically, cyclicals are the ones leading the way when the stock market is pushing to new all-time highs, levels it finally overtook early in the second quarter. Yet defensives were the ones outperforming. At the time, several analysts noted this oddity. One popular explanation was that it was part of investors' reach for yield (in general, defensives pay higher dividends than cyclicals). Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley SecuritiesNow, that trade is finally starting to turn around, and cyclicals are beginning to outperform against defensives once again. JPMorgan Chief U.S. Equity Strategist Tom Lee describes this as a "regime change" taking place in the stock market. Lee recommended investors rotate toward cyclicals and away from defensives at the beginning of the second quarter in early April. In a note to clients, he writes: The recent mixed commentary from Fed officials, volatility in treasuries and JGB (Japan bonds), has investors focused on the timing of Fed tapering. More significantly, we believe this may be signaling a regime shift, not of Fed watching, but rather for investors to shift away from "bond-like" equities, favoring equities with leverage to stronger GDP growth (read as cyclicals) and inflation-protection over current yield. In other words, this is arguing that the environment favoring cyclical is not merely short- term (we had argued that investors need to be cyclical since start of 1Q mostly due to evidence of capitulation, see ì1Q Laggards...î dated 4/4/13) but rather, there is validity in arguing the positive long-term case for Cyclicals starts now (in our May 10th ìCircle of Lifeî, we argued the anticipated environment 3-5 years out looks a lot like the early 90s, favoring cyclicals). With the prospect of rising interest rates seeping into both bond and equity markets, making "bond-like" defensive stocks less attractive, Lee lays out the case for cyclicals in a few main points: In short, it's all about rising interest rates and economic outperformance. It's what all of the major Wall Street shops are predicting this year. If it all plays out like that, Lee says his team's "favorite sectors near-term remain Technology and Health Care, but we favor Cyclicals and Near-cyclicals, broadly."
The wealthiest 1 percent now control 39 percent of the world's wealth, and their share is likely to grow in the coming years, according to a new report. The world's total private wealth grew 7.8 percent last year to $135 trillion, according to the Boston Consulting Group's Global Wealth report. The top 1 percent control $52.8 trillion, and those worth $5 million or more control nearly a quarter of the world's wealth. That concentration is likely to increase in the coming years as the wealth of the wealthy grows faster than overall global wealth. The number of millionaires in the world surged by 10 percent year, reaching 13.8 million. The study predicts that global wealth will grow around 4.8 percent a year over the next five yearsóthough millionaires will see their wealth grow nearly twice as fast. Those worth $5 million or more will see their wealth grow 8 percent, while those worth more than $100 million will see their wealth grow 9.2 percent. The $100-million-plus group will see their share of global wealth grow to 6.8 percent in 2017 from the current 5.5 percent. What's driving the wealth of the wealthy? It depends on the country. In the developed worldóthe U.S. and Europeó it's mainly stocks. And stocks have been on a tear this year in the U.S., which has mainly benefited the top 5 percent, who own 60 percent of all individually held stocks. (Read More:†Surging Stock Market Cheers Up the Rich) In developing markets, the main wealth creator is economic growth and savings. Yet the amount of wealth held in stocks and in offshore wealth (again mainly held by the wealthy) in developing countries is also growing. The amount of wealth held in equities in Asia (excluding Japan) surged by 21.9 percent in 2012. (Read More:†Why Millionaire Investors Are Holding On to Cash) óBy CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter†@robtfrank.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is how the game is played. In the one second that "premium subscribers" (who get PMI data one second before the rest of the market) had alone time with the Chicago Purchasing Manager's Index (PMI) number this morning, trade and quote activity went completely gang busters. This is obviously a massive trading activity for all of Wall Street. But it's amazing what a select group of traders can do in just one second thanks to high speed trading technology. It was a firefight, and Nanex sent us the break down. From Nanex: In just one second. The video below showed the first 100 milliseconds of trading slowed down to about a minute and a half. Don't have a seizure while you watch. 
Warner Bros. / The Dark Knight RisesDealbreaker's Bess Levin unearthed this amazing gem from a company's earnings call transcript.† An analyst named "Bruce Wayne" from Wayne Enterprises (a.k.a. Batman) called in to Archer Limited's first quarter earrings call. Clearly the company's execs are not big Batman fans or else they would have picked up on the reference.† From the transcript [.PDF]:† Operator:†We will now take a question from Bruce Wayne with Wayne Enterprises. Please go ahead. Bruce Wayne - Wayne Enterprises - Analyst:†Hello? Hello there. Lars Bethuelsen - Archer Limited - SVP, M&amp;A and IR:†Hello, Bruce. We can hear you. Bruce Wayne - Wayne Enterprises - Analyst:†Hi, there. This is Bruce Wayne. I have a question for you guys. So I was wondering, given your financial situation, if you guys would be willing to†invest in some technology I'm developing. Christoph Bausch - Archer Limited - CFO:†I think we will still find money if we find the right technology to invest in. I think we have a very good, on the Oil Tools side of the business, internal†R&amp;D team and so the investment is -- should also be looked upon as just attracting talented engineers to continue that run. Bruce Wayne - Wayne Enterprises - Analyst:†Do you feel that you have engineers that can work my specifications, because I'm facing super-villains, so I need specific technical expertise. Christoph Bausch - Archer Limited - CFO:†I'm a little bit -- there's a big echo on the line. I'm sorry, can you repeat the question? Bruce Wayne - Wayne Enterprises - Analyst:†No, what it is is that a lot of my technology was damaged. I was obviously recently in battles with Bane, the Joker, so I just want to know if you guys†can invest in some technology I'm developing. Christoph Bausch - Archer Limited - CFO:†Okay, Bruce, we are currently investing currently in technology in Oil Tools and in Wireline. We have various technologies where we've invested†over [a] couple of years and we will continue to do so going forward.†Bertrand, can you move on to the next caller, please?
Sam Ro / Business InsiderNOTE: We've featured this post before previous CFA exams.¬† The feedback has been positive, so we're running it again for you June 1 test takers.----------------- I'm not going to give you any tips on how to memorize formulas.¬† I'm not going to tell you how you what to eat during your lunch break. I just have one word for you: coffee. Maybe Red Bull or some other energy drink is your preferred source of caffeine.¬† But whatever it is, drink it up! Test-takers are often told that they have an average of 90 seconds to spend on each question (120 questions for each 3-hour section).¬† At least that's what they told me when I took the cram courses. As such, bathroom breaks are often considered wastes of time. But that's a fatal error. Drink coffee, Red Bull, or whatever, and give yourself 5 minutes for a bathroom break for each section. It's better to be efficient for 5 hours and 50 minutes, then to be inefficient for 6 hours. Sincerely, Someone who sat through and passed all three exams PS: And don't wear a diaper.¬† Every CFA test-taker has heard someone joke about this, and some claim they know someone who's done it.¬† But that's ridiculous.
Bloomberg TelevisionLakshman Achuthan, the head of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI), continues to be convinced that the U.S. went into a recession in mid-2012. He writes his latest commentary in the wake of today's disappointing personal income and spending report. "Despite surging prices for homes and equities, consumer spending is contracting," writes Achuthan.† "Quite simply, the wealth effect is rendered moot by languishing incomes. "No wonder yoy U.S. imports growth has also plunged into negative territory. In the past, this has happened only during U.S. recessions." He also thinks all this explains why inflation measures continue to come in lower than expected. "Some are surprised that inflation has failed to take off despite massive amounts of quantitative easing," he writes.† "The explanation is simple: recession kills inflation." Read it at BusinessCycle.com.
starmanseriesBanker bashing as it was in 2008 and and 2009 has largely passed. Politicians don't refer to financiers as "fat cat banker," journalists aren't depicting banks as giant sea predators, and no one is marching in the streets. There has, however, still been a quiet debate about the rich ó who they are and where they believe they fit in global society. Take Reuters editor Chrystia Freeland's book, "Plutocrats: The Rise of the New Global Super-Rich and the Fall of Everyone Else." It's an examination of where the loyalties of the planet's often-transient wealthy lie, and how they construct their world view to make sense of their fortunes amidst the inequities they see around them. In a recent editorial, Reuters editor Edward Hadas got more specific about the group of wealthy people he examines. His meditation is specific to the world view of bankers, whom he calls "aristocrats." He says their rewards are excessive for the work they do and the value it adds to society (very little). Consider that while the average pay of a JP Morgan employee is $192,000, it is the top third of employees (making around $485,000 compared to the bottom two thirds', say, $45,000), that skews it in that direction. But being overpaid isn't Hadas' most damning gripe. To him, this is a sociological issue about identity that goes beyond dollars and sense. Bankers, he says "have persuaded broader society that they are modern day aristocrats... They go along with an unthinking sense of entitlement and a mix of self-righteousness and self-centredness, with just a hint of condescending tolerance for limited criticism." Think about it as a form of nobless oblige. Hadas is arguing that, armed with the mysteries of our complex financial system, bankers feel like the masters of something lesser mortals cannot begin to understand. For that important understanding, they believe they should be rewarded handsomely. From Reuters: Ask an articulate trader about the social value of playing the yield curve to the detriment of clients, and the response will have the same unthinking certainty as a French count asked about the justice of the corvee. The trader dismisses radical critics as well-intentioned but ignorant about the importance of high (and highly paid) finance... Living largely with other members of their caste, they rarely have doubts. To them, more finance is always better than less and higher margins always better than lower. They welcome the development of more complicated financial products they don't worry much about the effect of these products on the rest of the economy. This has become a part of our social system and it won't change, Hadas argues, because the powers-that-be need Wall Street's money ó politicians need campaign funding, regulators want to flip through the revolving door, and even "borrowers are often grateful for their expensive loans." The solution for this is a revolution that would break the Wall Street money-making machine. It could come from a slowdown in China, Hadas suggests. Without money "the current system could fall apart, and its leaders might finally learn something like humility," he writes. Apparently our last financial crisis was not enough. In an America where the narrative about who we are stresses egalitarianism and a disgust for anything that smacks of classism, the idea that there are those who thoughtlessly propagate a systemic advantage is often a difficult argument to hear. When it is presented it is often met with immediate denial ó this is the United States. This is a meritocracy, and want to think we are fair. But we are more than what we think we are. To read the full Hadas piece, head to Reuters&gt;
Wikimedia CommonsIn a recent note to clients, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hartnett warned that the risks of a bond market crash were high. This comes in the wake of the Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke suggesting that the Fed could soon taper its quantitative easing program ó the Fed's effort to stimulate the economy by buying bonds to lower interest rates.† In theory, the taper would put pressure on the bond markets because a major buyer (i.e. the Fed) scales back. Hartnett notes that the other areas of the financial markets are getting slammed by taper fears and they are signaling worse times are ahead for bonds Now the bad news. While the turn in housing should be welcomed by Main Street, the recent melt-up in stock prices in the US and Japan, in combination with surging home prices (annualizing gains of 16% in Q1), threatens to remove the liquidity ìpunch bowlî. And following the decline in a number of safe haven asset prices, we now see a host of ìcanaries in the bond-mineî indicating that markets are getting very nervous about QE tapering and the prospect of much higher bond yields. In recent weeks, mortgages, REITs, utility stocks as well as lumber prices have all tumbled (Chart). Check out Hartnett's ugly chart.Bank of America Merrill Lynch
via Arlington ClubUPPER EAST SIDE ‚Äî The price of this steak might give you a heart attack. At¬†Arlington Club, chef Laurent Tourondel has started offering customers a 72-ounce "cowboy"-cut rib-eye for a price some diners may find hard to swallow ‚Äî $555. The dinner ‚Äî a Wednesday-night special recommended for parties of four or more ‚Äî also includes a 16-ounce lobster tail, creamed spinach with nutmeg, truffle gnocchi,¬†reblochon rosti¬†and peppercorn sauce, he said. The Arlington Club, located at 1032 Lexington Ave. near East 74th Street, will then pack any leftovers to be in lunch-perfect condition ‚Äî extra steak is placed on potato rolls and a side of coleslaw is provided, Tourondel said. Only eight such steaks are offered each Wednesday ‚Äî and only after 8:30 p.m. ‚Äî Tourondel said. "Numbered tags keep count with the last one reading 'SOLD OUT,'" he explained in an email to DNAinfo New York. Asked what prompted his sudden interest in what's being billed by the restaurateur as a "large-format feast," Tourondel said the dish is one of his top personal picks. ‚ÄúThe rib-eye is my favorite cut of meat next to the Cote de Boeuf, which I always tell people is just a rib-eye for two," he said. "We wanted to do something truly special for our guests and worked with our steak purveyor at Arlington Club to find the perfect cowboy rib-eye, which is really a double Cote de Boeuf." Tourondel said the 72-ounce steak comes out of the kitchen "with a 6-inch exposed bone and atop a pile of smoking herbs." "It‚Äôs a spectacular thing to see it coming through the dining room!" he added. "Having the steak sliced tableside and the smoking herbs wafting through the air makes this a really interactive experience for our guests," he said. The steak, aged dry for 28 days, is prepared with the club's "signature 1,200-degree sear and rosy, juicy interior," restaurant management said. Diners who want to try this "cowboy" meat cut must make reservations. "Each steak must be ordered with at least 24 hours advanced notice to give the kitchen enough time to perfectly prepare it for your party," managers said. Steaks can be reserved by calling 212-249-5700.
The financial troubles of CNET's founder, Halsey Minor, continue to worsen. In 2008, CBS bought CNET Networks for $1.8 billion, netting Minor an estimated $200 million. But just last week, the 47-year-old founder filed for personal bankruptcy. Minor owes as much as $100 million and has no more than $50 million to pay his debts, reports Bloomberg's Dawn McCarty and Ari Levy. Minor left CNET in the late 1990s and formed other companies. ¬†He also spent money on houses, hotels, horses and other real estate ventures that didn't pan out. Minor dabbled as a tech angel investor through a firm called Minor Ventures. That wasn't a bust. One of the companies he backed was GrandCentral Communications, report Mcarty and Levy. It sold to Google in 2007 for about $65 million and became Google Voice. But when Minor switched to real estate investing, he got himself in trouble. For instance, in 2008, he bought the 400-plus acre estate Carter‚Äôs Grove Plantation for $15.3 million. Carter's Grove filed for¬†bankruptcy in 2011, according to court documents. By 2010, Minor was selling assets to pay creditors. That year, he sold $21.1 million worth of artwork to pay bills, and Sotheby‚Äôs Inc. won a $6.6 million judgement against him for more art he bought at auction and didn't pay for. Sotheby's is listed as a creditor along with a bunch of lawyers, some horse breeders and trainers, and many others.
via ABCFormer distressed-debt hedge funder Zak Waddell is competing on the 9th season of ABC's "The Bachelorette" to win Desiree Hartsock's heart.† During his intro on the season premiere, the ripped 6-foot tall, 31-year-old, who is seen jumping off a cliff into the ocean, said he used to work at a distressed hedge fund in New York. It's unclear which fund, though. (Send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com if you know) Waddell currently works in oil and gas as a drilling fluid engineer in Mico, Texas, which he calls the "middle of nowhere." † After the workday ends, he said he likes to find "creative ways to entertain himself" on his 15-acre property. †That's when the camera panned out and showed him sipping from a mug buck-naked on his balcony. †† He doesn't seem to like wearing clothes all that much. Waddell made quite an impression when he arrived at the Bachelor mansion for the first cocktail party with no shirt on flaunting his six-pack abs and then proceeding to jump into the pool.† He still managed to get a rose from the bachelorette.† Here's what we know about him:† Check out some screenshots of the bachelor:† via ABC via ABC via ABC† via ABC via ABC
StndAIRThe decision to spend a summer weekend on the beaches of Long Island need not begin with dread for the long train ride/car trip/bus journey to the Hamptons. There are other options, but a faster, more comfortable ride will of course cost. Did somebody say¬†seaplane? In 40+ minutes from Manhattan's East River seaplane port, small planefuls reach the shores of East Hampton, Montauk and beyond. Here are the two companies with regularly scheduled flights: StndAIR The plane:¬†Cessna 208 Caravan floatplane, seating 8¬† The destinations:¬†Manhattan to East Hampton, Shelter Island, Montauk, Nantucket, Martha's Vineyard, Provincetown and anywhere else on the eastern seaboard should you wish to charter the entire plane.¬† The prices:¬†Starting from $525 per person, one-way, for NYC to/from East Hampton. In past years, StndAIR has offered initial $99 seats on flights, so long as they fill up.¬† Freebies:¬†ros√© wine, Swedish fish in-flight snack, a toiletry kit from Aesop, a collection of short stories, and an in-flight edition of The Standard's "StandardCulture" publication.¬† Fly the Whale The plane:¬†Cessna 208 Caravan floatplane, seating 8. Formerly owned by Jimmy Buffett.¬† The destinations:¬†Manhattan to East Hampton, Atlantic City, Westchester to Nantucket or Hyannis, Martha's Vineyard, and anywhere along the eastern seaboard via charter, including landing yacht-side.¬† The prices:¬†$535 per person, one-way, for NYC to/from East Hampton. They also offer $99 last-minute rates publicized on their¬†Facebook.¬† Freebies:¬†None, but "frequent whalers" receive significant discounts for purchasing packs of 10 or 20 flights.¬†
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonWhen currency markets close for the weekend this afternoon, the Japanese yen will have slid against the U.S. dollar for the last eight months in a row. Since hitting a 2012 low of •77.12 to the dollar on September 13, the yen has devalued all the way to current levels around •101.00. Because the Japanese government has not yet taken up structural programs in order to boost competitiveness and potential growth in the Japanese economy, the dollar-yen exchange rate has been the primary yardstick for the vaunted "Abenomics" program of fiscal and monetary stimulus that has been underway in Japan since December, when former Prime Minister†Shinzo Abe†was re-elected to office, six years after his resignation from the post in 2007. Morgan Stanley Japan equity strategist Hajime Kitano says not to read too much into the yen's recent decline in terms of ushering in "structural change" to the Japanese economy. In a note to clients, Kitano points out that long yen declines like this actually happen about every seven years: Since the switch to the system of floating exchange rates in 1973, the dollar/yen rate has risen for at least seven consecutive months on six occasions including the present. It is a phenomenon that occurs once every seven years. We thus think it is too early to judge whether eight consecutive months of yen depreciation would reflect ëstructural change,í as suggested by the Nikkei. Exhibit 1 shows the average dollar/yen rate in the 12 months before and after the month when these record-duration phases of yen depreciation ended. After an approximately 6% decline over 5ñ6 months, the dollar/yen rate starts to rise again. This is of course only the average pattern, with the year following the end of record-duration phases seeing a further 13% rise for the 1996 occasion, and a 14% decline in the case of 1990. Indeed, it is only with the benefit of hindsight that we know when a record-setting phase of yen depreciation ends. Here's Exhibit 1: Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley Research Aside from historical patterns, though, Kitano cites another reason to be skeptical: the relationship between yen-selling interventions by the Japanese government and the value of the currency. The intervention in August and November 2011 had a total scale of •13.6 trillion," says Kitano. "We think that this certainly could have affected the dollar/yen rate after a lag." The chart below shows the relationship between the 12-month average of†yen-selling intervention value as a†percentage of trade volume and the year-over-year change in the dollar-yen exchange rate. Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley Research "If this supposition is correct, then we think that it eliminates one justification for the structural argument that 'this time is different'," says Kitano. "Experience tells us that when the mass media bring up a 'structural argument,' it is advisable to doubt the marketís sustainability."
Dylan Ratigan, the former star CNBC and MSNBC host, is currently an organic farmer. He sleeps on friends' couches and works to help veterans find meaningful work. The farm in southern California is part of that project. But Ratigan's coming back to the media business! When and how he's not sure, but he just broke the news in an exclusive interview with us...† Produced by Business Insider Video
Nightly Business News via YouTubeBonds have been tumbling for most of the month, and most analysts have warned that it could get even uglier. In a note to clients yesterday titled "Bubble, Bubble, Toil &amp; Trouble," Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett warns that the "risks of a bond crash are high." More from his note (emphasis added): As we have argued in recent years, history shows that major breakouts in equity markets tend to coincide with major inflection points in bond yields (Chart). This is now happening, which is why we continue to favor stocks, particularly banks, over bonds. The ideal scenario would be a repeat of the early 1960s, when both equities and bond yields rose in an orderly fashion, a "Velvet Rotation". But itís hard to believe that the greatest bond bull market in history will end without some bloodshed. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Meanwhile, UBS is taking the other side of the trade, advising clients to "Buy Treasuries."
LinkedInOn Saturday, more than 145,000 people in finance will sit for the Chartered Financial Analyst Exam (CFA). They are likely terrified. The three-level test is known for its incredibly wide range of material, months and months of necessary study, and well, failure ó only 20% of test-takers pass all three exams on their first go. To help you understand (or cope with) this brutality, Business Insider reached out to Bloomberg Surveillance host Tom Keene ó he's a CFA charterholder himself. He's also a member of the Future of Finance Advisory Council. And since he's also known for getting to the distinction of any debate, we asked him to break down what makes the CFA so bone-crushingly challenging. "The CFA is what I call a British exam, which is very difficult for Americans to understand," he said. "It's an overwhelming body of knowledge ... You can't memorize it, you can't guess which parts will be on the exam, it's just absolutely overwhelming." Then Keene put it even more succinctly. "You're not trying to get an A+, you're trying to get a quality C." For that C, candidates are willing to go through an arduous process. Keene explained that the typical path is to start studying in September to take the Level I exam in December. Around November, you pump up your studying, but you flunk the test. That's when you get outside help. You go to a prep class like Schweser or Stalla and you work toward the June test (where candidates can take Levels I-III). Around March 15, total panic sets in. You study 24 hours a day from March 15 to May 1st. "And then your brain goes dead," Keene said. "You try to keep studying but you can't retain anything ... Your brain is just dead." But at least you're not nervous. Keene said that test-takers are so certain they'll flunk on test day that there's no room for nerves. Study aside, that feeling alone gives test-takers a sense of humility ó it's a rite of passage. "There's a famous question from the year I took the CFA on indirect and direct cash flow," Keene recounted. "At the last minute I flipped the math and got it right ... As I was going down the escalator after the test, I heard a guy talking about how hard the question was. He was a partner at PwC [Pricewaterhouse Cooper]." By now, you're likely intimidated. You should be. Remember, though, that a ton of people fail the exam. It's not a big deal.
Wheel of FortuneWinning "Wheel of Fortune's" million-dollar prize is the no-hitter of game shows ó a near impossible feat, a long slog made even less possible by the lineup in front of you, not to mention the luck of the spin. Last night Autumn†Erhard pretty much walked the bases loaded then struck out the side in the bottom of the ninth.† To win the prize, a contestant must land on a tiny ONE MILLION sliver of the wheel during the normal game against two other contestants ó then obviously choose a letter on the board and solve the puzzle, like for any other prize during the early rounds. That puts the potentially million-dollar "envelope" into play ... but not until later. Then that contestant has to win the episode and make it to the bonus round ó without landing on bankrupt in between. That still doesn't mean you have a shot at the $1,000,000.† Then†you have to spin another, smaller†wheel in overtime, hoping that after you solve the final clue, you'll have landed on the biggest prize of them all again. Erhard got that far on Thursday night's episode, until she got to the dreaded "Thing" category ... and picked some really bad letters.† Then†things really got interesting:  Boom. We're still shaking our heads, because that really was a tough workout. Erhard is obviously a skilled player ó in addition to her $1 million prize, she made $30,040 in earlier rounds, plus trips to Belize and Arizona, according to†ABC News†ó but her appearance on the show was actually kind of random:†The California native was invited on the show because she is 30, and "Wheel" is celebrating its 30th anniversary. Now she's just the second person to win the million-dollar prize since Merv Griffin Enterprises introduced it in 2008. "They kept asking me how much I won, and I had to keep repeating it because no one believed me at first," Erhard said of her friends' and family's reactions on set. She now joins the pantheon of guessing-game show superhumans like "Price is Right" slayers†Taylor†and†Terry, and "Wheel" goddesses†Michelle Lowenstein†and†Caitlin Burke, all of whom will be remembered for being almost better than the game shows themselves ...†unlike this woman. Click†here†to follow The†Atlantic†Wire. More From The Atlantic Wire: ï†New Ricin Investigation Focuses on an Army Vet in Texas ï†The Old Drinking Is New Again ï†Will Republicans Screw Up Two Elections in a Row?

via U.S. Marine CorpsAs the debt crisis blew up around the world, many economists and politicians have argued for austerity in their efforts to reduce deficits and scale back debt. While many continue to debate the economic effectiveness of austerity, the social impact seems to be more clear. In a new piece for Project Syndicate, Robert Shiller discusses the impact of austerity on morale.¬† He addresses and criticizes those who believe austerity is somehow good for social morale: Austerity, according to some of its promoters, is supposed to improve morale. British Prime Minister David Cameron, an austerity advocate, says he believes that his program reduces ‚Äúwelfare dependency,‚Äù restores ‚Äúrigor,‚Äù and encourages the ‚Äúthe doers, the creators, the life-affirmers.‚Äù Likewise, US Congressman Paul Ryan says that his program is part of a plan to promote ‚Äúcreativity and entrepreneurial spirit.‚Äù Some kinds of austerity programs may indeed boost morale. Monks find their life‚Äôs meaning in a most austere environment, and military boot camps are thought to build character. But the kind of fiscal austerity that is being practiced now has the immediate effect of rendering people jobless and filling their lives with nothing but a sense of rejection and exclusion. Shiller maintains his position that the best way to dig out of the world's economic woes is through fiscal stimulus, which wouldn't harm morale. "For morale, we need a social compact that finds a purpose for everyone, a way to show oneself to be part of society by being a worker of some sort," he writes. "And for that we need fiscal stimulus ‚Äì ideally, the debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally." Shiller expands on all of this. Read his whole piece at Project Syndicate.

The biggest story of the week in global markets has been the swift rise in U.S. Treasury yields as investors have unloaded their bond holdings. Earlier this week, the market saw its highest daily trading volume ever, and yields hit their highest levels in over a year. This morning, bonds are selling off again, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond has risen 5 basis points to 2.16%, pushing toward a new high, as the chart below illustrates. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The chart below shows price action in 10-year Treasury futures this morning. They really started selling off when the stock market opened at 9:30 AM ET, and continued to tumble after positive surprises from the Chicago PMI and University of Michigan consumer confidence releases at 9:45 and 9:55, respectively. Now, they are trading down 0.4% on the day. Thinkorswim Lately, one of the themes in the Treasury market has been increased sensitivity to economic data releases. Because the Federal Reserve has bought up so much of the bond market through quantitative easing programs designed to provide monetary stimulus in recent years, the effects of weekly and monthly changes in economic data on bond prices have been diminished. However, since the Fed introduced the "Evans rule" at its December monetary policy meeting, which ties the outlook for when the central bank will begin tightening stimulus directly to economic data benchmarks, bond prices have become more reactive to the data.
Emerging markets are starting to take a beating as the commodity supercycle appears to be winding down and the U.S. dollar is strengthening around the world. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett says the "big story" in this week's fund flow data is the†"Exit from Emerging Markets." Emerging market equity funds saw their largest weekly outflows ($2.9 billion, or 0.3% of assets under management) in 18 months, and emerging market debt funds saw their first weekly outflows †($0.2 billion, or 0.1% of assets under management) in a year. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Although emerging markets may be the big story, equity funds around the globe recorded $2.8 billion in weekly outflows, a sharp reversal from some of the big inflows we've seen in recent weeks. Below is a full breakdown, via Hartnett. ---------------------------------------------------  Flows by Asset Class Equities: $2.8bn outflows ($1.2bn via ETF's); just the second week of redemptions in 2013  Bonds: $1.4bn inflows = 22 straight weeks Commodities: $1.0bn outflows (16 straight weeks) Money Market Funds: $8.5bn inflows Flows by Equity Region  Largest weekly outflows from EM equity funds since Dec'11 ($2.9bn) With that said, our EM Flow Trading Rule is still a ways from a contrarian "buy"†signal Note that Brazil funds have now seen 14 straight weeks of redemptions (longest outflow streak on record) European equities also see largest outflows in 4 weeks ($1.0bn) Despite market consolidation, modest inflows to US ($0.4bn) and Japan ($0.5bn) By sector, banks and real estate funds continue to see solid inflows ($1.1bn combined) Flows by Fixed Income Sector Inflows concentrated in IG bond funds ($2.4bn) even as YTD total return turns negative and floating-rate debt ($1.1bn), which offers rate protection Otherwise, EM debt funds see first outflows in 51 weeks ($0.2bn) 7 straight weeks out of TIPS ($0.3bn) 3 straight weeks out of Govt/Tsy ($0.9bn) First outflows from HY bond funds in 7 weeks ($0.3bn)
REUTERS/Mike StoneUPDATE:¬†The consumer confidence report is out. The headline index rose to 84.5 in May from 76.4 in April. Economists expected the number to come in at 83.7, matching the preliminary estimate published by the University of Michigan earlier this month. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 98.0 from 89.9 in April, exceeding the preliminary May estimate of 97.5. The economic outlook sub-index rose to 75.8 from 67.8 in April, beating the preliminary estimate of 74.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead and five years ahead were both unchanged from April at 3.1% and 2.9%, respectively. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Google FinanceAfter spending much of the morning in the red, stocks have now turned positive. This comes in the wake of a lackluster personal income and spending report and a huge Chicago PMI report. PMI for the midwest region surged to 58.7 from 49.0 a month ago.¬† Economists were looking for a reading of 50.0.
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque UPDATE: The May Chicago PMI survey results are out. The headline index surged to 58.7 from 49.0 last month. Economists were expecting a much smaller increase to 50.0. The number indicates that regional manufacturing in the Midwest expanded at a moderate pace in May after contracting slightly in April. The production sub-component rose to 62.7 from 49.9 in April, while the new orders index advanced to 58.1 from 53.2. The employment sub-component rose to 56.9 from 48.7. Below is color from survey respondents: Click here for the full release &gt;
Scott Olson / Getty ImagesU.S. Treasury securities have been tumbling, sending interest rates higher. Trading volume has been massive, and top analysts like Goldman Sachs are convinced the sell-off is for real. However, UBS is coming up on the other side of this trade in a brief note titled "Buy Treasuries." "In our opinion, Treasury yields have risen too far, too quickly," said Mike Schumacher. He provides three points, which we present verbatim: "We typically avoid big duration calls, because we believe they typically offer poor risk/return trade-offs," he added.† "However, we are making an exception." "The yield has not been this far out of line since August 2012," he wrote regarding his model. "Briefly, the model contains two predictor variables. One is a function of economic surprises, and the other is linked to eurozone peripheral spreads. Confidence intervals are critical, and our range for this model is +/- 40bp." Here's Schumacher's chart: UBS
Everyone panicked a little during the financial crisis, but the 1.6% of pre-retirees who abandoned equities altogether lost out big. Pre-retirees (age 55 or older) who dropped stocks from their 401(k) by the first quarter of 2009 and never rebalanced have seen their balances grow by only 25.9% through the first quarter of 2013, according to a new report from Fidelity. Their average balance rose during this period from $80,200 to $101,000. Most people are doing much better. The average pre-retiree 401(k) balance has nearly doubled since the depths of the downturn, rising from $130,700 to $255,000. ìThere is a valuable lesson to be learned from the minority of pre-retirees who abandoned equities altogether and experienced significantly less progress,î said James M. MacDonald, president, Workplace Investing, Fidelity Investments. ìIt underscores the combined importance of a proper asset allocation and savings behavior as they planned for retirement within all that life entails.î Overall, the 401(k) picture is looking brighter. 401(k) balances are at their highest level since the market crash, Fidelity found, reaching $80,900 in the first quarter ññ an 8.4% bump over the last year and 75% higher than at the market low in 2009. Two-thirds of that growth can be attributed to gains in the stock market. At the same time, workers have been upping their personal contributions, as well as employers. Still, $225,000 isn't exactly all that much to live on through your golden years. Retirees are expected to need as much as $220,000 saved up just for health care costs alone, according to another study by Fidelity earlier this month. Mark Hebner, President of Index Fund Advisors, has long been a proponent of the Jack Bogle line of thinking ññ that keeping your savings in a low-cost index fund that tracks the market, keeping your head down even through tough times, and rebalancing as you age is the safest and surest way to grow your wealth. But even with a wealth of research to support the index funds approach, even he couldn't convince all of his clients to stay the course after the crash. "One client came to see me on the very bottom day, March 9, 2009," Hebner told us. "I had talked her out of selling numerous times, but she told me, 'I see nothing but darkness on the horizon and I don't want to lose any more money.' That's a fear that sets in, especially if you're a single widow in your late 60s and all you want do is stop the pain. You're scared to death and you think your investment advisor just wants to make money off you or whatever or that I have a bias and therefore I'm talking her into doing what may be against her best interests." Fidelity is the nation's largest administrator of 401(k) plans. It's analysis is based on a survey of its accounts, including employees who have worked more than 10 years with their employer.
It's that time of the year... The first group of Goldman Sachs U.S. interns arrived at the investment banking giant yesterday.† You can see them at orientation in the photo below.† Yesterday, Goldman president/COO Gary Cohn told the audience at a Sanford Bernstein conference that the bank received 17,000 applications for just 350 spots. [via @susannecraig]† Congrats to them.† Twitter.com/GoldmanSachs
It was the first of a litany of worthy aims enshrined in the United Nations ‚Äúmillennium development goals‚Äù (MDGs). Many of these aims‚Äîsuch as cutting maternal mortality by three quarters and child mortality by two thirds‚Äîhave not been met. But the goal of halving poverty has been. Indeed, it was achieved five years early. In 1990, 43% of the population of developing countries lived in extreme poverty (then defined as subsisting on $1 a day); the absolute number was 1.9 billion people. By 2000 the proportion was down to a third. By 2010 it was 21% (or 1.2 billion; the poverty line was then $1.25, the average of the 15 poorest countries‚Äô own poverty lines in 2005 prices, adjusted for differences in purchasing power). The global poverty rate had been cut in half in 20 years. That raised an obvious question. If extreme poverty could be halved in the past two decades, why should the other half not be got rid of in the next two? If 21% was possible in 2010, why not 1% in 2030? Why not indeed? In April at a press conference during the spring meeting of the international financial institutions in Washington, DC, the president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, scrawled the figure ‚Äú2030‚Äù on a sheet of paper, held it up and announced, ‚ÄúThis is it. This is the global target to end poverty.‚Äù He was echoing Barack Obama who, in February, promised that ‚Äúthe United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades.‚Äù This week, that target takes its first step towards formal endorsement as an aim of policy round the world. The leaders of Britain, Indonesia and Liberia are due to recommend to the UN a list of post-2015 MDGs. It will be headed by a promise to end extreme poverty by 2030. There is a lot of debate about what exactly counts as poverty and how best to measure it. But by any measure, the eradication of $1.25-a-day poverty would be an astonishing achievement. Throughout history, dire poverty has been a basic condition of the mass of mankind. Thomas Malthus, a British clergyman who founded the science of demography, wrote in 1798 that it was impossible for people to ‚Äúfeel no anxiety about providing the means of subsistence for themselves and [their] families‚Äù and that ‚Äúno possible form of society could prevent the almost constant action of misery upon a great part of mankind.‚Äù For most countries, poverty was not even a problem; it was a plain, unchangeable fact. To eradicate extreme poverty would also be remarkable given the number of occasions when politicians have promised to achieve the goal and failed. ‚ÄúWe do have an historic opportunity this year to make poverty history,‚Äù said Tony Blair, Britain‚Äôs prime minister in 2005. Three years before that, Thabo Mbeki, South Africa‚Äôs president said that ‚Äúfor the first time in human history, society has the capacity, the knowledge and the resources to eradicate poverty.‚Äù Going further back: ‚ÄúFor the first time in our history,‚Äù said Lyndon Johnson, ‚Äúit is possible to conquer poverty.‚Äù That was in 1964. Much will have to change if Mr Kim‚Äôs piece of paper is not to become one more empty promise. So how realistic is it to think the world can end extreme poverty in a generation? To meet its target would mean maintaining the annual one-percentage-point cut in the poverty rate achieved in 1990-2010 for another 20 years. That would be hard. It will be more difficult to rescue the second billion from poverty than it was the first. Yet it can be done. The world has not only cut poverty a lot but also learned much about how to do it. Poverty can be reduced, albeit not to zero. But a lot will have to go right if that is to happen. Growth Decreases Poverty In 1990-2010 the driving force behind the reduction of worldwide poverty was growth. Over the past decade, developing countries have boosted their GDP about 6% a year‚Äî1.5 points more than in 1960-90. This happened despite the worst worldwide economic crisis since the 1930s. The three regions with the largest numbers of poor people all registered strong gains in GDP after the recession: at 8% a year in East Asia; 7% in South Asia; 5% in Africa. As a rough guide, every 1% increase in GDP per head reduces poverty by around 1.7%. GDP, though, is not necessarily the best measure of living standards and poverty reduction. It is usually better to look at household consumption based on surveys. Martin Ravallion, until recently the World Bank‚Äôs head of research,¬†took 900 such surveys¬†in 125 developing countries. These show, he calculates, that consumption in developing countries has grown by just under 2% a year since 1980. But there has been a sharp increase since 2000. Before that, annual growth was 0.9%; after it, the rate leapt to 4.3%. Growth alone does not guarantee less poverty. Income distribution matters, too. One estimate found that two thirds of the fall in poverty was the result of growth; one-third came from greater equality. More equal countries cut poverty further and faster than unequal ones. Mr Ravallion reckons that a 1% increase in incomes cut poverty by 0.6% in the most unequal countries but by 4.3% in the most equal ones. The country that cut poverty the most was China, which in 1980 had the largest number of poor people anywhere. China saw a huge increase in income inequality‚Äîbut even more growth. Between 1981 and 2010 it lifted a stunning 680m people out poverty‚Äîmore than the entire current population of Latin America. This cut its poverty rate from 84% in 1980 to about 10% now. China alone accounts for around three quarters of the world‚Äôs total decline in extreme poverty over the past 30 years. What is less often realised is that the recent story of poverty reduction has not been all about China. Between 1980 and 2000 growth in developing countries outside the Middle Kingdom was 0.6% a year. From 2000 to 2010 the rate rose to 3.8%‚Äîsimilar to the pattern if you include China. Mr Ravallion calculates that the acceleration in growth outside China since 2000 has cut the number of people in extreme poverty by 280m. Can this continue? And if it does, will it eradicate extreme poverty by 2030? To keep poverty reduction going, growth would have to be maintained at something like its current rate. Most forecasters do expect that to happen, though problems in Europe could spill over and damage the global economy. Such long-range forecasts are inevitably unreliable but two broad trends make an optimistic account somewhat plausible. One is that fast-growing developing countries are trading more with each other, making them more resilient than they used to be to shocks from the rich world. The other trend is that the two parts of the world with the largest numbers of poor people, India and Africa, are seeing an expansion of their working-age populations relative to the numbers of dependent children and old people. Even so, countries potentially face a problem of diminishing returns which could make progress at the second stage slower than at the first. There is no sign so far that returns are in fact diminishing. The poverty rate has fallen at a robust one percentage point a year over the past 30 years‚Äîand there has been no tailing off since 2005. But diminishing returns could occur for two reasons. When poverty within a country falls to very low levels, the few remaining poor are the hardest to reach. And, globally, as more people in countries such as China become middle class, poverty will become concentrated in fragile or failing states which have seen little poverty reduction to date. The sweetest spot In a¬†study¬†for the Brookings Institution, a think-tank in Washington, DC, Laurence Chandy, Natasha Ledlie and Veronika Penciakova look at the distribution of consumption (how many people consume $1 a day, $2 a day and so on) in developing countries. They show how it has changed over time, and how it might change in future. Plotted on a chart, the distribution looks like a fireman‚Äôs helmet, with a peak in front and a long tail behind. In 1990 there were hardly any people with no income at all, then a peak just below the poverty line and then a long tail of richer folk extending off to the right (see chart 2). As countries get richer, the helmet moves to the right, reflecting the growth in household consumption. The faster the rate, the farther to the right the line moves, so the strong 4.3% annual growth in consumption since 2000 has pushed the line a good distance rightward. But the shape of the line also matters. The chart shows that in 1990 and 2000, the peak was positioned slightly to the left of the poverty line. As the shape moved to the right, it took a section of the peak to the other side of the poverty mark. This represents the surge of people who escaped poverty in 1990-2010. At the moment the world is at a unique sweet spot. More people are living at $1.25 than at any other level of consumption. This means growth will result in more people moving across the international poverty line than across any other level of consumption. This is a big reason why growth is still producing big falls in poverty. But as countries continue to grow, and as the line continues to be pulled to the right, things start to change. Now, the peak begins to flatten. In 2010, according to Mr Chandy, there were 85m people living at or just below the poverty line (at a consumption level between $1.20 and $1.25 a day). If poverty falls at its trend rate, the number of people living at $1.20-1.25 a day will also fall: to 56m in 2020 and 28m in 2030. This is good news, of course: there will be fewer poor people. But it means the rate of poverty reduction must slow down, even if consumption continues to grow fast. As Mr Chandy says, unless growth goes through the roof, ‚Äúit is not possible to maintain the trend rate of poverty reduction with so many fewer individuals ready to cross the line.‚Äù So what impact, in practice, might diminishing returns have? Messrs Chandy and Ravallion try to answer that by calculating what different rates of household consumption mean for poverty reduction and how much household income would have to grow to eradicate extreme poverty. Mr Ravallion provides an optimistic projection. If developing countries were to maintain their post-2000 performance, he says, then the number of extremely poor people in the world would fall from 1.2 billion in 2010 to just 200m in 2027. This would be a remarkable achievement. It took 20 years to reduce the number of absolutely poor people from 1.9 billion in 1990 to 1.2 billion in 2010 (a fall of less than half). Mr Ravallion‚Äôs projection would lift a billion people out of poverty in 17 years and implies almost halving the number in just ten (from 2012 to 2022). But even this projection does not get to zero poverty. The figure of 200m poor implies a poverty rate of just over 3%. To get to zero would require something even more impressive. Mr Ravallion estimates that to reach a 1% poverty rate by 2027 would require a surge in household consumption of 7.6% a year‚Äîan unrealistically high level. Drops of good cheer Mr Chandy and his co-authors get similar results. They take a projection of falling poverty based on forecasts of consumption by the Economist Intelligence Unit, our sister company. If growth were two points better than forecast, then the poverty rate would be just over 3%; if two points worse, it would be almost 10%‚Äîa big disappointment. If income distribution within countries gets progressively better or worse (ie, if the poorest 40% do better or worse than the top 10%), then the range of outcomes would be the same as if growth were higher or lower. And if you combine all these variables, then the range is wide indeed, from a miserable 15% poverty rate (lower growth, more inequality) to a stunning 1.4% (higher growth, less inequality). Two conclusions emerge from these exercises. First, the range of outcomes is wide, implying that prospects for eradicating poverty are uncertain. The range is also not symmetrical, suggesting the risk of failure is greater than the hope of success. It is also noticeable that no one is forecasting zero poverty. If that were taken as the post-2015 target, then it would be missed. However, reducing the rate to 3% would lift a billion people out of poverty and that would be remarkable enough. In the best case, the global poverty rate falls to a little over 1%, or just 70m people. That would be astonishing. To get to these levels, the studies suggest, you cannot rely on boosting growth or improving income inequality alone. You need both. Second, the geography of poverty will be transformed. China passed the point years ago where it had more citizens above the poverty line than below it. By 2020 there will be hardly any Chinese left consuming less than $1.25 a day: everyone will have escaped poverty. China wrote the first chapter of the book of poverty reduction but that chapter is all but finished. The next will be about India. India mirrors the developing world as a whole: growth will push a wave of Indians through the $1.25 barrier over the next decade (see chart 3). The subcontinent could generate the largest gains in poverty reduction in the next decade (which is why the current Indian slowdown is worrying). After that, though, continued growth will benefit relatively comfortable Indians more than poor ones. The last chapter will be about Africa. Only in sub-Saharan Africa will there be large numbers of people below the poverty line. Unfortunately they are currently too far below it. The average consumption of Africa‚Äôs poorest people is only about 70 cents a day‚Äîbarely more than it was 20 years ago. In the six poorest countries it falls to only 50 cents a day. The continent has made big strides during the past decade. But even 20 more years of such progress will not move the remaining millions out of poverty. At current growth rates, a quarter of Africans will still be consuming less than $1.25 a day in 2030. The disproportionate falls in Africa‚Äôs poverty rate will not happen until after that date. Make Bono history The record of poverty reduction has profound implications for aid. One of the main purposes of setting development goals was to give donors a wish list and persuade them to put more resources into the items on the list. This may have helped in some areas but it is hard to argue that aid had much to do with halving poverty. Much of the fall occurred in China, which ignored the MDGs. At best, aid and the MDGs were marginal. The changing geography of poverty will pose different aid problems over the next 20 years. According to Mr Chandy, by 2030 nearly two-thirds of the world‚Äôs poor will be living in states now deemed ‚Äúfragile‚Äù (like the Congo and Somalia). Much of the rest will be in middle-income countries. This poses a double dilemma for donors: middle-income countries do not really need aid, while fragile states cannot use it properly. A dramatic fall in poverty requires rethinking official assistance. Yet all the problems of aid, Africa and the intractability of the final billion do not mask the big point about poverty reduction: it has been a hugely positive story and could become even more so. As a social problem, poverty has been transformed. Thanks partly to new technology, the poor are no longer an undifferentiated mass. Identification schemes are becoming large enough‚ÄîIndia has issued hundreds of millions of biometric smart cards‚Äîthat countries are coming to know their poor literally by name. That in turn enables social programmes to be better targeted, studied and improved. Conditional cash-transfer schemes like Mexico‚Äôs Oportunidades and Brazil‚Äôs Bolsa Fam√≠lia have all but eradicated extreme poverty in those countries. As the numbers of poor fall further, not only will the targets become fewer, but the cost of helping them will fall to almost trivial levels; it would cost perhaps $50m a year to bring 200m people up above the poverty line; that is less than the cost of one star football player. Of course, there will be other forms of poverty; the problems of some countries and places will remain intractable and may well require different policies; and $1.26 a day is still a tiny amount. But something fundamental will have shifted. Poverty used to be a reflection of scarcity. Now it is a problem of identification, targeting and distribution. And that is a problem that can be solved.
Bong Wie/Iowa State University, Ames This isn't it.  But it'll look something like this.Art Cashin, UBS's man on the NYSE trading floor, is a fan of astronomy. In his note this morning, he spends some time talking about an astronomic phenomenon that has remarkable accuracy in predicting tops and bottoms. "[A]stronomic movements are as much a part of Wall Street cocktail conversation as politics and sports," he said. This was his lead into today's hot astronomic movement that traders are chatting about. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Recently, there has been some buzz about a huge asteroid name "1998 QE2", which will buzz by earth (at a relatively safe distance) today. The watering hole buzz on 1998 QE2 has little to do with its proximity or its size.† Rather, traders are a bit hooked on its name. The year 1998 was when Long Term Capital Management blew up.† Further, QE used to be best known as an ocean liner but now it is a central bank policy at several spots around the globe. So, the temporary proximity of a large object with a somewhat ominous name may put traders on extra alert until it is officially time for the cubes to fall into the glass. According to Space.com, the asteroid is so big it actually has a moon orbiting around it. Watch the 1998 QE2 sail by earth live at Space.com.
The New York Post's†Mark DeCambre reports†that Bloomberg LP's CEO Dan Doctoroff is frustrated that Editor-in-Chief Matthew Winkler isn't being held more accountable amid the spy scandal because of his untouchable status.† From the Post:† Sources present at a recent discussion with Doctoroff said he indicated that he wanted to hold Winkler more accountable for the offending practices but believed that his options were limited because of internal politics and long-held allegiances. A Bloomberg spokesperson told the Post that it's not true about Doctoroff being frustrated.† Earlier this month, it was revealed that Bloomberg News reporters†used private information from Bloomberg terminals to spy on employees at banks to fuel their coverage. †Specifically, reporters were looking to see whether employees had logged on or not to determine if they were still with their firm. † If you're not already familiar, a Bloomberg Terminal is†a computer that's targeted toward financial professionals so they can message other users, obtain real-time market data, news, and stock quotes among many other functions. †They cost about $20,000 per year and they're extremley popular on Wall Street.† Following the news of the spying scandal, the bow-tie wearing editor wrote an op-ed piece called "Holding Ourselves Accountable." †In it, he explained what data reporters had access to and why they had access in the first place. No one has been fired because of the scandal.†
Martti MalmiThe man who created Bitcoin's user interface and performed its first-ever transaction says he is not at all worried about the U.S. government's seizure of another digital currency service.† In an interview from his home in Finland, Martti Malmi, who goes by who goes by 'Sirius' online, told us that since Bitcoin is just a program, not an actual corporation, it can never be shut down.†Earlier this week, U.S. authorities charged executives at Liberty Reserve, a combination digital currency purveyor and wire transfer service, with running a massive money laundering scheme. Malmi says authorities could even go after Bitcoin Foundation, Bitcoin's non-profit custodian, and the currency would survive.† "It's just one way to distribute the program," he said. "If [Bitcoin.org] got shut down, the program could be distributed in some way like torrent files. It's not a point of failure for the system, just a distribution channel." Bitcoin prices have stabilized of late after spiking in March, but Malmi said†said there are a range of events that could cause prices to surge again. More large companies like Paypal could start accepting the currency, or more large countries taking a greater interest. By one count, China†now comprises the lion's share of Bitcoin software download destinations. Ironically, as Bitcoin has become more popular, Malmi, 24, has grown bored with working on it. "I think it was more exciting when nobody knew about it," he said. "Now it's mainstream, it has lots of very skilled developers, so I can do same as Satoshi and move on to other projects." Malmi is now†working on a project called Identifi, which would provide more credible personal data to reputation-dependent services like ebay (as his mission statement puts it, Identi would create incentives to "not be a butthead.") He's also†employed by web developer†SC5. It's likely no one has ever come closer to Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonym of the person credited with inventing Bitcoin, than Malmi. As a computer science student in Helsinki in 2009, Malmi began looking into the possibilities of a decentralized, unregulated currency, and just happened to discover Nakamoto's paper laying out Bitcoin's parameters. He got in touch ó eventually exchanging "100 emails" with him ó but never actually learned Satoshi's real identity. Whoever Satoshi really is, Malmi said, he will probably never reveal himself, and that we should all stop caring who he is.† "He†just doesn't want to be in spotlight, he wants to go on with his job and his other projects.†He maybe saw possible the significance, the political implications, and didn't want any pressure." Really? Never? "Maybe on his deathbed."
Flickr / Orin ZebestThe April reading of personal income and spending is out, and it's disappointing. Personal income was unchanged from a month ago.¬† Economists expected income to climb by 0.1%. Spending unexpectedly fell by 0.2%, which was worse than the unchanged level expected. "The slowing is helping the case of Fed officials arguing against tapering," said High Frequency Economics' Jim Sullivan. "The 0.2% m/m decline in the nominal value of US monthly consumption in April is not quite as bad as is looks, since it partly reflects the drop back in gasoline prices," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "Overall, a sobering report for those expecting GDP growth to accelerate sharply." The savings rate was unchanged at 2.5%. Markets don't seem to be responding to the news.
U.S. futures are in the red this morning.¬† But they are way off of their lowest levels seen at around 6:00 AM ET. Dow futures are down 77 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are down 8.4 points. Nasdaq futures are down 13.2 points. Here's a look at this morning's action in S&amp;P futures via FinViz: FinViz
REUTERS/Hyungwon KangJack GrubmanBack in the late 1990's, Jack Grubman of then Salomon Smith Barney was the hottest telecom analyst on Wall Street.¬† Back then he was reportedly earning around $20 million a year. However, all of that quickly turned as he continued to recommend clients buy telecom stocks as prices tumbled. Investigations ensued, conflicts of interest were suspected, and eventually Grubman was banned from the industry by the SEC. Here's a description in a piece he wrote for the New York Times this week: He was a top-ranked telecommunications research analyst on Wall Street in the 1980s and 1990s. In 2003, he settled a lawsuit with the Securities and Exchange Commission over accusations that his work for investment banking clients led him to publish misleading research reports on companies that his employer, Citigroup, advised. As part of the settlement, in which Mr. Grubman did not admit or deny the allegations, he was barred from the securities industry.  One email about then-Citi CEO Sandy Weill and Grubman's kids got out that really raised eyebrows.¬† From the New York Observer: The smoking gun was a 2001 email to a friend: ‚ÄúYou know everyone thinks I upgraded [AT&amp;T] to get lead for [AT&amp;T Wireless]. Nope. I used Sandy to get my kids in 92nd ST Y pre-school (which is harder than Harvard) and Sandy needed Armstrong‚Äôs vote on our board to nuke Reed in showdown. Once coast was clear for both of us (ie Sandy clear victor and my kids confirmed) I went back to my normal negative self on [AT&amp;T]. Armstrong never knew that we both (Sandy and I) played him like a fiddle.‚Äù This morning, Grubman appeared on CNBC's Squawk Box to talk telecoms.¬† Here's one memorable quote that came out of the appearance: Grubman on @squawkcnbc: "I would argue nothing has changed on Wall Street since I left."
REUTERS/Jason ReedApple CEO Tim Cook (C) appears before a Senate homeland security and governmental affairs investigations subcommittee hearing on offshore profit shifting and the U.S. tax code, on Capitol Hill in Washington, May 21, 2013.*Two presidents have failed to kill 'check the box' rule. * For Treasury Department, a trail of unintended consequences. * Even lawmakers who oppose loopholes have voted to extend it. WASHINGTON, May 30 (Reuters) - As the U.S. economy crumbled in early 2009, President Barack Obama offered a plan that he said would save American jobs: a crackdown on corporate tax loopholes that encourage companies to send profits abroad to avoid paying billions of dollars in U.S. taxes each year. Tax lobbyist Ken Kies was not worried. A decade earlier, he had led a fight to preserve a key loophole ‚Äî known in Treasury Department shorthand as the "check the box" rule ‚Äî when another Democratic president, Bill Clinton, had tried to kill it. "I told my clients, 'Don't sweat this. This is never going to happen,'" recalled Kies, who has advised corporate giants Microsoft and General Electric on the issue. Kies was right. Business groups rose up against Obama's plan, arguing that it could damage U.S. businesses already threatened by the weak economy. Democrats in Congress balked, Obama dropped the idea and the loophole survived. The story of the "check the box" loophole, which allows U.S. companies to choose for themselves how to classify their subsidiaries for tax purposes, and a companion policy known as the "look-through" rule, shows how Washington bureaucrats, lobbyists and politicians have worked together¬†‚Äî sometimes wittingly¬†‚Äî to save money for American corporations and deprive the federal government of billions in tax revenue each year. What began in 1996 as an effort by the Treasury Department to simplify the U.S. tax code mistakenly ended up as a massive tax loophole for corporate America, which seized upon it and has never let go. Besides fueling an explosion in earnings that U.S. companies keep abroad¬†‚Äî now more than $1.8 trillion, the Commerce Department estimates, double the amount from less than a decade ago¬†‚Äî the loophole has become a symbol of how difficult it can be to repeal a tax benefit once it becomes entrenched. At congressional hearings last week, several lawmakers blasted Apple Inc. for using the "check the box" loophole and other international tax strategies to avoid paying what they estimated as $9 billion in potential U.S. taxes in 2012. Two of Apple's most aggressive questioners, Democratic Senator Carl Levin of Michigan and Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona, have called for closing the "check the box" loophole. But even they have voted to keep it alive several times in recent years when it has been inserted into other legislation. Levin's office did not respond to requests for a comment. McCain declined to comment for this story. "Once a policy mistake is made that is favorable to taxpayers, and particularly to big taxpayers, it is extremely difficult to reverse," said a former Treasury Department official who helped write the "check the box" rule and was involved in Obama's effort to repeal it. The former official spoke on condition of anonymity, citing the sensitive nature of the tax break. The "check the box" loophole¬†‚Äî which costs the United States about $10 billion per year, according to the White House¬†‚Äî also has been a reflection of Washington's "revolving door" culture of policy-making and lobbying. Some of the bureaucrats who helped to write the rule went on to work for corporations that used it to lower their tax bills. They include William Morris, who was Treasury's associate international tax counsel when the rule was imposed. Morris, who did not respond to requests for comment on this story, joined GE in 2000 and is now director of the company's global tax policy. The company, like many other big multinationals, keeps its tax burden well below the official U.S. corporate rate of 35 percent in part by taking advantage of "check the box" and other international tax strategies. GE's annual reports indicate that the company does so largely because many of its profits are directed to its vast network of foreign subsidiaries. In a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February, GE said its overseas affiliates were holding $108 billion in offshore profits, which is more than any other U.S. company. Morris's precise role in GE's tax strategy is unclear. The company declined to comment for this story. Other former IRS and Treasury officials involved in shaping the tax loophole now hold senior positions at law and accounting firms in Washington and New York. Offshore tax shelters have bedeviled the U.S. government virtually since the inception of the tax code in 1913. A 1962 compromise between President John Kennedy and Congress imposed U.S. taxes on "passive" income such as royalties and interest earned abroad, but not on "active" income from regular business operations. That law, known as Subpart F, made the tax code increasingly complex as businesses grew larger and more diverse. The law was revised 10 times between 1969 and 1996 as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service tried to figure out how to classify, and then tax, tens of thousands of corporate units. In 1996 the Treasury Department moved to simplify matters with a rule that enabled companies to "check the box" on a tax form to describe a given corporate entity - including whether it was, for tax purposes, irrelevant, a so-called "disregarded entity." For a company and its subsidiaries that all operate in the United States, the rule streamlined tax filing by allowing the subsidiaries' income to be reported on the same forms as the parent company's income. When applied to U.S.-based multinational companies, however, the "disregarded entities" status could be used to set up high-volume subsidiaries in low-tax jurisdictions such as Luxembourg or Ireland. A key part of Apple's tax strategy, for example, is having a subsidiary in Ireland that takes in all of the income from Apple's retail stores in Europe. Treasury had given little thought to how the "check the box" rule might affect U.S.-based multinational corporations, according to several people involved in the effort. Treasury officials realized they had created a massive loophole when they noticed a spike in cross-border financing shortly after the rule took effect. "The mistake was extending it to foreign entities," Donald Lubick, Treasury's top tax official at the time, told Reuters. "That was apparent pretty quickly." Clinton's Treasury Department moved to revoke the "check the box" rule in early 1998. But multinational companies such as Hallmark, Coca-Cola, IBM and Philip Morris launched a full-court press to convince Congress to keep the rule in place. Enter Kies, a former tax specialist for Congress' Joint Tax Committee who was eager to put his expertise and contacts to work as a tax lobbyist. Kies's former Republican bosses¬†‚Äî Representative Bill Archer of Texas and Senator William Roth of Delaware¬†‚Äî accused the IRS and Treasury of overstepping their authority in trying to take away the loophole. Kies, meanwhile, says he pursued a strategy that he figured would resonate with businesses, lawmakers and regular citizens: He argued that eliminating the "check the box" loophole would damage U.S.-based multinational companies by forcing them to pay more taxes not only in the United States, but also to high-tax nations such as France. Roth's Senate Finance Committee passed a bill in April 1998 to prevent Treasury from making any changes to "check the box." That language was watered down to a non-binding resolution by the time the measure passed the Senate the next month, but Congress' message was clear: Don't mess with the loophole. Treasury soon gave up its effort to revoke it. "In light of that reception that this rule got on Capitol Hill, we withdrew the notice," said Philip West, who was then the top international tax official at Treasury and now advises clients on international tax strategy for the law firm Steptoe &amp; Johnson. By 2004, thanks in part to the "check the box" rule, U.S.-based multinational corporations paid an effective tax rate of about 2.3 percent on $700 billion in foreign earnings, according to the Obama administration. To make "check the box" tougher to revoke, Kies and other corporate lobbyists urged Congress to turn the rule into a law. Congress did so in 2006 with legislation that became known as the "look through" rule. It bolstered the "check the box" loophole by giving corporations more latitude to move some types of income from one foreign unit to another without paying a tax. The "look through" rule became law with little debate, according to congressional records. It was tucked into a broad extension of other tax cuts. The 2006 law wasn't permanent, but supporters have managed to extend it repeatedly by embedding it in large and important but unrelated pieces of legislation that were headed toward easy passage in Congress. That is what happened in 2009, when Obama threatened to cut the loophole. Congress has extended it temporarily twice since then as part of larger pieces of legislation. Both Levin and McCain voted to extend it in January as part of the legislation that kept the U.S. government from going off the "fiscal cliff," a package of across-the-board tax hikes and spending cuts that threatened to plunge the U.S. economy into another recession. Both also voted to extend it in 2010 as part of a broad tax bill. Obama has not proposed a repeal of the loophole since 2009. During the Senate hearing last week on Apple's tax strategy, Mark Mazur, Treasury's assistant secretary for tax issues, said in written testimony that the Obama administration remained "concerned about the misuse of various income-shifting devices, including misuse of the 'check the box' rules." Mazur noted that the White House has made proposals to discourage profit-shifting offshore. But it's unclear whether Obama will try again to have the "check the box" rule revoked. For perspective, Obama could read the words of another president who also fell short in his assault on tax shelters, this one failing to raise taxes on overseas holding companies. "We face a challenge to the power of government to collect uniformly and fairly, and without discrimination, taxes based on statutes adopted by Congress," that president wrote. The letter was signed by Franklin Roosevelt and dated June 1, 1937. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
REUTERS/Larry DowningMassachusetts student Amber Born of Marblehead pauses before answering correctly in the semi-final round of the 2013 Scripps National Spelling Bee at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center at National Harbor in Maryland, May 30, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The Republicans favor ‚ÄúDrill Baby Drill‚Äù. If the issue is that the price of oil extraction is too high, additional drilling doesn‚Äôt really fix the problem. At best, it gives us a little more expensive oil to add to the world‚Äôs supply. The Wall Street research firm Sanford Bernstein recently estimated that the non-Opec marginal cost of production rose to $104.50 a barrel in 2012, up more than 13 per cent from $92.30 a barrel in 2011. US consumers still cannot afford to buy high-priced oil, even if we extract the oil ourselves. The countries that see rising oil consumption tend to be ones that can leverage its use better with cheaper fuels, particularly coal (Figure 1). See Why coal consumption keeps rising; what economists missed. The recent reduction in US oil usage is more related to young people not being able to afford to drive than it is to improved automobile efficiency. See my post, Why is gasoline mileage lower? Better gasoline mileage? Gail Tverberg Figure 1. Oil consumption by part of the world, based on EIA data. 2012 world consumption data estimated based on world ‚Äúall liquids‚Äù production amounts. The Democrats favor subsidizing high-priced energy approaches that wouldn‚Äôt be competitive without such subsidies. Government debt is at 103% of GDP. It is hard to see that the government can afford such subsidies. Also, it is doubtful that the supposed carbon-saving benefit is really there, when all of the follow-on effects are included. Buying wind turbine parts, solar panels, and goods that use rare earth minerals (used in many high-tech goods, including electric cars and ¬†wind turbines) helps to stimulate the Chinese economy, adding to their coal use. Furthermore, the higher taxes needed to pay for these subsidies reduces the spendable income of the common worker, pushing the country in the direction of recession. So what do we do as an alternative, if neither the Republican or Democrat approach works? I would argue that we are dealing with a situation that is essentially unfixable. It can be expected to morph into a financial crash, for reasons I explained in How Resource Limits Lead to Financial Collapse. Thus, the issue we will need to mitigate will be debt defaults, loss of jobs, and possibly major changes to governments. If we are dealing with a financial crash, oil prices may in fact be lower, but people will still be unable to afford the oil because of other issues, such as lack of jobs or lack of access to money in their bank accounts. Because neither political party can fix our problem, I expect that most of our responses will necessarily be individual, personal responses. These are a few ideas: 1. Get out of debt situations, if it is easy to do.¬†There are a lot of people who own stocks on margin, or who own an expensive house with a big mortgage on it. Now, with prices of stocks and homes both higher, would be a good time to get out of both types of debt. Sell the stock or buy a less expensive house, without the mortgage. Equities and home prices both seem to be inflated now, indirectly because of Quantitative Easing. Some recent analysis suggests that real (that is, inflation adjusted) interest rates are rising partly because inflation is falling. ¬†The reason that inflation is falling is because oil prices are lower (Figure 2). Comparing the first four months of 2013 with the first four months of 2012, oil prices are about $9 per barrel lower. Oil prices are lower because of reduced demand due to economic contraction, especially in Europe. Gail Tverberg Figure 2. Spot oil prices and actual refiners acquisition costs, based on EIA data. Refiners acquisition costs are what refiners actually pay for oil. In the past month, there has also been an uptick in interest rates (even apart from the declining inflation component). According to the Wall Street Journal, ‚ÄúYields on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note now stand above 2.1%‚Äîstill low by historic standards, but nearly half a percentage point higher than at the start of May.‚Äù Mortgage rates are also reported to be half a percentage point higher than they were six months ago. There are a number of risks with rising real interest rates and falling inflation. One is that the higher interest rates will trigger lower stock prices and lower house prices. Another is that deflation will continue, making debt payback more difficult. If this happens, it is something that the Fed can‚Äôt handle with its monetary easing policy. Interest rates can go to zero, but not below. A third issue, especially if interest rates rise further, is the adverse impact on the US government financial situation. 2. Reduce your expectations about what investments can do for you. Dmitry Orlov, who has had experience with the collapse of the Former Soviet Union, made the remark, ‚ÄúThere are two kinds of investments: those that lose all their value at once, and those that lose value slowly.‚Äù Paper investments are a particular problem, because they can decline in value very quickly if conditions change. Even real estate can be a problem, though, because governments can take away what you thought you owned, or raise taxes to a level that you cannot afford. If you buy something and have to move, but cannot take the object with you, you will likely lose the value you invested. The only things that are really yours to keep (at least until your declining years) are skills that you learn. 3. Take up a hobby that will provide food for your family (planting a few fruit or nut trees, adding a garden, raising a few chickens, or learning to hunt/fish). Taking up hobbies such as these provide several functions: They provide a diversion away from the problems of the day, and let you feel like you are doing something helpful. They may actually provide a cushioning effect, if there is a sharp downturn. Taking up such hobbies can provide a useful skill for the future. In some cases, it may make sense to purchase land for purposes such as these. If considering doing this, a person should take note of items (1) and (2) above. It takes quite a long time to get started, and you can‚Äôt take the improved land with you, if you have to leave. 4. Learn to appreciate nature, family, and simple joys that can‚Äôt easily be taken away. It is possible to be happy, regardless of circumstances. We can find many good things in every day. Obsessing over the future is not really helpful. Don‚Äôt tie your happiness to having more ‚Äústuff‚Äù; you are likely to be disappointed. Learn to sing happy songs, or how to play a musical instrument. Or memorize uplifting poetry or religious writings. 5. Build a network of friends. If things go downhill, we can‚Äôt expect to use a gun to ward off intruders, night and day. If nothing else, we will run out of ammunition. Over the long term, the approach that is likely to be successful is working together with other community members toward a common goal. 6. Learn new skills, if you are concerned about job loss. Try to think of what will be needed in a lower-energy world. People will always need dentists and midwives, regardless of how poor they are. Buggy whip manufacturers went out of business long ago. Maybe we will need them back! 7. If you want to develop larger-scale plans (such as for cities or regions), keep them cheap and easy to implement. Governments are already running short of funds to implement plans. Look for approaches that are inexpensive to put in place, such as car-sharing plans. Alternatives that worked years ago, such as boats and canals, might be considered as well. 8. Aim for a flexible approach to problems. We don‚Äôt know things will turn out. Water may be in very short supply in one part of the country. Or job opportunities may open up in a place far from home. Even more than in the past, we are likely to need to be able to change our plans on short notice. Filed under: Planning for the Future Tagged: Debt, energy limits, interest rates, oil  Read more posts on Our Finite World ¬ª
There's a huge protest outside of the European Central Bank today. From Reuters: May 31, 2013 German riot police scuffle with protestors in front of the European Central Bank (ECB) head quarters during a anti-capitalism "Blockupy" demonstration in Frankfurt, May 31, 2013. Several thousand people take part in demonstrations against capitalism and austerity. REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach
Flickr/Sofi LundinNEW DELHI, May 31 (Reuters) - India's economic growth began a feeble recovery at the tail end of a 2012 fiscal year that saw the slowest expansion in a decade, providing little relief for a government heading into a busy election period dogged by graft scandals and criticism of its economic management. Asia's third largest economy grew 4.8 percent from a year earlier in the January-March quarter, in line with Reuters economists poll. The showing in the March quarter was only slightly better than an upwardly revised 4.7 percent growth in the previous three months, which was the lowest in fifteen quarters. The full year economic growth for the fiscal year 2012/13 came in at 5 percent, in line with an official forecast given in february, but its worst in a decade, and a far cry from the 9 percent annual expansion recorded until two years back. "The sectoral performance affirms our expectations that while GDP growth remains subdued, a floor is in sight, but lacks signs of sustainable pick up in momentum," said Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS in Singapore. The data dampened market hopes for another interest rate cut at the central bank's policy review on June 17. The Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) has cut its policy rate by a total of 75 basis points since January to spur economic recovery. India's benchmark 10-year government bond yield rose to two week high of as much as 7.49 percent as hopes of another rate cut faded after the GDP data came in line with expectations. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has warned that upside risks to inflation and a high current account deficit have limited room for more monetary easing even though inflation is on a downward trajectory and economic growth remains weak. The government data showed that the manufacturing sector grew an annual 2.6 percent in the March quarter. The farm sector expanded 1.4 percent from a year earlier. Mining sector, meanwhile, contracted an annual 3.1 percent. The services sector, that makes up more than half of India's economy grew an annual 6.6 percent in the March quarter. Worryingly, annual capital investment growth slowed down to 3.5 percent in the March quarter from 4.5 percent year-on-year a quarter ago. Years of fiscal profligacy, a long struggle with high inflation, high interest rates, persistent political gridlock and fragile global economy have put India back in a rut. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh leads a minority, coalition government that has been weakened by a series of high profile graft cases, and there is little sign of the fast economic rebound that could shore up its prospects in state elections this year and a national vote due by May 2014. Opposition parties have used the scandals linked to allocation of resources including coal and telecoms to paralyze parliament, delaying legislation aimed at attracting funds to lift capital investment growth from an eight-year low. The deep economic slowdown has tarnished the image of octogenarian Singh, a venerated economist whose far-reaching reforms two decades ago laid the ground for boom years that followed. His poor record of delivering on promises, coupled with myriad regulatory hurdles - including high-profile tax battles with foreign companies - has driven investors away. Foreign direct investment into the country has fallen, while outbound corporate investment is on the rise. (Reporting by Rajesh Kumar Singh; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The weakness in Japanese markets is pretty unreal. After being a can't lose market up until a week ago, now nothing can stop the bleeding. After a mediocre up day during normal Nikkei trading, futures trading has been urgly, losing about 2.5%. Via FinViz, check out how bad it's been this morning. FinViz (HT: @finansakrobat)
Eurozone unemployment hits a new record of 12.2%. What else is there to say? Business Insider/EuroStat
Chris Hondros/Getty ImagesOn this last day of the month, 3 big economic datapoints are coming out. From Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, the BEA will release the Personal Income and Outlays for April. The consensus is for a 0.1% increase in personal income in April, and for no change in personal spending. Also for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.1%. Based on the second estimate of GDP, there will be an upward revision to outlays for Q1.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 9:45 AM, the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for May will be released. The consensus is for an increase to 50.0, up from 49.0 in April.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 9:55 AM, the Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (final for May). The consensus is for a reading of 83.7.
The talk of the financial world right now is the big decline in emerging market currencies (which we wrote about this morning) and the collapse of the South African Rand (which Matthew Boesler wrote about yesterday). The Rand (which has the three-letter code ZAR, hence the headline) has been getting whooped by a perfect storm. There's the dollar strength, the commodity weakness, the bad internal South African economy, and a big miners strike that's ongoing. Everything that could go wrong is. Via XE.com, here's a one-month chart, showing how the dollar has soared against the Rand. XE.com And here's the intraday chart, showing the big surge in the dollar against the rand just today. As you can see it was a bit worse earlier in the day. XE.com
Wikimedia CommonsThroughout the crisis, Germany has been reluctant to endorse any policy measures that could be considered stimulative. Then in recent days, the sounds out of Germany have changed, as multiple reports suggested that the government is softening its stance and even considering ó gasp ó fiscal stimulus. This is good news for Europe, though earlier this week we noted cynically that the famous German employment engine seemed to be sputtering. And now there's more evidence of a sputter in the form of retail sales. From Reuters on April retail sales: The notoriously volatile indicator fell by a real 0.4 percent on the month after dropping by an upwardly revised 0.1 percent in March, data from the Federal Statistics Office showed. That compared with the consensus forecast in a Reuters poll for a 0.2 percent monthly gain. The data is adding up. Germany is weakening, and there's an election coming up in September. We're not surprised that the tone out of the government is changing.
Alberto Pizzoli / AFP / GettyJust a quick reminder of the abject terribleness of the European economy, and the Italian one in particular. Italian unemployment just came in at 12%, which is well beyond expectations of 11.6%, per ForexLive. That's the worst level since they began tracking this in 1977. So yes, horrible.
Wikimedia CommonsIf you're just focused on U.S. stocks, or perhaps the Japan crash, then you've missed another one of the huge stories of late, which is the bloodbath in emerging market currencies. The South African rand has been getting slammed, but so have others, like the Mexican Peso. What's the story behind the selloff? SocGen's Kit Juckes has the quick take, in an email blast to clients titled "Dominoes Falling." In it he argues that aggressive easing from the Fed and its counterparts pushed massive amounts of money into emerging markets. Now that that seems to be reversing, that tidal wave is reversing, taking down these currencies. Other problems for emerging market currencies: slowing growth, weak commodity prices, weakness in China, and distinct problems at home. Here's Huckes: Emerging market assets benefited from huge capital inflows in recent years, not because investors were enticed by awesome fundamentals but because they were pushed out of G3 assets by central bank policies, notably the Fed's massive QE programme. Now, as Fed policy reaches the mildest of turning points, EM assets are vulnerable across the board, the rand being the first of what I suspect will be a series of dominoes to fall over. Our EM strategy team have concluded the EM bull market is over and the link is to last night's weekly.¬† Other EM currencies I worry about include: MXN, simply because of its popularity and positioning; Turkish lira because of its balance of payments and dependence on yields to attract capital; and the Thai Baht which may be the focus of concern about Asia-FX. But the lessons of the past are that sell-offs triggered by global policy tightening are pretty indiscriminate. Yesterday, Matthew Boesler went into a deep dive on the decline of South Africa's weak currency &gt; And for more on the big selloff across emerging market currencies, including such exotics as the Peruvian Sol, check out Katie Martin at WSJ.
Flickr / FeffefGood morning, and welcome to the final day of what's been a tumultuous and interesting month. The big story is what's taken place over the last week, as Japan has violently had its rally snapped, with a series of huge declines. In Friday trading, the Nikkei was up just 1.37%. That's actually pretty pathetic given the severity of the declines (the market was down 5% this Thursday alone) and it also came following rumors about the big Japanese pension fund shifting some money from Japanese Government Bonds into equities. Meanwhile, Europe is red. Italy is off about 1%. Germany is down 0.7%. And US futures, which rallied yesterday, are modestly in the red. The other big story is that emerging markets currencies are getting smoked, which is a big continuation of a trend we've been seeing in recent days. Matthew Boesler examined the reasons behind the South African Rand's fall in a long post yesterday.
The bullish case for the market rests on continuing massive easing by the Fed, supposedly reasonable valuation for stocks, big increases in second half earnings and a more rapidly growing economy.¬† The result has been a market that is overbought and overvalued. While history indicates that Fed monetary policy is an important factor in the market, it is not everything.¬† The market declined substantially in 2001 and 2002 despite major monetary easing, and the same happened in 2008.¬† In a period such as now where excessive household debt is holding back consumer spending, the economy has been unable to sustain any traction despite massive easing over the last few years.¬† The Fed¬†will keep its current level of bond purchases going indefinitely only if the economy continues to look anemic.¬† In that case, second half earnings will be highly disappointing.¬† Bernanke continues to believe that Japan tightened too soon in the previous decade and that the Fed tightened too soon in 1937, causing another recession.¬† He has constantly made it clear that he would rather err on the side of staying easy too long than in tightening at a point he considers premature. On the other hand, if we are wrong about our tepid outlook for the economy, and it grows fast enough for the Fed to taper off its bond-buying program, we have only to look at the rapid rise in long-term rates over the past week, when even a hint of slowing down the purchase program caused a 50 basis point rise in rates and a drop in stocks.¬† It seems almost a no-brainer that an actual tapering of the bond-buying program would send rates soaring.¬† In that case, an economy that has become overly dependent on low interest rates and abundant liquidity would be stopped in its tracks, and the market would likely undergo a substantial decline. In our view the Fed has stretched the rubber band as far as it can go in the face of major fiscal restraint, and is facing the dilemma that whatever it does from this point, it cannot save the economy or the stock market.¬† That is why economists and strategists, after Bernanke‚Äôs congressional testimony, have been complaining about the seeming fuzziness of the Fed‚Äôs goals and its perceived lack of transparency.¬† The Fed simply cannot tell investors what it is going to do and when because it just doesn‚Äôt know.¬† Overall, it‚Äôs not a situation that is conducive to continuing strength in the market, and we therefore reiterate our view that it will all end badly. ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†
Today's Morning Briefing: Great Rotations. (1) Breaking up is hard to do. (2) Rotating or reaching for yield? (3) April was good for dividend yielders. May was not. (4) Two scenarios for the summer: good vs. weak growth. (5) Are record new home prices auguring the end of negative home equity? (6) Railroads benefiting from oil boom. (7) Data support the Great Releveraging more than the Great Rotation. (8) Emerging market bonds are hot, stocks are not. (9) Focus on underweight-rated Telcom Services and Utilities. (10) The Federator. (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog
Howard Marks once wrote: ‚ÄúResisting ‚Äì and thereby achieving success as a contrarian ‚Äì isn‚Äôt easy. Things combine to make it difficult; including natural herd tendencies and the pain imposed by being out of step, since momentum invariably makes pro-cyclical actions look correct for a while. (That‚Äôs why it‚Äôs essential to remember that ‚Äúbeing too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong.‚Äù) Given the uncertain nature of the future, and thus the difficulty of being confident your position is the right one ‚Äì especially as price moves against you ‚Äì it‚Äôs challenging to be a lonely contrarian."  It is from this viewpoint within which I most often find myself being at odds with the mainstream journalists, economists and analysts.¬† I prefer to look at the data as "it is" rather than as "I hope it will be,"¬†for in the long run, it is reality that will win out over fantasy.¬† This was the premise from which I recently wrote "Evaluating 3 Bullish Arguments"¬† wherein I analyzed three of the most common fundamental arguments used to support "bullish outlooks."¬† Those arguments all failed under real scrutiny. While the average "saver" chases the stock market, salivating at every tick higher, what they often fail to recognize is the mounting risks that will eventually lead to larger than expected losses of investment capital.¬† History is replete with evidence that shows that the longer an up cycle lasts the larger the losses are when it contracts.¬† It ALWAYS contracts eventually.¬† Individuals, despite the television commercials that promote the latest do-it-yourself trading platforms, are not capable of navigating the financial markets over a full cycle. It is important to understand that I am not "bullish" or "bearish."¬† I have no bias towards the markets other than participating when it is rising and protecting client capital when it isn't.¬† However, I am often given the moniker of a "bear" because I choose to point out the risks to investment capital rather than joining in with the lemmings all merrily marching towards to their eventual demise.¬† My job, as a portfolio manager, is to navigate the markets for the "full cycle" - both the up cycle as well as the down.¬† While the media chastises individuals for not chasing the market to the upside - I have never met an individual yet that was happy with matching market performance during a 20% decline.¬† Losses of investment capital hurt individuals far more than missed opportunities.¬† Lost capital is also far more difficult to recoup. However, while I have spilt much ink lately pointing out the risks to investors ahead (see here, here and here), it is important that you realize that our portfolio models remain fully invested and that I have been correct in my assessments of the current market trends.¬† Back in February, which now seems like a lifetime ago, I penned an article entitled "Get Ready For The Run To All-Time Highs"¬† in which we discussed the reasons why the stock market would likely push to all-time nominal highs.¬† At that time I stated: "The bullish trend is supported, at the moment, by excessive bullish optimism and $85 billion a month in liquidity. Market participants, like a marathon runner, are so amped up on endorphins that they lose awareness of their surroundings. Right now, investors see the finish line just ahead as CNBC flashes banners on their screen with countdowns of points to reach a new all-time high. However, it is important as investors, that we do not simply dismiss the dangers that continue to build in the economy and the markets. To simply assume that there are no excesses being created in various asset classes is short sighted. Asset "bubbles" are never recognized, or acknowledged, until after the fact. Currently the increases being witnessed are primarily due to the inflows of liquidity which is masking the deterioration of fundamental underpinnings. That is an unsustainable trend in the longer term, but, in the short term there is nothing inhibiting further increases as long as complacency remains high." That analysis, some 160 S&amp;P 500 points later, remains salient.¬† While the risks are definitely mounting (record margin debt levels, low "junk bond" yields, markets at extreme deviations from long term moving averages) there are several reasons why stocks could continue to climb higher in the near term.¬†¬† The Fed's Liquidity Pump The most obvious driver of stocks currently is the Federal Reserve's ongoing balance sheet expansion program which pushes liquidity directly into the financial markets.¬† As the chart shows below there is an extremely high correlation, since 2009, between the expansion of the Fed balance sheet and the financial markets.¬†  As long as the Federal Reserve remains committed to its "accommodative strategies" the markets are likely to remain buoyant against weaker fundamental and economic underpinnings.¬† This driver, by all counts, is the sole driver of higher asset prices currently and in the near future. Complete Complacency I stated recently that the "lack of fear is what we should fear the most."¬†¬†When investors are the most complacent that is when bad things tend to occur in the financial markets.¬† However, complacency is also a tailwind for stocks as long as there are no exogenous shocks to change the course of the flow of money. ¬† The chart below is the STA Risk Ratio which is a composite index of various sentiment indicators such as the volatility index, AAII bull/bear ratio, Institutional Investor bull/bear ratio, NYSE high/low ratio and others.¬† When this index is rising, as it is currently, markets are on the rise as well.¬† While this index is near historical peaks there is current no "event risk" present, that we are aware of, at the moment to send investors scurrying for cover.¬†¬† This complete lack of fear, combined with the belief that as long as the Fed is in play there is no downside risk to owning stocks, makes it is very possible for stocks to continue upward trajectory within the context of the current bullish trend.¬† As we will discuss below, there is currently no overhead resistance for stocks from a historical perspective.¬†  Bullish Trend The laws of physics state that an object in motion will remain in motion until it meets resistance.¬† That is currently the dynamic of the markets.¬† With the breakout of the bullish uptrend, combined with the break of long term overhead resistance, there is nothing to stop asset prices from rising further until the next major correction occurs.¬†  I have drawn three important lines in the chart above.¬† The break of overhead resistance will now become the first level of support for the markets on any correction.¬† If the markets do correct, and find support at 1600 while simultaneously working off the much overbought condition in the process, then the market could rally higher from this level.¬† This same idea goes for the previous two upward trending bullish support lines.¬† However, if the market breaks below 1400 then a different dynamic comes into play.¬† The current bullish cycle will end and a bear market investment strategy will need to be put into play. However, currently, there is little to stop asset prices from rising higher technically as long as: 1) The Fed remains engaged in their current liquidity programs. 2) Economic and fundamental "bad news" remains "good news" for the markets as it keeps the Federal Reserve in play. 3) The other major Central Banks remain engaged in their liquidity programs. 4) No exogenous events spring up such as a resurgence of the Eurozone crisis. 5) Interest rates remain contained below 2.5% Risks Remain While stocks could continue to climb higher that does not mitigate the underlying risks.¬† In fact, it is quite the opposite.¬† It is very likely that we are creating one, or more, asset bubbles once again.¬† However, what is missing currently is the catalyst to spark the next major correction. That catalyst is likely something that we are not even aware of at the moment.¬† It could be a resurgence of the Eurocrisis, a banking crisis or Japan's grand experiment backfiring.¬† It could also be the upcoming debt ceiling debate, more government spending cuts, or higher tax rates.¬† It could even be just the onset of an economic business cycle recession from the continued drags out of Europe and now the emerging market countries.¬† Regardless, at some point, and it is only a function of time, reality and fantasy will collide.¬† The reversion of the current extremes will happen devastatingly fast.¬† When this occurs the media will question how such a thing could of happened? Questions will be asked why no one saw it coming. Fingers will be pointed and blame will be laid.¬† While I am absolutely certain this will happen - I just don't know when.¬† It could be later this year or even next year.¬† Timing is always the problem and as Howard Marks stated - being early, even if you are right, is the same as being wrong.¬† This is why it is more important than ever that you remain aware of the risks and pay attention to exposure that you take on within your portfolio.¬† I point out to you the risks that we are watching, the detail behind the headlines and historical precedents that have led to massive losses of investor capital in the past, so that you can take appropriate risk management actions in your portfolio.¬† There is no prize for beating the market from one year to the next, however, there are severe penalties when things don't go as planned.¬† Enjoy the ride - just don't forget that our job as investors is to "sell high" so that we can "buy low."¬†¬† This is the one simple rule that is always overlooked by the media, analysts and economists who are chiding you to chase extremely overbought, over extended and excessively bullish markets.
