Protests continue in Brazil. The initial spark driving the protests was a hike in bus fare, but the protests have spread beyond that, with anger directed towards the amount of spending on the World Cup, to the neglect of other public services. Tonight, demonstrators took over a whole side of a highway: From Reuters: Demonstrators take over one side of the Rodovia Dutra, one of the country's main highways, during a protest in Sao Jose dos Campos, June 20, 2013. Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched through the streets of Brazil's biggest cities on Thursday in a growing protest that is tapping into widespread anger at poor public services, police violence and government corruption.  REUTERS/Roosevelt Cassio 
Wikimedia CommonsJapan's Nikkei 225 index opened down -1.74% and is continuing to fall, on the back of the broad sell-off in U.S. markets today. Australia's ASX 200 also declined by -0.75% on its open, while Korea's KOSPI index fell -2.3%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index was off -2.88.
REUTERS/Tim ShafferFord CEO Alan MulallyJapan was manipulating its currency, said Alan Mullaly in an interview with Bloomberg. Since November, the yen has fallen 18 percent against the dollar, effectively making their exports more competitive. Mulally also said Japan's markets were "the most closed in the world." According to Bloomberg, Japanese automakers account for more than 90 percent of sales in their home market. All of this comes as U.S. car manufacturers fight to block Japan's entry into the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement.¬† Watch Bloomberg's interview with Mulally here:
REUTERS/Jon Hurdle The EPA will cede authority to Wyoming regulators in a landmark investigation to determine whether hydraulic fracturing contaminated groundwater, according to a release from Wyoming Governor Matt Mead. In December 2011, the EPA found chemicals in the groundwater near Pavillion, Wyo.¬†that were "consistent with gas production and hydraulic fracturing fluids, benzene concentrations well above Safe Drinking Water Act standards and high methane levels." We wrote about the case in October, when the EPA said new USGS data confirmed those findings. Shortly thereafter, we talked to Pavillion-area residents¬†who explained how local hydrocarbon deposits were extremely shallow and that they'd long accepted that their water had an usual taste.  Last month, we rounded up instances around the country where regulators had been effectively bullied into easing up on fracking investigations, though there is no evidence that has occurred in this instance.¬† The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality (WDEQ) and the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (WOGCC) will now lead the Pavillion effort, the governor's release said. ‚ÄúI commend the EPA and Encana for working with me to chart a positive course for this investigation," Mead said. "I commit that Wyoming will work in a thoughtful and productive manner as further investigation is initiated.‚Äù
Amid all the carnage, here's another group of folks who have been getting smoked: Apple bondholders. Remember, back in early May, Apple raised $17 billion in a bond offering, when borrowing costs were ultra-low. At the time, the yield on the US 10-year was just 1.7%, as investors were going crazy buying anything fixed income. And because Apple is seen as ultra-safe, the company itself was able to borrow at just 2.4%. But since then we've seen a total market reversal. Yield on the US 10-year has surged to 2.41%, amid a huge rout in fixed income. And those who bought Apple bonds are getting slammed. Here's a look at the price of Apple 30-year bonds. Total carnage. And Apple ‚Äî having borrowed all that money so cheaply, at exactly the right time ‚Äî is laughing all the way to the bank. Business Insider/Steven Perlberg, data from Bloomberg
Emerging markets assets have had a rough go of it for several weeks now as U.S. Treasury bond yields have shot higher, but the past week especially was not kind to funds invested in EM. In the week ended June 19, EM funds recorded a massive $2.6 billion in outflows, or 1.0% of assets under management. That marks an acceleration of outflows from the previous week, when investors redeemed $2.5 billion from EM funds. The big question is whether this is the start of a big blow-up in EM debt markets, which have seen massive inflows over the past several years as depressed bond yields in developed markets have sent investment capital into riskier credits in the emerging world in search of higher yields. Deutsche Bank macro strategist Alan Ruskin reflects on this in a note to clients this morning: The post-2008 cumulative $1 trillion+ private portfolio flows from the developed world to the EM world have a decision to make: Can they ride out the Fed‚Äôs very slow, well mapped out retreat from the easy money policies that have encouraged extreme yielding seeking? For those who wait, the additional yield accrued by waiting for any exit has the potential to be modest relative to the potential capital lost, unless there is a belief that the asset itself is already cheap relative to long-term value. Unfortunately, in a number of cases (the BRL would be a good example) even the long-term value is being reassessed lower, because independent of the Fed, growth in almost all major EMG countries has looked weak.  The Fed has only shaken half of the tree, because in the initial instance, developed private capital may exit EM assets, but EM central banks are loath to sell their reserves and exit developed markets. Initially, only one half of this major cumulative capital flow between developed country assets in the developing world, and, developing country reserves held in developed currencies unwinds. EM exchange rate then take the brunt of the adjustment, until EM central banks say enough is enough. So far EM central banks are only moderately smoothing exchange rate adjustments. When and if central banks become more active this may help EM exchange rates, but the price will presumably be paid in developed country assets notably the developed world fixed income instruments that developing central banks like. The private sector capital retreating from the EM world back to the developed world will likely have a very different risk propensity to the more passive investing style of central banks. Anything that roils developed bond markets will in turn surely feed back negatively on the appetite for EM assets.  This is one example where even in a world with considerable Fed guidance policy certainty can set in train forces that are hugely destabilizing, if they are perceived as a fundamental reversal of what has preceded it. The drawing out of the Fed exit plan by extending QE tapering could in theory smooth the above adjustment, but just as likely it will bring much of the adjustment forward, before creating additional volatility as the market tries to assess when developing market assets are genuinely cheap. The chart below from Morgan Stanley shows the damage from fund outflows this week. Morgan Stanley Research, EPFR
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'Sales Assistants Might Be The Most Important Players On Wealth-Management Team' (The Wall Street Journal) "Sales assistants may be the most important players on wealth-management teams," writes Norb Vonnegut in The Wall Street Journal.¬† "Not for the obvious reasons. Sure, sales assistants keep the wheels on the office bus. How often do they save advisers from being fired for blowing mechanics like wire transfers? And sure, they set the tone for incoming calls. I worked with one who made clients feel like they were the most important people on Wall Street. How do you put a price tag on that? "I am talking about something less obvious--and far more valuable. Sales assistants are the first line of defense against rogue partners." Mark Mobius: Many Investors Make One Big Mistake (Advisor Perspectives) Mark Mobius thinks it is important for investors to take a long term view. It is easy for investors to be swayed by 'herding' or suffer the "whipsaw effect - buying and selling at the wrong times." You need to have a long term view to invest in a bear market. He also thinks many investors are making one big mistake. "I think it‚Äôs important to be diversified not only across different companies, but across different industries and, most importantly, across different countries. One reason why professionally managed strategies are so popular globally is because they enable investors to be well-diversified and have a variety of stocks that they probably couldn‚Äôt properly research and invest in themselves. Unfortunately, many investors have portfolios that invest in only one country‚Ä¶ their own. I see this as a big mistake because they are missing out on potential opportunities all over the globe, which is the job of my team and I to uncover."  Mom-And-Pop Investors Are Dumping Bond Funds Like Crazy (Dr. Ed's Blog) At his press conference Fed chairman Ben Bernanke said the 7% jobless rate threshold would show a substantial improvement in the labor market and a move towards this could prompt the Fed to begin tapering its bond purchase program this year.¬† "The most immediate impact has been a sharp drop in mortgage refinancing activity," wrote Ed Yardeni. "Another immediate impact is that retail bond investors are running for the exit doors as the Fed publicly lays out its exit strategy from ultra-easy monetary policy. The ICI reported huge estimated weekly net cash outflows from bond mutual funds of $13.5 billion during the week of June 12, following a $10.9 billion outflow the prior week." Dr. Ed's Blog The Pros And Cons Of Indexing (Vanguard) The argument over indexing and active management continues in the Wealth Management industry. Vanguard is of course well known for passive investing. Vanguard's Joe Brennan argues that the reason indexing has seen cash inflow in the past few years is because it "embodies those couple of keys that tend to bring investment success, such as low costs, diversification, and long-term discipline. Increasing numbers of investors are focusing on those types of products, including ETFs." The problem with active management he says is that they are rarely low cost. Vanguard's John Ameriks does point out though, "that the one thing index funds can't deliver is a significant opportunity to outperform, which is only possible through an active approach." The Great Bond Bull Market Is Over (Deutsche Bank) Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna has declared that the bull market in bonds is officially over. After being held to an "artificially-low, central bank-induced level," he says, rates can only rise. He does however think there is a limit to how high they can go. "The steepest the 10-year treasury has been relative to the fed funds rate using monthly data has been 385 bps in December 1992. In the last business cycle, the 10s-fed funds spread went as high as 372 bps in May 2004, but this was just one month before the Fed began raising interest rates."
REUTERS/Aly SongPeople look at an electronic board at a Shanghai brokerage house. All eyes will be on the Shibor, or the Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate.¬† This is the benchmark interest rate used in lending activities between banks.¬† These rates underlie the mechanism that holds the Chinese banking system together. Simply put, it's a barometer of liquidity in the Chinese credit markets. In recent periods, Shibor has been surging, stoking fears that Chinese credit was seizing up. However, the People's Bank of China has largely remained silent.¬† Some analysts have suggested this inactivity is the PBoC's way of passively reigning in what is already an overheated credit market. Other's are reminded of the dark days of the financial crisis, when surging LIBOR rates preceded the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and the deepest periods of the financial crisis.¬† They warn that if the PBoC, or some other force, doesn't intervene soon, China will plunge into recession and take the rest of the global economy with it. Shibor is updated every business day at 11:30 AM Beijing time, which is 11:30 PM ET. You can get updated numbers at Shibor.org. For some historical context, here's a long-term look at overnight Shibor: Barclays
Flickr via kjcs American investors are beginning to feel hopeful for the future.¬† The Wells Fargo/Gallup Investor and Retirement Optimism Index rose to 43 points in June, up 12 points since March and at the highest level in two and a half years.  Stability is everything, and both pre- and currently retired investors say they are optimistic in their ability to maintain their income over the next year, according to the report.¬† Still, it's not exactly news that things are looking up for stock market investors these days. What's interesting is that the majority of people surveyed said they haven't felt any personal boost from the market rebound at all. ‚ÄúHistory shows that investors who save and invest regularly based on a plan do benefit from rising stock market values, but at this point, most average investors don‚Äôt see a strong connection between the markets and their financial well being,‚Äù said John Papadopulos, president of Wells Fargo Retirement.That ambivalence could be purely psychological (if you were burned by the market in 2008, chances are you'd be unwilling to renew your faith in it just a few years later), or investors may not be following the market or their investments closely enough to notice a difference.¬† In the second quarter of 2013, 87% of investors say they didn't touch their stock market allocations, half of whom say they consider themselves long-term investors. ¬†That's a hopeful sign. The more people fiddle with their portfolio, the more susceptible they are to letting overconfidence and fear drive their actions, which rarely leads to success.  The 1% of investors who ran scared from the market during the financial crisis wound up losing big down the line. Another hopeful sign? Retirement planning was up 6% this year, with 38% of investors saying they've written a plan of their own and reviewed it over the last year.¬† For the most part, non-retired investors are facing the reality that Social Security may not be what it used to be by the time they retire. The majority say¬†they will rely on 401(k) savings to buoy them during their golden years, while retirees cited Social Security and pensions. Nearly half of retirees don't even consider their 401(k) a source of funding at all.¬† Wells Fargo Methodology:¬† These findings are part of the Wells Fargo-Gallup Investor and Retirement Optimism Index, which was conducted May 16-27, 2013 by telephone. The sampling for the Index included 1,426 investors randomly selected from across the country with a margin of sampling error is +/- three percentage points. For this study, the American investor is defined as any person who is head of a household or a spouse in any household with total savings and investments of $10,000 or more. About two in five American households have at least $10,000 in savings and investments.
Sheldon Adelson was on BloombergTV earlier, arguing against the legalization of online gambling. As the CEO of Las Vegas Sands, a big physical casino company, his opposition to online gambling is understandable, except... he says it's not about the money or the business. Instead he says, it's all about how online gambling is bad for society, since gamblers can get so hooked. During the interview he also made a comment that should infuriate poker players. He says there should be no special exemption for online poker, since it's a game of luck, not skill. Here are his exact words: On not making an exception for the skills based Poker: ìThat skill base is, in my opinion, just a bunch of baloney. To get a card is not skill base. I know people say it is skill based, but itís just so they can categorize it in a certain segment.î On making an exception for online poker:ìAbsolutely not. Look, Iím a father, grandfather. I do not want my children ñ Iím a veteran of the Korean War. I do not want my children to have the opportunity to become addicted to gaming. And poker, in my opinion, would become one of the most addictive games. People do not get addicted to necessarily playing blackjack. They get addicted for the game. It is one of the many compulsive behaviors and somebody is addicted to gaming, they are addicted to some other compulsive behaviors. Can you tell me one good reason why internet gaming should be allowed.î That poker is a game of skill, not luck, is an article of faith among avid poker players. Sure, you can have a bad beat here or there, or maybe someone flops a set of aces to beat your set of kings, but the idea is that that's just noise, and that because poker is a game of skill over time the better player will win out. Anyway, because poker pros argue that it's a game of skill, they think that even if online gambling remains broadly illegal, that online poker should perhaps still be eligible to be played online. And so for Adelson, it's important to slam poker to make his broader anti-online gambling argument.
REUTERS No one was safe today. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
APBrevan Howard's $2.7 billion emerging markets hedge fund cut risk and sold positions after getting crushed by the EM slump, Bloomberg reports. Managed by†38-year-old Geraldine Sundstrom, the fund fell about 5% this month, totaling 11% in yearly losses, a source told Bloomberg.† From Bloomberg: Brevan Howard lowered the value at risk, or VaR, for the Emerging Markets Strategies Master Fund by 50 percent in May and at least 30 percent more this month after losses climbed to almost $300 million this year, said the people who asked not to be identified because the firm is private. VaR, an estimate of potential trading losses, can be cut by selling investments and reducing leverage. The rout in EM began last month when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke spooked investors by hinting he might scale back the Fed's asset buying program sooner rather than later. Emerging markets like Brazil and Turkey have been getting absolutely punished partially thanks to unease about where the Fed stands.† Sundstrom reportedly sold EM holdings ahead Bernanke's FOMC statements yesterday.  Bloomberg reported that Brevan's master fund, with nearly $28 billion in assets, has never recorded an annual loss since starting in 2003. Sundstrom has worked at the firm since 2007, and it hasn't always been tough times. Her fund posted positive returns in 2008 during the financial crisis. A source told Bloomberg that Brevan has no plans to close Sundstrom's fund, though the firm is "known for its discipline in quickly and aggressively cutting positions when traders lose money." Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
Uriel Sinai/Getty Images Sheldon Adelson is the CEO of mega casino company Las Vegas Sands. You might think that his business would feel threatened if online gambling became legal, and gamblers no longer had to enter his physical casinos. Thus it's no surprise that during an interview on BloombergTV, Adelson slammed online gambling as a toxic trainwreck. Of course, he doesn't say he's against online gambling because it will hurt his business. He says it's all about society and the possibility that gamblers will get too hooked. You can watch the full interview here. The text, via BloombergTV, is below the dotted line ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Adelson on online gambling: ¬†‚ÄúThey are not getting wrong. I just had lunch with Steve Wynn. He is not totally against what I am saying. He discussed with me on his the potential impact on his property and my property in Las Vegas because we have two different markets. It really will not affect us one way or the other. I bring this up not because it is a business issue, but because I am citizen of the United States, a veteran of the Korean War, a father, a grandfather I am a patriot and I care about this country‚Ä¶ I am not going to stand by knowing what I know, experienced what I experienced and not speak out. We did an eight country survey in Europe because we are contemplating doing a major development there and we found that the eight country that allow full internet gambling has gone up an average of 28% when the land-based casinos have gone down from 3-6% or stayed exactly even with a previously anticipated 5-10% growth factor. For 10 years, if you factor in 5-10% growth factor or even if you just stay even it is a great loss. I have 2 teenage boys. They get addicted to everything that is on the TV. When they talk about Gary Loveman only wants Poker. Gary Loverman and MGM have their own challenges. I do not have Challenges‚Ä¶ We made billions of dollars last year. It is not a money issue with me. I think it is a train wreck. It‚Äôs really toxicity. It is a cancer waiting to happen.‚Äù On cynics saying he is just trying to protect his rural land-based casino empire: ‚ÄúFirst of all, let me tell you that the casinos account for less than 10% of my total gross income and EBITDA. I do have my properties in Vegas at $350 Million EBITDA. I do it in one property. In Macau or Singapore. Singapore last year made five times what our property earns in the United States. We are not intending to get into it. ¬†I‚Äôm just telling you any skeptic could say that money is the consideration. Money is not a consideration. Money is not a consideration with me. If you just look at where I stand in Forbes rating, No. 15 in the world, making $200 million extra is not an incentive for me.‚ÄùOn whether he wants a piece of potential revenue from online gambling following reports that Europe had $32 Million in online gambling revenue: ‚ÄúNo. No. I don‚Äôt want it. It is not $32 Billion in Europe. If you want, we had a study done from eight countries from one of the betting gaining researchers in the world. What do you do with a kid that is either underage or of age with student loans? It is very easy for them to get pressured by peers to go and gamble white they are drunk or doing drugs.‚Äù On whether that is different from land-based casinos: ‚ÄúOf course it is‚Ä¶No land-based casino would somebody that‚Äôs our of control of themselves to sit and gamble‚Ä¶ Let‚Äôs say one thing for sure, it‚Äôs an adult who gets dressed, gets in the car, comes with friends, goes to a place, they have a bueffet, they play, they go bowling and they play for a couple of hours hours on the tables and they enjoy themselves as entertainment, this not dressing in your Birthday suit, taking your computer into bed, and it is not underage kids that get set up by of-age kids, and they play until they lose all of their money. I believe that poker and other forms of gambling, poker particularly since it‚Äôs considered a social activity and not gambling per se, kids will get up in the middle of the night if they cannot sleep, or they come home late, and they challenge each other to say, let‚Äôs play some power or some blackjack. They are going to lose.‚Äù On not making an exception for the skills based Poker: ‚ÄúThat skill base is, in my opinion, just a bunch of baloney. To get a card is not skill base. I know people say it is skill based, but it‚Äôs just so they can categorize it in a certain segment.‚Äù On making an exception for online poker: ‚ÄúAbsolutely not. Look, I‚Äôm a father, grandfather. I do not want my children ‚Äì I‚Äôm a veteran of the Korean War. I do not want my children to have the opportunity to become addicted to gaming. And poker, in my opinion, would become one of the most addictive games. People do not get addicted to necessarily playing blackjack. They get addicted for the game. It is one of the many compulsive behaviors and somebody is addicted to gaming, they are addicted to some other compulsive behaviors. Can you tell me one good reason why internet gaming should be allowed.‚Äù On the argument that online gaming brings in state tax revenues: ‚ÄúYou could also make that argument for legalizing heroin and cocaine and prostitution. You can create a lot of sin tax for the government to make money.‚Äù On Jeff Bezos saying that internet gaming being the next logical step for the business: ‚ÄúWell, why don‚Äôt we say that other sins, crime, mugging, thievery, well kind of make that mobile too simply because everything is mobile? And what makes Jeff Bezos and Eric Schmidt a lot smarter. I‚Äôve got 68 years of being in businesses. I‚Äôve created over 50 businesses and never failed in one. I have recreated the hotel and gaming industry worldwide with a concept of integrated resources. I do not need any more money. Being the 15th richest man in the world does not make incentive to make a couple hundred million dollars more. On Governor Christie legalizing online gaming in the Garden State: ‚ÄúI live Governor Christie. I talk to him. ¬†He said he was about to be overridden anyway. He said it was about to be overridden or over-vetoed or whatever you call it. I like Governor Christie, but I‚Äôm not making any commitments. I like other candidates as well.‚ÄùOn whether Governor Christie authorizing online gambling in New Jersey bothers him enough to punish him: ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt reward or punish politicians. It‚Äôs not my job. I‚Äôm only one vote, but that of my family. I do support a lot of politicians, but I do so because of their ideology and their sharing of values with me‚Ä¶ I am not trying to be a dictator. I‚Äôm trying to live my live as a normal person. I can speak up because I‚Äôm an expert on the subject. The largest gaming and hospitality company in the world. I want to sound boastful, but we earned more money than the top three or four hotel companies combined. We have accomplished an awful lot. I have talked to some politicians about it and they agree with me. It‚Äôs the first time in history of their office that a citizen has come in and said, please don‚Äôt pass a law that will make more money for me.‚Äù On many being surprised he does not hold it against Gov. Christie: ‚ÄúPeople are surprised by a lot of thing I do or don‚Äôt do.‚Äù
AP Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passed along this set of observations he has made watching his Bloomberg terminal over the last half an hour or so while the market was getting smoked. Aloha Folks ‚Äì Lotta red out there today ‚Äì Seems the theme continuing of Macro HF Leverage coming off, and ETFs De-Leveraging hard ‚Äì Couple that with the Expiration creating $15B of PRESSURE today‚Ä¶.¬† Here are some of the things I‚Äôm chattering about:¬†
APJapanese billionaire Masayoshi Son is one impressive guy. But the most impressive thing about the SoftBank CEO is that he remains Japan's second-richest person†years after losing $70 billion of his net worth. You read that correctly. Son was once reported to be worth $78 billion before the dotcom crash. But losing all that money didn't stop him, and under Son's leadership SoftBank's†profits have skyrocketed†in the past few years. Now he has his eye on acquiring Sprint. After†upping his bid to $21.6 billion, the "maverick" CEO is on the†precipice of winning†the company over its other main suitor, Dish. Bloomberg has the 55-year-old "Bill Gates of Japan"†at a†net worth of†$13.8 billion.
The FT's Peter Spiegel reports that the IMF is turning up the pressure on the EU over the Greek bailout: The International Monetary Fund is preparing to suspend aid payments to†Greece†by the end of next month unless eurozone leaders plug a Ä3bn-Ä4bn shortfall that has opened up in Greeceís Ä172bn†rescue programme, according to officials involved in management of the bailout... The latest gap emerged after national central banks, which were urged by eurozone leaders to roll over Ä3.7bn in Greek bond holdings, refused to do so when the first redemptions came due last month. That forced bailout lenders to speed up aid payments that were originally to go for other purposes later in the programme. The IMF and EU have been at odds for a while over how to handle bailouts like Greece's. Recently, the Fund released a critique of the Greek bailout program, which placed a lot of the blame for its shortcomings on its EU partners. Read Spiegel's full report at the FT &gt;
REUTERS/Gary Cameron The global financial market sell-off is only getting worse. All of the major U.S. equity indices are crashing through their lows of the day: This extends yesterday's sell-off, which appeared to be triggered by Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's suggestion that the Federal Reserve could begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its quantitative easing program later this year. The global sell-off snowballed after China reported that manufacturing activity in June was decelerating at a higher clip than expected.† China is the world's second largest economy and it is also a key source of global economic growth. Stock markets across Europe and Asia were devastated. Commodities are getting demolished: And it doesn't stop there.† The suggestion that the Fed could soon taper its bond purchases has Treasury rates tumbling and interest rates surging.† At one point, the 10-year Treasury yield got as high as 2.47%. All of this volatility has been particularly ugly for the emerging markets, where investors have yanked their funds, exacerbating fears of a "sudden stop" in those developing economies' access to the global financial markets. Brazil and Turkey were among the countries that got punished today. Here's a round up of some emerging market debt that got smashed: The breadth of the sell-off is certainly stunning. "Rare to see every futures market I follow down," tweeted bond trader Ed Bradford earlier today.
Business Insider The yield on the 10-year Treasury bill¬†has been going buck wild¬†after bottoming in May. Today, Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna has declared the bull market in bonds, which depending on your definition began in the mid-80s, officially over. After being held to an "artificially-low, central bank-induced level," he writes in a new note,¬†rates can now only climb higher. How high? Assuming 4.4% nominal GDP this year, LaVorgna has his model puts the 10-year yield at an average of about 4.1%. But, LaVorgna says, that's not likely to happen "because Fed¬†tightening is likely still some time away." There also appears to be a natural limit to how high rates can go, he says pointing to the Fed funds rate: The steepest the¬†10-year treasury has been relative to the fed funds rate using monthly data has¬†been 385 bps in December 1992. In the last business cycle, the 10s-fed funds¬†spread went as high as 372 bps in May 2004, but this was just one month¬†before the Fed began raising interest rates.¬† LaVorgna says that in the last two tightening cycles ‚Äî Feb. 1994 and June 2004 ‚Äî the spread between 10-years and the Fed funds rate averaged 303 basis points over the preceding 18 months. That, he says, seems to be the most reasonable benchmark for predicting where yields will go. "With the fed effective rate around 10 to 15 bps, we estimate that a 300 bp spread puts the fair value on 10s between 3% to 3.25%," he said. "Ahead of an eventual increase in official interest rates, we expect yields to trend higher over the course of this year‚Äîrising to 2.75% and possibly higher." Currently, the 10-year yield is at 2.44%.
Walter Hickey / BIMonopoly is one of the classic American games.† It's played among close friends, loved ones, and trusted business partners.† It's also one of the few times in life where it's perfectly acceptable to want to systematically annihilate and crush the aforementioned friends, loved ones and partners.† Well, we're here to help. Monopoly has a major element of chance in it, and the best part about games of chance is that people with Microsoft Excel can basically solve them.† We broke down the must-know math behind Monopoly as well as several lessons you can take away from what truly is The Most Dangerous Game.† In this presentation, we'll teach you such concepts as:
Gold just keeps heading lower today. It's been falling since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's press conference yesterday, in which he suggested that quantitative easing could be completely finished by mid-2014, but the selling really got started overnight and a lot of the damage was done this morning in European trading. Then, it hit a low of $1285 an ounce. After rebounding in North American trading, gold headed lower once again, and just broke through its earlier lows to make a new low at $1281. (In the past few minutes, gold has rebounded back to $1285.) FINVIZ.com
Via the U.S. Treasury Department's Twitter feed, a picture of workers at the Bureau of Engraving &amp; Printing using hand presses to print money in 1909:¬† Twitter/@USTreasury
Some 150 people have died after heavy monsoon flooding in Uttarakhand, North India, according to The Indian Express. But officials believe the death toll could climb once the flood waters recede.¬† Many of those impacted by the flooding and landslides were visiting Kedarnath, a Hindu temple in the Himalayas. The floods that hit the North a few days ago have been dubbed the 'Himalayan Tsunami' and rescue operations are ongoing. 50,000 people in the state are believed to be stranded. Other parts of India have also been hit by heavy monsoons. The statue of a Hindu deity is submerged by flood waters of the river Ganges in Uttarakhand, India. Reuters Homes were swept away in Uttarakhand, India as heavy monsoon rains caused the Ganges to swell. Heavy monsoons have also caused landslides. REUTERS/Danish Siddiqui Indian army soldiers were brought in to rescue stranded pilgrims and AP/Indian Army Trucks in New Delhi are seen submerged under flood waters of the river Yamuna. Reuters Meanwhile, boys ride a bicycle through a flooded street in Mumbai. AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool) Children play on a flooded street in Mumbai. AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool) A child displaced by flood waters sits on a rickshaw by a makeshift tent in New Delhi. REUTERS/Anindito Mukherjee
As the 10-year Treasury yield creeps higher, many are asking just how far yields can go before really hurting the recovery. Recently Jim O'Neill even went so far as to say it would "not be a stretch" to see 5% yields on the 10-year soon. Given the current yield, that would mean a big bond crash. And when we look at the 10-year in its broader historical context, we see that O'Neill might not be off base. "What is clear in looking at this chart, is that the 10yr has traded very close to its 50 [month] moving average back to 1790," says Ralph Dillon of Global Financial Data.¬† "And when you look at it from a historical perspective and not under the microscope, it may lead you to believe that we may see yields creep back up closer to its 50 [month] moving average as it has over the last 225 years." So if you believe in the power of mean reversion, then it's not unreasonable to expect yields to head back up toward 4%. Here's the chart via Global Financial Data¬†(which should read 50 "month" moving average): Global Financial Data
Wikimedia Commons We've seen Jim Cramer upset, but this is on a whole other level. In the last week Cramer has gone to war on Twitter and on his website, The Street, to respond to attacks from buy-side researcher Keith McCullough, of Hedgeye. At question is Linn Energy (LINE), an energy company whose stock is set for a merger. The problem with that, according to Barron's and McCullough's Hedgeye, is that Linn's annual dividend will increase after it merges with another energy company, Berry Petroleum. Barron's and Hedgeye (as the firm said in a call last week) both believe that the increased dividend will be hard for the company to support. Cramer disagreed. He's long the stock, and for the record, it is on a tear ‚Äî up over 6% in the last 5 days. Now on Wall Street, when two (non-billionaire hedge fund manager) individuals have a disagreement about a stock, they politely wait and see (talk smack amongst themselves) what happens. Not so with Linn Energy. For days McCullough and his friends took to Twitter to call Jim Cramer every name under the sun. Perhaps it was to call attention to their research, perhaps it's because we don't have the Libor scandal to entertain us all¬† summer. But this is what it looked like: Twitter Twitter Twitter Cramer apparently blocked him. Twitter Not to be outdone Cramer took to his website to explain his position, and accused McCullough and co. of "orchestrating one of the most well-orchestrated raids" on the stock he'd ever seen. From The Street: I have to congratulate them, even though I would have thought such a thing in violation of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act. I get that because when I studied law I learned that FDR appointed Joseph Kennedy to the SEC because he knew that Kennedy orchestrated Linn-like raids and FDR wanted them stopped. Perhaps what's happened is that you are now allowed to do what FDR didn't want and get away with it. I don't think it is right, but I don't make the rules... Long after these guys are driven from the game, I will be writing here, just like I have for 31,000 columns before this. I urge those who doubt my resolve to ask anyone who has ever met me. Ever. Or go read Confessions of a Street Addict, which came out before many of these attackers were in middle school. I think they might find that I am, let's say, combative? Resolute? Implacable? A little bit of all of those. I wouldn't be that way, if it weren't a huge amount of fun for me to play D then go on the O and because I genuinely believe that I can help people -- not destroy stocks and people and firms -- but actually help people make some money in a good, honest and decent way. Drops mic, walks off stage... The final word in this argument, however, hasn't come from Cramer or McCullough. It has come from on high ‚Äî from the hallowed halls of Omega Advisors. Yes, Leon Cooperman reiterated his confidence in Linn's ability to pay the dividend on CNBC yesterday. From The Street: "We have done our homework," Cooperman said of Omega's investment in Linn Energy. He also referenced similar Omega investments such as Atlas Energy (ATLS_) and Atlas Pipeline Partners (APL_). Suddenly, McCullough doesn't seem to want to talk about it. He's moved on to touting a new media channel his hedge fund is launching, which may be the reason he started this nonsense in the first place. Back to your Excel spreadsheet.
Flickr via angelocesare Manhattan regularly tops the list of most expensive places to live in the U.S. and it is easy to see why. Goods and services here can cost two to three times more than the national average and seem to have a way of ballooning year after year. Manhattan scores a whopping 225.4 on a¬†cost of living index, much higher than the national average which balances out at 100, according to the Council for Community and Economic Research. There is an interesting exception to this trend when it comes to things like manicures and yoga, which are actually cheaper in Manhattan thanks to a competitive market.For most things, however, Big Apple prices are out off the charts. We used Bankrate.com's¬†cost of living calculator¬†to see just how much more expensive Manhattan really is.
Carl Icahn has joined Twitter, according to Forbes' Steven Bertoni. Here's his first Tweet. It's pretty tongue-in-cheek, but we confirmed with an Icahn Associates rep that it's really him. Twitter is great. I like it almost as much as I like Dell.
Dr. Ed's Blog In his press conference, Bernanke also specified, for the first time, that 7% is the jobless rate threshold that would mark a substantial improvement in the labor market. The Fed will start reducing its bond purchases later this year if this rate continues to fall toward 7% by the middle of next year, as anticipated by most of the members of the FOMC, according to Bernanke. So the good news is that the economic outlook looks a bit better, with fewer downside risks, according to the FOMC. The bad news is that the 10-year Treasury yield is now up 69bps from a low of 1.66% on May 2 to 2.35% yesterday. The 30-year mortgage yield is up 62bps over this period to 4.18%. The most immediate impact has been a sharp drop in mortgage refinancing activity. Another immediate impact is that retail bond investors are running for the exit doors as the Fed publicly lays out its exit strategy from ultra-easy monetary policy. The ICI reported huge estimated weekly net cash outflows from bond mutual funds of $13.5 billion during the week of June 12, following a $10.9 billion outflow the prior week. Unfortunately, those funds weren‚Äôt rotated into equity mutual funds, which had small net outflows totaling $2.0 billion those same two weeks. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Thresholds &amp; Conundrums. (1) The smartest guys and gals in the room. (2) Fewer downside risks, unless you own bonds. (3) A promise is a promise with thresholds. (4) When unemployment rate falls to 6.5%, tightening talk will begin. (5) QE will be phased out by the time jobless rate falls to 7.0%. (6) Retail bond investors running for the exit doors. (7) Greenspan‚Äôs conundrum was falling bond yields. (8) Bernanke‚Äôs conundrum is rising bond yields. (9) Stocks on the sidelines while Fed and Bond Vigilantes duke it out. (10) A bad day for interest-rate sensitive stocks. (11) Oil demand growth shows slowing global economy. (12) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.)
On the third Friday of each month and once every quarter, various stock index futures, stock index options, stock options, and single stock futures expire. These days have become known for†the unusual level of trading that takes place on or around them, and they have been named "witching" days after the three witches of Shakespeare's ìMacbeth." This month, the Triple and Quadruple Witch fall on June 21. Watch below for NYSE floor trader†Jonathan Corpina, a senior managing partner at Meridian Equity Partners, explain why there is so much trading activity on Triple and Quadruple Witches and what you need to know about it.† Produced by Daniel Goodman†
It's an ugly day in global markets. Everything is selling off around the world, from stocks to bonds to commodities. Concerns over the withdrawal of Federal Reserve monetary stimulus later this year are setting the tone, and weak manufacturing data out of China is really piling on. As some of the riskier markets for equity investors to play in, eurozone stock indices are off huge today amid the global sell-off. Meanwhile, European government bond markets are getting worked as well: Click here for a complete overview of what's happening in global markets today &gt;
Our stuff often says a lot about us, whether we own a hybrid car or a station wagon, a MacBook Pro or an ancient desktop. And this is no less true of our smart phones, sold on a sharply divided market between iPhones, Androids, and Blackberries. Among other things, cell phone brands say something about socio-economics ‚Äì it takes a lot of money to buy a new iPhone 5 (and even¬†more¬†money to keep up with the latest models that come out faster than plan upgrades do). Consider, then, this map of Washington, D.C., which uses geolocated tweets, and the cell phone metadata attached to them, to illustrate who in town is using iPhones (red dots) and who's using Androids (green dots): Eric Fischer That picture comes from a new series of¬†navigable maps¬†visualizing some three billion global, geotagged tweets sent since September of 2011, developed by¬†Gnip,¬†MapBox¬†and dataviz guruEric Fischer.* They've converted all of that data from the Twitter firehose (this is just a small fraction of all tweets, most of which have no geolocation data) into a series of maps illustrating worldwide patterns in¬†language¬†and¬†device¬†use, as well as between people who appear to be tourists and locals in any given city. The¬†locals and tourists¬†map scales up a beautiful¬†earlier project¬†from Fischer. You could kill a few hours playing with all of these tools, built on the same dataset. But we particularly liked looking at the geography of smart phone devices. As in Washington, above, iPhones are often more prominent in upper-income parts of cities (and central business districts), while Androids appear to be the dominant device in lower-income areas. These maps are also a blank canvas with nothing on them other than tweets. To the extent that you can easily make out the Washington Beltway above, or plenty of other roadway networks throughout the rest of these maps, that means people are tweeting while driving (or, preferably, sitting in the passenger seat). Here is New York City, which has a smattering of Blackberries in Manhattan (yes, it's possible to¬†tweet from a Blackberry). That green patch to the left is Newark: Eric FischerHere is Chicago:Eric FischerAnd Houston:Eric FischerAtlanta:Eric FischerLos Angeles:Eric FischerAnd one place that¬†really¬†loves Blackberries? Jakarta.Eric FischerCorrection: This article initially misspelled Eric Fischer's name. All images courtesy of MapBox, Gnip and Eric Fischer. Click¬†here to follow The Atlantic Cities. More From The Atlantic Cities:Google's Growing Web Of Street Traffic SurveillanceThe Map Geeks Behind 'Bostonography'Why America's Bridges Are In Such Dangerously Bad Shape
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider An Australian man named Milo Manu Felix Wild (great name, by the way) asked his local judge for a three month jail sentence instead of a abiding by a court ordered two-year ban from drinking alcohol, NTNews.com reported†(via Dealbreaker).† Here's why he got the alcohol ban in the first place, according to NT News: † Wild had been banned from drinking alcohol for assault and behaving in an indecent manner on Anzac Day last year when he pushed over four port-a-loos, exposed himself and threw his own urine at rangers at Litchfield National Park. Wild, 22, claims to be an "international investor and entrepreneur" on his Facebook page. †It's unclear what type of investing or entrepreneurial endeavors he actually does.† He†lost his job as a car salesman after he ended up on the front page of the paper in his underwear, the report said.
The Norwegian krone is down almost 4% against the U.S. dollar today. In currency markets, that's a huge move, and the krone is easily the worst performer in foreign exchange today, even though dollar strength is sending currencies reeling around the world. Three things are contributing to the krone's extraordinary weakness against the dollar: The move in the dollar-krone exchange rate today is the biggest since 2008. Right now, the pair is trading right around 6.00 kr. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
If you spent more than a week on the Internet in the late 2000s, you know the meme. In a tense scene from the 2004 German movie "Downfall," Hitler lambastes his lieutenants. Parodied subtitles read something completely different. Hilarity ensues. Not for a trader at Jefferies Group, who was terminated for sending a version of the viral video where Hitler is Jamie Dimon and the issue at hand is bets on the price of silver. Now†a judge has ruled the firing was wrongful, Bloomberg reports.† Former Asia head of equity trading Grant Williams was fired from Jefferies when he linked to the video in a newsletter to subscribers. From Bloomberg: Jefferies management was ìhypersensitiveî and ìirrational,î in its response to the publication of the Dec. 7, 2010 client newsletter, Judge Conrad Seagroatt said in issuing his decision today in Hong Kongís High Court. Williams is seeking damages of at least HK$13 million ($1.7 million) for wrongful dismissal and Jefferiesí breach of trust and confidence, his lawyer Kevin Bowers said. Seagroatt said he would issue written reasons for his decision and rule on the damages later. If anything, the trader should have been fired for using a stale relic of Internet culture. Here's the curse-heavy, "offensive" video. 
REUTERS/Pascal RossignolRyanair CEO Michael O'Leary at the Paris Air Show.The European Union's emission trading scheme (ETS) as it applies to airlines is "nonsensical," Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said at a press conference at the Paris Air Show on Wednesday morning.† Through the ETS, the EU has put a cap on carbon emissions produced by flights to or from European airports, in an effort to mitigate the industry's impact on the climate. Airlines are given tradeable allowances for CO2 emissions per year. Because China, the United States, and other "sensible economies," in O'Leary's view, have resisted participating, however, the rules are applied most stringently to airlines operating short-haul flights in Europe ó including Ryanair. O'Leary accused "incompetent European politicians" of "taxing Europe's consumers so that they can do something about climate change." He is not a believer, he said, in the nefarious effects of a warming planet: "The climate is always going to change." "Only in Europe," he continued, "would you get that kind of stupidity." The notoriously outspoken CEO had not even been asked about the carbon taxing scheme. His tirade was sparked by a question about Ryanair's interest in green taxiing, a way to improve fuel efficiency in planes on runways.†† O'Leary also shared his thoughts on how to cut unemployment in Europe's: through tourism. "If you got these idiots to get up off their asses and instead of trying to solve a nonexistent issues like climate change, why don't you actually get young people in Europe back to work?" he railed. "The best industry to do that is tourism. The best way to create tourism is actually to lower access costs, government taxes, airport fees, that kind of nonsense. Then stand back and let us create millions of jobs across the continent." At the press conference, O'Leary and Ray Conner of Boeing announced the budget carrier's order of 175 737-8 jets, for $15 billion.
CybrbeastBitcoin exchange Mt. Gox is temporarily suspending US dollar withdrawals as it reconfigures its site to handle growing global traffic, according to a release. The statement was first noticed by Quartz's Zach Seward. Bitcoin volumes have been spiking on global market volatility today, and prices have topped $110 for the first time in a week. Here's the full release: Over the past weeks Mt. Gox has experienced rising volumes of deposits and withdrawals from established and upcoming markets interested in Bitcoin. This increased volume has made it difficult for our bank to process the transactions smoothly and within a timely manner, which has created unnecessary delays for our global customers. This is especially so for those in the United States who are requesting wire transfer withdrawals from their accounts. We are currently making improvements to process withdrawals of United States Dollar (USD) denominations, and as a result are temporarily suspending cash withdrawals of USD for the next two weeks. Please be reassured that USD deposits and transfers to Mt. Gox will remain unaffected, as will deposits and withdrawals in other currencies, and we will be resuming USD withdrawals once the process is completed. We apologize for any inconvenience this causes our U.S. customers in the meantime, and look forward to resuming withdrawal service as well as debuting a dramatically improved trading engine which will be launching very soon.
Brazil's BOVESPA is down 3.4% to 46,252. Concerns about Brazil's economy have been mounting and stocks also took a hit after Fed chairman Ben Bernanke said the Fed could begin tapering its bond purchase program this year if economic conditions are supportive. Brazil had recently been rocked by protests on rising costs around the World Cup especially a hike in transit fares. On Wednesday, Rio De Janiero and Sao Paolo said they would lower public transport fares in response to the protests. Meanwhile, the Brazilian real also fell sharply, and is down 2% against the greenback. This five-day chart shows the sharp sell-off in trading: Yahoo Finance
Government bonds are selling off worldwide again today as Treasury yields rise ‚Äì driven by expectations of Federal Reserve tapering of monetary stimulus ‚Äì making U.S. bonds more attractive to others on a relative basis. The worst performers in the developed world are, once again, some of the riskiest sovereign credits: However, core countries in the eurozone and other European safe havens are getting hit too: And in emerging markets, the brutal sell-off continues (dollar-denominated debt): Nowhere appears to be safe today in government bond markets.
KitcoOne of the most common pieces of investment advice of recent years is that you had to own gold.Gold, some said, was the only true currency.Gold would protect the value of your savings from the ravages of out-of-control government money printing.Gold was a simple substance--free from the accounting shenanigans, corruption, fraud, and operational uncertainty of stocks and companies. In short, gold was the perfect investment.As gold prices continued to rise, this logic was repeated so often that it came to be viewed as fact. And it appeared to explain not just why gold prices were rising, but why they would continue to rise--to $2,000 an ounce, $5,000 an ounce, and beyond.Alas, the party now appears to be over. This morning, gold prices crashed through $1,300 an ounce, hitting the lowest level in two years. At $1,300, gold is now down 30% from its peak. And all investors who finally bought into the gold mania over the past couple of years are now underwater.If this were mere "volatility"--if gold had some fundamental value that it would likely eventually return to--then the price drop would be no big deal. But there's no solid theoretical way to "value" gold, so its price could do almost anything. Gold prices could fall another 50% to $650, for example, and still be 50% above their level for the prior couple of decades. (In case you needed any more evidence that gold prices don't always go up, from the late 1980s to the early 2000s, gold prices dropped by more than half.)Yes, gold prices could also take off like a rocket again. Anything's possible. But speculating about what gold prices will do is speculating, not investing, and many of the folks who bought gold or gold funds over the past few years have assumed they were "investing."What is now clear, moreover, is that the primary argument for buying gold--the argument that gold would protect you from the hyper-inflation that would surely follow the government's crazy money-printing--has been flat-out wrong.So far, there has been no hyper-inflation. There hasn't even been much regular inflation. Because, despite the government's efforts to reduce the cost of money, slack demand in the economy and high unemployment have kept prices from spiraling higher. The only thing that determines the price of gold is what someone is willing to pay for it. For a while, while gold prices were going nowhere but up, the next buyer was usually willing to pay a little more for it.Now, however, the spell has broken.The next buyer is justifiably worried that, if he or she buys gold, the price will just keep going down.And that, not surprisingly, is throwing cold water on the enthusiasm of the next buyer. who is increasingly (and wisely) discovering that gold is not some magical perfect investment, but, instead, just yellow metal.
Gold prices are in meltdown mode today and gold stocks are also getting crushed. The precious metal fell below $1,300 an ounce, the lowest level in two years.† Let's do a quick scoreboard check of closely-followed billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson, who has been long a bunch of gold stocks. † †† Here's a rundown of his gold stock holdings based on the most recent†securities filing for the first quarter ended March 31. †Keep in mind, it is possible that he could have pared back some of his stakes in these stocks. †† Based on our calculations, Paulson could have lost about $129,368,198 on these holdings so far today.† Paulson, who famously bet against the subprime housing market, has had a rough go of it during the last two years. †His big bet on gold has not come to fruition, yet.† Bloomberg News reported earlier this month that Paulson's gold fund down 54%, according to an investor letter. †
REUTERS/Jim Young The entire global financial markets are selling off sharply today. U.S. stock markets are getting slammed early in the trading session. The Dow and the S&amp;P 500 are down by over 1.5%.¬† This follows major sell-offs in Europe and Asia earlier today, and it extends yesterday's U.S. market sell-off. Globally, investors are digesting two big headlines: The first headline seems to be fueling strength in the dollar, while the second could be exacerbating the rout in commodities. Treasury rates are rallying, which means U.S. bonds are getting slammed too. The 10-year yield is at 2.40%, up 5 basis points from yesterday's close.¬† It was as high as 2.47% earlier today. In fact government bonds are selling off around the world: Emerging markets have suffered considerably as investors fear that rising rates mean funding strains for these economies.¬† The Brazilian stock market is down 3.4%. Google Finance
During the darkest days of the financial crisis in 2008, the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) surged like crazy.¬† LIBOR is the interest rate banks charge to lend to each other. And interbank lending is crucial to the credit markets. The spike in LIBOR caused credit markets to freeze, which prevented even the healthiest companies from accessing the capital markets to finance their ongoing operations. In recent days, SHIBOR ‚Äî China's version of LIBOR ‚Äî has been spiking. Overnight SHIBOR is at 13.4%, up 578 basis points from yesterday.¬† 1-week SHIBOR is at a staggering 11.0%, up 292 basis points. And this has everyone freaked out that China is running right into its own credit crisis, which potentially could have devastating cascading economic effects around the world. "It is remarkable that China's central bank has been unable or unwilling to contain the spike in short-term rates, as the interbank liquidity squeeze continues," noted Sober Look's Walter Kurtz. "This is roughly the equivalent of the Fed not being able to control the fed funds rate." Here's a long-term look at overnight SHIBOR via Barclays: Barclays
The Philadelphia Fed's June Business Outlook Survey results are out. The headline index surged to 12.5 from last month's -5.2 reading. Economists were only expecting a rise to -2.0. Below is the full text from the release: Manufacturing firms responding to the monthly Business Outlook Survey indicated that regional manufacturing activity increased this month. Most of the survey‚Äôs broadest current indicators were positive this month, suggesting an improvement in business conditions. The survey's indicators of future activity continue to suggest that firms expect growth over the next six months. The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, increased from ‚Äë5.2 in May to 12.5, its highest reading since April 2011 (see Chart). The percentage of firms reporting increased activity this month (34 percent) was greater than the percentage reporting decreased activity (22 percent). Other current indicators showed similar notable improvement this month. The demand for manufactured goods as measured by the current new orders index increased, from ‚Äë7.9 to 16.6. The shipments index also moved back into positive territory, rising 13 points to 4.1. Labor market conditions showed continued weakness, however, with indexes suggesting lower employment among the reporting manufacturers. Although it increased 3 points to ‚Äë5.4, the employment index remained negative for the third consecutive month. The percentage of firms reporting employment decreases (20 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting increases (15 percent).¬† The survey‚Äôs indexes for prices paid and received rose notably this month. With regard to purchased inputs, 28 percent of firms reported paying higher prices for inputs, while 6 percent reported lower input prices. The prices paid index increased nearly 16 points to its highest reading in six months. The prices received index, reflecting firms‚Äô own manufactured goods prices, increased 18 points, to 14.6. The percentage of firms reporting higher prices for their own manufactured goods rose from 7 percent in May to 20 percent this month. Still, the largest share of firms, 76 percent, reported steady prices. The survey‚Äôs future indicators suggest continued optimism among the reporting manufacturers. The future activity index increased slightly (1 point) from its reading in May (see Chart). The percentage of firms expecting increases in activity over the next six months (45 percent) exceeded the percentage expecting decreases (12 percent) by a significant margin. The future shipments and new orders indexes improved, increasing 6 points and 7 points, respectively. The future employment index also improved this month, increasing 17 points. Thirty-three percent of firms expect increases in employment over the next six months compared with 24 percent last month. In special questions this month, firms were asked to characterize their plans for production and employment increases over the next six months (see¬†Special Questions). The firms were nearly evenly divided between those expecting production increases (49 percent) and those expecting not to increase production (51 percent). Twenty-five percent of the firms indicated they were expecting production increases and would be hiring additional workers over the next six months. The remaining firms that expect production increases indicated that this would be accomplished by increasing either work hours (12 percent) or productivity (7 percent). For the firms not currently expecting production increases, a larger percentage indicated that increasing production could be accomplished by increasing work hours (17 percent) or productivity (12 percent), rather than increasing employment (11 percent). The June¬†Business Outlook Survey¬†indicates an expansion of activity this month, with all of the broad indicators ‚Äî except for employment ‚Äî recording notable improvement over May. Firms reported higher prices for inputs and their own manufactured goods this month. Firms continue to expect positive growth over the next six months and were relatively more optimistic about adding to payrolls. Click here for the full release &gt;¬†
Mal B / Flickr Everything is selling off today in the wake of the big Federal Reserve announcement and Ben Bernanke press conference yesterday, which offered specifics on when to expect tapering (later this year) and encouraged the sell-off in the bond market (because rising rates were said to be for the right reasons). Stocks are down. Bonds are down. But the sell-off is also being driven by more weak manufacturing data out of China overnight, and nowhere is that more apparent than in the commodity complex, where everything is getting slammed. Gold is, of course, the big story in the commodity space today ñ it's down a spectacular 5.2% this morning. Silver is getting crushed though, too ñ down 6.3%. Platinum is down 2.0% and palladium is down 3.3%. Oil is taking it hard as well. Right now, WTI crude is trading around $96.00 a barrel, down 2.6%. Brent crude and gasoline are also down 2.6%. Corn, wheat, soybeans, coffee, sugar, and cotton are all down between 1.5% and 2.4%. The dollar is strengthening virtually across the board this morning, and a lot of commodity producer and emerging market currencies are taking a hit as well.
Shutterstock.com /  K-Kwan KwanchaiNaturally, when markets go up or down, people look for cause and effect. †We went up because of X, or we went down because of Y. †The market ìlikedî this or it did not ìlikeî that. But in many cases (and I would argue, in most cases), PRICE is the cause. †More transactions occur because the price changed than because the news changed. †We can rationalize and reason and assess all we want. †When we actually push buy or sell, we care most about PRICE. †Because whatever our reasoning, at the end of the day, month, or year, the only reason we are successful is because of PRICE. †Not because of the reasoning. †Not because of the news. †Not because of Ben Bernanke, or Mario Draghi, or Shinzo Abe. †Because of PRICE. Thatís why there are successful traders who donít even pay attention to the news. †They donít care about the why of PRICE. †They only care about PRICE. †And they react accordingly. There is a discipline in such simplicity. †I see its value from my own experiences. †I remember in 2010 when I sold NFLX around $65, feeling pretty good about my nice gain, simply because WMT said it was coming up with its own DVD rental service. †NFLX stock was down 5% on the headline, and I smugly exited, thinking, here comes the behemoth to crush the upstart. †NFLX went to $300 from there, in a pretty simple uptrend, and momentum players who only focused on PRICE did much better than silly me, focused on news. Understanding the rationale behind a move can be helpful, donít get me wrong. †The reasoning helps in finding the best assets to use to express that view, and auxiliary moves might be relevant. †But as Brian Shannon of alphatrends.net likes to say, only PRICE pays. †There is much wisdom in that statement. †Wisdom that takes much longer to absorb than youíd think. In the current market, I think PRICE is the catalyst more than the news. †You can parse all the economic data, central bank commentary, and earnings data that you wish, but if the SPX breaks 1600, there are likely many stops lurking below that send us to even lower prices. †If the 10 year Treasury yield breaks 2.50%, there are likely many stops lurking that send us to even higher yields. When gold broke $1500/oz earlier this year, it was PRICE that was the catalyst for lower prices. †Not Cyprus, not India, not central bank manipulation. As we approach a widely-watched level, the value of watching PRICE becomes even more important. †Donít be fooled by the myriad explanations. †Most of those explaining are not pushing buy or sell. †And those pushing buy or sell usually donít care about the explanation. †They care about PRICE.
Everything is getting hammered today, but one of the biggest winners is silver, which is down like 8%. What's remarkable is looking at a long term chart of silver, and seeing how it's done a complete roundtrip (almost). It surged in 2010, and went parabolic, and now it's pretty much given up all of it. From FinViz: FinViz
flickr: are you my rik?US home sales rose to an annualized rate of 5.18 million in May, according to the National Association of Realtors. It's the highest reading since Nov. 2009. And it's 12.9 percent above the 4.59 million-unit pace in May 2012. Consensus was for an annualized rate of 5 million. The median price was $208,000, up 15.4% YOY and the sixth-straight month of double-digit increases. It's also the strongest gain since Oct. 2005. "The home price growth is too fast, and only additional supply from new homebuilding can moderate future price growth,‚Äù NAR Chief Economist Lawrence Yun said. The housing numbers are overwhelmingly positive.¬† However, the number of available homes is unlikely to grow, despite a nice gain in May, unless new home construction ramps up quickly by an additional 50 percent,‚Äù he said. Total housing inventory rose 3.3$ to 2.22 million existing homes available for sale, or a 5.1-month supply at the current sales pace, down from 5.2 months in April. Listed inventory is 10.1 percent below a year ago, when there was a 6.5-month supply. Click here for updates &gt;
Bloomberg Businessweek, the magazine known for its bold covers, makes Booz Allen Hamilton look totally evil. In side the magazine, is a feature story about the consulting firm calling it "the world's most profitable spy organization." Booz Allen was the firm that Edward Snowden, the National Security Agency whistleblower, worked for as a computer technician.¬† Check out the cover (via @jimaley):¬† Bloomberg Businessweek
Yesterday, Ben Bernanke crushed the bond market by reassuring investors that not only would tapering back of Federal Reserve bond purchases be forthcoming in 2013 as long as everything goes according to the central bank's plan, but also that the recent surge in Treasury yields was a good thing to be welcomed. At the end of the day, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note closed at 2.35%, up 14 basis points from where it was earlier in the afternoon, before the FOMC released its monetary policy statement and Bernanke took the stage for his press conference and Q&amp;A. This morning, the bond market carnage continues. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note hit a high of 2.47% before backing down to current levels at 2.40%, up 5 basis points from yesterday's close. With today's move, 10-year yields are now the highest they've been in two years and are hovering right around a key technical level, as the chart below shows. As one trader puts it, "2.39 is a key support level and then nothing but air and space until 2.85." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Flickr / harry_nlUS PMI fell to 52.2. Consensus was for 52.7. It's the second-lowest reading since last October. The prior reading was 52.3. Markit's Purchasing Managers Index measures American manufacturing activity. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion; below, contraction. Output ticked upward to 53.9 from 52.7, the greatest increase since March, though weaker than Q1 figures. Here's the comment from Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson: The U.S. manufacturing sector appears to have¬†remained stuck in a low gear in June, rounding off the weakest quarter since the third quarter of last¬†year. With the average PMI reading down to 52.2¬†(compared to 54.9 in the first three months of the¬†year), slower growth in the goods-producing sector looks likely to have acted as a drag on the wider economy, pulling GDP growth down from the¬†annualised rate of 2.4% seen in the first quarter. And here are the charts ‚Äî total manufacturing index: MarkitAnd output: Markit Here's the full release &gt;
Library of CongressInitial jobless claims hit 354,000. Consensus was for 340,000, according to Bloomberg. Last week had declined to 334,000. The 4-week moving average was 348,250, an increase of 2,500 from the previous week's revised average of 345,750. Mohamed El-Erian wrote in this space yesterday that for the foreseeable future, prints like this will be watched with greater scrutiny to see if the Fed's sunny economic projections are correct. "...markets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends," he said. The advance seasonally adjusted¬†insured unemployment rate¬†was 2.3 percent ‚Äî unchanged from the prior week's unrevised rate.  Click here for updates ¬ª
Usually, when one asset class sells off, another rises.¬† And when a lot of asset classes fall, the so-called "safe havens" will rise.¬† These include things like U.S. Treasuries, gold, and a handful of other currencies like the Swiss Franc or Japanese Yen. However, everything is selling off right now. "Rare to see every futures market I follow down," tweeted bond trader Ed Bradford. Here's a look at a bunch of futures via FinViz. FinViz
The Turkish Stock market is getting hammered again today. The country is certainly dealing with a lot of local problems. However, it has also emerged as a symbol of the emerging markets where investors are yanking capital at a breathtakingly rapid clip. Today's sell-off comes in the wake of a disappointing Chinese manufacturing report that suggested that the global economy is in worse shape than we thought. Here's a look at the intraday move in the Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
I frequently speak at investment conferences around the world, and get questions ranging from my outlook for a particular market to highly sophisticated investment concepts. One seemingly simple question asked by a young lady years ago at a conference in Canada which I attended with the founder of Templeton Investments, the late Sir John Templeton, was particularly timeless. She asked: ìIíve just inherited some money from my grandfather. When is the best time for me to invest it?î Sir John was at the podium, and after a brief pause, gave an equally simple answer: ìYoung lady, the best time to invest is when you have money.î Judging by the laughs, the crowd and I appreciated his response, but I was intrigued about what he meant on a deeper level, so I did some research. After conducting some historical market studies, I found two important emerging stock market trends: Historically, bull markets have gone up more, in percentage terms, than bear markets have gone down, and bull markets have lasted longer than bear markets. So, if you ìdollar cost average,î meaning that you systematically invest the same amount each month or each quarter over a number of years, you would have found that over the long term you were in †a bull market more than you are in a bear market.1 And, while past performance is not indicative of future results, historical studies show that, in percentage terms, the bull markets have grown more than the bear markets have declined. In addition, if you have the discipline to continue adding funds during those bear market cycles, that same amount of money wouldíve bought you more stocks. The Importance of a Long-Term View  Investing during a bear market is easier said than done, and I readily admit itís psychologically a very difficult thing to do. It requires you to look beyond the immediate bad news and toward a potential future recovery.†If all your friends and neighbors are giving up on their stock market investments, itís very easy to be swayed to do the same. In the realm of behavioral economics this is called ìherding.î If the newspapers are reporting how dire the market is and how it will get worse, you can also become subject to what we call the ìwhipsawî effect ñ buying and selling at the wrong times. This is what happened when many sold in a panic at the bottom of the market during the US subprime crisis in late 2008 and early 2009. Then, after the market moved up by over 50%, many decided that they were missing the boat and had to get into the market, buying at the market top! If you are engaging in this type of behavior, you are almost certain to lose money. Without a long-term view you just arenít likely to be able to have the discipline to continue investing in a bear market and wait for the potential upturn. Diversification So if youíve got money to invest, and are taking a long-term view and thus not hung up on timing the market, how and where do you invest it? Another simple answer: diversify. Weíve all heard about people who made fortunes by investing in one company, but thatís not common.†It reminds me of the saying, ìIf you want to keep all your eggs in one basket, you had better watch that basket carefully!î Most of us donít have the capability or time to constantly monitor companies, and even professional investors realize that if they are not actually controlling the company in which they invest, some unknown or unexpected event can wipe them out. While diversification doesnít guarantee a profit or protect against loss, it can potentially help mitigate some volatility. I think itís important to be diversified not only across different companies, but across different industries and, most importantly, across different countries. One reason why professionally managed strategies are so popular globally is because they enable investors to be well-diversified and have a variety of stocks that they probably couldnít properly research and invest in themselves. Unfortunately, many investors have portfolios that invest in only one countryÖ their own. I see this as a big mistake because they are missing out on potential opportunities all over the globe, which is the job of my team and I to uncover.†† Our†research showed that in the† 25 years we studied from 1988 ñ 2012,† and of the 72 stock markets in the world we examined, there wasnít a single market that was the best performing for two consecutive years.2†And only one market was the best performing in four of those 25 years; Turkey.† Only two markets were the best performing for two years; Russia and Argentina. Turkey (4 years: 2012, 1999, 1997 and 1989) Russia (2 years: 2001 &amp; 1996)  Argentina (2 years: 2010 &amp; 1991)) Of the remaining 69 countries, only 16 countries had one year as being the best performing as shown in the table below. The rest of the 53 countries had not even one year of being the best performing. Itís interesting to note that China and the US are not on the list. This reminds me of another truism of successful investing; being different. If you invest where everyone else feels comfortable, you may not be investing in the right place. In investing, we believe sometimes being unpopular can be the key to success, and the right time to invest can be any time at all. † Source: Franklin Templeton Investments; MSCI Indexes.MSCI Gross Official Index (in U.S. dollar terms) was used for each market.† † For more information about where investors from around the globe plan to invest, and how they feel about their home market, see the findings of the Franklin Templeton Global Investor Sentiment survey. 1. Dollar-cost averaging does not guarantee a profit or eliminate risk, and it wonít protect investors from loss if they sell shares when the market is declining or at a low point. Before adopting this strategy, investors should consider their ability to continue investing through periods of low price levels or changing economic conditions. 2. Source: MSCI Indexes. All MSCI data is provided ìas is.î MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or any securities or financial products. This report is not approved, reviewed or produced by MSCI. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Indexes are unmanaged. One cannot directly invest in an index. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
REUTERS/Victor MoriyamaA demonstrator jumps over trash set afire during protests against poor public services, police violence and government corruption, in Sao Paulo on June 18, 2013. Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
It is remarkable that China's central bank has been unable or unwilling to contain the spike in short-term rates, as the interbank liquidity squeeze continues. This is roughly the equivalent of the Fed not being able to control the fed funds rate. You can certainly have fluctuations, but within a couple of days a major central bank should be able to inject enough liquidity into the system to bring down rates - unless of course the central bank wants the rates higher. Something is amiss here. China is risking a recession unless the PBoC can bring this under control. Both the repo and the SHIBOR rates have risen to new highs in the past few days. Reuters, Sober Look Sober Look Some have suggested that the PBoC is in fact trying to tighten liquidity in the financial system in order to put the brakes on the rapidly growing shadow banking sector (see discussion). While an admirable goal, creating a liquidity squeeze in the banking system and sending short term rates to multi-year highs is NOT the way to achieve that. This is especially scary in the face of an already "moderating" economic growth. Reuters: - China's short-term funding costs surged on Wednesday, with the benchmark money market rate hitting a multi-year high, and authorities postponed the market's close by 30 minutes to give banks extra time to complete their borrowing. The money market squeeze that began early this month has worsened this week, forcing banks and other financial institutions to trim non-essential businesses, such as wealth management and arbitrage, traders said. That response may be welcomed by the central bank, which has adopted a hawkish stance towards market liquidity since May, partly to clamp down on an increase in risky shadow banking activities, traders said. ... The interbank market decided to extend the trading time to 5 pm†as many banks failed to obtain enough short-term money needed for business at the normal closing time of 4:30 pm, traders said. Such trading extensions have occurred several times recently amid the acute squeeze, traders said. "Everybody is disappointed at the central bank's non-action," said a dealer at an Asian bank in Shanghai. It's not clear if people fully appreciate the potential impact of this liquidity squeeze - including folks at the PBoC. This is not a game. These tight conditions and high rates over a longer period can easily derail lending activities across the country while potentially putting a number of financial institutions at risk and sending the economy into a tailspin. With the Eurozone still struggling in the aftermath of the crisis, let's see what a recession in China (12% of world's GDP) can do for global growth. Mr. Bernanke and company may need to go back to the drawing board very soon.
Gold prices are getting destroyed. The sell-off really accelerated at around 3 AM ET. However, many attribute this to Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's comments that the Fed could start tapering, or gradually reducing, its massive bond-buying plan. The yellow metal fell below $1,300/ounce, down 4.5% today.¬† This is the lowest level in over two years. Here's an intraday look at the gold prices via FinViz.com. FinViz
Wikimedia CommonsEveryone's a little freaked out about the China's June Flash manufacturing PMI report, which missed expectations and unexpectedly dropped to a 9-month low of 48.3. Any number under 50 signals contraction. However, it's not just about China. Exports played a big role in this drop. And the collapse in the new export orders sub-index has Societe Generale's Klaus Baader scratching his head. A good deal of the weakness was apparently driven by external developments as the new export orders index plunged 4.9pt to 44.0, the lowest reading since the middle of the Great Recession. This collapse is quite difficult to fully believe, given developments in the region and the global economy, where there are no signs of such a collapse of demand. Again, it's not just about China.† This report clearly sent warning signs about the global economy.
MarkitThe global financial markets are selling off thanks to weak Chinese economic data and concerns that the Federal Reserve could start scaling back its stimulative monetary policies. Spain also completed a bond auction that was met with weak demand. This reminded some of the ugliness experienced during the height of the euro zone's debt crisis. But, there was one somewhat encouraging economic report today: eurozone purchasing managers index (PMI). The Flash, or preliminary, reading for June climbed to a 15-month high of 48.9, up from 47.7 in May. While any reading below 50 signals contraction, the improving number is a sign that things are getting worse at a slower pace. The manufacturing subcomponent improved to 48.7 from 48.3 and the services subcomponent improved to 48.6 from 47.2. Here's some commentary from Markit's Chris Williamson: ‚ÄúThe flash PMI indicates that the Eurozone contracted again in June, rounding-off another weak quarter, but there are reassuring signs that the downturn is continuing to ease. ‚ÄúThe survey data suggest that GDP is likely to have shrunk by 0.2% in the second quarter, similar to the fall seen in the first three months of the year and extending the region‚Äôs recession into a record seventh successive quarter. ‚ÄúEncouragingly, however, the rate of contraction has eased over the course of the second quarter, with the decline in June the smallest for 15 months. At this rate, the region could stabilise in the third quarter and return to growth in the fourth quarter. ‚ÄúIt is particularly welcome news that the rate of decline outside of France and Germany has slowed sharply in recent months, and is now the weakest for two years. The rate of contraction has also slowed sharply in France, while Germany is showing signs of faster, albeit still modest, growth. ‚ÄúEuro area policymakers will no doubt be encouraged by these improving indicators, suggesting the ECB will see no need for any further action in the near term.‚Äù
Spain just reported the results of its latest bond auctions, and the weak demand has people worried. The Spanish government sold 1.3 billion euros worth of bonds maturing in 2018 at a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.2, down from 4.1 at the previous auction for similar bonds. It also sold 1.1 billion worth of bonds maturing in 2021 (bid-to-cover of 2.0, down from 2.1) and 1.5 billion euros worth of bonds maturing in 2023 (bid-to-cover of 1.8, down from 2.5). Spain is one of the more debt-laden countries in southern Europe. Deteriorating demand for its bonds could be a sign that the Spanish government wil ave an incresingly difficult time refinancing its debt.
FinVizStocks, bonds, and commodities around the world are getting hit by a double-whammy. First, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested that strengthening economic data could enable the Fed to start tapering, or gradually reducing, its stimulative bond-buying plan. This seemed to be behind a bond market sell-off. Second, China reported that manufacturing activity was decelerating at a higher clip than expected in June.¬† China is the world's second largest economy and it is also a key source of global economic growth. As such it is also one of the big consumers of commodities. All of this slammed markets in Asia. And now Europe is getting pummeled. And the U.S. markets, where the sell-off began, hasn't finished tumbling.¬† Dow futures are down by 50 points.
The Shanghai Composite is down nearly 2% to 2,101. This follows on disappointing manufacturing data, with the HSBC Flash PMI reading hitting a nine-month low of 48.3. The contraction in manufacturing comes as analysts are lowering their growth forecasts for China. Concerns about a liquidity crunch continued to mount, and stocks also took a beating as money market rates surged.¬† Fed chairman Ben Bernanke's prepared remarks that the taper could begin as early as this year, also hurt Asian markets. Yahoo Finance
