Wikimedia CommonsChewing gum from France's Haribo factory.Is the stock market a bubble? Liz Ann Sonders doesn't think so. "The growing cries that we've reached sentiment or valuation extreme worthy of past tops, or a bubble at its bursting point, seems a bit premature," wrote Sonders recently. While there are warning signs for the economy and the markets, most signs actually suggest that fears of a bubble are way overblown. Sonders, the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, gave her brief Market Snapshot presentation earlier this week charting both the good and bad things about the market today. While her message can't be characterized as a "raging bull," her evenhanded message is nevertheless likely to leave you feeling more sanguine about the current state of the markets. Thanks to Charles Schwab for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
The budget deal reached by negotiators in Washington this week is good news for the economy, but not so much for airlines. The deal, which still has to pass both houses of Congress but is supported by the leaders of both parties, would increase the security fees airlines pay to the TSA. The exact cost has not been fixed, but industry groups guess it will roughly double to about $5 per one-way ticket, according to Reuters. That extra cost will most likely be passed right on to travelers, with out any clear travel benefits. In a blog post from last week, JetBlue didn't mince words: "This plan will not improve airport security ‚Äî it simply hikes TSA passenger taxes to reduce the budget deficit. But it will definitely drive up the cost of your air travel." Delta's CEO Richard Anderson has already said his airline will make up the money by raising fares, the AP reported. A spokesperson said American Airlines "supports the bill," and directed us to¬†Airlines for America (A4A), which represents all the major U.S. carriers, for additional commentary. A4A didn't respond to a request for comment, but President Nicholas E. Calio disparaged the fee hike as a way to boost government spending, in an opinion piece for the Washington Examiner: Perhaps the most disturbing fact about the impending budget agreement is that the new revenue to be collected would not even be used by the TSA to improve service for passengers. Rather, the extra revenue would enable more spending across the entire federal government. It‚Äôs a classic bait-and-switch. In a statement, U.S. Travel Association President and CEO Roger Dow questioned whether the fee would improve air travel: "It is concerning that the move appears primarily aimed at getting a big chunk of Transportation Security Administration funding off the strapped federal ledger," he wrote. "Our hope is that the new funding structure will be used to perceptibly enhance TSA's functions. The increased TSA fee will generate about $10 billion in revenue over ten years, Reuters reports.
LinkedInThomas Laffont of Coatue ManagementCoatue Management is the mystery investor behind Snapchat's new $50 million round of financing. In fact, it's the only investor in this round of financing. This is the second major startup deal Coatue has led; the first was HotelTonight, a mobile hotel-booking application. Coatue also invested in Aaron Levie's Box, although it didn't lead the round. Coatue for Snapchat seems like a head-scratcher. Why did the hottest company in the world ‚Äî which could have chosen almost any investor from the usual tech venture capital groups ‚Äî pick a hedge fund?¬† We called Sam Shank who runs HotelTonight and asked him what Evan Spiegel, Snapchat's CEO, might be thinking. Shank was in a similar boat a few months ago when Coatue invested $45 million in his company. Here's what ran through Shank's mind at the time, and why he isn't surprised to see Snapchat in Coatue's portfolio. Shanks says that because Coatue spends a lot of money on investment research, it's able to spot trends with relative ease. Coatue is particularly well-versed in the public travel sector, so Shank feels it can help guide him as his company grows. "They were able to see where HotelTonight was going and provide insight to us as well," Shanks said Coatue. "They have a uniqueness ... they're well-connected and really knowledgeable ‚Äî they have a whole new pool for us to network in. We met the guys and they were very sharp and smart about looking in the consumer Internet space." Shank says he didn't see the Snapchat deal coming, but he isn't surprised by the news. "It's the hottest consumer Internet company right now and these guys want to be involved in that type of content," says Shank. "They're very mobile-focused. If you put together a list of the 20 hottest Internet companies right now, I wouldn't be surprised if Coatue owned part of a bunch of them over time." Coatue manages $8.5 billion in assets and it recently opened an office on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, California.¬† Thomas Laffont, who runs the venture arm of Coatue Management, told Forbes' J.J. Colao why he's excited about Snapchat:¬† "[Snapchat] has already reached an incredible scale. And what you do on Snapchat is not something you can do on any other communication platform. We think they're revolutionizing how people communicate in a mobile-centric world."
APDespite growing acceptance of the LGBT community in corporate America, more than 50 Fortune 500 companies scored zero out of a potential 100 points on the Corporate Equality Index 2014 when it came to being LGBT-friendly, according to data from the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Hereís how corporate Americaís take on LGBT issues has evolved over the past decade:  Each company on the Fortune 500 was given a score based on a survey they took last year, said Deena Fidas, a researcher who worked on this project. For example, a company could gain 10 points by prohibiting discrimination based on sexual discrimination, and another 15 points if they offered same-sex domestic partners health benefits. Companies could also lose 25 points if they had a ìlarge-scale official or anti-LGBT blemishî on their recent records. Two companies ó Exelis and MRC Global ó on the Fortune 500 list refused to answer the survey that was sent out last year, said Fidas. Exelis is a global aerospace, defense and informations company, and MRC Global a global distributor of pipe, valve and fitting products and services to the energy and industrial markets. ìNeither company has filled out the survey despite repeated outreach efforts and invitations,î she wrote in an email. (To see the full criteria on which these scores are based, scroll to the bottom.) 1. Exxon Mobil Corp. 2. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 3. INTL FCStone Inc. 4. Marathon Petroleum Corp. 5. CHS Inc. 6. Plains All American Pipeline LP 7. Philip Morris International Inc. 8. Publix Super Markets 9. Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; Gold Inc. 10. Nucor Corp. 11. United States Steel Corp. 12. United Services Automobile Association 13. FirstEnergy Corp. 14. HollyFrontier Corp. 15. Global Partners 16. DISH Network Corp. 17. Penske Automotive Group 18. Icahn Enterprises LP 19. Liberty Interactive Corp. 20. SYNNEX Corp. 21. KBR Inc. 22. Western Refining Inc. 23. Ross Stores 24. Gilead Sciences Inc. 25. Energy Transfer Partners LP 26. The Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co. Inc. 27. Goodrich Corp. 28. Spectrum Group International Inc. 29. Alpha Natural Resources Inc. 30. Targa Resources Corp. 31. Cameron International Corp. 32. NII Holdings 33. Sanmina-SCI 34. Core-Mark Holding Company Inc. 35. Mylan Laboratories Inc. 36. WESCO International Inc. 37. CF Industries Holdings, Inc. 38. O'Reilly Automotive Inc. 39. Seaboard Corp. 40. Auto-Owners Insurance Group 41. Sealed Air Corp 42. Rock-Tenn Company 43. SPX Corp. 44. Centene Corp. 45. Insight Enterprises Inc. 46. W.R. Berkley 47. Casey's General Stores Inc. 48. Western &amp; Southern Financial Group 49. Vanguard Health Systems 50. Susser Holdings 51. MetroPCS 52. Aleris International Inc. Here's the full criteria on which companies were scored, according to the Corporate Equality Index 2014 report: Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Hilton & HylandThe 90-year-old CEO of Dole Food Company David Murdock is selling his gorgeous estate overlooking Los Angeles for $30 million, according to celebrity real estate blog The Real Estalker. The American colonial revival was first built in 1927 and designed by architect Gordon B. Kaufman, who also did the Hoover Dam, the Los Angeles Times building, and the famous Greystone Mansion in Beverly Hills. Murdock purchased the property in early 2001 for $10 million from Italian fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli and actress Lori Loughlin, who had the home photographed for Elle Decor back in 2000. And though we only have exterior shots of the 1.6 acre estate, it's incredibly beautiful, with stone paths, a terrace, and views of LA. With over 12,000 square feet of interior space, the current listing from Hilton &amp; Hyland also says the the mansion has 14 foot ceilings, a formal dining room, a gym, and even servants' quarters inside. Outside of the main home, there's a separate guest house, pool house, garage, and what the listing calls a "tropical greenhouse." Swanky. The eccentric, self-made billionaire and high school dropout is currently worth $2.4 billion, according to Forbes, and is the 235th richest person in America. He's on a mission to live until age 125, and sold most of the Hawaiian island of Lanai to Larry Ellison for an estimated $600 million last year.
Things are getting ugly at Violin Memory, a company that makes flash enterprise storage hardware that just went public two months ago. CTO Jonathan Goldrick has left the company, Violin confirmed to Business Insider, and shareholder lawsuits are flying. The rumor is that CEO Don Basile could leave soon, too. A Violin spokesperson told us: I can confirm that Jonathan has left on good terms. His responsibilities are being shared by Violin‚Äôs Founder and CTO Jon Bennett and CTO Som Sikdar (co-founder of GridIron). As far as Don being out of the company --- that is a rumor, and we cannot comment on rumors. Violin's IPO in September wasn't a hit. It raised $162 million by selling shares for $9, but on opening day, the stock tanked, diving to about $7. As we reported at the time, investors were likely scared off by how quickly Violin was burning through its cash and by the fact that its once largest partner, HP, had ended that deal to become a competitor. On November 22, the company reported its first earnings and the response was awful. It¬† reported a loss of 66 cents per share, and an adjusted loss of 85 cents per share. Analysts had expected a loss of 44 cents per share. That prompted analysts at J.P. Morgan and Sterne Agee to downgrade the stock, according to MarketWatch's¬†Ben Eisen.  Investors started selling, and the share prices plunged nearly 46% to about $3. Over the past couple of days at least five shareholder lawsuits have been filed against the company. They allege that the company didn't disclose how much of a hit it was taking because of the federal shutdown. Shareholder lawsuits are pretty common when things go wrong, so that in itself isn't unusual. However, there has also been grumbling on investor blog Seeking Alpha over Basile's compensation. In September 2013, while setting up for the IPO, the board awarded him 1 million shares of stock (RSUs) that will mature over four years. In 2013, he earned a $400,000 salary, a bonus of $725,000, options worth nearly $3 million and stock awards worth $14.8 million ‚Äì all told $18.9 million in total compensation. Basile joined Violin in 2009, stealing him from its arch competitor, Fusion-io, where he had been CEO. Fusion-io, known as the employer of Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak and former HP executive Shane Robison, is in the middle of its own troubles. It was a tech IPO darling of 2011, launching at $19. Today, it's trading at about $8.75, and is fending off a shareholder lawsuit of its own.  In October, after a worse-than-expected quarter, it announced that its CFO, Dennis Wolf, was leaving. Amidst all of this, Violin and Fusion-io competitor Nimble Storage has decided to go public this week, on Friday. Nimble is hoping to raise up to $160 million by offering 8 million shares between $18 and $20. Today it increased its share price, too, up from the $16 to $18 range. We'll see how eager investors are to try their hand at another enterprise flash storage startup, given the situation at the previous two.
Hiroko Masuike/Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Eight Lessons Investors Should Learn From Madoff's Ponzi Scheme (WealthManagement.com)  Five years ago today, Bernie Madoff was arrested for running the largest Ponzi scheme. In a piece for WealthManagement.com, attorney Andrew Stoltmann writes that there are eight key lessons for investors to take away from the Madoff fiasco. 1. Clients should demand that their assets be held by a third party custodian instead of a sole firm. 2. Investors should not put all their assets in one investment or fund. 3. Madoff would not answer client questions about his returns or management styles, investors have a right to this information and should demand it. 4. Make sure the books and records of the fund or firm you choose to invest with are audited by a major accounting firm, Madoff's books were audited by "a virtually unknown accounting firm." 5. If the investment or the strategy can't be easily explained, don't invest there. 6. Go beyond the the central licensing and registration system for the U.S. securities industry and its regulators when looking for complaints or frauds. 7. "If it sounds too good to be true," it is. 8. Be wary of firms where family members hold senior positions and where there are many young, inexperienced employees. Why James Montier Is Scornful Of The Popular Risk Parity Approach To Asset Allocation (Morningstar) GMO's James Montier is not a fan of the "risk parity" approach to asset allocation, a popular current investment trend. Risk parity refers to allocating in a way that puts an equal distribution of risk among the factors that drive various asset classes in a portfolio. In Montier latest paper he writes that risk parity "is the antithesis of everything at GMO we hold dear." Montier has an equation for this investment trend: "Risk Parity = Wrong Measure of Risk + Leverage + Price Indifference = Bad Idea." John Rekenthaler at Morningstar highlights one particular argument that Montier has against risk parity. "What truly troubles me is something that Montier mentions in passing: the track record. Montier points out that per most risk-parity approaches, the stock weighting would have been increased in 2007 because stock prices were relatively stable (recall that in risk-parity schemes, the lower an asset's volatility, the more heavily it is purchased). In 2009, the stock weighting would have been reduced because stocks were gyrating." Why Investors Shouldn't Exalt Decisions That Have Brought Them Gains (Investment News) The "free choice paradigm" experiment exhibits a human tendency that can be bad for investors, writes Daniel Crosby, a behavioral financial expert, in Investment News. That is, once a person has ranked one thing to be better than something else, they start creating a list of reasons why their choice was the right one to start with, and "begin to mount an offensive against the road not taken." Their tendency to polarize push each decision that had initially ranked much closer, shows an "all-too-human tendency to exalt our decisions and abase the road not taken can have disastrous consequences for investors, however," writes Crosby.† "Ideally, investors would be learning from each financial decision, coolly determining whether or not they'd made the right decision and resolving to learn from their mistakes going forward. This becomes impossible though when every decision is accompanied by a flurry of self-congratulation. What's more, it leads us to attribute picking a winning stock as skill and choosing a dog as bad luck. This sort of misattribution is what leads investors toward overconfidence, a lack of appropriate balance and excessive churn." Wells Fargo And Morgan Stanley Bring On New Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) Jennifer Daniels and Karen Levy, who managed $151 million in clients assets and generated over $1.3 million in commissions and fees annually at Merrill Lynch, have joined Morgan Stanley's retail brokerage arm. The pair have joined Morgan Stanley's office in Cincinnati, reports WSJ's Corrie Driebusch.†  Meanwhile, Wells Fargo has made some big hires as well. John Feast and Mary Marrett, who managed $106 million in client assets, and generated $1.3 million in commissions and fees annually, have joined Wells Fargo, from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.† David Engel and Thomas Penrose, who managed $250 million in clients assets and generated $1.6 million at Morgan Stanley, have joined Wells Fargo in Philadelphia. Finally,† Andrew Townes, Don Parsons and Charlie Mitchell who managed $255 million in client assets at UBS Wealth Management, have joined Wells Fargo in Mississippi, reports Driebusch. S&amp;P 500 Earnings Are Way Cleaner Today Than They Were During The Financial Crisis (UBS) Companies usually adjust for write-offs when they announce their earnings.† When a company announces earnings with few adjustments, those earnings are considered to be of higher quality. UBS strategist Julian Emanuel writes that earnings quality has improved significantly since the financial crisis. "Broadly speaking, earnings are cleaner ñ and the big spike in write-offs on 2009 is primarily due to distress in the Financial sector," Emanuel told Business Insider. UBS
CoinalityDespite violent price fluctuations in Bitcoin, it's becoming increasingly common for individuals to take their salary in the digital currency. More than 1,000 people have now registered for¬†Coinality.com, a site launched in September that advertises jobs that pay in digital currencies. At least¬†700 people have submitted applications for 350 positions, which can¬†range from Chief Compliance Officer at a bitcoin trading platform, to programmers familiar with the customizable part of the Blockchain, the master ledger for all Bitcoin transactions.¬†More than 200 people have looked at¬†a marketing position for an independent filmmaker that pays 3 Bitcoin for three months' work.¬† Although digital currency-related job postings can be found elsewhere, and individuals active in the sphere have taken Bitcoin as salaries for at least months, this appears to be the first site exclusively devoted to both. The site was created by Dan Roseman, a web developer based in Orange County, California who left law school in 2011 after just a year after not finding it to his liking.¬†The site is not yet a full-time gig, and Roseman says he has no plans to monetize it, and for now will rely on donations (bitcoin, of course, is accepted).¬† "It's just a service that's free to use," he told us by phone recently.¬†That could change if the site blows up, he added.¬† In fact, most major digital currency players give their employees the option to take their salary in Bitcoin. That's true of Bitpay, one of the world's largest Bitcoin transaction processing sites. At The Bitcoin Foundation, an organization that serves as an unofficial custodian for the cryptocurrency. All employees there get paid exclusively in Bitcoin, a foundation rep told us.¬†It's also increasingly common overseas, where the majority of Bitcoin web development has taken place. According to Martti Malmi, one of Bitcoin's earliest programmers, executives at Bitstamp, LocalBitcoins and Finnish site Bittiraha all get paid in Bitcoin. Malmi himself said he does too.¬† Finally, of course there's¬†the Kentucky police chief¬†we just profiled¬†who looks to be one of the first people in his state to do so. But all the stuff above shows the phenomenon is hardly a stunt.¬†
Joe Camporeale-USA TODAYJustin Williams (zebra trunks) and Orlano Lora (white trunks) box during their super welterweight bout at Barclays Center. Williams won via fourth round TKO.The markets sold off sharply, closing right near their lows of the day. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:

Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThe Bloomberg TerminalBloomberg News has an unusual practice of paying some of its reporters explicitly for publishing "market-moving" stories. This is one of many metrics that is factored into reporters' annual bonuses. This practice is not widespread in the financial news industry, and journalists we spoke to from other outlets were not aware that it is used at Bloomberg. We also canvassed traders, bankers and public relations professionals. None of them had heard this before, either. Most of the people we spoke to, especially traders, were startled to hear about this practice, worrying that it might create an incentive for Bloomberg reporters to "push" or stretch stories with the specific aim of moving markets. Traders react instantly to headlines and news stories, and the decisions they make often make or lose significant amounts of money. We asked Bloomberg about the practice. A company spokesperson acknowledged it. "It isn't news unless it's true. At Bloomberg News, the most important news is actionable. That means we strive to be first to report surprises in markets that change behavior and we put a premium on reporting that reveals the biggest changes in relative value across all assets." The tidbit about Bloomberg's compensation practice was buried in a New York Times article by Stephanie Clifford from 2010 and mentioned in a 2011 article by Jodi Enda in American Journalism Review. It was also recently mentioned again in a New York Times article this summer by Amy Chozick. A former Bloomberg News employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, confirmed to Business Insider that Bloomberg News does track market-moving stories reporters publish and that these types of stories do factor into reporters' bonuses. Not surprisingly, given this compensation structure, the reporters at Bloomberg definitely care about moving the market. "Anyone who moves the markets gets a bonus. Your team gets awards. If you don't move the market [it's] like there's something wrong with you. You don't get a full bonus." Bloomberg News reporters get a compensation report each year, the former Bloomberg employee says. The bonuses are calculated based mostly on the reporter's team's performance as well as market moving stories. A percentage of the bonus is also based on personal performance, and it's all weighted. Bonuses for Bloomberg reporters used to be tied directly to sales of the Bloomberg Terminal. Now, half of the bonus is tied to company performance (Terminal sales) and the other half includes a range of seven or eight different metrics such as accuracy and market-moving stories. A person familiar with Bloomberg's view of this compensation practice says concerns about it are overblown. Accuracy, above all, is the most important metric in reporters' bonuses, this person says. "Say you make $50,000 and your total bonus is $10,000‚Äî$5,000 of that is tied to overall company performance (revenues, sales targets). Journalists have no role other than you're part of this bigger community. The other $5,000 is rated on a number of different metrics. Accuracy is a huge thing," the person says. It's also up to the reporters' manager to decide the bonus, the person familiar with Bloomberg's view added. "If I'm covering Wal-Mart and I sit next to a person covering a Texas company, my Wal-Mart stories are probably going to move the market more. But the Texas company person did well getting some awesome scoops. Maybe they had a few mistakes here and there. All of that weighs in, too. So it's ultimately up to the manager who decides how the bonus is figured in. To say that people are getting a big $5,000 bonus for some market-moving win is completely wrong." "It shouldn't be surprising that there is a financial incentive for reporters to actually break news," the person familiar with Bloomberg's view added. It's also seen as a competitive advantage, the person familiar explained. The practice of compensating reporters partly for moving the market creates the concern that reporters might push stories further than they should. via CNBC  There have been a few memorable instances where Bloomberg stories have moved the market when they really shouldn't have. (To be clear, we're not saying that the reporters and editors who published these stories were motivated by their bonuses.) For example, on Sept. 25 of this year, Bloomberg News reported a story with the headline "Wal-Mart Cutting Orders as Unsold Merchandise Piles Up," citing an email exchange between an unnamed Wal-Mart headquarters order manager and a supplier. Wal-Mart shares fell nearly 3% on that report. Bloomberg News's Editor-In-Chief Matt Winkler later tweeted about the market impact of this story. Wal-Mart shares drop as much as 2.9% on @BloombergNews report that company is cutting orders http://t.co/m9kmFEDO1B http://t.co/pWA75VPxZc In another example, Wednesday, Nov. 13, at 4:30 p.m. EST, Bloomberg News published a "HOT" headline from an embargoed story about Janet Yellen's written testimony from her confirmation hearing before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. The "red" breaking news headline on the Bloomberg Terminal read "Yellen Says U.S. Economy Performing 'Far Short' of Potential." On this news, risk assets like equities, the Treasury market, and currencies all screamed higher, and there was a sharp selloff in the dollar. It was 4:30 p.m., so futures and after-hours equities were still being traded. The markets aren't as liquid at this time as they are during the rest of the trading day. What's more, traders will tell you that they react to headlines before reading the full article because of time constraints. CQG screencapThen, at 5:50 p.m. EST that day, an hour and 20 minutes later, when the futures markets were closed, the Bloomberg terminal headline was changed to a more neutral depiction of Yellen's written testimony, "Yellen Says U.S. Economy Must Improve Before Fed Tapers QE." Traders we spoke to said it was because the first headline sounded so dovish that the market responded as strongly as it did. Later, as traders digested Yellen's full remarks, the market moved back to pretty much where it was before the news. (The headline on Bloomberg News' website remained unchanged from the original.) This particular instance warranted a foreign-exchange veteran at a Wall Street investment bank to email the following note to clients after the Bloomberg headline came out. (Emphasis ours). "At 430pm yesterday afternoon BBRG ran a story titled "Yellen Says U.S. Economy Performing ‚ÄòFar Short‚Äô of Potential" {NSN MW80ZG6S972T &lt;go&gt;} which they later changed to "Yellen says US economy must improve before Fed tapers QE." Revision or not I would argue that the article missed the point of what exactly Yellen said."If you take the time to read the text of this morning's Yellen testimony it's not nearly as dovish as the market reaction (I've attached it). In fact I think that the line the aforementioned BBRG article is referring to is "I believe the Federal Reserve has made significant progress toward its goals but has more work to do" which doesn't sound nearly as low for long / QE forever as the headline." There's nothing wrong with a news story moving the market: It means a story is important. But compensating reporters specifically for moving the market creates at least the appearance of a conflict of interest ‚Äî specifically, an incentive for reporters to publish stories and headlines with the explicit aim of moving the market. Dow Jones, another market-news service, does not compensate its reporters for moving markets. As Bloomberg continues to gain more power in the financial world, its news practices ‚Äî such as the Terminal "snooping" scandal of earlier this year and recent reports that Bloomberg killed a China story to avoid irritating the Chinese government ‚Äî are coming under increased scrutiny. It would not be surprising to see the practice of paying reporters to move markets draw similar questions.
REUTERS/Muzaffar SalmanPay attention, children.Over the last few weeks, market analysts have been offering their 2014¬†forecasts, giving clients a glimpse into what strategies will play well in the year ahead. But in his latest note, U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan takes a step back to look at the top 10 lessons of 2013, "since much of what transpired in the past twelve months will spill over into the new year." It's certainly an easier task than making year-end 2014 calls, but Quinlan does a nice job summing up the past year. Check it out: Lesson 1: Don‚Äôt Fight the Fed and Other Central Banks We hate to start with a clicheÃÅ, but if investors have learned anything this past year, it is this: Don‚Äôt stand in the way of central banks determined and willing to flood the capital markets with liquidity via ultra-low interest rates and unconventional monetary policies. Don‚Äôt stand on the sidelines either, with easy money from the Fed and others (notably the Bank of Japan) inflating various asset classes as yield-hungry investors moved into riskier asset classes. For some perspective, the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet has increased by $1,017 billion since the beginning of the year; since September 2012, or the beginning of QE3, the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet has increased from 18.7% of GDP to 25.0% of GDP. Lesson 2: The ‚ÄúDeath of Equities‚Äù Has Been Greatly Exaggerated Investors have heard and read a great deal about the ‚Äúdeath of equities‚Äù over the past few years. Indeed, during the dark days following the market meltdown of early 2009, many market seers spoke of equities in the past tense‚Äîtoast, too risky, and never coming back.This underlying sentiment has made this market rally among the most unloved in memory. But we learned something in 2013: The death of equities has been greatly exaggerated. To this point and following five years of consecutive outflows, stock funds took in some $134 billion in the first ten months of this year, according to the Investment Company Institute. Strong inflows, in turn, have helped boost the major U.S. indices to all-time highs this year (nominal) and propelled indices higher around the world. Lesson 3: Bonds Are Not Forever The flip side of rising demand for equities has been declining demand for bonds‚Äîthis, after investors pumped some $1 trillion into bond funds between 2009 and 2012. Bonds have been on a losing streak since May, following comments from Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke that the Fed was contemplating easing up on the Fed‚Äôs $85 billion monthly bond-buying program. Through mid-November, the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index has dropped 1.4%; the index is poised to post its first annual loss since 1999. Against this backdrop, market participants will likely look back on 2013 as the year that a three-decade bull market in government bonds finally ended. Though the absolute low in yields of 1.39% was actually reached in July of 2012, what really marked the coming shift in interest-rate policy was the savage backup in rates between May and September that followed the Federal Reserve‚Äôs ‚Äútapering talk.‚Äù Fed tapering combined with accelerating growth in the U.S. economy in 2014 portends higher bond yields. While we expect the backup in yields to be gradual next year, the bull market in bonds is certainly over. The beautiful affair between investors and bonds has ended. Diamonds are forever, but not bonds. Lesson 4: The U.S. Economy Remains the Most Resilient In the World For most of the post-crisis period, the chatter has been about the United States in decline, with America‚Äôs best days, according to the consensus, behind it. For debt-laden America, the jig was up. Not quite. One of the lessons of 2013 is that the U.S. economy remains among the most dynamic and resilient in the world, with a rebound in housing, a rip-roaring automobile industry, surging exports, and the adoption of numerous game-changing technologies (think 3D printing, robotics, cloud computing)--all emblematic of an economy that never rests, is always reinventing itself, and produces more output than any other economy in the world. The U.S. economy is now in the fifth year of an economic expansion, with growth in 2013 not only tops among most developed nations, but also ahead of many key developing nations (think Brazil). Lesson 5: The U.S. Energy Revolution Is For Real Lending a helping hand to America‚Äôs comeback has been the revolution in the energy patch. Talk of the U.S. becoming energy independent only grew louder in 2013, thanks to figures like the following: In October, U.S. oil production exceeded imports for the first time in eighteen years. Presently, weekly U.S. crude oil production is 17.5% higher than year-ago levels and 56.1% higher than the levels of 2007. Natural gas production is up 27.8% from the levels of 2007 and 1.2% higher than a year ago. All of the above has manifested itself in declining oil imports and rising exports of petroleum products. The energy bonanza has also buttressed household incomes via lower energy costs, and underpinned the global competitiveness of U.S. industry. Topping it all off, based on the latest projections from the International Energy Agency, U.S. production of natural gas will soon eclipse Russia‚Äôs, while U.S. oil production is expected to top Saudi Arabia‚Äôs by 2016. Lesson 6: There‚Äôs Life Left In the Old World (Europe and Japan) Left for dead and relegated to the dustbin of history, Europe and Japan, counter to the consensus, are alive and (somewhat) well. Japan‚Äôs Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has shaken up the world‚Äôs third-largest economy, aided and abetted by the massive money-printing operation of the Bank of Japan. Fiscal reform, a weak yen, and structural reforms (still pending) have jump-started an economy and stock market many investors had all but forgotten and ignored. The economy is expected to expand 2.0% this year, while the Nikkei has soared 48.3% year-to-date, making Japan home to one of the best-performing stock markets of the year. In Europe, much work remains to be done to fortify and stabilize the euro zone. But the past twelve months have seen credit spreads narrow and unemployment rates peak; nascent signs of economic growth in Europe‚Äôs periphery have also emerged. The euro zone came out of recession in the second quarter of 2013, a pleasant surprise to investors and euro perma-bears expecting the worst: the breakup of the euro zone.Both Japan and Europe confront a challenging road ahead. But investors learned that there is still life in these aging economies in 2013. Lesson 7: The Laws of Economic Gravity Apply To China Yet another lesson of this year: What goes up in the Middle Kingdom, also comes down.Investors could be forgiven for thinking otherwise since the Chinese economy has expanded 10% per annum over the past three decades, a stellar economic run that has lifted millions out of poverty and boosted growth around the globe, notably among the world‚Äôs primary commodity producers. But those investors expecting more of the same in China this year were disappointed; 2013 was the year investors finally came to realize that China is not an unstoppable, world-beating economic juggernaut destined for global domination. To the contrary, China now finds itself at an economic crossroads. The nation‚Äôs fork in the road is about the Middle Kingdom making the transition from export- and investment- led growth toward consumption- and service-driven growth. It‚Äôs also about avoiding the ‚Äúmiddle-income trap,‚Äù or finding new sources of growth since the drivers and circumstances that propelled the nation to rising growth rates and rapid industrialization in the past‚Äîlow-cost labor and easy technology adaption/imitation‚Äîhave dissipated as China has moved from lower-income to middle-income status. Investors have learned that not even China is immune to the laws of economic gravity.¬† Lesson 8: The Emerging Markets Are Not Quite Ready For Prime Time A funny thing happened over 2013‚Äîgrowth slowed in the emerging markets while accelerating in the three developed regions‚Äîthe U.S., Europe and Japan. Global economic activity, as investors had come to expect it, was turned upside down. And heading into 2014, the U.S., the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan are expected to contribute more to global GDP next year than the fabled BRICs‚ÄîBrazil, Russia, India and China. What gives? Many developing economies were caught flat-footed in 2013, and left ill-prepared for the downturn in global trade (think Asian export-led nations); the secular decline in commodity prices (a la Africa, Latin America and the Middle East); and the prospects of costlier capital, courtesy of Fed tapering. The last of these sent shock waves through the emerging market universe in 2013, with investors, not surprisingly, retreating from emerging market equities, debt, currencies and other assets. All of the above exposed a dark side of the emerging market growth story‚Äîthat the emerging markets are hardly masters of their own domain, and still dependent on external variables (trade and capital) for growth as opposed to being drivers of global growth through more domestic- and consumption-led growth. For any investor hugely overweight emerging market equities, Lesson 8 was a painful one this year. Lesson 9: The Commodity Supercycle Is Over Not very long ago, farming was more profitable than banking, thanks to soaring demand from the emerging markets. Rapid urbanization, rising per capita incomes, the embrace of more western-like lifestyles among the middle classes of the developing nations‚Äîall of these dynamics in the first decade of this century placed unprecedented demand on the world‚Äôs physical infrastructure and triggered the so-called commodity supercycle.And super it was‚Äîwith the prices of virtually all commodities‚Äîiron ore, soybeans, wheat, zinc, silver, etc.‚Äî soaring. Not surprisingly, investors took notice and plowed billions into various commodity instruments. According to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the total value of commodity index-related instruments purchased by institutional investors rose from an estimated $15 billion in 2003 to at least $200 billion by mid-2008. But all cycles‚Äîeven supercycles‚Äîcome to an end, and following a post-crisis rebound in 2009 and 2010, prices across the commodity complex have since softened. Indeed, back-to-back declines in 2011 and 2012 were followed by a third year of lower commodity prices in 2013. Commodity prices have tumbled three years in a row; three strikes means you‚Äôre out, which is another way of saying that the commodity supercycle is over. Lesson 10: Real Estate Never Goes Out Of Favor for Long Real estate was at the epicenter of the financial crisis of 2008/09, leading many prominent bears to proclaim that real estate as an asset class was dead in the water; that it would take years‚Äîif not a decade‚Äîfor real estate returns to recover in the face of massive oversupply, tight credit conditions and dwindling demand. Not quite. A key lesson of this year: Real estate never goes out of fashion for long. U.S. home sales have soared this year, with the spike in housing demand and home prices not only rampant in the U.S., but around the world. Global real estate transactions are now back to late-2007 levels. Think exploding demand in London, Tokyo, Istanbul, Singapore and many other parts of the world, with global real estate emerging as one of the most attractive assets in 2013. In the end, real estate never goes out of favor for long‚Äînot with a growing world population, an increasing number of urban residents, massive and idle pools of capital in the emerging markets and rising national incomes across the world.¬† The Way Forward There were many moving parts in 2013, and next year will be no different. We know Fed policies will be a significant variable influencing the capital markets again in 2014; the markets, we believe, will adjust to tapering in an orderly way, while tightening is a story for 2015. The run in equities will continue; bonds will remain unloved. The U.S. economy will surprise on the upside, helping to pull along the rest of the world. China will reset and become a more attractive investment option with more quality growth. Per China, think less demand for physical commodities yet more demand for consumer goods and value-added services. Deficit-prone emerging markets will be buffeted by the effects of Fed tapering. Commodities will struggle, although agricultural commodities could surprise on the upside given underlying global demand. It should be another red-hot year for real estate, but fears about real estate ‚Äúbubbles‚Äù may become more prominent as the year progresses.¬†
APMichael Lynton, CEO Sony Pictures EntertainmentNew documents filed with the SEC show that Snapchat has raised another $50 million in investment, with a big name investor: Micheal Lynton, CEO of Sony Entertainment. Lynton is on Snapchat's board of directors, the filing confirmed. This latter news was previously reported in June. As we previously reported, new regulatory filings showed that Snapchat was about to raise a hefty chunk of money. It authorized 1,600,000 shares @ $34.0893 per share, or just over $54.5 million, and with that transaction, the company would be valued at about $2 billion, according to¬†Justin Byers at VC Experts, a site that tracks the financial information of private companies. This new regulatory filing says that Snapchat is selling off $50 million worth of equity. And that's interesting because it's still far less than the $200 million they were rumored to be seeking. (Prior to this, Snapchat has raised $73 million to date, according to its CrunchBase profile._ And a $2 billion valuation, while still impressive for two-year-old company with no visible business model, is less than the rumored $3 billion or $4 billion valuation the some were speculating it had. Snapchat reportedly turned down a $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook and a $4 billion offer from Google. It's still too early to know if saying no to billions was a wise choice. But the addition of tech powerhouse Michael Lynton is a good sign. Lynton can certainly help advise Snapchat on capturing the advertising dollars of Sony and his previous employer, Disney. Here's a link to the full SEC document. 

Warner Bros. / The Great Gatsby TrailerGive a romantic getaway for two.Even those who want for nothing have holiday wish lists. If the millionaire in your life appears to have it all, look no further. We rounded up the 11 gifts that give new meaning to the word "frivolous." These extravagant indulgences, ranked from lowest to highest price, range from surrealist family portraits to a $1.8 million bling ring.
The misery index is calculated by summing a country's unemployment rate with its inflation rate. With the unemployment rate falling and the inflation rate benign, misery in America is tumbling. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg says it's a good thing. "The U.S. Misery Index... has fallen for three consecutive months from 8.4 in October to 8.3 in November, and is now below the long-run norm (so the new normal is actually the norm in this respect!) and the lowest it has been in four years," wrote Rosenberg today. "So when I'm asked if I have turned more positive on the economic backdrop, and I answer 'yes', this is one of the charts that are on the back of my mind." Gluskin Sheff
Reuters/Baz RatnerThere are reports that the White House will nominate former Israeli central bank chief Stanley Fischer to serve as deputy Fed Chair, taking over the job Janet Yellen will vacate when she becomes chair.† People are freaking out because Fischer is an unexpected and unprecedented choice, and an absolute legend in central banking circles.† This longer profile of Fischer from the Washington Post's Dylan Matthews is worth reading, but here are a few of the reasons his rumored nomination has people so excited. Fischer is a rock star.†
ajari/FlickrThe New York Times recently wrote about a new trend of mothers who work on Wall Street with stay-at-home husbands who watch the kids. The women and men quoted in the article largely described the arrangement as an inversion of the traditional 1950s marriage: the wife is the breadwinner while the husband cares for the children, does the laundry, and makes the meals. Husbands who are increasingly willing to take on the domestic load help women dedicate themselves to work in a way that only men with housewives previously could. The women can head to the office before the sun's up without worrying about lunches or daycare dropoffs. If they need to travel with little notice, they can. In exchange, the Wall Street women earn paychecks their husbands could hardly compete with. The group of women with this arrangement, while growing, is still very small. Moms working in finance with stay-at-home spouses make up less than 2% of all married women on Wall Street, according to the Times' analysis. But their ranks have increased nearly tenfold since 1980. The Times found that the current number of moms working†on Wall Street (more than 21,000) has risen steadily over the past 30 years. In 1980, just 2,980 women fit into that category. The number climbed to 5,924 in 1990 and 16,196 in 2000. You can see the gradual growth in the chart below:† Data from the New York Times Will the trend continue? It's hard to say. On the whole, the women seem to like the setup, but the stay-at-home dads interviewed by the Times had mixed feelings. Many were proud of their wife's success, but felt awkward telling friends they were househusbands. Although it's a sign of progress toward gender equality, the solution certainly isn't ideal. As the Times points out, the culture of Wall Street isn't changing if success requires one partner to stay at home and support the other's career. A more accessible model would offer the flexibility to accommodate dual-earner and single parents. Click here to read the full story.
Guang Niu / GettyZhou Yongkang (L) and Xi Jinping (R) in 2007. Zhou Yongkang, China's former security chief, has been placed under house arrest while the government investigates him on charges of corruption and "violating party discipline." He's the most powerful politician to go down since the Communist party took over in 1949, and his arrest is more evidence that President Xi Jinping is embracing authoritarianism in a big way. Think of Zhou's arrest like the President taking down the retired head of the FBI or the CIA. The difference in China, though, is that those two security apparatus' are controlled by the party, and within the party, Zhou still had a great deal of influence. He's a former members of the Politburo Standing Committee (the 7 to 9 men that run the country) and in arresting him "Xi has broken with an unwritten understanding that members of the Standing Committee will not be investigated after retirement," writes the South China Morning Post. The investigation into† Zhou started earlier this fall, and this arrest takes him a huge step closer to going the way of former Communist Party darling Bo Xilai ó never to be seen again. If you're in the ever-growing camp of China watchers who believes President Xi Jinping is going the way of Putin in terms of consolidating power, this whole situation is a massive red flag. Here's why: According to Brookings Institute scholar Cheng Li, China's Communist party is divided into two factions. There are the free market guys who take their cues from former President Jiang Zemin and think the economy has grown too slowly. Then on the other side, there are more conservative communists who identify with former President Hu Jintao. Zhou is a Hu man. President Xi is on the Jiang side. It's a good side to be on. Last year, the Jiang faction showed some major muscle by grabbing almost every spot on the Politburo Standing Committee. The New York Times basically called it his comeback. Hu's people, on the other hand, only got only one spot, Prime Minister Li Kequiang, and his power has been reduced since Xi took away a great deal of his responsibility over the economy during the Third Plenum. Until today, Zhou, Li, and former Prime Minister Wen Jibao stood as partial outsiders in a Jiang/Xi-loyal regime, though outsiders with power. It's important to keep in mind that there is a faction of the Chinese intelligentsia who thinks Xi's power consolidation is a great thing. They believe in something called neo-authoritarianism and to them, China needs a strongman who also believes in capitalism to really get China's economy in gear. Xiao Gongqin, a history professor at Shanghai Normal University started arguing this in the 1980s, and based it on Deng Xiaping, an authoritarian economic reformer. From the New York Times: ìXi Jinping marks the arrival of a golden age for Chinese neo-authoritarianism,î the professor said. ìItís essential to concentrate power now,î he said. ìThis period requires a strong man, a very powerful leader, and this powerful leader must have both prestige and also institutionally guaranteed powers.î So as the government ramps up its propaganda machine, remember that there is a base of support for Xi's power grab. That base could spread, and as it spreads, anyone on the outside needs to watch their backs. It doesn't matter who they are.
America's goods producing equipment is getting old. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg reminds us that the replacement of this equipment will soon become a key bullish force for the economy. "The last time the corporate sector allowed its capital stock to get this old and obsolete was back in 1958," wrote Rosenberg today. "The very next year, the annual growth rate in volume capital spending swung from -6% to +13.5%" "Given the rate of depreciation, we typically need 4% real capex growth just to prevent obsolescence from taking hold; in the past five years, we have averaged less than 1% annual growth," he added. "With productivity growth now vanishing, with clear negative implications for profit margins if not reversed, the incentive to start plowing some of the cash hoard back into the real economy is running very high and is actually becoming increasingly evident in the recent business survey data. Revived capex growth is likely going to emerge as a key bullish cyclical theme for 2014." Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart recently identified this as one of the "four fundamentals" behind accelerating economic growth. "[F]irms should feel a need to increase capital spending," said Reinhart. "Supportive of this spur, businesses have been underinvesting for some time and have ample cash on hand, implying a reason and an ability to invest." "We all know that the corporate sector is flush with a tremendous level of cash on the balance sheet ó almost $2 trillion ó and National Account profits are running at a decent 8% annual rate," noted Rosenberg. "The debt markets are also wide open for financing needs. So ability is there to embark on a more normal capital spending cycle ó the missing link in recent years."
Wikimedia CommonsStanley Fischer.Israel's Channel 2 is reporting that former Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer is the leading candidate to replace Janet Yellen as the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve when she ascends to the top spot at the central bank in January. Bloomberg News also reports that Fischer is the frontrunner for the job, citing a "person familiar," but says the White House has declined to comment on the reports. The Wall Street Journal says¬†the White House is close to nominating Fischer to the post. During his time as an economics professor at MIT from 1977 to 1988, Fischer advised outgoing Fed chairman Ben Bernanke on his Ph.D. thesis, and taught European Central Bank President Mario Draghi as well. Fischer stepped down from the top spot at the Bank of Israel in June.
Natesh Ramasamy via FlickerWhat will the New Year bring? NerdWallet predicts it may come with a few changes that will boost your bank account.¬† The personal finance site published a list of upcoming financial trends and policy changes that could shape 2014.¬†We pulled out three predictions that would be good for you and your money: Credit cards will offer more perks."Last year, a number of high-end credit cards began offering partnerships with other products, from free FICO scores on some Barclays cards to Amazon Prime memberships with the American Express Blue Cash credit cards," according to the site. Next year, more credit cards will likely offer similar perks to distinguish themselves.¬† Credit scores will become more realistic.Since¬†TransUnion joined Experian¬†this year in factoring in rental payments in credit scores, NerdWallet expects credit score calculations to move toward rewarding people for living within their means rather than for borrowing money. Pay-as-you-go car insurance will gain popularity.To save on car insurance, NerdWallet predicts more drivers will move to use-based insurance plans, which use technology to measure mileage and driving habits. The plans reward drivers with savings and discounts for low speeds and less driving. According to Computerworld, major insurance companies such as Progressive, State Farm, National General, and Esurance currently offer such plans, but they may pose privacy risks. See more of NerdWallet's financial predictions for 2014.
First and foremost, the report shows that combined Fed and depository institution credit creation is not only accelerating, but is growing at a relatively high rate. Secondly, household balance sheets continue to improve, which implies that depository institutions will be more favorably disposed to lend in 2014. Thirdly, part of improvement to household balance sheets is related to the upward trend in the value of residential real estate. Fourthly, the reduction in federal government spending/borrowing is resulting in ‚Äúcrowding in‚Äù of spending/borrowing by other sectors. Thus, the wringing of hands and the gnashing of teeth by unreconstructed Keynesians (i.e., The Consensus) over the deleterious effect of budget sequestration on the pace of economic activity is not occurring. And lastly, federal government borrowing relative to the size of the economy is less than its post-WWII median value. Okay, let‚Äôs go to the charts. Plotted in Chart 1 are the year-over-year percent changes of quarterly observations of the sum of Fed and depository institution credit and nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. Fed credit is defined here as the Fed‚Äôs holdings of securities obtained by outright purchases as well as repurchase agreements. The sum of Fed and depository institution credit is advanced by one quarter because the historical relationship between the two series suggests that changes in this particular credit aggregate lead changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. Notice that year-over-year growth in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit has been accelerating since Q4:2012, which is when the Fed‚Äôs third round of quantitative easing (QE) commenced. Year-over-year growth in this credit sum reached 8.7% in Q3:2013, the highest since Q2:2006. The median year-over-year growth in this credit sum from Q1:1953 through Q3:2013 is 7.2%. The recent relatively rapid growth in this credit sum suggests that growth in nominal domestic spending will be gaining strength over the next couple of quarters.  Chart 2 shows that the growth acceleration in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit starting in Q4:2012 was due to Fed QE actions. Growth in depository institution credit alone has been decelerating. But with the Fed expected to start ‚Äútapering‚Äù the quantity of securities it purchases by the end of Q1:2014, won‚Äôt the sum of Fed and depository institution start to decelerate then with negative implications for the growth in nominal domestic spending? Not if growth in depository institution credit picks up. Chart 3 shows that starting in this past October and continuing through November, growth in commercial bank credit, the principal component of depository institution credit, has been accelerating. In the eight weeks ended November 27, bank credit increased by almost $58 billion. If this pace of bank credit increase were maintained, it would more than compensate for the anticipated decline in Fed securities purchases early in 2014.  Which brings us to the balance sheet for households. Plotted in Chart 4 are quarterly observations of total liabilities of households and nonprofit organizations as a percent of their total assets. This ratio reached a post-WWII record high of 20.2% in Q1:2009. As of Q3:2013, this ratio had declined 520 basis points to 15.0%, the lowest since Q2:2001. This sharp decline in household leverage in combination with the sharp decline in the debt burden of households (see Chart 5) should make households appear more creditworthy in the eyes of depository-institution lenders.  An improving residential real estate market has played an important role in the improvement of household balance sheets. Chart 6 shows the leverage of owner-occupied residential real estate. After reaching a post-WWII record high of 63.5% in Q1:2009, leverage has fallen to 49.2% in Q3:2013, the lowest since Q2:2007. The rise in the value of residential real estate in the past two years and the absolute decline in mortgage debt following the bursting of the housing bubble are responsible for the leverage decline in owner-occupied residential real estate. Again, this improves the creditworthiness of households. The rise in residential real estate values also reduces mortgage loan write-offs by depository institutions, which should increase their willingness to put new loans on their books.  Speaking of residential real estate, it still looks attractive as an investment, but not as attractive because of the increase in its value and the rise in mortgage rates., Plotted in Chart 7 are quarterly observations of the imputed yield on owner-occupied housing, the effective mortgage interest rate and the differential between the two. The imputed yield on housing is calculated by dividing the Commerce Department‚Äôs estimate of the nominal dollar value of imputed shelter services produced by owner-occupied houses by the Fed‚Äôs estimate of the market value of residential real estate (then multiplied by 100 to put the ratio into percentage terms). If the imputed yield on housing is higher than the mortgage rate, then one can purchase an asset that currently is yielding more than the cost of financing it. From Q1:1973 through Q3:2008, there has been only one instance in which the imputed yield on housing was above the mortgage rate ‚Äì in Q2:2003, when the differential was a mere 0.04 percentage points. But after the bursting of the housing bubble, the market value of residential real estate plummeted, boosting the imputed yield on housing. The rise in the imputed yield on housing in combination with the plunge in mortgage rates brought the differential into positive territory starting in Q4:2008, where it has remained through Q3:2013. This positive differential, after having reached its zenith of 3.7 percentage points in Q4:2012, has drifted down to 2.3 percentage points in Q3:2013. At first blush, the narrowing in the positive differential between the imputed yield on housing and the mortgage rate might suggest that the pace of the current expansion in residential real estate would moderate in 2014. But if depository institutions ‚Äúloosen‚Äù their mortgage qualification terms due to the improved balance sheets of households, then ‚Äúeffective‚Äù demand for owner-occupied housing could increase.  Remember how the sequestration-induced federal government expenditure cuts and the increase in the marginal tax rate for upper-income households were going restrain nominal total spending in the economy? Well, they didn‚Äôt because of ‚Äúcrowding in‚Äù. The reduction in federal government spending in recent years along with increased tax revenues has reduced federal government deficits. Those entities that had planned to lend to the Treasury had its deficits been larger, now have some excess funds on their hands. They can either lend to some other entity that will spend ‚Äî a household, a business, a state or local government, a furiner ‚Äî and/or they can spend these funds themselves. Either way, the decrease in spending caused by the decline in federal government expenditures and the increase in taxes is offset by increases in other nonfederal government spending. So, as the federal government borrows less, other nonfinancial entities save less, i.e., spend more. This is what is meant by the term ‚Äúcrowding in‚Äù. ‚ÄúCrowding out‚Äù is the opposite ‚Äî the government borrows more, other nonfinancial entities save more, i.e., spend less. This is shown in Chart 8. Notice that as federal government net¬†borrowing decreased precipitously in the second and third quarters of 2013, net lending¬†by the remaining entities in the nonfinancial sectors also fell precipitously. Conversely, as federal borrowing surged in 2009, in part due to the fiscal stimulus, nonfinancial sector net lending also surged. This is an example of ‚Äúcrowding out‚Äù. In analyzing the macroeconomic effects of changes in fiscal policy, it is a good idea to ‚Äúfollow the money‚Äù. The funds have to come from somewhere to finance an increase in government expenditures and/or a decrease in taxes. Unless there is a net increase credit created by the Fed and the depository institution system, i.e., unless there is a net increase in thin-air credit, it is likely that the funds will come from the nonfinancial sector, which means that the stimulus to demand emanating from the government sector will crowd out spending that otherwise would have emanated from other nonfinancial sectors. And when government spending is cut and/or taxes increased, the fiscal drag on spending emanating from the government sector will crowd in spending from other nonfinancial sectors. Think of the extra money that otherwise would have gone to purchase government bonds ‚Äúburning a hole‚Äù in the pockets of the otherwise lenders.  Lastly, for all you fiscal hawks out there, Chart 9 should make you jolly. Plotted in Chart 9 are quarterly observations of seasonally adjusted at annual rates (SAAR) net lending / net borrowing by the federal government (obtained from the Fed‚Äôs Financial Accounts report) as a percent of SAAR nominal GDP. The median percentage from Q1:1953 through Q3:2013 is minus 3.2%. In the second and third quarters of 2013, this ratio was minus 1.3% and minus 1.9%, respectively. With some help from the Fed in getting thin-air credit back up to a more normal post-WII growth rate in order to stimulate nominal GDP, some restraint in federal government spending along with some tax increases and voil√°! the federal government deficit relative to the size of the U.S. economy looks quite reasonable in an historic context.  I hope to send out my airing-of-grievances Festivus letter next week. I have a lot of problems with you people!
Courtesy of NCUANCUA Board Member Michael Fryzel, Board Chairman Debbie Matz, and Board Member Rick MetsgerMinutes after Rick Metsger took the oath of office to become the newest overseer of the nation‚Äôs credit union industry, he walked a few blocks up the street to break bread with executives and lobbyists for the firms he now regulates. The¬†luncheon¬†in his honor was held at an elegant, $4 million Capitol Hill party and meeting space called¬†Credit Union House. It drew a tight knit group of business leaders, advocates, and regulators‚Äîthe most powerful people in a financial industry that holds more than $1 trillion in assets but which most Americans know little about. Metsger, whose ascent they had gathered to toast, was one of their own, a fellow true believer in credit unions who would now police the industry as one of three¬†board members¬†of the National Credit Union Administration. He is typical of the regulators, lawyers, and lobbyists who make comfortable livings shuttling between overseeing and promoting the credit union industry. Together, they guard its wholesome reputation, forged during the Great Depression, when¬†credit unions were set up to help poor people¬†whom banks refused to serve. Metsger had served on the board of¬†his own credit union. He won a seat in the Oregon state Senate with the help of thousands of credit union volunteers and¬†tens of thousands of dollars from the industry. A decade later, as chairman of a key committee, he helped pass legislation allowing credit unions to enter new lines of business. He worked as a paid consultant for a¬†regional industry lobbying group¬†even after President Barack Obama nominated him to the board in May. He ended the contract just weeks before he arrived in Washington to be¬†sworn in on Aug. 23. In 2012, the nation‚Äôs 6,800-odd credit unions‚Äîwith 94 million depositors‚Äîearned $8.5 billion in net income and held more than $1 trillion in assets. Ethics watchdogs question whether someone with such deep roots in an industry can cut through the wholesome, folksy rhetoric that its lobbyists use to push for weaker rules and less enforcement. As the NCUA board tries to fix the failures that led to a little-publicized¬†industry-wide bailout¬†in 2009, the concern is especially pressing. If the industry can persuade regulators to allow more risk in the system, the board‚Äôs decisions could plant the seeds of the next big taxpayer bailout. ‚ÄúThis is a person who is an advocate for the credit union industry, and he is now in charge of monitoring the credit union industry,‚Äù says Craig Holman, a lobbyist for¬†Public Citizen, which advocates for transparency in elections and government. ‚ÄúIt will be difficult for Metsger to question the industry‚Äôs perspective because he appears to share it in most respects.‚Äù Metsger says he obtained approval from the agency‚Äôs ethics lawyers before attending the luncheon and paid out-of-pocket the $40-per-plate cost of food for him and his family. After inquiries from the Center for Public Integrity, the¬†NCUA‚Äôs inspector general¬†is reviewing the lawyers‚Äô advice to Metsger and revisiting the agency‚Äôs earlier analysis of any potential financial conflicts, according to Sharon Separ, who oversees investigations for the independent, internal watchdog office. A formal investigation would follow if the facts warrant it, she said. Big Business Credit union advocates work hard to cultivate the industry‚Äôs image as quaint and community oriented. In reality it‚Äôs a massive and growing business. In 2012, the nation‚Äôs 6,800-odd credit unions‚Äîwith 94 million depositors‚Äîearned $8.5 billion in net income and held more than $1 trillion in assets. The biggest credit union,¬†Navy Federal, holds $55.4 billion in assets and earned $792.3 million last year. It recently became the nation‚Äôs 20th-biggest mortgage lender. Like banks, credit unions provide financial services such as deposit accounts and loans to consumers. Unlike banks, they are barred from risky activities that would not serve customers, like investing in most derivatives, and are exempt from paying most taxes. They are required to return excess earnings to their member-customers, for example by offering lower rates on loans or higher interest on deposits. The tax exemption is expected to cost the government $1.66 billion next year, according to the White House‚Äôs budget office. Much of that extra income is diverted to finance the industry‚Äôs¬†advocacy efforts, reducing the benefits available for customers. Credit unions spent more than $600 million of their members‚Äô money since 2008 on¬†trade groups,¬†lobbyists,¬†political donations,¬†naming rights to sports arenas, and other efforts to promote what they call ‚Äúthe credit union movement,‚Äù according to a new analysis of public documents by the Center for Public Integrity. ‚ÄúThis isn‚Äôt a charity, it‚Äôs big business,‚Äù says Marvin Umholtz, a former credit union executive who now consults for both credit unions and banks. The National Credit Union Administration board is charged with supervising the industry and overseeing the $11.7 billion fund that insures credit union deposits, so that customers are protected if their lender fails. To prevent costly failures, the board monitors the industry and imposes sanctions on weak credit unions. In effect, the board controls how much risk the institutions can take on, and how quickly they can expand. The board‚Äôs expansionist policies have helped credit unions¬†add more than 11 million members¬†in the past 10 years and boost lending more quickly than banks. Their assets have doubled since 2001. ‚ÄúYou can think of them as providing regulatory oversight, but you can also think of them as cheerleaders and enablers,‚Äù says¬†Kathleen Clark, an expert in government ethics and professor at Washington University School of Law. It‚Äôs a common problem when regulators are ‚Äúideologically in line‚Äù with the companies they oversee, she says. Interests Overlap Metsger, like the other two members of the NCUA board, bounced straight from promoting credit unions to writing the rules for them. It is a typical trajectory inside the clubby world of the ‚Äúcredit union movement,‚Äù where regulators often embrace the view that credit unions are inherently good, and more credit unions are good for the United States. Among the guests at Metsger‚Äôs luncheon was his new boss,¬†NCUA Chairman Debbie Matz, a credit union executive between her two stints as a regulator.¬†Troy Stang, CEO and lobbyist in Oregon for the Northwest Credit Union Association, organized the event‚Äîand had Metsger on his payroll until earlier that month.¬†Bill Cheney, the industry‚Äôs top lobbyist in Washington, was a director of the two credit unions whose losses after the financial crisis led to a $19 billion taxpayer bailout. A¬†picture¬†from the event shows the four locked in amiable conversation at Credit Union House, the swank party space built by lobbyists, for lobbying. How they handle issues facing the industry may set the stage for the next credit union crisis‚Äîor guarantee a safe and sound system for decades to come. Metsger says his new job requires a different mode of advocacy, one focused on ensuring the industry‚Äôs financial strength. He says friendly gestures by industry advocates, like the luncheon celebrating him, won‚Äôt cloud his judgment as a regulator. ‚ÄúYou want to make sure you keep this arms-length, but you also need to have a dialogue with folks and you don‚Äôt want to make them feel like you‚Äôre in isolation‚Äî‚ÄòOh, no, I can‚Äôt be seen with you,‚Äô ‚Äù he said in an interview. Cheney said the event made sense because the northwest trade association is a¬†part owner of Credit Union House¬†and Metsger had consulted for the group. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think that creates any undue influence with the regulator whatsoever,‚Äù Cheney said. Mission Creep Federal credit unions were set up during the Great Depression to serve working-class people who were being turned away by banks. The¬†1934 law¬†that created them says they would provide credit for ‚Äúpeople of small means ‚Ä¶ to stabilize the credit structure of the United States.‚Äù The industry has strayed from that mission. Fewer than one-third of federal credit union members earn less than 70 percent of the median income in their community. Bank customers are more likely to be low-income than credit union customers, according to¬†Federal Reserve data. At the same time, regulators are deeming a record number of credit unions ‚Äúlow-income‚Äù or ‚Äúsmall,‚Äù designations that carry generous benefits, such as the ability to accept deposits from nonmembers and make more commercial loans. Changes in federal law also broadened the mission of the credit union system. Credit unions have erected a sprawling advocacy machine to protect their tax break from attacks by bankers who believe it confers an unfair advantage. There are 43 leagues like the Northwest regional group; two major national lobbies‚Äîthe Credit Union National Association and the National Association of Federal Credit Unions; charitable foundations; groups representing low-income, corporate, and other credit union subgroups; for-profit subsidiaries; quasi-independent companies like CUNA Mutual, which charges credit unions for services then¬†pumps tens of millions back into their advocacy network; and even a think tank, the¬†Filene Research Institute. The groups collected more than $160 million in membership dues and other payments from credit unions from 2008 through 2011, the most recent year for which thorough data are available. That income helps pay for causes like Credit Union House, where dozens of political¬†fundraisers¬†are held each year. Four of the¬†state credit-union leagues that own the house¬†put up more than $300,000 apiece to help build it. Hundreds of credit unions and trade groups make annual donations. If you trace it back, all of that money comes from the pockets of credit union members who pay the fees and interest that make up a credit union's earnings. Trade groups portray credit unions as humble Davids fighting dreaded banking Goliaths, sponsoring national ad campaigns with populist slogans like¬†‚ÄúDon‚Äôt tax my credit union.‚Äù¬†One such ad, sponsored by the Credit Union National Association, tells viewers, ‚ÄúYou didn‚Äôt save your money to make someone else rich‚Äù‚Äîa reference to banks, whose profits go to their shareholders. Top executives at big credit unions, however, can pull down eight-figure pay packages and golden parachutes to rival all but the biggest banks. David Maus, CEO of the Public Service Employees Credit Union in Denver, was paid $11 million in 2010. Cheney, top lobbyist for the Credit Union National Association, received $1.3 million in compensation in 2012, tax filings show. Promoting Growth, Adding Risk When they‚Äôre not defending their special tax status, credit unions lobby for rule changes that would allow them to act more like banks, take more risks, and grow. And they often find sympathetic ears at the NCUA. Chairman Matz, for example, has repeatedly urged Congress to allow credit unions to boost commercial lending. And she exempted many from the legal cap on business lending by¬†helping them qualify¬†as ‚Äúlow-income credit unions.‚Äù Between August 2012 and August 2013 alone, the number of credit unions in that group leapt 72 percent, from 1,140 to 1,961. Most credit union managers lack the expertise to run prudent small-business-lending programs, says¬†Jim Blaine, CEO of the nation‚Äôs second-biggest credit union by assets, State Employees‚Äô Credit Union in Raleigh, N.C. ‚ÄúIf you‚Äôre going to go into it, you‚Äôd better be good, and there are very few credit unions that can do it at this point,‚Äù says Blaine, whose credit union has rejected members‚Äô pleas to do commercial lending. His view is borne out in¬†government audits¬†that have found that credit unions with business lending programs are more likely to fail. ‚Äô57 Chevy Metsger‚Äôs devotion to credit unions bloomed early. When he was 19, he needed a car to get to his job scrubbing toilets at a local school in Oregon. Portland Teachers Credit Union lent him $350 to buy a used ‚Äô57 Chevy, and he was hooked. To this day, Metsger, 62, remains a member of the credit union and an aficionado of old cars. He worked as a teacher, then an investigative reporter, before a visit to Salem on behalf of his credit union board inspired him to run for the state Senate. ‚ÄúMy issue was concern about citizens, ordinary citizens, having access to credit union services‚Äîlow-cost financial services‚Äîso they can find a better life,‚Äù Metsger said in a 2010¬†political speech¬†about his first campaign. ‚ÄúWith the help of thousands and thousands of credit union volunteers and consumer advocates, I was successful.‚Äù Metsger received roughly $120,000 in¬†campaign money¬†from the credit union industry during his 12-year political career, more than he got from any other industry. He¬†defended the industry‚Äôs political spending¬†after leaving office, as a paid consultant for the Northwest Credit Union Association, previously known as the Credit Union Association of Oregon. That group alone accounted for almost half of his donations from credit unions. Serving in Oregon‚Äôs Legislature is a part-time job. Between sessions, Metsger worked as a PR consultant for clients including several credit unions and the Credit Union Association of Oregon. In the statehouse, he pushed¬†several pieces of legislation¬†aimed at strengthening and expanding the industry. He supported bills that would allow credit unions to take deposits from government agencies to bolster their capital cushions. He supported boosting their commercial lending, which can increase risk. And he advocated expanding the pools of people from which credit unions can draw their members. His work pleased the Credit Union Association of Oregon so much that in 2009 they named him ‚ÄúLegislator of the Decade.‚Äù Backwater Bailouts Metsger begins his job as regulator at a moment of upheaval for the National Credit Union Administration. The 1,262-employee agency is¬†headquartered¬†in a new brick building across from a train station in Alexandria, Va., about 7 miles south of the better-known bank regulators clustered around the White House and Treasury buildings. Its location, and the credit union industry‚Äôs relatively modest size, long rendered the NCUA a sleepy backwater of financial regulation. Attention shifted to the NCUA after the financial crisis, when massive losses on risky mortgage bonds forced it to shutter five teetering ‚Äúwholesale‚Äù credit unions whose failures would have upended the entire system. The regulator took them over, borrowing $19.2 billion from the government to bail out the system. It¬†still owed¬†about $3.9 billion as of last month. But it was a policy change by the NCUA that helped lay the groundwork for the crisis. Wholesale credit unions, also called corporates, provide short-term loans and investment services to retail credit unions. They traditionally served these customers in defined regions, but the board decided in the late 1990s to let them serve credit unions across the country, forcing them to compete with one another. Seeking to offer the highest returns, some corporates invested in complex, risky mortgage bonds that were at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis‚Äîthreats that government auditors had warned about in¬†1995¬†and¬†2004. Bill Cheney, the million-dollar CUNA lobbyist who attended Metsger‚Äôs luncheon, was¬†sued in 2010 by the NCUA¬†because he sat on the board of WesCorp, one of the biggest failures. The judge in the case later dismissed the charges against Cheney and the other directors. Cheney¬†settled¬†a separate lawsuit related to his service as a director of U.S. Central, the biggest failed corporate credit union. Credit unions have spent $4.8 billion of their members‚Äô money paying down the bailouts, on top of the $5.6 billion they lost in the failures. They could pay up to $3.9 billion more to close out the Treasury debt, according to NCUA estimates. Cleaning Up and Scaling Up Now the agency is under pressure to ensure there is no repeat of 2009. It has¬†retooled the rules¬†and oversight practices for corporates, imposing new risk management requirements and limits on how much of any single investment type they can buy. If one appears shaky, it will automatically trigger requirements to raise capital and cease paying dividends. This get-tough campaign contrasts with the agency‚Äôs efforts to help credit unions grow and thrive. The regulator spent $5.5 million last year on an¬†office¬†that offers free, private consulting services to small credit unions and those designated as serving low-income members. A¬†brochure¬†of marketing tips from the office advises, ‚ÄúEncourage tellers and loan officers to cross-sell products at every touch point with the member.‚Äù They also softened rules that defined distinct groups eligible for membership. Today, for example, anyone can join the NASA Federal Credit Union simply by agreeing to become a member, cost-free, of the¬†American Consumer Council. ‚ÄúThere really are no longer any restrictions on membership,‚Äù says Blaine, the credit union CEO. Among the agency‚Äôs key goals for 2012, according to its¬†annual report: boost awareness of credit unions among young people; classify more credit unions as low-income, so they are subject to looser rules and extra subsidies; and increase the number of potential credit union members so the industry can keep growing. There are no meaningful safeguards to prevent the NCUA from being completely filled with industry veterans and allies. By law, only one of the three board members can be a recent credit union employee or affiliate. None of the current board members count, agency spokesman John Fairbanks said. Not Metsger, who was paid by a major trade group until the month he was sworn in. Not Michael Fryzel, who was a lawyer for credit unions until he was sworn in in July 2008. And not Matz, who was a senior executive at Andrews Federal Credit Union until roughly a year before she was nominated to her second stint on the board. Credit union industry groups don‚Äôt count for purposes of the rule and Matz took off just enough time to avoid being considered a recent employee. Metsger said in an email that he avoids conflicts of interest by ‚Äúnever letting my associations ‚Ä¶ direct my decision-making,‚Äù and by seeking guidance from ethics lawyers. Tension in the Family Credit union lobbyists bristle at the idea that they wield too much influence over the regulator. As evidence, they cite issues on which they disagree with the NCUA. Trade groups, for example, have argued that closer inspection of credit unions‚Äô lightly regulated subsidiaries would be unnecessary and invasive. In November, the board proposed¬†new reporting requirements¬†for the entities, some of which made shoddy loans that contributed to recent credit union failures. CUNA and the regulator have locked horns more often since the crisis, Cheney says, because of all the new rules the board has imposed over industry objections. ‚ÄúIf there‚Äôs some sort of a family crisis, it can create tension in the family, and certainly we had a crisis in the financial services industry,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúBut any time the pendulum starts to swing, the question is, ‚ÄòWhen has it swung too far?‚Äô ‚Äù If the credit union industry has agreed with his decisions, Metsger said, that does not mean he made the decisions merely to please industry. He broke with the industry at least once, he notes, by supporting a 2007 proposal in the state legislature to curb risky and abusive mortgage lending that credit unions hated. Metsger says he will continue to strike a ‚Äúfine balance‚Äù in his new role, engaging industry stakeholders and hearing them out, but remaining focused on the agency‚Äôs mission‚Äîprotecting the health of the credit union industry. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm very cognizant of it,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúThat doesn‚Äôt mean you always guess exactly right, but you do the best you can.‚Äù The Center for Public Integrity is a nonprofit, independent investigative news outlet. For more of its stories on this topic go to¬†publicintegrity.org.
Design By Zouny via Compfight ccU.S. home mortgage applications rose for the first time in six weeks, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. In the week ended Dec. 6, mortgage applications edged up 1%. Though, "It was not spectacular," according to UBS' Art Cashin. "Purchase apps rose by merely 1% and [re-financing] by 2%. The good news is that the multi-week decline has ended or at least paused." CNBC's Diana Olick writes that "the days of the 3.5% 30-year fixed are over." "Rates are already up well over a full percentage point from a year ago, and as the Federal Reserve begins its much anticipated exit from the bond-buying business, I believe rates will inevitably go higher," she writes.  "How much that affects home sales will depend entirely on job and wage growth. Mortgage underwriting will remain tight, but buyers with solid credit should be able to weather slightly higher rates. By historical standards, they are still relatively low. It is less rate and more availability that will continue to hamper sales."
An IPO is like a company's first date with the market. Things could go well right off the bat, or they could take some warming up. They also could start well and then you find out your date is a 9/11 truther who collects Precious Moments dolls and then things just fall apart. The Hilton IPO ó to be priced after the bell today and set to hit the market on Friday ó puts potential investors in a similar position. You never know how things are going to go, so it's important to find out everything you can about the situation beforehand. Hilton is expected to price somewhere between $18 and $20. Blackstone holds 81.5% of the company and†so they'll be the biggest winners in what could be a $2.4 billion IPO. The firm isn't selling any of its share in the offering. But we can't all be Blackstone ó and there's a lot to consider before you step out with a new company. To get both sides of Hilton's story, Business Insider spoke with Ryan Meliker, a senior analyst, Equity Research for investment bank MLV &amp; Co. Here's why you should jump into Hilton:† Meliker said that the hotel industry in general is in a really good place right now. As the global economic recovery continues, demand will increase, especially in emerging markets. "The big challenges for the industry are on the supply side," he said. And since banks have loosened up with lending, that's allowing companies in the hotel space to increase supply.† The headwind, Meliker added, "would be a demand shock" ó an economic downturn across the world. Fundamentally, Hilton looks great too. It outperforms industry peers in terms of revenue per room, and that's expected to increase by up to 6% next year. The company's revenue increased 39% between 2011 and 2012. On top of all that, the market's doing really well overall, so getting in on Hilton's starting price could be a good idea if† (IF!) you think that stocks will continue to rise. On the other hand, maybe you want to wait to buy Hilton. Meliker pointed out that Blackstone has a lockup on its investment that will expire in the next three years. When that happens, it will need to return capital to investors, and sell a bunch of its Hilton stock. Hilton also took on $1.25 billion of debt when Blackstone injected it with cash in 2007. As interest rates rise, that debt will become more of a burden on the company. Looking forward, there's chatter that Hilton will move to cut costs by moving toward an asset-based strategy. In the hotel business, that means the company will ramp up the number of hotels it manages but doesn't own, or simply franchises. Companies like Starwood and Marriott have already headed in that direction. That won't happen for a while though. Hilton owns 27,000 of its rooms and 18,000 of them are locked up in a five-year loan, so the company can't sell them. Bottom line: Meliker thinks the IPO will likely price at the midpoint (around $19.50) and that would be good. More expensive than that, and you may want to go into wait and see mode. We'll see how it goes on Friday.
1) The apparent budget deal takes a key downside risk off the table, and reduces the impact of the sequester. 2) Household balance sheets are in much better shape - and it appears that in the aggregate, household deleveraging is over.¬† The Fed just reported the first increase in total mortgage debt since Q1 2008.¬† See: Fed's Q3 Flow of Funds: Household Mortgage Debt increased slightly, First Mortgage Debt increase since Q1 2008, NY Fed: Household Debt increased in Q3, Delinquency Rates Improve, and Fed: Household Debt Service Ratio near lowest level in 30+ years 3) State and local government austerity is over (in the aggregate). 4) The housing recovery should continue. Housing has slowed recently (new home sales, housing starts), but the overall level is still very low and I expect further growth in 2014. 5) Commercial real estate (CRE) investment will probably make a small positive contribution in 2014. Eliminating drags is important.¬† The drag from state and local governments is over. The drag from household deleveraging (in the aggregate) is ending. The threats of a government shutdown, not "paying the bills", and mindless austerity is over (assuming the budget deal is approved).¬† And¬† CRE investments are starting to appear. All of these were impediments to growth over the last few years. Yes, growth in the auto industry will slow in 2014, and housing has slowed recently (but I think we will see more growth in 2014).¬† However, overall it appears 2014 will probably be the best growth year for the recovery (the best was 2012 with 2.8% real GDP growth), and possibly the best year since Clinton was President.
† The issue of income inequality has become a mainstream topic recently with remarks from President Obama and even the Pope. Nobel Prize winner and professor of economics at Princeton University, Paul Krugman talks about the three main reasons driving the income inequality buzz.† Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow Us On YouTube &gt; 
REUTERSNigerian President Goodluck Jonathan Nigeria is straight up¬†missing $50 billion, according to a letter obtained by the Financial Times' William Wallis. The letter alleges that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) ‚Äî the state oil company ‚Äî "has failed since 2012 to account for nearly $50bn in crude oil sales that should by law have been remitted to government coffers," Wallis reports. The leaked letter was written to President Goodluck Jonathan by central bank governor¬†Lamido Sanusi. In the letter, Sanusi warns the president of the "continued failure of the NNPC to repatriate significant proportions of the proceeds of crude oil shipments it made in gross violation of the law." In a statement, the NNPC called the letter "misleading" and "borne out of misunderstanding of the workings of the oil and gas industry and the modality for remitting crude oil sales revenue into the Federal Account." Read the full report at the FT ¬ª
A staggering 83% of American homebuyers consider a "normal" rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loan to be under 5%, new data from Redfin shows. It seems the last few years ‚Äî in which the Federal Reserve depressed interest rates in an effort to stimulate lending ‚Äî has had a pretty crazy affect on American memories. Rates have averaged 6.7% since 1990, according to Redfin. The rate for the 30-year mortgage never once dropped below 5% until March 2009. Redfin Here's the history of the 30-year conventional mortgage rate, courtesy of FRED: FRED
Reuters/Paul Sakuma/POOLJudge Alex Kozinski, of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, gestures during oral arguments in San Francisco, The chief judge of a major U.S. appeals court has written a stinging opinion taking prosecutors to task for failing to reveal evidence that could be favorable to defendants ‚Äî a so-called Brady violation. "There is an epidemic of Brady violations abroad in the land. Only judges can put a stop to it," Judge Alex Kozinski wrote in a dissenting opinion in a case where one of these violations allegedly occurred. The term Brady violation comes from the U.S. Supreme Court case Brady v. Maryland, in which the court found prosecutors violated a defendant's right to due process by withholding exculpatory evidence. Despite this ruling, Brady violations have continued to be a problem over the years. In the most high-profile violation, prosecutors in the corruption case against Ted Stevens hid evidence that would have been favorable to the late senator. "Brady violations have reached epidemic proportions in recent years," Kozinski wrote. "...When a public official behaves with such casual disregard for his constitutional obligations and the rights of the accused, it erodes the public's trust in our justice system, and chips away at the foundational premises of the rule of law." Kozinski's dissent came in a case against Kenneth Olsen who was convicted of creating a biological agent to use as a weapon, according the ABA Journal, which posted the opinion. To help convict Olsen, prosecutors relied on analysis from a Washington State Police (WSP) forensic scientist named Arnold Melnikoff.¬† It turned out that WSP had been investigating Melnikoff following allegations that his analysis had led to two flawed convictions, according to Kozinski's opinion. A panel of experts doubted "Melnikoff's diligence and care in the laboratory, his understanding of the scientific principles about which he testified in court, and his credibility on the witness stand." Prosecutors never revealed the full scope of this damning report to the defense, as the Brady rule requires. A panel of judges found the report wasn't important enough to affect the outcome of the case, but Kozinski disagreed. "I wish I could say that the prosecutor's unprofessionalism here is the exception, that his propensity for shortcuts and indifference to ethical and legal responsibilities is a rare blemish and source of embarrassment to an otherwise diligent and scrupulous corps of attorneys staffing prosecutors' offices across the country," Kozinski wrote. "But it wouldn't be true."
APHouse Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) snapped at conservative groups that have come out in opposition to the budget deal reached Wednesday†between Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.).† "They're using the American people for their own purposes. This is ridiculous," Boehner said at a press conference with other members of House Republican leadership on Wednesday.† Over the past few days, a number of conservative groups have blasted the deal because it sets discretionary spending levels in the budget higher than previous levels under sequestration. In the past three days, the influential Heritage Action, Club for Growth, Americans for Prosperity, and FreedomWorks have all signaled they would oppose the deal. They have all argued that while imperfect, the sequester has provided the only effective check on the Obama administration's spending. The legislation provides†$63 billion in sequester relief over two years, which is split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. This is offset by targeted spending cuts and non-tax revenues that total $85 billion. It reduces the deficit by a total of $20 billion to $23 billion over a 10-year period. When Boehner was asked in the press conference about the conservative groups, he cut off the reporter asking the question.† "You mean the groups that came out opposed to it before they ever saw it?" he said. "...†If you're for more deficit reduction, you're for this agreement." Soon after the press conference, the groups denounced Boehner's comments. Club for Growth President Chris Chocola said that the group stood with the likes of Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), and Rand Paul (R-Ky.), all of whom oppose the deal.† Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell also plans to vote against the deal, a source close to McConnell told Business Insider on Wednesday afternoon. "After carefully reviewing the budget deal, on which we never commented until it was complete, we determined that it would increase the size of government," Chocola said. "We support pro-growth proposals when they are considered by Congress. In our evaluation, this isnít one of those." Dan Holler, a spokesman for Heritage Action, echoed Chocola's sentiments. ìAmericans are deeply concerned about the direction of the country. Over the next few days, lawmakers will have to explain to their constituents, many of whom are our members, what theyíve achieved by increasing spending, increasing taxes and offering up another round of promises waiting to be broken," Holler told Business Insider.  "That will be a really tough sell back home. Meanwhile, weíll continue fighting to achieve our goal, which is create an America where freedom, opportunity, prosperity and civil society flourish.î † †
This is pretty solid timing. OneWire, the financial career site, just published its interview with Eduardo Mestre, Senior Managing Director and Chairman of Global Advisory at boutique investment bank Evercore Partners. In the interview, Mestre talks a lot about how Wall Street has changed since the financial crisis, an apt discussion since yesterday, regulators unanimously vote to instate the Volcker Rule ó a regulation meant to reduce risk (and end the reward that comes with it) in the banking system. ìThe last few years have been tough for a lot of the industry," Mestre admitted. "I think the financial crisis of 2008 to 2009 was very impactful and brought into question the business model that especially the big firms created for themselves. The industry has been trying to deal with that: trying to figure out what its best path is going forward.î Evercore isn't one of those big firms. It was founded in 1996 by Roger Altman, a former Deputy Treasury Secretary in the Clinton Administration. Since then, it's gained a lot of respect on the Street, especially for doing deals and helping companies grow. Those are businesses that will always be needed in the American economy, Mestre argues. They're why Wall Street will never really disappear. He explained: ìAt the end of the day, clients still need Wall Street, certainly in terms of raising capitalóthatís a classical functionóand also in terms of adviceÖthe fundamentals are still there, but I think the industry is certainly in transition..and it may be in that state for a while as we get the complete fallout from what was a very difficult time for the industry.î What the full interview in a video below. For more interviews with big Wall Street names, head to OneWire.com: 
Viber/YoutubeIt's been a strange year for the major social media sites. Not only are they in transition, migrating from desktop to mobile, but theyíre also fending off competition from new messaging apps, which is taking younger users away from their sites. With Twitter updating its app to†allow photos in its Direct Messaging service, and Instagram reportedly introducing its†own private messaging service tomorrow, the focus for these sites over the last few months has been on messaging. But why is this so important for these sites to break into this market, and what kind of threat do these messaging apps pose? Why would the likes of Facebook and Twitter worry about this? Messaging apps are more than just a way to connect with your friends, theyíre practically private social networks for your friends. WhatsApp has 350 million monthly active users, LINE has 300 million users and is targeting†500 million by the end of 2014and Viber has more than 200 million, showing the appetite for these services. The main attraction is just how much you can do through these apps and how they bypass other mediums. Images, videos, stickers, voice recordings, self-destructing messages, and games are some of the features included in these apps and the number of ways you can communicate with friends will continue to grow.†  Also, the privacy element ñ having conversations that only you and selected friends can see and hear ñ is a major draw. For the likes of Facebook and Twitter, these apps could have an effect on both its user base and its profits in a few years time. But Facebook already has more than one billion users, why would it and other social media sites care about these apps? It all ties back to the younger age groups using these apps. The fastest growing demographics on Facebook, Twitter and Google+†is the 45 ñ 64 year age bracket, mainly the parents, relatives and siblings who arenít overly familiar with the web and want to keep in touch with everyone. By comparison, those who use services like†WhatsApp, Viber and LINE are usually under 25. This audience is also more engaged on mobile, which only adds to the problems faced by Facebook and co. as they try to get users to download their own apps. While Facebook and Twitter continue to grow, the fact that younger users are not using their apps is cause for concern. The logic is if you manage to hook in this age group, they will continue using the site as they grow older, and will be worth more to both the site and advertisers. Itís not a problem now, but it could be further down the line. AP Photo/Sakchai LalitLINE currently has 300 million users, and itís aiming to grow this figure to 500 million by the end of 2014. How do Facebook, Twitter and Googleís own messaging apps compare? Not so well. Even Facebook Messenger, whose messaging app is one of the better apps out there, feels rigid in comparison to the likes of WhatsApp and Snapchat. Since its messaging services is tied into how their site works, it means it must keep things consistent so that everyoneís happy. Twitter introduced a new update to its Direct Messaging (DM) service in the form of photos. Itís a small step for the site, but itís very unlikely it will appeal to anyone outside of Twitterís main userbase. Google brought hangouts, which has useful features like Hangouts, but that wonít appeal to people not regularly using the service. Itís rumored that Instagram will introduce its own private messaging function tomorrow evening. If it does go ahead with it, itís believed that it could be something similar to Snapchat, the company†Facebook offered $3 billion for last month. Hasnít Instagram/Facebook done something similar before? It did. When Twitter launched its video sharing app Vine back in January, Facebook responded with Instagram video in June. That hasnít gone so well as Instagram has yet to reveal how many videos have been posted throughout the year. The difference between Twitter and Snapchat is the former is one of its main rivals, and Instagram video was a response to Vine. Courtesy of InstagramInstagram introduced video back in June to challenge Twitterís Vine service, but the company has yet to reveal how much itís used.Snapchat just refused a bid from the company so incorporating a image messaging service into an established product would work better than creating a new app from scratch. Instagram introduced video back in June to challenge Twitterís Vine service, but the company has yet to reveal how much itís used. (Image:†Instagram) Couldnít Facebook and co. just change what their messaging apps offer? It could, but if you remember any time these sites changed the layout of its newsfeed, thereís almost always a negative reaction to it ñ Twitter introducing†preview images in October†being a recent example. People donít like change, and that includes changes to apps and services. Anytime a change is made, itís always rolled out gradually so that users are eased into it. While the big sites have their own messaging apps, this reaction means they will always be releasing updates slowly, and therefore playing catch-up with its rivals. Thatís one of the reasons why Facebook bid†$3 billion for Snapchat last month, and why†Google reportedly†bid $4 billion for Snapchat†and†$1 billion for WhatsApp,†showing how important the market is for them. Are these messaging apps even profitable? Some of them are. WhatsApp has an annual subscription fee for users after users are signed up to the service for a year, and says its profitable, while others apps rely on ads or paid content like games or stickers. Unlike Snapchat, these apps already have business models in place so they donít need to accept any bids that might come their way.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd said on Wednesday it is seeking to extend the draw-down period of an $8 billion loan from January next year, a move people familiar with the e-commerce company's plans said would buy it more time to launch an IPO. The original expiry date of the draw-down period on the loan was January 30 of next year, according to the deal terms. Alibaba wants to extend that to December 31, 2014, sources familiar with the discussions said. "We have plenty of cash on the balance sheet and there is no need to draw down at this time, so we are extending the availability of funds to maintain flexibility," the company said, without specifying a new date. Alibaba said the funds will be used for corporate purposes. It has already used $5 billion from the loan facility to refinance its debt. The $8 billion loan is a key part of Alibaba's IPO plan, and the extension to the end of next year signals that the public float is remains a long way off. China's biggest e-commerce firm has struggled to reach an agreement with Hong Kong regulators over a partnership structure it hopes to use as part of an initial public offering (IPO), a deal that expected to be worth around $15 billion and which may take place next year. Public comments by its founder Jack Ma and a statement from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in recent months, however, have raised the possibility of a Hong Kong listing. The company has yet to outline a date or venue for the IPO. Under an agreement with its second biggest shareholder Yahoo Inc., Alibaba has incentives to complete an IPO before December 2015. All 22 lenders involved with the loan must agree to the extension. The banks have until December 20 to respond to the extension request, and those responding in favor before Friday will get an "early bird" fee of $50,000 from the company if the move succeeds. (Reporting by Elzio Barreto and Prakash Chakravarti of IFR/LPC; Additional reporting by Denny Thomas; Editing by Michael Flaherty and Miral Fahmy)
U.S. stock market futures spent most of the morning basically going sideways. But stocks are now selling off early in the trading session. The Dow's down 32 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 4.5 points, and the Nasdaq is down 8.9 points.¬† All of these reflect 0.2% declines. All of this comes after Washington agreed on a budget deal that would prevent another government shutdown. Here's a look at Dow futures via FinViz: FinViz
As market analysts dish their 2014 forecasts, the consensus seems to be that next year will be a significant turning point for the economy. Major "shocks" to the economy ‚Äî fiscal ones from Washington and uncertainty in Europe ‚Äî may be behind us, the thought goes. Still, if there's one area of the economy that has lagged behind, it's the labor market. Stocks have had a banner year, and while that's great for wealthy investors, wages on Main Street continue to stagnate. But in a new report on labor market themes, Morgan Stanley points to two tailwinds that might help bolster the 2014 recovery. On income growth, "Five years into the recovery, the rebound in expectations has underperformed that of prior recessions and¬†there has been only minor improvement in 2013," Morgan Stanley writes. "With significant tax increases and peak fiscal drag behind us, there‚Äôs reason to believe 2014 will be a brighter year for consumers and businesses alike. The positive, self-perpetuating cycle of spending and hiring could begin to take hold and push up income expectations, providing the strong fundamental backdrop needed for a more positive outlook in 2014." Morgan Stanley "Second, state and local (S&amp;L) government jobs have experienced a trend shift to positive growth after five years of substantial weakness," according to the report. "Given the S&amp;L labor force is about seven times greater than the Federal labor force, this growth is enough to offset continued job loss at the federal level and provide a notable tailwind for overall job growth in 2014." Morgan Stanley
Mireya Acierto/Getty ImagesJeffrey Soffer, gallerist Tony Shafrazi and Elle Macpherson attend Art Basel Miami Beach 2013 at the Miami Beach Convention Center$100M suit targets Florida billionaire in Bahamas helicopter crash that killed tax attorney MIAMI (AP) ‚Äî A $100 million lawsuit has been filed against a Florida billionaire over a 2012 helicopter crash in the Bahamas that killed a prominent tax attorney. The widow of attorney Lance Valdez filed the wrongful death suit Monday in Miami federal court against real estate magnate Jeffrey Soffer. He owns the Fontainbleau Hotel in Miami Beach and is CEO of the Turnberry Associates real estate empire, and he's also married to model Elle Macpherson. The lawsuit contends Soffer was piloting the helicopter in November 2012 when it crashed during a landing attempt at the exclusive Baker's Bay Golf &amp; Ocean Club on Great Guana Cay, killing his friend Valdez. Soffer was licensed at the time to fly fixed-wing aircraft but not helicopters, the lawsuit says. It adds he was flying the aircraft even though there was an experienced helicopter pilot on board. "He was recklessly flying and controlling the helicopter at the time of the helicopter crash without an up-to-date and valid helicopter pilot's license," according to the lawsuit. Soffer and four others survived the crash. Macpherson was not involved. Soffer's attorney, Bob Martinez, said in an emailed statement Tuesday that the lawsuit has no merit. "Mr. Soffer denies all the allegations of wrongdoing contained in the complaint," the statement added. It also said Soffer was very sympathetic to the widow and the children "for their grave loss" and that he "still mourns deeply the death of his good friend Lance Valdez." Just before the ill-fated landing attempt, the lawsuit says that Soffer flew over a golf course "and pointed out his house and yacht." The helicopter was a few feet off the ground when it suddenly encountered wind turbulence, jerked back some 75 feet and crashed with the tail section striking first, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit claims Soffer and others covered up the fact that he was at the controls so Valdez's widow, Daria Pastouhkova Gogoleva, and their three minor children would be limited to a $2 million insurance payment. Otherwise, Soffer could be held personally liable for damages. A still-grieving Gogoleva was pressured to sign a release stating that she would not take legal action against Soffer or anyone else aboard the helicopter, the lawsuit added. It says she was falsely told that the licensed helicopter pilot, David Pearce, was the one at the controls when it went down. "Despite being responsible for the loss of his friend, Soffer repeatedly lied to and intentionally deceived Daria about his involvement in the crash in an effort to persuade her to pursue an insurance recovery rather than a claim against him," the lawsuit says. _____ Follow Curt Anderson on Twitter: http://twitter.com/Miamicurt Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
When a company announces quarterly earnings, analysts and investors often focus on the non-GAAP or adjusted earnings number. These adjusted numbers exclude items that management deems not reflective of ongoing operations. For example, if a company has to write-off equipment or the value of certain financial securities, earnings will take a hit.¬† But the adjusted number will add back this negative impact. Critics argue that adjusted earnings obscure the true nature of corporate profitability In a new report examining corporate profits, UBS strategist Julian Emanuel notes argues that earnings quality has improved significantly since the financial crisis. He included this chart of S&amp;P 500 company write-offs, which are down sharply. "Broadly speaking, earnings are cleaner ‚Äì and the big spike in write-offs on 2009 is primarily due to distress in the Financial sector," wrote Emanuel in an email to Business Insider. There's always something being written off in corporate America. More recently, the noise appears to be coming from the basic materials sector, an industry plagued by falling commodity prices and too much capacity. But like Emanuel said, earnings are cleaner. UBS
REUTERS/ Sergei KarpukhinRussia's Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina speaks to journalists after announcing the winner of a public competition to decide the official logo of the Russian rouble in Moscow December 11, 2013.Huge numismatic¬†news today out of Russia today. The country has chosen its new currency symbol. Weeks after Russia announced it would crowdsource five symbol options to its citizenry, the Bank of Russia has revealed the new symbol in an "effort to encourage the use of the ruble in international trade and as a potential reserve currency," the Wall Street Journal's Andrey Ostroukh reports. From the Journal: The winner is the Russian letter R‚Äîwhich looks like a P in Latin script‚Äîcrossed with a horizontal stripe, which took 61% of the more than 284,000 votes, the central bank said Wednesday. The idea of creating a symbol for the ruble to rival the $, ‚Ç¨ and ¬£ signs emerged in the 1990s. The central bank said it had been inspired by the European Union's introduction of the euro. But after Russia defaulted in 1998, talk of creating a symbol waned while the country focused on straightening out its financial affairs. It's definitely a major status upgrade for the rouble, which previously had no symbol. Behold: REUTERS We think the "P" maintains the cyrillic integrity, while the dashed line gives it enough of an "R" feel to indulge international investors. Job well done, Russia. Here were the other options:REUTERS
For now, letís focus on the ones in our US Flow of Funds: Equities. They mostly show that despite record cash flow and cash holdings by corporations, they have been borrowing at a record pace in the bond market. Theyíve been using lots of the cash theyíve earned and borrowed to buy back their shares. Domestic individual investors and foreign investors are also buying more shares through mutual funds and ETFs. Letís review the data: (1) Asset values. The total market value of all equities rose to a record $31.2 trillion at the end of Q3, up $17.5 trillion or 127% from the low during Q1-2009. Over the same period, the Wilshire 5000 Index rose 180% to $19.2 trillion. The grand total exceeds the previous cyclical high during Q3-2007 by 22%. (2) Valuation. The market value of all equities divided by nominal GDP rose to 1.14, the highest since Q4-2000, and well above the historical average of 0.68. Thatís still well below the record high of 1.53 during Q1-2000. (3) Corporate Finance. Corporate cash flow rose to a record $2.3 trillion (saar) during Q3. Liquid assets held by all nonfinancial corporations (NFCs) rose to a record $1.9 trillion at the end of Q3. Yet, the NFCs raised a record $665 billion in net new bond issues over the past four quarters. Apparently, some of those funds must have been used to buy back shares, as net equity issuance was minus $364 billion over the same period. (4) Buyers. During Q3, equity mutual funds and ETFs purchased $411 billion (saar) in equities. Foreigners purchased $47 billion. Institutional investors had net sales of $93 billion. The household sector is a residual in the Fedís FOF accounts, so the buy backs of shares tend to show up as selling by households, which was $400 billion during Q3. So there you have it. The Fedís ultra-easy monetary policy has encouraged corporations to issue bonds at record low interest rates and use some of the proceeds to buy back their shares. Thatís boosted earnings per share and stock prices. Tapering isnít likely to stop all this if bond yields remain low assuming that the Fedís forward guidance convinces investors that the federal funds rate will remain near zero for a very long time. That policy would be even more credible if inflation remains near zero as well. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Go With the Flow.†(1) Whatís next after tapering? (2) How about deflation? (3) Bullard wonders why inflation is so low when the Fed has been so easy. (4) Friedmanís theory isnít passing the latest test. (5) Or is it doing so in Japan? (6) Abenomics boosting profits, but will it trickle down to workers? (7) Fedís latest Flow of Funds report shows record net issuance of corporate bonds. (8) So easy Fed is also driving share buybacks, boosting earnings per share and stock prices. (More for subscribers.)
Flickr via Dow Jones EventsSequoia Capital venture capitalist Jim GoetzIn 2011, Sequoia Capital put $8 million into an obscure messaging app called WhatsApp. The deal was led by Jim Goetz, who also invested in AdMob and Palo Alto Networks.¬†To date, Sequoia is the only venture partner in WhatsApp. The company hasn't raised any more money. WhatsApp is extremely quiet on the PR front. The company doesn't even have a marketing person in place. But it's a massive company that processes more than 27 billion messages in a day. In October, WhatsApp's CEO Jan Koum revealed that the service had 350 million monthly active users, up from 300 million in August. That's bigger than Twitter. The Santa Clara-based company was founded by two former Yahoo employees, Brian Acton and Koum, in 2009. new daily record: 10B+ msgs sent (inbound) and 17B+ msgs received (outbound) by our users = 27 Billion msgs handled in just 24 hours!
IMDB / CBSA new big bang theory. If you will.Online dating grows ever more popular in our digital world.  Dating sites are far more effective if they are capable of matching up people who are actually likely to talk to each other. But the goal of finding good matches is a difficult one. Recently, a research team led by Professor Kang Zhao at the University of Iowa has developed a better algorithm for dating sites to link up singles. Matching heterosexual couples on a dating site is in many ways similar to matching users to movies on Netflix, or matching buyers to products on Amazon. We have two sets ‚Äî men and women, users and movies, buyers and products ‚Äî and we want to find a way to appropriately match up members of the first set to members of the second set. There is, of course, a glaring difference between dating and the other matchings ‚Äî the "targets" being chosen are human beings, and they can choose whether or not to reply. If I want to watch "House of Cards" on Netflix, Kevin Spacey cannot say no to me. If I message an attractive woman on a dating website, it is up to her whether or not to write a reply message. Sites like Netflix and Amazon use a process called collaborative filtering to make movie or product recommendations. The algorithm first compares me to other users, seeing how much overlap there is between the movies I watched and rated highly, and the movies that the other users watched and rated highly. This gives me a similarity score with other users ‚Äî someone who, like me, has recently watched a lot of Star Trek on Netflix will have a high similarity score to me, whereas someone who exclusively watches romantic comedies from the 90s will have a very low similarity score to me. Next, to make recommendations to me, for each movie that I have not seen, the algorithm calculates a score based on how that movie was rated by people with high similarity scores to me. Netflix recommends movies that were highly rated by people who like similar movies to me. In the online dating context, an algorithm can get a good idea of my taste in partners by doing a similar comparison of me to other male users. Another male user of the site will have a similar taste in women to me if we are messaging the same women. However, while this gives the algorithm a good idea of who I like, it leaves out the important factor of who likes me ‚Äî my attractiveness to the female users of the site, measured by who is sending me messages. Zhao's crucial innovation is to combine information about both tastes and attractiveness. The algorithm keeps track of both who I am messaging, and who is messaging me. If a male user has similar taste (he is messaging the same women as I am) and attractiveness (he is messaged by the same women as I am) to me, we are scored as being very similar; if we are similar in one trait ‚Äî if we have similar tastes but attract (or fail to attract) different groups of women, or vice versa ‚Äî we have a moderate similarity ranking, and if we are different on both measures, we are counted as very dissimilar. Similarly, when finding women to recommend to me, the algorithm factors in both sides of the messaging coin. Women who had a back-and-forth messaging relationship with men similar to me are ranked very highly, women who had a one-sided messaging relationship with men similar to me are ranked in the middle, and women who have had no contact on either side with similar men are left out. Zhao and his peers tested their hybrid algorithm, incorporating both taste and attractiveness information, on an unnamed popular dating site, and found that it outperformed a number of other recommender models. The algorithm did a very solid job in recommending potential matches that, if messaged, would message users back. While online dating, like all dating, is still a very uncertain path to finding love, innovations like Zhao's can help dating sites become ever better at matching people up with each other.
Yahoo videoIt is the internet's favourite sharing service for comedy photos and quirky images, but Imgur is now reportedly at the centre of some very grown-up negotiations that could see it bought by Yahoo.¬† Talks between Yahoo and Imgur began this autumn, according to a source talking to Business Insider, but this would be just the latest statement acquisition by¬†Yahoo‚Äôs chief executive¬†Marissa Mayer. Since leaving Google in 2012, Mayer has bought dozens of popular web startups,¬†including paying¬†$1.1bn for blogging site Tumblr and ¬£18m for news app Summly. With more than 100 million users, and generating money through ads and image-hosting services for companies as well as recently tested sponsored images, Imgur would be a significant addition to Yahoo's stable of consumer services. Imgur is an image hosting and sharing site, favoured by users of social media and social news sites including Reddit, Twitter and Digg because of its ease of use and flexibility. It hosts images for free in various formats, including animated Gif files, supported by advertising, with paid-for professional accounts available. Those images are kept online for free, only deleted if the image is not accessed at least once during any six-month period. Users of the site can post comments, use tools to create new images and then share those images with both Imgur users and the wider internet. Despite being written as ‚ÄúImgur‚Äù, the site‚Äôs name is actually pronounced ‚Äúimager‚Äù, which makes sense given it is an image upload, sharing and hosting site. But it seems that almost no one realises that. Imgur was conceived as a side project for ‚Äúan image-hosting service that doesn‚Äôt suck‚Äù by Alan Schaaf, then a computer science student at Ohio University, who was fed up with the slow, laborious and limited image-hosting solutions available at the time. "I got fed up with all the other image hosts out there so I made my own. It doesn't force you to compress your images, and it has neat things like crop, resize, rotate, and compression from 10-100. It's my gift to you. Let's not see anymore imageshack/photobucket around here ;)", said Schaaf in a posting on social news site Reddit at the time. Imgur became wildly popular in a very short space of time, going from thousands of visits a day to millions within five months, mainly fuelled by its adoption by social news sites Reddit and Digg. The rapid expansion meant the donation-funded model Schaaf initially set out with was thrown out the window within three months of launching, instead relying on advertising¬†and merchandising¬†to fund server and running costs. In three short years, Imgur had started to surpass all image hosting rivals, and decided to step operations up a notch by moving the startup company to San Francisco to expand and acquire talent, now operating with a small staff of around 10 employees. Having bounced around various web hosting services including Voxel, Imgur finally landed on Amazon‚Äôs web services platform in 2011, its fifth hosting web hosting service in three years that provided the scale now required. And vast scale is certainly required. In 2012, 300m images were uploaded to Imgur, with 364bn image views and over 42PB data transferred over the internet. As of June 2013, Imgur had grown even bigger, with over 1m images uploaded daily, with 3.5bn monthly views from over 70 million visitors, and recently announced that it had crossed the 100 million user barrier, making Imgur bigger than Reddit. Known for its humorous spirit, Imgur has a history of playing April fools pranks, or activating funny features starting with the ‚ÄúCatification‚Äù released in 2011, which allowed users to instantly add cats to images uploaded to the Imgur site with a single click. Another highlight was the announcement in 2013 that Imgur was implementing a feature where users could upload images using the traditional postal service to ‚Äúappeal to a broad user base which includes film users, the computer illiterate, and those afraid of radiation from scanners,‚Äù something the site eventually honoured, uploading images received via snail mail. The official mascot of Imgur is the¬†Imguraffe¬†‚Äì a giraffe with a top hat and monocle ‚Äì which started life as an April Fools‚Äô Day joke called ‚Äúthe simple Imguraffe sharer‚Äù but was ‚Äútoo cute to give up‚Äù according to the Imgur staff and so was given a permanent position in 2012. The first content creation tool produced by Imgur, the ‚ÄúMeme Generator‚Äù was¬†released in June 2013¬†fostering humorously captioned images, allowing users to apply custom text to a wide variety of images to poke fun at daily life and create new¬†internet memes. The Imgur image fun isn‚Äôt limited to the desktop. Not only does Imgur have a solid mobile website, the site released Android and iPhone apps in 2013, which included the full functionality of the desktop site tailored for the modern smartphone. ‚Ä¢ Summly entrepreneur Nick D'Aloisio explains why he 'maintains a level of humbleness' This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Almost every major economy in the world is wrestling with surprisingly low inflation this year. Some argue this is the big economic story of 2013. Societe Generale's Albert Edwards has been early on this story, warning of deflation as other market skeptics warned of Fed-induced hyperinflation. In his new note to clients, Edwards points to an obscure inflation measure that reinforces his concerns. "Staring catatonically at this month¬ís US Personal Income and Outlays press release I was struck by just how weak an alternative measure of the core PCE deflator it had become," wrote Edwards. "The report says ¬ìthe market-based PCE is a supplemental measure that is based on household expenditures for which there are observable price measures. It excludes most imputed transactions (for example, financial services furnished without payment)¬î, i.e. it excludes prices which the statisticians have to invent!" He noted that this measure was trending below other more popular measures of inflation like core CPI and core PCE, a favorite of the Federal Reserve. But what really concerns him is the more recent moves in the measure. "Most significantly, there has been an unusually wide divergence just recently," he continued. "Whereas the closely watched core PCE deflator has risen by 0.1% in each of the last four months, the market-based measure of core PCE deflator was flat in both October and September. Now we are dealing with very small numbers here, but that still means an annualised rate of inflation was 0.5% rather than 1% (see chart below)." Deflation can be a very scary thing that is very difficult to reverse. Falling prices cause consumers to hold back purchases, which in turn causes prices to fall further. This leads to falling profits, falling wages, falling everything. "If the market had any idea that we were starting to register zeros on this measure, I think there would be panic aplenty," said Edwards. Societe Generale
Many thought that the¬†only logical choice for Time Person Of The Year would be NSA leaker Edward Snowden, but the magazine chose the popular new pope who has criticized modern capitalism. Here's Nancy Gibbs of Time:¬† "At a time when the limits of leadership are being tested in so many places, along comes a man with no army or weapons, no kingdom beyond a tight fist of land in the middle of Rome but with the immense wealth and weight of history behind him, to throw down a challenge. The world is getting smaller; individual voices are getting louder; technology is turning virtue viral, so his pulpit is visible to the ends of the earth. When he kisses the face of a disfigured man or washes the feet of a Muslim woman, the image resonates far beyond the boundaries of the¬†Catholic Church." Here's the cover:¬† Time
REUTERS/ Kevork DjansezianCast members Paul Giamatti and Emma Thompson attend the film premiere of "Saving Mr. Banks," at the Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, California, December 9, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.¬†
REUTERS/Jason Lee Former China's Politburo Standing Committee Member Zhou Yongkang attends the closing ceremony of the National People's Congress (NPC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing March 14, 2012.BEIJING¬†(Reuters) -¬†China¬†has put¬†Zhou Yongkang, one of the most powerful politicians of the last decade, under virtual house arrest while the ruling¬†Communist Party¬†investigates accusations of corruption against him, several sources said on Wednesday. Zhou is the most senior official to be ensnared in a graft scandal since the Communists came to power in 1949. He was the domestic security tsar and a member of the party's¬†Politburo Standing Committee¬†- the pinnacle of power in the country - when he retired last year. Chinese President¬†Xi Jinping¬†ordered a special task force formed in late November or early December to look into several accusations brought against Zhou by political rivals, sources with ties to the leadership told Reuters, requesting anonymity to avoid repercussions for discussing secretive elite politics. "Zhou Yongkang's freedom has been restricted. His movements have been monitored," one source said, adding that he cannot leave his¬†Beijing¬†home or receive guests without prior approval. Zhou is being investigated for violating party discipline, official jargon for corruption, the sources said. They did not say what the specific allegations were. Xi was installed as head of the party just over a year ago, and as president in March, and the investigation illustrates his growing power and confidence that he can manage any rift that may ensue. In ordering the investigation, Xi has broken with an unwritten understanding that members of the¬†Standing Committee¬†will not be investigated after retirement. But Xi has yet to decide whether Zhou would be publicly prosecuted, pending completion of the internal probe, the sources said. Xi has declared war on corruption, vowing to go after powerful "tigers" like Zhou as well as lowly "flies". "Xi has pulled out all the tiger's teeth," a second source said, referring to the downfall of Zhou's men, includingJiang Jiemin, who was the top regulator of state-owned enterprises for just five months until September when state media said he was put under investigation for "serious discipline violations". Jiang was previously chairman of state-owned¬†China National Petroleum Corp¬†(CNPC) -¬†Zhou Yongkang's power base - as well as one of its subsidiaries, oil-and-gas behemoth¬†PetroChina. Zhou served as CNPC's general manager from 1996-1998, having risen through the ranks. "Zhou Yongkang¬†is a toothless tiger and tantamount to a dead tiger. The question is: will Xi skin the tiger?" the source said, referring to a trial. Political analysts say such an indictment and a trial would instill fear in other retired leaders and the party's 80 million members, worsening infighting among rival political factions. Jonathan Fenby, director of¬†China¬†research at analyst group Trusted Sources, said any form of public trial of Zhou would be "potential for embarrassment ... given his long tenure at the top". The¬†Chinese government¬†has neither confirmed nor denied Chinese-language media reports in Hong Kong,Taiwan¬†and the¬†United States¬†that Zhou has been arrested on charges of corruption and other crimes. Zhou and his family could not be reached for comment. It is not clear if they have lawyers. The cabinet spokesman's office, which doubles as the party's public affairs office, did not respond to a request for comment. Zhou was a patron of the once high-flying politician¬†Bo Xilai, who was jailed for life in September for corruption and abuse of power - the worst political scandal since the 1976 downfall of the Gang of Four at the end of the Cultural Revolution. "Xi Jinping¬†and (Premier) Li Keqiang hate¬†Zhou Yongkang¬†as he was the only¬†standing committee¬†member who opposed ousting¬†Bo Xilai. They are gunning for Zhou," said a source who has ties to the military. Bo's career was stopped short last year by the attempted defection of his estranged police chief who implicated Bo's wife in the murder of a British businessman over a business dispute. Bo's wife and his former police chief have been convicted and jailed. "Zhou's men have been sidelined," another source said. "The¬†Central Commission of Political Science and Law¬†has been cleansed of Zhou's men," the source said, referring to the powerful party body once headed by Zhou that oversees the police force, the civilian intelligence apparatus, judges, prosecutors and paramilitary police. The movements of Zhou's eldest son, Zhou Bin, have also been restricted while he helps with the corruption investigation that has implicated Jiang, the regulator of state-owned enterprises. The elder Zhou retired as domestic security tsar and from the¬†standing committee¬†during a sweeping leadership reshuffle last year. During his five-year watch, government spending on domestic security exceeded the defense budget. He was last seen at an alumni celebration at the¬†China University of Petroleum¬†on October 1. He was also among party leaders who offered condolences or sent flowers to the family of a respected educator who died last month, state media reported on November 26. Hong Kong's¬†South China¬†Morning Post newspaper reported in late August that the leadership had agreed to open a corruption investigation into Zhou. But sources with ties to the leadership told Reuters at the time that Zhou was merely helping authorities with the investigation into state energy companies and, contrary to media reports, was not the target then. That changed after Xi ruled that no one was above the law. Zhao Hongzhu, one of the party's top anti-corruption officials, declared in October that anyone who violated party discipline or broke the law would be punished "regardless of who it involved, how much power he has or how high his position is". (This story has been corrected to change "without prior approval" in 4th paragraph) (Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
flickr/dfbA tapir.Morgan Stanley interest rate strategist Matthew Hornbach is tired of the incessant chattering about "the taper" (the moment when the Fed starts to reduce the pace of monthly asset purchases). Whether it happens in December, January, or March is not that big of a deal anymore. Everyone knows it's coming and the ultimate impact of the timing at this point isn't a big deal. So what should you be talking about: Everything else the Fed does while it tapers. What other language tools will it use in conjunction with a slowing rate of asset purchases? His note is several pages long, but here's the key conclusion (which we explain in more detail below): Investors should stop talking about tapering and start talking about potential changes to the rate guidance framework. In our view, the exact timing of tapering should be a secondary concern. What matters is whether the Fed combines tapering with a reduction in the Unemployment Rate Threshold or an introduction in a new inflation floor. The thresholds are all about credibility, so the Fed must understand how each option will impact the marketís perception of its commitments to remain on hold. Our economist's base case is that the Fed pairs a modest tapering with a 50bp cut in the URT. In our view, the risk to that base case is a more aggressive 100bp cut paired with a larger taper. Remember, right now the Fed says it won't consider a rate hike until unemployment falls to 6.5%. The hot new idea, which has been propagated by Goldman and others, is that the Fed will reduce this level to 6.0% at the same time it introduces the taper, so that it can provide some verbal easing even as the pace of asset purchases slows down. And then there's this idea of an inflation floor, which Matthew Boesler wrote about last week. The idea is that the Fed could give more oomph to forward guidance by promising no rate hike as long as inflation was below a certain level. So this is what you should be talking about, not the Dectaper, Jantaper, Marchtaper parlor game.
API would like to announce that it's a new day in Washington.We never thought we'd feel compelled to write a note like this, but after the pathetic dysfunction and partisan grandstanding in Washington DC over the past few years, it's a welcome relief to have the U.S. Congress finally do its job. So, thank you, Congress! Thank you for agreeing to a budget deal without needlessly threatening to cause the country to default, shutting the government down,¬†or otherwise manufacturing a ridiculous crisis that distracts and scares everyone and makes America look like a banana republic. We Americans recognize that you all vehemently disagree about some things. And we are in favor of that disagreement. But we also sent you to Washington to keep the country running. So it's wonderful to see you finally do that ‚Äî by¬†stating your opposing views, compromising, and moving on. Could this be the start of a new era in America? The era of constructive collaboration and compromise? (Or did you all just want to quit work early and head home for the holidays?) We can always hope...
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartSHANGHAI¬†(Reuters) - The price gap between bitcoins trading in Chinese yuan and those sold for other currencies has evaporated in recent days, highlighting the porous nature of¬†China's capital controls. Chinese bitcoin chat rooms buzzed last month as investors noticed that the digital currency as sold on¬†China's biggest exchange was more expensive, in dollar terms, than bitcoins traded abroad using dollars, creating a tempting arbitrage play. Traders could earn profits by buying bitcoins using dollars on a foreign exchange such as Mt. Gox, reselling them for yuan at the higher price on BTC¬†China, the main local exchange, and finally converting the yuan back to dollars. "Insane bitcoin. If you've got dollars, hurry and do arbitrage," a user called 'foxtree' wrote on Weibo, a Twitter-like micro-blogging platform, on November 19, the day the gap peaked at more than 30 percent. A key driver of the price gap was¬†China's capital controls, which make it difficult for speculators to swap yuan proceeds from the sale of high-priced Chinese bitcoins into dollars. "Certainly a portion of the premium on BTC¬†China¬†was a result of the fact that any coins sold would be in RMB, which isn't the most portable currency," said¬†Zennon Kapron, head of Kapronasia, a Hong Kong-based finance and technology consultancy, using an alternate term for the Chinese currency. "So if you did trade that market, getting your money back into another currency is more difficult," he said. In recent days, however, the spread between bitcoins as priced in yuan and those priced in dollars has disappeared. An announcement by¬†China's central bank last week forbidding commercial banks from dealing in bitcoin also contributed to the price decline on BTC¬†China. But analysts say the price convergence also reflects the rapid evolution of the bitcoin market, which began with technology enthusiasts but quickly expanded to include those with the financial know-how to evade¬†China's strict capital controls. A 27-year-old e-commerce professional from the¬†east coast¬†city of¬†Xiamen, who goes by the screen name 'King,' is typical of early-wave amateur punters. He told Reuters that he used RChange, an online currency exchange and payment service based in the¬†Seychelles, to exchange yuan for commercially-operated electronic currencies such as OKPay and EgoPay, which are accepted by several international bitcoin exchanges. But because such currencies carry hefty charges, this method is only profitable when the bitcoin spread is very wide. Recently, as bitcoin has grown in popularity, more sophisticated arbitrageurs have stepped in. Early this month, Chinese media began reporting that investors from Wenzhou, the east coastal city known for its entrepreneurial and speculative zeal, were piling into bitcoin. Wenzhou's famously tight-knit, business-savvy global diaspora has given rise to the adage "Wherever there's a market, there are Wenzhou people" and offers Wenzhou investors ready access to foreign currency. Some bitcoin speculators are also likely resorting to other tried-and-true methods for skirting¬†China's capital controls. The most common is falsified trade invoices, which disguise movements of speculative cash as payments for goods and services. Indeed, unexpectedly strong export growth in November reignited suspicions that official data had been inflated by fake invoicing. Those suspicions centered on the conversion of dollars to yuan in order to profit from appreciation of the Chinese currency. But the same technique has been used to move funds in the other direction. Mis-invoicing in¬†China¬†resulted in illicit outflows worth $3.79 trillion between 2000 and 2011, according to a report last year by Global Financial Integrity, a think tank and advocacy group in Washington. A¬†Shanghai-based fixed income fund manager dismissed capital controls as a barrier to shifting money around. "All of my clients have plenty of money offshore already," he said. (Additional reporting by¬†Shanghai¬†newsroom; Editing by Richard Borsuk)
The technology analyst Benedict Evans recently tweeted the chart below, which is based on data from Enders Analysis.¬† Evans notes that the estimated number of smartphones in use is about to pass the number of PCs in use ‚Äî probably in the first half of 2014. The number of smartphones sold per year blew past PCs sold per year a couple of years ago. But the installed base of PCs is more than 1.5 billion, and they generally last a lot longer than smartphones. Tablets, meanwhile, which will probably start outselling PCs next year, are still a distant third in terms of installed base. Benedict Evans, Enders Analysis In a follow-up tweet, Evans notes that the PC installed base is estimated using 5-year trailing PC sales, while the smartphone and tablet installed base uses 2-year trailing sales. Based on a still-functioning home-office PC from 2005 that I still use occasionally, as well as an only recently deceased iPhone 3GS, both usage lives may be conservative. Here's Evans' tweet: The number of smartphones in use on earth will probably pass the number of PCs in the first half of 2014. pic.twitter.com/2XPQH7xugS
I know it‚Äôs not fashionable to be bearish about anything these days, but I guess I just can‚Äôt kill the old risk manager in me. Given this predisposition, I wanted to highlight some potentially bearish indicators that have been popping up lately. ¬†I‚Äôll highlight three such indicators: 1) ¬†The first indicator is from¬†Thomson Reuters. ¬†It shows the S&amp;P 500‚Ä≤s negative-to-positive guidance trend. ¬†According to TR the current reading for Q4 of 11.4 is at its worst level since they began recording the data. Of course, this sets the bar low for Q4 earnings, but we have to wonder how much this will filter into 2014 earnings where analysts are currently expecting double digit growth. Thomson Reuters 2) ¬†The second chart is the¬†Investor‚Äôs Intelligence¬†bull/bear difference. ¬†This is a sentiment reading that tends to reach extremes when sentiment is heavily skewed in one direction or the other. ¬†The current reading just shy of 40 has not been seen since summer of 2011 before the last significant sell-off. PragCap 3) ¬†The last indicator is a potential indication of how stretched the two above indicators have become. ¬†It shows the S&amp;P 500‚Ä≤s year-to-date return broken down by actual EPS growth and multiple expansion. ¬†Of course, EPS growth is what the actual earnings growth has generated while multiple expansion represents what buyers are willing to pay for this stream of earnings. ¬†As sentiment has soared investors have become increasingly willing to pay for a reduced share of EPS growth. PragCap ¬†Food for thought‚Ä¶. 
Good news: A budget deal was reached last night! Bad news: There's nothing in the agreement to further extend emergency unemployment benefits. It's conceivable that a deal could still be reached on that before next year, but for now the long-term unemployed remain in the lurch. These two charts show why it's a total scandal. The first chart shows the number of unemployed workers divided by the number of available jobs. There's still nearly 3 unemployed workers for each available job, a level that's still worse than the WORST level of the last economic cycle. FRED This next table comes from Michael Strain, a scholar at the conservative (!) American Enterprise Institute. It shows that in the past, special emergency benefits were let to expire when the rate of long-term unemployment was around 1% or less (see the far right column). Currently long-term unemployment is 2.6% a level that's MUCH higher than it was in the past. Michael Strain You can say all you want about how unemployment benefits encourage some people to not work, and at the margins there might be a handful of folks for whom benefits make it compelling not to take a job. But the numbers show that there are still tons of long-term unemployed, and that there are very few jobs out there for them to get.
Now that Congressional leaders have reached a deal on the budget for 2014, there's a distinct lack of big things to be worried about for US investors. Europe doesn't seem to be blowing up. China isn't hard-landing. Washington DC doesn't appear to be on the verge of pushing the self-destruct button. Oil is falling. So we thought we'd throw the question to you.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstGoldman's Alec Phillips weighs in on what the budget deal reached in Washington last night (which still hasn't been voted on or passed) means for the economy. Congressional negotiators have announced an agreement to reverse some of the spending cuts under sequestration over the next two years. Our forecast already assumes a small fiscal deal along these lines, but the spending level for 2014 and 2015 built into the final deal is somewhat higher than we had assumed. If enacted, it would reduce fiscal drag in 2014 by 0.1pp compared with our current expectation. Enacting even a modest deal should also help to ease growing concern about US political dysfunction, particularly regarding fiscal policy. This has practical implications in early 2014, since Congress needs to extend spending authority by January 15 to avoid another government shutdown, and must raise the debt limit again in March. The agreement, if enacted, reduces the already low risk of a shutdown in January, since 2014 spending levels were the main source of disagreement headed into that deadline. This simple chart shows the significance of the budget deal, spending wise: Goldman Sachs For more on the details of the deal, see here &gt;
AP Photo/Steve HelberLeaders in Washington struck a deal yesterday to pass a budget, and not shut down the government. That's good news for the economy in 2014, but it's not translating to much market wise. It's another very quiet day, and it fact things are down a little bit across the board (although not much). The slight redness is seen in European stocks and US stocks. Once again, it remains a quiet week overall as everyone looks forward to next week's Fed decision.
