Green shoots out of China already? China trade data better than expected. Exports +14.7% vs +10.3 f'cast. Imports +16.8% vs 13.9% f'cast. Mkts edging up twitter.com/deeCNBC/status‚Ä¶
There's a rumor buzzing around Australian media that George Soros has made a killing in recent days shorting the Australian Dollar. There doesn't seem to be much to it, other than that someone placed some big anti-Aussie bets at some big brokerages, and the currency fell yesterday after the Reserve Bank of Australia cut interest rates. But the rate decision aside, people have been negative on the Australian dollar for awhile now. The reason? China is slowing and the commodity business is booming, and that should be bad news for the Australian dollar which is tied tightly to both of those things. Michael McDonough of Bloomberg Briefs tweeted out this picture showing the Aussie dollar vs. the RBA Commodity Price Index. While the commodity price index has weakened considerably, the Aussie remains strong. Michael McDonough Anyway, the strength of the Aussie dollar was enough to get the attention of the Reserve Bank of Australia itself, which said in its latest statement: ‚Äúthe exchange rate has been little changed at a historically high level over the past 18 months, which is unusual given the decline in export prices and interest rates during that time‚Äù¬† In a note today, Citi's Steven Englander answered the question of why the Australian dollar is hanging on so well. Basically, commodities are only partly the story. Other aspects include the Chinese currency itself (which has been strengthening) and volatility (which has been low). Low volatility is usually associated with a "risk on" mode, so basically although commodities are slumping, the general mood is bullish, and that's historically good for the currency.
APWarren Buffett is a big fan of Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg's book, "Lean In." It inspired his recent column in Fortune, where he wrote, "we've seen what can be accomplished when we use 50% of our human capacity. If you visualize what 100% can do, you'll join me as an unbridled optimist about America's future." He spoke on gender issues again, this time during a live interview, "Office Hours With Warren Buffett," with career site Levo League, where he shared some great career advice for young women. Here are some of the best quotes from his talk: Stop holding yourself back "I've seen very, very bright women. I use the example of Katherine Graham. ... While she was CEO of The Washington Post, the stock went up [by a lot]. She won a Pulitzer Prize.¬† But she'd been told by her mother, she'd been told by her husband, she'd been told by lots of people that women weren't as good as men in business. It was nonsense."And I kept telling her, you know, 'Quit looking at that fun house mirror. You know, here's a real mirror. You're something.' And as smart as she was, as high grade as she was, you know, as famous as she became, right to her dying day, you know, she had that little voice inside her that kept repeating what her mother had told her a long time ago. So everybody should get a chance to live up to their potential. And women should not hold themselves back. And nobody should hold them back. And that's my message." Demand equal pay "I do very little negotiation with people. And they¬†do little with me, in terms of it ...¬†if I was a woman and I thought I was getting paid considerably less than somebody else that was equal coming in, that would bother me a lot. I probably wouldn't even want to work there.¬† I mean, [if] somebody's gonna be unfair with you, in salary, they're probably being unfair with you in a hundred other ways. I mean who should you spend your time with?" Make yourself known  "[One woman] told me that she went to Harvard Business School. The women just didn't raise their hand as often as the men. I raise my hand all the time. When I didn't even deserve to. So you wanna get over the idea, as I wrote in the [Fortune] article [that] males ‚Äî there's a lot of Wizard of Oz in us. I mean, you get behind the curtain and you'll find out that it wasn't quite that imposing." Know the power of your potential  "Look what's happened since 1776, most of the time, using half our talent. I mean just imagine what's gonna happen when we, you know ‚Äî go full blast with 100%. And you know, it's incumbent on everybody to try and help people ‚Äî particularly if you're in a boss's type position, to help the people achieve their potential.¬† And women have every bit the potential men do."
Another day, another gain for Japan. It's not huge, after surging 3.5% on Tuesday, the Nikkei is up another 0.4% today. Interestingly, the surging Japanese stock market had been associated with a slumping yen, yet recently the yen hasn't been moving (dollar-yen has failed to penetrate the closely watched 100 level). Via Nikkei.com, here's the latest action for both the Nikkei and the yen. FinViz
REUTERS/Beck DiefenbachAfter South Korean exports, often dubbed the global canary in the coal mine came in weak in April, all eyes have turned to China. With global economies still trudging along, Chinese export data is expected to moderate. The strong Chinese export data earlier this year had been attributed to "disguised capital inflows," according to Societe Generale's Wei Yao. Basically, it was reported that exporters were overstating figures to move more yuan onto the mainland. This time around, economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for exports to rise 9.2% year-over-year (YoY) in April, compared with 10% in March. Remember the new export orders sub-index of the PMI report showed a modest decline. Imports are expected to rise 13%, compared with 14.1% the previous month. Meanwhile, the trade balance is expected to widen to $16.15 billion, from a deficit of $0.88 billion in March. Bank of America's Ting Lu expects exports to rise 8% and imports to increase a modest 6%. He expects a trade surplus of $22.8 billion. "With narrowed CNY-CNH spread and tightened customs supervision on export reporting, export growth will likely fall from the artificially high numbers in 1Q," wrote Ting. "Meanwhile, the moderation in import growth mainly reflects the falling commodity prices since Feb." The report is due out tonight or tomorrow.
It's kind of a cliche that this is the most hated stock market rally of all time. There's a huge coterie of folks who grouch about every aspect of the market and the economy (it's all Bernanke's fault! The data is manufactured! Banksters!). As stocks have risen and taken out new highs, it's begun to seem like perhaps the fever has broken, and people are starting to accept that the crisis is over. But if you ever want to disabuse yourself of the idea that people have become serene, just look at the comments on any post about today's now dow high. Josh Brown tweets about the comments on this WSJ story about Dow 15,000. The first 3? All about how everything is a big scam or Ponzi scheme. People still hate this rally. WSJ.com
A†recently detected†error in a study by†Harvard economists†Reinhart &amp; Rogoff†has garnered much attention†in the financial press lately. The study had initially concluded that once a country exceeded†a 90% debt-to-gross domestic product GDP ratio, the pace of economic growth slow sharply. The corrected data reveal that growth slows as debt-to-GDP rises, but at a pace not meaningfully different than at other round numbers. The study raised the issue of whether large amounts of debt are really bad. After waging a war on debt for the past several years, it may be the war on debt itself that may be bad for growth. Credit, or the ability to borrow,†has earned the honor of being recognized as the underlying force for growth of†the past 250 years. Industrialization is often cited as the source of growth†and massive improvement in†GDP per capita†since the mid-1700s. This is true, but what made industrialization possible? The answer,†of course, is the expansion of credit to businesses and individuals who†employed it productively. European colonialism in the 1600s and 1700s expanded†international trade and fostered the creation of financial markets that then†supported and enabled industrial growth in the 1800s and 1900s. As credit<U+2028> became more plentiful, economies began to grow more rapidly,†and living†standards improved. It may seem odd to praise taking on <U+2028>debt in the current environment. Certainly, too much debt is a bad thing for<U+2028> anyone. But too little can be equally disastrous. Lack of spending and <U+2028>investment can become a self-reinforcing downward spiral for an economy.<U+2028> Borrowing can be a good indicator of growth. The pace of loan growth is often a<U+2028> precursor to spending and hiring that drives growth and the markets.<U+2028> Where we see borrowing, we see hope for a brighter future. We may be shunning debt in the wrong places. Unfortunately, we†may†be†shunning†debt†in the wrong places.†While the U.S. government continues to accumulate debt, corporations and consumers have†largely avoided borrowing.†The preference for savings over borrowing can be seen when looking at banksí balance sheets. Banks are not lending at the pace deposits are growing.†There is an unprecedented gap between bank deposits and loans, as you can see in Figure 1. LPL Financial † While borrowing by individuals for home and auto purchases has started to revive over the past year as the Federal Reserve†(Fed)†has†pushed†down financing rates to unprecedented levels, consumers have been hesitant to use their credit cards. This has resulted in core†consumer†spending tracking the meager pace of income growth. LPL Financial Given their high cash balances, businesses have less need to borrow to spend; however, they are hesitant to even spend their cash. Given their†high†cash balances,†businesses have less need to borrow†to spend; however, they are hesitant to even spend their cash.†In total, U.S. businesses over the past 20 years have typically kept between $150 and†$250 billion in cash, or currency and checkable deposits, on hand. Currently, that total is double that average†and continues to soar, as you can see in Figure 3. LPL Financial The return of U.S. R&amp;D to pre-recession levels has not materialized. Importantly,†research and development (R&amp;D)†spending†is weak.†The†return of U.S.†R&amp;D to pre-recession levels has not materialized. The†2013†R&amp;D Funding Forecast†created by†R&amp;D Magazine†using data from the†National Science Foundationís†National Patterns of R&amp;D Resources†data†indicates that, even before accounting for the looming sequester, total U.S. R&amp;D investment in 2013†(most of which is conducted by businesses)†is expected to decline in real dollars, with growth of only 1.2%†compared with an inflation rate of 1.9%.†Lack of investment†can†become a self-reinforcing downward†force on growth. We will be watching the†March†2013†consumer credit report due†to be released†this week†on Tuesday, May 7†for signs that†borrowing†may make a†comeback and drive innovation and growth.†If not, the pace of economic and earnings growth may remain weak or even weaken further and imperil recent gains.
You can read the previous presentations by clicking the links below. Part I: Niall Ferguson ñ The Great Degeneration Part II: Jeff Gundlach ñ Why Own Bonds At All Part III: A. Gary Shilling ñ Six Realities In An Age Of Deleveraging Part IV: Mohamed El-Erian ñ Putting It All Together Part V: David Rosenberg ñ The Potemkin Rally † Here are Dr. Lacy Huntís views. Let's begin by taking a trip back in history. In the 1930's there was a 60% devaluation in the U.S. dollar as the economy struggled with the ongoing depression. Franklin D. Roosevelt felt that the cure for the economic malaise was higher taxes and more spending. Dr. Irving Fisher, famous for his 1929 prediction that stocks had reached a "permantaely high plateau," argued against increasing taxes but was ultimately no match for FDR. The resulting surge in taxes ultimately destroyed economic growth, but in the end, the saving grace for FDR was the entry into WWII.  There are important parallels between then and now. In both cases there has been a major cyclical problem combined with a major debt overhang. In 2013 ñ taxes paid will rise by $275 billion. As a percentage of GDP that increase in taxes paid represents a tax increase of 1.7%. Therefore, if we assume that there is no multiplier effect on those dollars, then there is a strong possibility that nominal economic growth will fall to 2% by the end of the year. This doesn't include any impacts from the spending cuts under the "sequester" or the onset of the Affordable Healthcare Act. The standard forecast for economic growth this year, by both the Federal Reserve and the majority of economists, is that it would be the slowest in the first quarter and then gradually strengthen through the rest of the year. This is absolutely wrong. Tax increases, and ultimately the taxes paid, have a lag effect on the economy. Overall, individuals are reactive ñ not proactive. When tax rates are increased individuals do not immediately adjust for the higher taxes that they will have to pay down the road. Rather they continue their behavior until the impact of the higher tax rates is felt by lower levels of discretionary income. It is then individuals begin to adjust behavior. In the current economic situation we have a loss in the standard of living. Wages, overall, have failed to increase at a rate to even offset inflation and, therefore, an increase in taxes in first quarter will show up as a hit to economic growth in later quarters. In reality, history shows that when there are permanent increases in tax rates the net effect will be a $2 to $3 loss in GDP for every $1 in taxes. This means that an increase of $275 billion in taxes would actually translate to a $550 to an $825 billion dollar drag on economic growth. Moreover, the effect of higher taxes, and the drag on economic growth, will not be contained within just this year but will trail over the next 2 years. As I stated earlier, the impact of higher taxes on consumption is likely to be far more impactful than currently estimated as they come at a time when incomes have not increased.† Real median household incomes have fallen to the lowest level since 1995. Therefore, higher taxes will continue to erode the standard of living which is already strained.  Take a look at the latest employment report for April, 2013. There was no increase in the weekly earnings in the latest employment report. Inside the latest employment report was a new measure in the BLS data called the "wage bill". While the number of jobs increased - the wage bill dropped. This was due to a cut in the hours worked combined with wages that are rising at a pace less than the rate of inflation. "Our present economic situation is nearly unparalleled in American history. An examination of the real economic growth rate of each decade in the United States from 1790 to 2012 reveals the unprecedented sluggishness of our present economic environment. The 1.8% average rise in the thirteen years of this century is less than half of the 3.8% growth rate since 1790. The only decade that witnessed worse economic conditions was, of course, the 1930s."  The current economic malaise explains much about several things such as: The current low, and sustained, levels of economic growth is the primary reason why we are currently experiencing the weakest level of "opportunity" since the depression. Reinhart &amp; Rogoff Were Right Since 2009 we have increased the Federal debt from $9 Trillion to $16.5 Trillion. This in an unprecedented increase over any 5 year period in history. This, of course, begs the question: "When is enough ñ enough?" What these numbers suggest is that the main economic model employed by the Federal Reserve is flawed. We are using the wrong assumptions. In their final forecast for 2011 the Fed predicted a 4% economic growth rate by the end of the year. They turned out to be twice as high as the actual outcome. The same occurred for 2012.  The problem is that there is simply no way to reconcile the optimistic language and forecast as produced by the Federal Reserve with the real economy. The reason that economic growth is not responding to the Fed's monetary policies that because we are currently well above the 260% of total debt to GDP.  Why is this level important? At current debt levels we are no longer productive. Regardless of your personal view point you have to agree that something is amiss. What is debt? "Debt is future consumption denied." When you take on debt it must create an income stream that services the debt and repays the principle ñ when it doesn't; it becomes deleterious to economic growth. There is now a negative feedback loop of increasing debt levels on economic growth. When is enough, enough? "I have no political bias. I am an investment manager and my job is to get the story right. Bad things happen when government debt exceeds 100% of GDP. Four studies published in just the past three years document this conclusion. These studies are highly relevant since OECD figures indicate that gross government debt exceeds 100% in the U.S., Europe, Japan as well as in other OECD member countries. Three of these studies were conducted by foreign scholars and published outside the United States thus avoiding attachment to the unfortunate domestic political debate. Here are the studies, starting with the one with the broadest implications: (1) In Government Size and Growth: A Survey and Interpretation of the Evidence, Swedish economists Andreas Bergh and Magnus Henrekson find a "significant negative correlation" between size of government and economic growth." Specifically, "an increase in government size by 10 percentage points is associated with a 0.5% to 1% lower annual growth rate." (Journal of Economic Surveys, April, 2011) (2) In The Impact of High and Growing Government Debt on Economic Growth, An Empirical Investigation for The Euro Area, Cristina Checherita and Philipp Rother find that a government debt to GDP ratio above the turning point of 90-100% has a "deleterious" impact on long-term growth. Additionally, the impact of debt on growth is non-linear. This means that as the government debt rises to higher and higher levels, the adverse growth consequences accelerate. (European Central Bank, Working Paper 1237, August 2010) (3) In The Real Effects of Debt, Stephen G. Cecchetti, M.S. Mohanty and Fabrizio Zampolli determine "beyond a certain level, debt is bad for growth. For government debt, the number is about 85% of GDP." (Bank for International Settlements (BIS) in Basel, Switzerland, September, 2011) (4) In Debt Overhangs: Past and Present - Post 1800 Episodes Characterized by Public Debt to GDP Levels Exceeding 90% for At Least Five Years, Carmen M. Reinhart, Vincent R. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff confirm that public debt overhang episodes are associated with growth over one percent lower than during other periods, and such episodes lasted an average of 23 years. They write "the long duration also implies that cumulative shortfall in output from debt overhang is potentially massive". (National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper 18015, August 2012) When private debt to GDP rises above 160% to 175% of GDP, growth is also stunted. This argument is also operative since private debt to GDP in the U.S. was 260% of GDP as of the fourth quarter of 2012. The point on private debt is a serious matter since it strikes at one of the core purposes of central banking ñ to promote private credit growth. But this is only valid for normal considerations and not when private debt is excessively high. When private debt is excessive, efforts to promote more private debt are counterproductive, thus the Fed is destabilizing rather than facilitating economic growth. The two major studies on private debt, both completed in the past two years and published outside the United States, bear directly on this issue. The first is the 2011 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) study, Too Much Finance, authored by Jean Louis Arcand, Enrico Berkes and Ugo Panizza. They find a negative effect on output growth when credit to private sector reaches 104% to 110% of GDP. The strongest adverse effects are for credit over 160% of GDP. The second is the 2011 BIS study referenced above. It finds that these negative consequences, or what the BIS economic advisor Cecchetti refers to as the point at which debt levels turn "cancerous", start at 175% just slightly more than the UNCTAD study." The point here is that regardless of the current debate - Reinhart and Rogoff were right. What all of the studies have shown is that Debt to GDP rises above 90-100% it becomes deleterious to economic growth. However, when debt to GDP rises above 100% you begin to get negative returns (Phillip Rother and Christina Checherita study) There are 4 linkages to between changes in government debt and economic growth. It is clear, from all of the available evidence that higher debt levels are leading to weaker economic growth.† There have been 26 episodes since the 1800's where government debt exceeded the economy. In 23 of those cases it led to lower economic growth rates.† Furthermore, in each of these cases, there has been a negative impact to output when private sector debt rise above 160%. This is why 260% (100% of Federal Debt To GDP + 160% of private debt to GDP) of total debt is the level at which the economy experiences a negative impact. The problem longer term is that extreme over-indebtedness has historically led to higher inflation in advanced economies. It is one thing when one country is over indebted as there have been other countries that have been able to step up and bail them out. It is quite a different story when virtually every advanced economy is over indebted as there is no one left to step in. Irrationality Credible academic research indicates that economic growth deteriorates when debt to GDP reaches critical levels - a condition that has now been met in countries that represent 75% of global GDP. When this reality is coupled with the Fed's inability to create money growth or inflation, the result will invariably be slow nominal GDP growth. The financial and other markets do not seem to reflect this reality of subdued growth. Stock prices are high, or at least back to levels reached more than a decade ago, and bond yields contain a significant inflationary expectations premium. Stock and commodity prices have risen in concert with the announcement of QE1, QE2 and QE3. Theoretically, as well as from a long-term historical perspective, a mechanical link between an expansion of the Fed's balance sheet and these markets is lacking. It is possible to conclude, therefore, that psychology typical of irrational market behavior is at play. This suggests that when expectations shift from inflation to deflation, irrational behavior might adjust risk asset prices significantly. Such signs that a shift is beginning can be viewed in the commodity markets. The CRB Commodity Index peaked about two years ago at 691, but now stands at 551, a 20% decline despite massive Fed balance sheet expansion. The ability of the Fed to arrest a downside irrational move in risk assets may be limited. Non-risk assets, such as long dated U.S. treasuries, should benefit from this shift in perception. "Ladies and Gentleman, the problems have not been solved, they have merely been contained." The one common ingredient to all panics historically has been over-indebtedness.
Wikimedia CommonsBarnard College officials are reportedly investigating an alleged cheating scandal in the school's English department, Columbia campus blog Bwog reports. According to Bwog, students in the class "allegedly¬†passed answers back and forth and confirmed responses on their phones during regular reading quizzes, which consisted of basic poem identifications." The senior lecturer teaching the class reportedly let students "self-grade" their quizzes, and became suspicious when the majority of students in the 123-person class received grades of 90 or better. Making this alleged scandal even worse, the class ‚Äî¬†Major English Texts II ‚Äî¬†is "notoriously easy," according to Bwog.¬† No Barnard students have been expelled or faced disciplinary action, but the class instructor did call for "witnesses and confessions during class," Bwog reported. The registrar and dean are reportedly investigating. It's not the first time in recent memory that accusations of cheating have plagued a top school. Last year, 125 Harvard students were investigated for cheating in an undergrad government class; many wound up temporarily withdrawing from school. Barnard Vice Provost Hilary Link sent us this statement: The College takes all allegations of cheating seriously. In this particular situation, college procedure was followed in that the professor, in consultation with relevant committees and her department chair, discounted quizzes because of a serious concern that academic integrity may have been compromised. In accordance with college policy, the professor supplemented the course assessment with a final exam. To date, no Barnard students have been identified as having cheated.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from†Business Insider†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Wall Street's 'Perma-Wrong Record Is Intact' (Josh Brown) Chris Kimble at Kimble Charting Solutions points out that since August 13, 2012, the S&amp;P is up 16%. He also points out that now the average Wall Street strategist's stock allocation is at 49%, below the average over the last 15 years. "The funniest thing ever is how Wall Street has this reputation for being permanently bullish and always sucking people in - and miraculously, unbelievably, they've managed to be not so bullish (even bearish) in the aggregate during one of the most powerful rallies of all time," writes Josh Brown. Kimble Charting Solutions The Number Of Financial Advisors In The U.S. Will Keep Falling (Investment News) The number of financial advisors in the U.S. fell 1.3% or by 4,000 in 2011,† according to Cerulli Associates. This number is expected to fall by another 18,600 over the next five years. Independent broker dealers and registered investment advisors that largely rely on wirehouses and investment advisors to train new talent, have to figure out a new way to train them. The number of financial advisors is expected to fall from 316,109 in 2011, to 297,515 at the end of 2016. Tobias Levkovich Thinks Stocks Will Go Higher This Summer (Citi) The S&amp;P 500 is in higher territory now than it was during the credit bubble but this doesn't necessarily mean a sell-off is near. Citi's Panic/Euphoria model argues that when investors are panicking its a good time to buy and vice-versa. Citi's Tobias Levkovich writes that stocks could continue to rise this summer.  "[O]ne can see that as the markets have broken into new high territory, investors have become more worried given that the readings have slid deeper into neutral territory. "In our minds, this would imply that share prices can move even higher in the near term and an S&amp;P 500 overshoot to 1,650-75 is plausible by the summer followed by some giveback later in the year." Citi Research Advisors Join Morgan Stanley Wealth Management (The Wall Street Journal) Alissa Carloss formerly with Stifel Nicolaus and Paul Bagnato formerly with Wells Fargo Advisors have joined Morgan Stanley's wealth management unit. Carloss joins the Jackson, Tennessee office, and Bagnato is joining the Mount Kisco N.Y. office. The two had managed a combined $300 million in assets. Investors Are Telling Themselves 3 Things To Explain The Divergence Between Stocks And The Economy (Bank of America) Stocks are heading higher despite weaker than expected economic data. Investors don't seem care about data anymore and this Bank of America's David Woo says is for three key reasons. 1. While a data shows a slowdown, it doesn't suggest a sharp decline in growth, "bad news is not bad enough." 2. The Fed will continue to be accommodative. 3. The impact of the U.S. fiscal tightening is temporary and once it eases the U.S. economy will come out strong.
Flickr/ United Nations PhotoWith the stock market regularly rallying to new all-time highs, traders and investors are all but certain that some stocks are overpriced and doomed to fall. In his new U.S. Monthly Chartbook, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin compiled a list of 40 stocks that are trading well above Goldman analysts' price targets. Most of these stocks fall under the technology category. Of these stocks, 11 would have to tumble by more than 20% to get back to Goldman's estimate of fair value.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAccording to a new regulatory filing, Carl Icahn bought 611,354 shares of Herbalife on May 3. This comes just days after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and guidance. The new purchase increases his stake of the company to 16.48%, up from 15.89%. Icahn made his big move into Herbalife after hedge fund giant Bill Ackman accused the company of being an illegal pyramid scheme. Ackman has said his price target for the company is $0. Herbalife shares are currently up 3% in after-hours trading.
This happened during the Value Investing Congress in Las Vegas last night...¬† [Via NetNet]
Treehugger.com/PSE&GMars Corp.'s New Jersey solar arrayLast week, Massachusetts announced it had reached its goal of obtaining 250 megawatts of power ‚Äî enough to power multiple mid-sized cities ‚Äî four years early. It's another sign that, as we've recently discussed, solar is booming.¬† The main reason is China, which has so thoroughly flooded the global market with cheap parts that today, Europe slapped them with a new tariff. As Bloomberg's Bruce Einhorn wrote last year, "China‚Äôs solar panel industry has become the world‚Äôs biggest thanks to a simple formula: Produce in China, sell in Europe." But there are other signs that solar power is set to take off. We've compiled some of them here.
Earnings came in at $0.76 per share, which was higher than the $0.73 expected by analysts. Comparable store sales grew by a healthy 6.9%. Management raised its full-year EPS outlook to a range of $2.86 to $2.89, up from $2.83 to $2.87. The stock is up over 8% right now. Management also announced a 2-for-1 stock split.
According to Bloomberg, the retailer posted preliminary revenue of $2.64 billion versus estimates for $2.73 billion. Comp store sales are down 16.6%, according to Bloomberg. The stock is up 2% in after-hours trading. Here's the release:¬† J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Reports Selected Preliminary Fiscal First Quarter Financial Information Company Expects to Report Full Quarterly Financial Results on May 16, 2013 PLANO, Texas (May 7, 2013) -- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) today released preliminary unaudited selected financial information for its fiscal first quarter ended May 4, 2013. The Company is providing this information in connection with its previously announced proposed senior secured term loan financing transaction. Given the Company's fiscal first quarter ended three days ago, the information that follows is preliminary and based upon information available as of today. The Company expects to release its full fiscal first quarter results on May 16, 2013. As of the date of this release, the Company has not completed its financial close process for the quarter. During the course of that process, the Company may identify items that would require it to make adjustments, which may be material, to the information presented below. As a result, the estimates below constitute forward-looking information and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including possible adjustments to preliminary operating results. Preliminary Unaudited Financial Disclosures  For the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, jcpenney anticipates total sales of approximately $2.635 billion, a decrease of approximately 16.4 percent from $3.152 billion in the same period last year, and a comparable store sales decrease of approximately 16.6 percent for the quarter compared to the same period last year. The sales decline in the first quarter is partially attributable to construction activities in connection with the transformation of the home departments in 505 stores. The Company noted that results for the quarter also reflect its prior pricing and marketing strategies, which are being changed under new leadership. The Company estimates cash and cash equivalents to be approximately $821 million as of May 4, 2013. Total debt is expected to be approximately $3.818 billion as of May 4, 2013, including amounts outstanding on the revolving credit facility of $850 million, long-term debt of $2.868 billion, and capital leases and notes payable of $100 million.
e_calamar / FlickrIt was another quiet day during what's expected to be a very quiet week. Meanwhile, the stock market continues to climb off the charts. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,056, +87.3 pts, +0.5%S&amp;P 500: 1,625, +8.4 pts, +0.5%NASDAQ: 3,396, +3.6 pts, +0.1% And now the top stories:
Some cool charts from Rob Grunewald and Dulguun Batbold†at the Minneapolis Fed: they've plotted distance from ground zero of North Dakota's shale oil boom, the Bakken formation, against unemployment and wages (via FTAlphaville). They show that the further you get, the higher the former, while the latter moves lower. First, here's the region we're talking about: Minneapolis Fed The larger the concentric circle you live in, the more likely you are to be unemployed... Minneapolis Fed And have lower wages:Minneapolis Fed Here are their comments: Wage growth in the Bakken began to separate from other counties in 2004 and accelerated after 2005, the start of the oil boom (see Chart 1). But wage growth in counties up to 100 miles away from the Bakken didnít separate from other non-Bakken counties until 2009. Unemployment rates across these areas looked quite similar in 2003 and continued lower in a fairly tight band until about 2008. But a notable divergence sprouted in 2009. While rates went up across the board, they rose faster in relation to the distance from the Bakken. Beginning in 2010, unemployment rates started falling, but did so much faster in Bakken counties, and there is now a much wider spread of unemployment rates that adhere very closely to the distance from the Bakken. And the chart showing the exact correlation, which the researchers say "has been growing strong over time."† Minneapolis Fed
AP ImagesWal-Mart is said to be choosing between two internal candidates to succeed CEO Mike Duke.¬† Duke's departure isn't imminent, but could be announced in a few months, according to Renee Dudley at Bloomberg News.¬† The largest U.S. retailer is reportedly interviewing international chief Doug McMillon and U.S. executive Bill Simon, according to Dudley.¬† Duke had worked at Wal-Mart for years when he took over in 2009. The mega-brand likes to hire executives from within.¬† McMillon started working at Wal-Mart when he got a summer job there in 1984. Simon joined the brand in 2006.¬† Both alleged candidates are highly qualified to take the helm.¬† While McMillon has largely spearheaded the brand's international expansion, Simon is often credited with luring weary U.S. consumers back in stores.¬† Wal-Mart just reclaimed the top position on the Fortune 500.¬†
Jay Leno was kind enough to cite us on the "Tonight Show" last night. Jay enjoyed our story about Taco Bell secretly developing a new "low-end menu." He had the same reaction to this news as we did. Enjoy! (Our segment starts around the 1 minute mark, after the Reese Witherspoon joke). 
CNBC's Michelle Caruso-Cabrera ripped into the New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman this morning on "Squawk Box" accusing him of not knowing the facts relating to a lawsuit against Bank of America and Wells Fargo over mortgages.† Then, she laid into him again on "Power Lunch."† "I think the situation spoke to a larger question about the Attorney General himself. He's†known as a†crusader.†A†lot of people on Wall Street are†understandably critical of him.†They wonder if he's gone to the†Eliot Spitzer School of Advancement, you know, he wants to make a big name for himself and move on to a higher office.†And when he doesn't†necessarily know the facts of the case, that he's presented in†the press release, it makes you†wonder if he's just using them†as some kind of pawn in order to†advance himself," Caruso-Cabrera said. Watch the original exchange and reaction below:† 
Flickr / orphanjonesU.S. consumer credit data for the month of March are out. Total credit expanded only $7.966 billion in March to $2.76 trillion in total. Economists predicted it would expanded by $15.6 billion after an upwardly-revised $18.629 billion rise in February. Revolving debt ‚Äì credit cards and the like ‚Äì actually fell by $1.71 billion. Nonrevolving debt ‚Äì auto loans, student loans, and the like ‚Äì rose by $9.68 billion. Of that, federal government lending to consumers, almost all of which is for student loans, expanded by $3.9 billion. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Business Insider recently tried to create a list of Yale Law's most impressive students, but outraged students banded together to thwart us. To create the list, which came after a similar BI feature of Harvard Law students, we reached out to the heads of Yale Law student groups for nominations. Little did we know that this kind of "resume porn" would prove so offensive to students at America's best law school. Here's the pitch that irked so many Yale students: We are looking for people with interesting accomplishments, strong leadership on campus, fascinating life stories, or anything else you think is incredible and noteworthy. Here's one response we got: Thanks, but no thanks. I understand what you guys are trying to do and I'm sure it's very good for BI's business, but your project strikes me as¬†against the community spirit of Yale Law School, so I'd rather not participate. Here's another: Every one of my classmates at Yale Law School has been a true exemplar of leadership and accomplishment, and there are more fascinating life stories here than I can count. As such, I am not comfortable distinguishing people for a most impressive feature, and indeed one of the strengths of YLS and its culture is the high caliber of each student in attendance. One student told others on a school listserv to "Watch out!"¬†Another¬†suggested giving us bogus names.¬†Another called for a "boycott" ‚Äî and apparently his classmates complied. Except for a few positive responses, we got nowhere. This reaction seems peculiar to Yale Law, as we got nothing but positive responses when contacting students at Harvard Law, Harvard Business School, and various undergraduate colleges. Yale Law promotes itself as a place where "a spirit of collaboration reigns."¬†Students don't get grades, as all classes are honors/pass/low-pass ‚Äî that's right, no failing. Yale Law students are all the most impressive.
The S&amp;P 500 is higher today than it was during the height of the dotcom and credit bubbles. Does this mean investors should brace for a sell-off? Not necessarily.† Especially if you believe in the contrarian signals sent by sentiment. "The rallyís resilience would argue that investors are upbeat but the data does not support the premise," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients yesterday.† "While stock prices break into new highs, there has been little in the form of embracing it by fund managers as defined by various metrics. Earnings have been a very important driver for shares as they have been for years, but there does not seem to be a belief system in place that things are anywhere near sustainable in the face of global economic uncertainties and even some increasing geopolitical concerns." Citi's proprietary Panic/Euphoria model has a pretty good track record for sending accurate buy and sell signals based on its reading of investor sentiment.† When the model says investors are panicking, then it's time to buy.† When they're euphoric, it's time to sell. "[O]ne can see that as the markets have broken into new high territory, investors have become more worried given that the readings have slid deeper into neutral territory (see Figure 1)," wrote Levkovich. While the model doesn't scream buy, Levokovich's interpretation is still quite bullish. "In our minds, this would imply that share prices can move even higher in the near term and an S&amp;P 500 overshoot to 1,650-75 is plausible by the summer followed by some giveback later in the year." Citi Research
"Assault on Wall Street," a new movie from director Uwe Boll, hits theaters for limited release on Friday. Below is the synopsis, via Rotten Tomatoes: A security guard for an armored truck, Jim (Dominic Purcell), is a blue-collar New Yorker who works hard to earn a living. His wages support himself and his wife Rosie (Erin Karpluk), who is on the upswing recovering from a near-fatal illness. Yet things start to fall apart after Rosie's health insurance stops covering her treatment and Jim's life savings are lost via a disastrous investment his stockbroker had advised him to make. As a row of professional and personal dominoes falls, Jim is¬†confronted by the realization that, after being abused and exploited by financial institutions for far too long, he has only one choice: to strike back. From the mind of notorious German writer/director Uwe Boll (House of the Dead), ASSAULT ON WALL STREET is excoriating look at the American financial system that is sure to stir up plenty of Occupy-esque sentiment. Watch the trailer below. 
Right now, the Wall Street Journal is inviting readers to Tweet them their mustaches using #wsjmustache, in connection with a trend piece on the rise of mustache transplants in Turkey (we strongly recommend you read the piece, by Joe Parkinson). We're always curious about what different readerships look like. So we've decided to take it upon ourselves and dip into the Journal's Twitter feed and see what they look like.¬† Here are the results so far: Something doesn't quite match here: #wsjmustache¬†twitter.com/beamandcoke13/‚Ä¶ This one's a bit of a stretch: @omgiony @wsj #WSJmustache twitter.com/Benstollman/st‚Ä¶ @wsj @sarasmith109 Making a comeback! #WSJmustache twitter.com/stevenlyles201‚Ä¶ @wsj #WSJMustache Pratik Mishra, 7/5/2013, 10:59 PM, Mumbai, India twitter.com/baymatlab/stat‚Ä¶ Done and done - here's my contribution to #WSJmustache. @wsj twitter.com/zacholdenburg/‚Ä¶ @alldaydotcom #wsjmustache twitter.com/JacqMeyer/stat‚Ä¶ @odamanize #wsjmustache #howdoilook twitter.com/odamanize/stat‚Ä¶ #wsjmustache #howdoilook twitter.com/odamanize/stat‚Ä¶ This guy's got a decent 1850s vibe going: #WSJMustache#handlebar twitter.com/Pottsburg/stat‚Ä¶ @wsj #wsjmustache twitter.com/sjmurphysr/sta‚Ä¶
Robert JohnsonSorry, big tobacco.† "Smoking"†e-cigarettes†is infinitely better than smoking the real thing. I used to be a cigarette smoker. Now I'm what you might call an early adopter of e-cigarettes. I've been "vaping"†("vaping" is short for vaporizing, and is what the kids are calling smoking e-cigarettes these days)†for about one year and four months.† This is what I've learned.† Feeding the addiction Make no bones about it, e-cigarettes provide users with a means of feeding an addiction. The delivery method is different from smoking or chewing, but the end result is essentially the same. You're still after a nicotine fix and puffing away on an e-cig provides it. Though with an e-cigarette, that fix is provided via inhaled, atomized, nicotine-infused water vapor instead of smoke. If you're addicted to nicotine and an e-cigarette smoker, not using an e-cig for a period of time results in the same withdrawal symptoms as not smoking a cigarette.† Cost, where to buy, and brands Some of the most commonly purchased and visible brands of e-cigarettes found in New York City convenience shops and online are Eonsmoke,†Logic,†Blu†(Stephen Dorff endorses, so e-cigs still have a way to go in the coolness factor), and†Puf Cigs.†They offer a variety of nicotine levels in a variety of flavors like mint, tobacco, and watermelon that are meant to cater to light or heavy smokers.† E-cigarettes can be purchased as one-time use, typically for $10 a pop, which is supposed to be good for around 400 to 900 "puffs" and provide the nicotine equivalent of a pack and a half to three packs of cigarettes.† Rechargeable e-cigarettes can also be bought along with refill packs that contain the "juice." The Logic's rechargeable e-cigarettes cost $20 and a pack of five refills costs the same. Robert JohnsonAtomizer and refill cartridge. Robert JohnsonTwist them together and you're ready to vape. Compare this to the high price of cigarettes in New York City ó around $12 a pack ó and this seems like a complete bargain. In other cities where the cost of a pack of cigarettes is much lower, it might not seem like such a great deal.† E-Cigarettes are easy enough to find in New York City and just about any corner shop carries them. They can also be found at some RITE AIDS and CVS stores. Specialized†Vape shops†have started popping up, and there is a growing community of hardcore vapers out there who are into creating their own "juice" (nicotine liquid) and vape delivery systems.† But on a last-minute-trip to California last year, out of four gas stations and convenience stores that I visited, none had any e-cigarettes. Zero. I ended up buying a pack of Camels. So finding them can be hit or miss, and if you're trying not to smoke, being put in a situation where you can't find an e-cigarette is an easy way to relapse back to smoking. That's what happened to me.† The availability can be an issue depending on where you live.† Fuzzy nicotine math Inhaling on an e-cigarette and the resulting buzzy satisfaction can vary greatly depending on the brand used, the nicotine content of the liquid, and the user's tolerance. My brand of choice as of late has been the Logic rechargeable with refills. On a typical week I'll go through about five refill cartridges of "extra high" nicotine volume, which I suppose would put me at about just over two packs a day if worked out to regular cigarettes. When I was smoking cigarettes, I would smoke maybe a half pack a day. But I'm not convinced I'm getting more nicotine per day puffing on e-cigarettes than I would if I were smoking cigarettes.† This is because my e-cigarette inhaling habits vary wildly and I suspect the nicotine levels also vary from e-cig to e-cig and refill to refill. It is easy to suck on one of these things all day, like an adult pacifier. It's also easy to take inconsistent drags, and each brand has a different draw. Also, the lower the battery the harder you have to draw on the e-cig to get a proper hit. Where you can (and can't) smoke You can legally vape just about anywhere, but if you're planning on vaping in places where regular smoking isn't allowed, be prepared to feel awkward. It would feel similar to wearing Google Glasses with a little red RECORD light on. People know you're doing something annoying and possibly invasive, they just don't know what it is.† Puffing away in a packed movie theater is awkward. You become the center of attention for the wrong reasons. Same thing in a restaurant. If you want uncomfortable attention, pull out an e-cigarette and start puffing during dinner. After the confused stares, you'll have to explain to somebody what you're doing. At a former employer, one of my colleagues in the newsroom (not me, I swear) had quit smoking and taken up e-cigarettes. He tried to discreetly†puff them in the newsroom. Didn't last long. Somebody submitted an anonymous complaint saying that it made them feel uncomfortable, so he was forced to go hide somewhere and be banished like a regular smoker.† He later went back to cigarettes.† But walking down the street and knowing that the smoke you're blowing isn't actually smoke, but vapor, isn't going to cause any passersby any risks, or anger them or make you feel like a schmuck, is liberating. There's no smell, you don't get nasty looks on the street for vaping an e-cigarette. † Rob JohnsonDon't want nasty looks for smoking? Here are your alternatives.  The biggest benefit is using an e-cigarette in your own home and not stinking up the house or yourself with real cigarettes. You don't have to go outside. Your clothes don't smell. You can sit there and do whatever it is you're doing while puffing away, no harm no foul. No house fires for smoking in bed. No giving your loved ones cancer from second-hand smoke. Quite a good deal.† Teething problems Prepare to gnaw. There is a tendency to want to just leave an e-cigarette in your mouth instead of using the smoking motion of a regular cigarette. Smelly smoke doesn't blow in your eyes and face and you can just go to town and suck vapor as much as you want. By the time you're done with a refill, it can look like it was attacked by small rodents.† After over a year of consistent use I haven't had any teeth problems even with the gnawing. My teeth are actually whiter and my gums in better shape than when I was smoking.† Speaking of benefits I can breathe again. My lung capacity has seemed to increase back to a reasonable level for a human. I don't get out of breath. I don't smell like grandma's stale curtains. My contact lenses tend to last longer because smoke isn't blowing into my eyes. My wife kisses me more because my breath doesn't smell like smoke. In many ways, e-cigarettes are a revelation.† What isn't a revelation is the battery life or reliability of the brands commonly found. USB battery chargers bust. The one-time-use e-cigarettes seem to vary as to how many puffs you actually get per use, and there is a very good chance that you can fall off the wagon and begin smoking again.† Official FDA research as to the long-term health effects of using e-cigarettes is lacking, but that's likely to change as more people take up vaping.† What there is plenty of, though, is research into the effects of smoking regular cigarettes. As the lesser of two evils, e-cigarettes are the way to go, and that is a belief that will be hard for me to shake unless somebody other than big tobacco is able to come up with a study proving e-cigarettes are as bad for people as cigarettes. As an alternative to smoking or chewing tobacco, it would be hard for me to not recommend e-cigarettes. As something you should just start doing for the heck of it? Not so much. The best bet is to just not get started with nicotine in the first place, but for those smokers out there looking for an alternative besides the patch, gum, or drugs like Chantix, e-cigarettes are an easy sell.
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderInvestors will be gathering at Lincoln Center on Wednesday afternoon for the 18th annual Sohn Investment Conference.† Some of the world's top hedge fund managers will be sharing their top picks and investment views at the highly-anticipated industry event that benefits the treatment of pediatric cancer and other childhood illnesses. Speakers at this year's event include, Kyle Bass (Hayman Capital), Jeff Gundlach (DoubleLine), Bill Ackman (Pershing Square), David Einhorn (Greenlight) and Paul Singer (Elliott Management), just to name a few.† In the meantime, let's review how last year's investment ideas did. †These stock picks were presented on May 18, 2012.† The performance numbers are based on yesterday's stock market close. † Here's a rundown of last year's picks and performance:† The winners:† The losers:†
APIt's been just four months since Ted Cruz took office as the junior Republican Senator from Texas, but the Tea Party darling has already challenged Washington to a fight ‚Äî and gotten it.¬† Brash, borderline arrogant, but undeniably whipsmart, Cruz has rankled Democrats and delighted Republicans with his take-no-prisoners, make-no-compromises approach to legislating. His popularity has skyrocketed among a conservative base starved for excitement after enduring milquetoast moderates like Mitt Romney and John McCain. "Republicans love him because he's honest, because he's not afraid to take on the Establishment," said Vincent Harris, a digital strategist who works with Cruz. "He's energetic and Republicans are just tired of people who are going along to get along ‚Äî that is the antithesis of Senator Cruz."¬† "He's conservative and he's not afraid to talk about ‚Äî and he's not afraid to even say and do things that people in the Beltway aren't used to," Harris added. "It's exciting and refreshing."¬† Democratic strategist James Carville called Cruz the most fearless and talented Republican in 30 years. Already, rumors are circulating that Cruz is considering a presidential bid in 2016. That would be an audacious move for the young Senator, particularly considering questions about his eligibility. (Cruz was born in Canada.)  But a brief look at his past ‚Äî and his rapid ascent to national political stardom ‚Äî reveals that Cruz usually gets what he wants.¬†
Some of you may have†heard or read about the current state of the real estate market in China, often covered in a sensationalistic way, with talk of ìghost citiesî and ìbubblesî ready to burst and so forth. These types of reports can cause quite a jolt in the market, which is what we saw happen, probably not coincidentally, after a popular US television newsmagazine aired a somewhat negative report in March. But as Iíve said many times before, thereís often more to a story; important parts can end up on the cutting room floor. I was in China a few weeks after the aforementioned television report of the countryís ìghost citiesî and the supposed real estate bubble ready to burst there, and was surprised to pick up the newspaper with the headline ìProperty Prices Rising.î The article didnít mesh with what the Western media was reporting about the situation. So whatís the truth? No question, there are towns (some city-like) with empty buildings for the world to see. And, there certainly have been cases of poor planning and overbuilding. But as my team and I traveled around China, it was clear to us that those represent a small sample of projects and not the country as a whole. Myths and Realities  One of the reasons there are unoccupied apartments or homes in China is because many Chinese treat investing in property as a means of saving rather than putting money in the bank at low interest rates, or investing in the stock market, which many consider too risky. Property is something they can see and perhaps eventually use for themselves or their children. And given the very high savings rates in China, there are many who are able to pay cash for property investments and sit on empty apartments indefinitely. More importantly, families across China need and demand affordable housing near work and school centers. The so-called ghost cities are fairly easy to identify, and Ordos in the Inner Mongolia province is probably the most famous. Ordos has very rich mineral resources and the highest GDP per capita in China. Since the Ordos government became very wealthy on the back of a booming economy, it poured a lot of money into infrastructure and public projects, including a new town 25 kilometers from its old town in a sparsely populated desert area known as the Kangbashi New District. The New South China Mall in the Guangdong Province is another so-called ìghost city.î Itís located on the outskirts of Dongguan, which once was called the ìworldís factoryî because of the large number of labor-intensive toy, garment, textile and other industries located there. But as wages rose, the factories started moving inland to smaller cities where wages were lower and workers plentiful. Since migrant workers once accounted for 80% of the population, when they departed, the mall designed with them in mind became useless. In addition, Dongguan lies between Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong Province on the west, and Shenzhen, another new city on the west, both more popular destinations for shoppers. In the Tianjin Municipality, Yujiapu is another ìghost city.î Local officials planned to make it a key financial center, the ìManhattanî of China, but with Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and Hong Kong competing, their chances turned out to be slim. The RMB 450 billion in government loans used to launch the project will not be easy to repay. Those places are the exception, not the rule. We must remember that China has a population of over a billion people, an urban population of about 700 million and 100 cities with over one million people. You just have to walk the streets of its cities, as we have done, to realize that there is a plethora of substandard housing and a need for urban renewal. For the right price and location, there is tremendous demand for housing in China. Apartments for sale in the US$50,000 range are affordable for many Chinese workers. With some 18 million people migrating to the cities each year and with real economic growth of 8% expected in 2013 and 8.2% in 2014,1 we think you could make a case for continued demand in this area. The government continues to plan for great urbanization and anticipates some 300 million more people will move from the rural areas into cities in the next 10 years. If we assume that each person needs a minimum of 10 square meters of living space, this trend represents a potential demand of more than three billion square meters. Many older buildings also need replacement, so that figure could magnify if even-roomier dwellings are considered. I have seen how quickly investor sentiment can shift, and I have oftentimes found that when everyone else is panicking about some news headline, potential bargains can be unearthed. Chinaís new administration is now just getting its game together and I think weíll see more investment and activity in the right areas. Iím encouraged by the swift reactionóand actionóto address investor concerns in this area and remain bullish on Chinaís long-term potential. As I said, itís not all gloom and doom and ghost cities springing up in China. I have more thoughts to share on cities that are thriving from Chinaís building boom, which I will share in my next post, so stay tuned! Important Legal Information  Investing in real estate securities involves special risks, such as declines in the value of real estate and increased susceptibility to adverse economic or regulatory developments affecting the sector. 1.†Source: International Monetary Fund, April 2013. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
REUTERS/Adrees LatifLots of people think American energy independence is within reach thanks to our shale boom. The Council On Foreign Relations' Michael Levi says they are all wrong.¬† We spoke by phone with Levi yesterday to discuss his new book, "The Power Surge."¬†He said American energy independence is the biggest myth out there about the shale boom. The reason: we've actually spent the past several decades actually trying to ensure we would¬†never be energy independent. And our reasoning for doing so ‚Äî insulating ourselves from oil shocks ‚Äî has not changed: It's been a long time since producing all your own oil actually made you independent. We spent 40 years transforming global markets so they were integrated and flexible, to give us protection from the vagaries of global oil production, and one of the side effects is we're now part of that, even if we produce all our own oil. The question is, would we really want to be shutting off our borders, cutting off Canada and Mexico, and isolating ourselves from the rest of the world? We've spent more than more than 40 years...integrating economies, and if we were to cut ourselves off from oil, that would be tip of spear in process that would end up reversing the gains from bringing economies closer together. It would be difficult for us to say 'We secede from the global oil market, but we want everything you have on every other front.'¬† Levi is not the first to express such sentiments ‚Äî no less than Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson said something similar recently on "Charlie Rose." Anyway, we highly recommend picking up "The Power Surge."¬† Levi, a trained physicist, discusses how long we can expect the boom to last (short answer: we don't really know), as well as the future of renewables (very good, but large scale use still remains a ways off).¬† He also warns about regulatory capture amid the gas rush, via an anecdote from a farmer named Bill Dix who lives on the Ohio/West Virginia border.¬† 'The whole government of West Virginia basically has been in the pocket of mineral companies forever,' he charged. 'It's a hell of a mess. It's terrible. I visited there, I came back, I couldn't sleep for days. It is a disaster.' Check out "The Power Surge" here &gt;¬†
Larry Busacca/Getty ImagesSocialite Julie Macklowe at the Met Gala 2013.Last night, the annual Met Gala asked its wealthy and famous guests to dress for the theme "Punk: Chaos to Couture." Most of the party-goers ‚Äî including Hollywood celebrities, fashion's elite, and power players ‚Äî were totally stumped. Some ignored the punk theme completely or tried to tastefully incorporate it in the form of spikes, leather, or mesh. But a select few really took the idea and ran with it, for better or worse.
LONDON, May 7 (Reuters) - Hard-pressed company bosses across much of the world are under so much pressure to deliver on growth that many have resorted to cooking the books, Ernst &amp; Young says in its latest Fraud Survey published on Tuesday. One in five of almost 3,500 staff quizzed in 36 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India said they had seen financial manipulation in their companies in the last 12 months, the accounting and consultancy firm said. In addition 42 percent of board directors and top managers surveyed said they were aware of "some type of irregular financial reporting". And despite scandals and regulatory failures in the wake of the credit crunch, almost a quarter of top financial services staff surveyed said they were aware of manipulation and almost 10 percent of all staff said their companies had understated costs, overstated revenues or used unprincipled sales tactics. Meanwhile, almost half of the sales staff surveyed across all sectors did not consider anti-corruption policies to be relevant and more than a quarter thought it acceptable to offer personal gifts or services to win or retain business. In India, over a third felt justified in offering cash ‚Äî triple the number in Western Europe. "Our survey shows that to find growth and improved performance in this environment, an alarming number appear to be comfortable with or aware of unethical conduct," said David Stulb, head of E&amp;Y's fraud investigation and dispute services practice. In Spain, ranked alongside Russia and just below Nigeria and Slovenia, 61 percent of staff believed companies often exaggerated results, compared with only 7 percent in Finland. And E&amp;Y said the vast majority of managers from Norway to Nigeria and Russia to Greece were feeling the pressure to deliver a good financial performance over the next 12 months, despite little optimism that business conditions would improve. They were now forced to balance the risks of expanding into rapid-growth markets, where winning contracts can go hand-in-hand with corruption, cutting costs further and piling pressure on staff or suppliers - or distorting results, the firm said. E&amp;Y warned multinationals based in mature markets they could be more vulnerable to the risks of unethical behaviour. One quarter of those asked thought watchdogs in rapid-growth markets focussed more on the behaviour of foreign businesses. The consultancy called on managers to ask more robust questions, focus on key risks, such as poor due diligence accounting checks of intermediaries and associates, and punish unethical behaviour. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions
Last week, the Investment Management Consultants Association (IMCA) held its annual conference in Seattle ‚Äì which it claims is the largest gathering of investment advisors and private wealth managers in the United States. The association‚Äôs membership grew 5% last year, pushing the total past 9,000. The conference‚Äôs lineup was expanded this year and included industry leaders, economic strategists, and decorated academics. Whitney, the conference's first speaker, is currently chief executive of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC, which she founded in 2009 after resigning as managing director and senior financial institutions analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. Inc. She burst on to the scene in 2007 when she uncovered Citigroup‚Äôs poor financial prospects in a research report, foreseeing the oncoming economic crises. Despite her unwanted reputation as a ‚Äúdoom and gloom gal,‚Äù Whitney offered an optimistic outlook. She affirmed her comment from a March 18th CNBC Interview that she is more bullish on equities at this point than she has ever been. She presented a look into the next 25 years, predicting the U.S. economy will recover from the depth of the housing- and leverage-backed lending failures, just like it recovered from the outsourcing of the manufacturing industry in the 1970‚Äôs. While things don‚Äôt look good for the ‚ÄúSand States‚Äù ‚Äì California, Nevada, Arizona, and Florida ‚Äì where high unemployment rates and saturated lending markets make starting new businesses extremely hard, she sees opportunities elsewhere where the 36 newly elected governors from the last election are ‚Äúable to take great political risks in terms of cutting budgets.‚Äù Rise to fame Reflecting on the early part of her career, Whitney explained that a red flag was raised when Gary Crittenden was appointed CFO of Citi and invited her to a meet-and-greet cocktail party. Identifying the cocktail event as ‚Äúkind of a contradiction in terms‚Äù of Gary‚Äôs Mormon beliefs, Whitney‚Äôs intrigue led to her attendance. There she overheard another analyst complain that modeling Citi‚Äôs finances was too difficult and was inspired to look into the company herself. By simplifying the model and looking at the bigger picture, she revealed a $30 billion shortfall.
Bank of AmericaSix months into a rally that has yet to see a meaningful downward correction, the stock market continues to move higher, even in the face of weaker than expected economic data. Over the past few weeks, the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index has dipped below zero, indicating that economic data releases in the U.S. are coming in below consensus estimates by market economists. "Four months into the year, we are confronted by two indisputable facts," says BofA Merrill Lynch rates guru David Woo. "One, U.S.¬†data is weak. Two, markets are no longer troubled by weak U.S. data." The question Woo poses in his latest note to clients is simple: "Does anyone still care about weak data?" Woo says no, citing three things clients are saying to rationalize this apparent disconnect: Clients who believe we pay too much attention to weak data have laid out three reasons why we are wrong. One, data points to slow growth ahead but there are¬†no signs yet for a very sharp slowdown ("bad news is not bad enough"). Two,¬†weak data means the Fed will be on hold for longer ("bad news is good news"). Three, the impact of US fiscal tightening is ultimately transitory and when it starts¬†to fade, the US economy will roar ("good news will follow bad news"). Woo concedes that these are all actually good points in that they coincide with the BAML house view on the outlook for markets and the economy. So, what happens next? Woo reiterates his stance that "different asset¬†classes are pricing in very different scenarios for global growth" (read more about that here). However, with correlations between U.S. stocks, U.S. junk bonds, commodities, and emerging-market stocks "near the bottom of the range since 2009," these different scenarios could start to converge if investors remain confident in the U.S. economy. If that turns out to be the case, Woo says the euro "may be one of the primary beneficiaries" of such a phase shift, citing the following developments: "With the market still short the EUR, it seems to us that higher EUR (against both the JPY and the USD) will be the obvious pain trade in a scenario of a risk meltup," says Woo. "A break of EUR/JPY above the technical resistance level at 130 could lead to overshooting as trend followers take out the value players." The April U.S. retail sales advance release out Friday is the next big U.S. economic data point on the calendar and will give another big clue as to where the U.S. economy is going, and how much of an effect the government spending cuts implemented under the sequester earlier this year are having an impact on the economy. "Everything seems to be pointing to a weak reading," says Woo. Market economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict total retail sales contracted 0.3% in April after falling 0.4% in March. Sales excluding autos are expected to be flat.
Billionaire hunters take note. Research firm WealthInsight tracks high net worth individuals, and in their latest report, the firm has ranked the top 20 global cities where billionaires live, down to how many of them reside in each city. We were surprised that there were only 70 in NYC, but it still tops the list, with Moscow, London and Hong Kong following in that order. Check out the table below: www.wealthinsight.com
APDouglas Elmendorf, the universally-respected budget analyst at the helm of the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, gave a guest lecture to an intro economics course at Harvard University.¬† Called¬†¬†‚ÄúA Tour of the Federal Budget and Possible Changes in Budget Policy,‚Äù it's an outstanding crash course in the changes the federal budget is undergoing.¬† The role of government has been shifting subtly for years, and Elmendorf more than many others has been able to perceive this change. Less government money is spent on contracts and employees, while more is given directly to people and states.¬† Elmendorf was kind enough to post a copy of the slide deck to Slideshare and¬†the excellent CBO blog. The final conclusion is guaranteed to make you wince.¬†
Previously, it was Seth Klarman, one of the most respected value investors of all time warning against the hubris of economists, the complacency of investors and the stupidity of politicians. Now, it is the turn of that other, just as legendary hedge fund manager, Paul "Commodore" Singer, to take what is an increasingly contrarian position in a field of "experts" filled with momentum-chasers, Fed apologists, and those who are convinced the world owes them a free lunch, and once again tell the full truth about the Federal Reserve and its utterly clueless, real world reject, chairman. The Fed, Lost In The Wilderness, by Paul Singer [T]he financial system (including the institutions themselves, products traded, and risks taken) has ìgotten away fromî the Fedís ability to comprehend. The Fed is primarily responsible for that state of affairs, and it is out of its depth. Former Chairman Greenspan created ñ and reveled in ñ a cult of personality centered on himself, and in the process created a tremendous and growing moral hazard. By successive bailouts and purporting to understand (to a higher and higher level of expressed confidence) a quickly changing financial system of growing complexity and leverage, he cultivated an ever-increasing (but unjustified) faith in the Fedís apparent ability to fine-tune the American (and, by extension, the worldís) economy. Ironically, this development was occurring at the very time that financial innovations and leverage were making the system more brittle and less safe. He extolled the virtues of derivatives and minimized the danger of leverage and risky securities and dot-com stocks, all while he should have been putting on the brakes. It was not just the disappearance of vast swaths of the American financial system into unregulated subsidiaries of financial institutions, nor was it just government policies that encouraged the creation and syndication of ìno-documentationî mortgages to people who could not afford them. It was also the low interest rates from 2002 to 2005, the failure to see the expanding real estate bubble caused by an unprecedented increase in leverage and risk, and the general failure to understand the financial conditions of the worldís major institutions. Under Chairman Bernanke, the combination of ZIRP and QE completed the passage of the Fed from sober protector of a fiat currency to ineffective collection of frantically-flailing, over-educated, posturing bureaucrats engaged in ever more-astounding experiments in monetary extremism. If you look at the history of Fed policy from Greenspan to Bernanke, you see two broad and destructive paths quite clearly. One path is the cult of central banking, in which the central bank gradually acquired the mantle of all-knowing guru and maestro, capable of† fine-tuning the global economy and financial system, despite their infinite complexity. On this path traveled arrogance, carelessness and a rigid and narrow orthodoxy substituting for an open-minded quest to understand exactly what the modern financial system actually is and how it really works. The second path is one of lower and lower discipline, less and less conservative stewardship of the precious confidence that is all that stands between fiat currency and monetary ruin. Monetary debasement in its chronic form erodes peopleís savings. In its acute and later stages, it can destroy the social cohesion of a society as wealth is stolen and/or created not by ideas, effort and leadership, but rather by the wild swings of asset prices engendered by the loss of any anchor to enduring value. In that phase, wealth and credit assets (debt) are confiscated or devalued by various means, including inflation and taxation, or by changes to laws relating to the rights of asset holders. Speculators win, savers are destroyed, and the ties that bind either fray or rip. We see no signs that our leaders possess the understanding, courage or discipline to avoid this. It is true that the CEOs of the worldís major financial institutions lost their bearings and were mostly oblivious to their own risks in the years leading up to the crash. However, as the 2007 minutes make clear, the Fed was clueless about how vulnerable, interconnected and subject to contagion the system was. It is not the case that the Fed completely ignored risk; indeed, several Fed folks made ìfig leafî statements about the risks of the mortgage securitization markets, as well as other indications that they appreciated the possibility of multiple outcomes. But nobody at the Fed understood the big picture or had the courage to shift into emergency mode and make hard decisions. In the run-up to the crisis the Fed was a group of highly educated folks who lacked an understanding of modern finance. After convincing the nation for decades of their exquisite grasp of complexities and their wise stewardship of the financial system, they didnít understand what was actually going on when it really counted. Ultimately, of course, as the system was collapsing and on the verge of freezing up completely, the Fed shifted into the (more comfortable and much less difficult) role of emergency provider of liquidity and guarantees. All this background presents an interesting framework in which to think about what the Fed is doing now. QE is a very high-risk policy, seemingly devoid of immediate negative consequences but ripe with real chances of causing severe inflation, sharp drops in stock and bond prices, the collapse of financial institutions and/or abrupt changes in currency rates and economic conditions at some point in the unpredictable future. However, the lack of large increases in consumer price inflation so far, plus the demonstrable ìbenefitsî of rising stock and bond markets, have reinforced the merits of money-printing, which is now in full swing across the world. In the absence of meaningful reforms to tax, labor, regulatory, trade, educational and other policies that could generate sustainable growth, ìmoney-printing growthî is unsound. We believe that the global central bankers, led by the Fed as ìthought leader,î have no idea how much pain the worldís economy may endure when they begin the still-undetermined and never-before attempted process of ending this gigantic experimental policy. If they follow the paths of the worst central banks in history, they will adopt the ìtiger by the tailî approach (keep printing even as inflation accelerates) and ultimately destroy the value of money and savings while uprooting the basic stability of their societies. Read the 2007 Fed minutes and you will understand how disquieting is the possibility of such outcomes and how prosaic and limited are the people in whom we have all put our trust regarding the management of the financial system and the plumbing of the worldís economy. Printing money by the trillions of dollars has had the predictable effect of raising the prices of stocks and bonds and thus reducing the cost of servicing government debt. It also has produced second-order effects, such as inflating the prices of commodities, art and other high-end assets purchased by financiers and investors. But it is like an addictive drug, and we have a hard time imagining the slowing or stopping of QE without large adverse impacts on the prices of stocks and bonds and the performance of the economy. If the economy does not shift into sustainable high-growth mode as a result of QE, then the exit from QE is somewhere on the continuum between problematic and impossible.  Central banks facing high inflation and/or sluggish growth after sustained money-printing frequently are paralyzed by the enormity of their mistake, or they are deranged by the thought that the difficult and complicated conditions in a more advanced stage of a period of monetary debasement are due to just not printing enough. At some stage, central banks inevitably realize, regardless of whether they admit the catastrophic nature of their own failings, that the cessation of money-printing will cause an instant depression. Even though at that point the cessation of money-printing may be the only action capable of saving society, that becomes a secondary consideration compared to the desire to avoid immediate pain and blame. The worldís central banks are in very deep with QE at present, and the risks continue to build with every new purchase of stocks and bonds with newly-printed money. * * * And, as an added bonus, Singer's thoughts on gold: There are many current theories as to why the price of gold had been drifting down and then collapsed in mid-April. We are trying to sort out various possible explanations, but we urge investors to be cautious in their thinking about what circumstances would likely cause gold to rise or fall sharply. The correlations with other assets in various scenarios (risk on or off, economic normalization, inflation, the rise and fall of interest rates, euro collapse) may shift abruptly as the macro picture evolves. Many people think that if stock markets continue rising, and/or if the U.S. and Europe restore normal levels of growth and employment, then the rationale for owning gold is weakened or destroyed. This perception may be correct, and it is certainly a topic that is currently much discussed, but ultimately another set of considerations is likely to dominate. The world is on a seemingly one-way trip to monetary debasement as the catchall economic policy, and there is only one store of value and medium of exchange that has stood the test of time as ìreal moneyî: gold. We expect this dynamic to assert itself in a large way at some point. In the meantime, it is quite frustrating to watch the price of gold fall as the conditions that should cause it to appreciate seem more and more prevalent. Gold may not exactly be a ìsafe havenî in the sense of an asset whose value is precisely known and stable. But it surely is an asset that, in a particular set of circumstances, becomes a unique and irreplaceable ìmust-have.î In those circumstances (loss of confidence in governments and paper money), there are no substitutes, and the price of gold may reflect that characteristic at some point.
Since January, investors have been looking for a downward correction to the stock market rally that began back in November, but nearly six months later, the sell-off hasn't materialized yet. According to BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategist Savita Subramanian, who tracks flow data on positions of clients invested in the stock market, all of BAML's clients have been selling the stock market rally for several weeks now ‚Äì except for the hedge funds. In a note today, Subramanian writes: Last week, as the S&amp;P 500 climbed 2.0% to reach a new high of 1614, BofAML clients were net sellers of US stocks for the sixth consecutive week. Flows continue to suggest a lack of faith in a continued market rally. Net sales last week were $2.0bn, their largest since December. Private clients led outflows in their second week of net sales, with outflows by this group their largest year-to-date. Institutional clients also sold stocks for the sixth consecutive week, and remain the biggest cumulative net sellers year-to-date. Hedge funds were the sole net buyers, and have now bought US stocks for three consecutive weeks. By size segment, outflows were chiefly in the large cap space, while only small caps saw inflows. The charts below show the flows on a four-week average basis: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Which stocks are the hedge funds buying while everyone else sells? Tech stocks and ETFs, last week. Over the past four weeks, though, they've also been loading up on industrials and consumer staples. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
The answer is deficit-financed government spending on entitlements. National income shares are based on incomes before taxes and before the government redistributes income through entitlements, which have soared from around 5% of national income in the early 1960s to around 17% currently. Of course, not all the money borrowed by the government comes from current national income produced and earned in the US. Some is borrowed from abroad. Some is monetized by the Fed through QE. It is a mounting burden on future generations. The bears are right that this can‚Äôt be sustainable. One day they will be proven right about that. ¬†Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Crying Foul. (1) The bears were wrong about revenues. (2) Revenues, business sales, and GDP at record highs. (3) Latest earnings season had disappointing revenues. (4) Not so bad excluding falling Energy revenues. (5) Bears preach that Capitalists‚Äô gain is Labor‚Äôs pain. (6) The market doesn‚Äôt take sides in class wars. (7) The government redistributes income, borrows from strangers, and prints money. (8) That‚Äôs all bullish until it isn‚Äôt. (9) Let It Be. (More for subscribers.)
If you want to work in banking but are uncertain as to what the biggest banks look for when they hire, we may have some answers for you. We‚Äôve combed through the eFinancialCareers database to look for the commonest features of people who work or have worked in nine of the biggest banks in the world (Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, UBS, Credit Suisse, Bank of America, and Barclays). Our database has over 1m r√©sum√©s in total, but we focused our attention on the 90,000 CVs that have been uploaded in the last three months. We screened these CVs on the basis of educational establishment, industry qualifications, languages spoken and sportiness. The results were fairly predictable ‚Äì Goldman Sachs employs the most highly educated bankers from the biggest name universities. But there were some surprises. These included the fact that the most sporty bankers seem to work at UBS and that a very high proportion of the CVs in our database are from speakers of Mandarin or Cantonese or Hindi. At Citigroup, for example, a massive 37% of our CVs are from people who speak one of these three languages. Based on our analysis, we‚Äôve suggested what makes employees at each bank distinct.Our findings are not scientific. The results may be skewed by the prevalence of a large number of Europeans (and Mandarin speakers) on our database. Nor have they been validated by each of the banks concerned, and sometimes the variations between banks are small. Nevertheless, this is what we think our figures suggest. Surprise, surprise: Goldman Sachs employs the most highly educated bankers from the biggest name universities, with the greatest ability to converse in different languages. Of 1,762 resumes loaded into our system over the past three months with the words ‚ÄòGoldman Sachs‚Äô written on them‚Ä¶ If Goldman Sachs is comparatively keen on elite universities, the same can‚Äôt be said for J.P. Morgan. Of 1,996 resumes loaded into our system in the past three months with ‚ÄòJ.P. Morgan‚Äô written on them‚Ä¶ We infer that J.P. Morgan is less educationally elitist than Goldman Sachs. Like Goldman, Morgan Stanley likes big name universities. According to our database, it also has one of the highest proportions of sports enthusiasts. Of 2,392 ‚ÄòMorgan Stanley‚Äô resumes loaded into our system in the past three months‚Ä¶
Dan Loeb's April performance numbers are out, and he just narrowly lagged the S&amp;P by 0.5% (1.4% to 1.9%) ó not terrible. Not great either. It's still interesting to see where one of the smartest, most outspoken hedge fund managers in the world is making his money, though, so here it is. Last month, Third Point Partners' most successful investments/trades were in Yahoo, Japanese Macro, Greek government bonds, AIG, and Japan Tobacco Inc. Loeb's losers, on the other hand, were two shorts, Gold, Banco da Brasil SA and Dolphin Capital Investors. Loeb is up 10.5% YTD compared to the S&amp;P's 12.7%.
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesAverage weekly work hours in the retail sector have fallen in the past 12 months. But this is even as employment in the retail sector posted strong gains in the second half of last year, according to Paul Ashworth at Capital Economics. Typically, the two move in tandem. Ashworth writes that this can be attributed to a specific part of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). From the start of 2014, employers with more than 50 employees will be fined $2,000 per employee, if they fail to offer full-time employees health insurance. Workers are considered to be full-time if they work over 30 hours a week. "This effect could explain why average weekly hours worked in the retail sector has fallen over the past 12 months, while average hours worked across the private sector as a whole has been broadly unchanged," writes Ashworth. "The gap in relative performance only seemed to begin about 12 months ago." Here are two charts that look at 1. average weekly hours worked in the retail sector and overall and 2. employment in retail sector and overall employment. Capital Economics Capital Economics Ashworth writes that the reason a similar move hasn't been seen in the leisure and hospitality sector, is because the average weekly hours worked there are already below 30.
MSNBCEvery year JP Morgan shareholders get together for their annual kumbaya meeting on the state of the bank, and every year a few agitators propose that CEO Jamie Dimon give up his position as Chairman of the Board. Or at least, that he pick one ‚Äî Chairman or CEO. Can't have both. Every year Dimon's detractors are poo-poo'd. No one expects anything else, really. However, this year it's different. The detractors are growing in number influence, and at the same time, reports of what's going on inside the House of Dimon sound increasingly like a JP Morgan out of his control. There are your all-too-common lawsuits lingering from the financial crisis still leaving a stink all over the Street ‚Äî but that's not the problem here. The government has made new allegations of impropriety within several parts of JP Morgan and last week they were leaked to the NY Times.¬† The accusations involve manipulation in the energy market, credit card debt collection, and even Bernie Madoff's account with JPM. They came with a warning from regulators that Dimon is "losing credibility" in Washington. More importantly, like the $6 billion trading loss JP Morgan suffered last spring, the allegations suggest that the bank is too big to manage, even for America's best banker. From NYT: Government investigators have found that JPMorgan Chase devised ‚Äúmanipulative schemes‚Äù that transformed ‚Äúmoney-losing power plants into powerful profit centers,‚Äù and that one of its most senior executives gave ‚Äúfalse and misleading statements‚Äù under oath.... The possible action comes amid showdowns with other agencies. One of the bank‚Äôs chief regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is weighing new enforcement actions against JPMorgan over the way the bank collected credit card debt and its possible failure to alert authorities to suspicions about Bernard L. Madoff, according to people who were not authorized to discuss the cases publicly... Mr. Dimon apologized to shareholders in a letter following the meeting, but it seems that words were not enough. They are being told by proxy advisors that should vote to separate his role as Chairman and CEO. Proxy advisors,¬†Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, have told JP Morgan shareholders that Dimon needs to take one or the other, according to the WSJ. They also advised that three of the board's directors be ousted completely. Proxy advisors are companies that tell big shareholders like mutual funds how they should vote in corporate elections. Shareholders don't have to follow their recommendations but they are historically very influential. Here's a part of Glass Lewis' statement (via WSJ): "Shareholders should be concerned that Company management was allowed to build a massive exposure to credit derivatives, switch [Value at Risk] models following a breach of risk limits, and value its positions so to minimize losses, and that it was able to do each of these things without triggering a board-level review or a mandatory containment of risk." The JPM shareholder meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, May 21st, so we'll know how this all shakes out then.
Tesla Motors is considering adding autonomous driving capability to its cars and has discussed the technology with Google, CEO Elon Musk told Bloomberg. Reducing the work of human drivers is a natural step, Musk said, though he used the term "autopilot" instead of "self-driving." ìSelf-driving sounds like itís going to do something you donít want it to do," he explained. "Autopilot is a good thing to have in planes, and we should have it in cars.î Google's self-driving cars, which have driven more than 500,000 miles with no accidents with a car under the computer's control, use a Light Detection and Ranging (Lidar) system to navigate, which Musk called "too expensive." The Tesla CEO told Bloomberg said Tesla would likely use a cheaper camera-based system. Cost is a key issue for Tesla, which has long promised to build an electric car affordable for the middle class. Its prices have only gone up in recent years, culminating with the cancellation of the cheapest version of the Model S earlier in March. Last week, Tesla announced a revised version of a lease-buy financing scheme that will lower the cost of owning a Model S sedan. Tesla is behind the game in pursuing self-driving car technology. Audi, Lexus, Mercedes-Benz, Toyota, and Volvo all have projects in the works, though fully autonomous cars are likely still years away.
Google FinanceThe bull market continues. Both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&amp;P 500 are rallying to all-time highs. This come on a very quiet day in a very quiet week for news. Some pundits are worried that sentiment is getting exuberant. But Citi's Tobias Levkovich disagrees. "The rally‚Äôs resilience would argue that investors are upbeat but the data does not support the premise," he said in a recent note to clients.¬† "While stock prices break into new highs, there has been little in the form of embracing it by fund managers as defined by various metrics. Earnings have been a very important driver for shares as they have been for years, but there does not seem to be a belief system in place that things are anywhere near sustainable in the face of global economic uncertainties and even some increasing geopolitical concerns." Here's a look at Citi's proprietary Panic/Euphoria model, a contrarian indicator for the markets. "[O]ne can see that as the markets have broken into new high territory, investors have become more worried given that the readings have slid deeper into neutral territory (see Figure 1)," wrote Levkovich. And that's bullish. Citi Research
Germany's September national elections are rapidly approaching, and there are signs that it could start to get interesting. Alternative f¸r Deutschland †(AfD) ñ a new political party running on a platform advocating dissolution of the euro ñ is already making impressive gains in the polls, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel's incumbent government is losing support. In a new poll released today, support for Merkel's center-right coalition fell to 42%, meaning they are without a majority heading into September. Another poll showed their support slipping to 37% from 40%. Meanwhile, the German economy may be coming into a bout of weakness, as the latest manufacturing data suggest (the ECB went as far as to suggest that part of the rationale behind last week's rate cut was the spread of economic weakness to the "core" euro zone). Markit, BME, Bundesbank Against this backdrop, German newsmagazine Der Spiegel reports that members of established German political parties are defecting to AfD: The numbers are so far not particularly threatening to the country's largest parties. Just over 1,000 of AfD's freshly minted members previously belonged to Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats, while Germany's largest opposition party, the Social Democrats, have seen 558 members defect. But the threat to smaller parties,†particularly the CDU's junior coalition partner, the pro-business Free Democratic Party, is more acute. The FDP has lost 587 members lured by the AfD's slogan: "Straight talk instead of SÄdatives". In the state of Hessen, home to Germany's financial capital, Frankfurt, the FDP has even lost a seat in the regional parliament. Just this week, Jochen Paulus switched parties from the FDP to Alternative for Germany, thereby becoming its first representative. Add in a tax evasion scandal involving Bayern Munich football club President Uli Hoeness†ñ†who is seen as being close to Merkel ñ as well as more rumbling over economic policies between French and German policymakers, and you get "ominous long-term vibes," writes†SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale fixed income strategist Ciaran O'Hagan in a note to clients: The wider newsflow in the euro area continues to hold ominous long-term vibes. Germanyís MoF Schaeuble again said Monday that bank resolution mechanisms must remain national. That is evidently silly in a monetary union: youíd never expect Delaware on its own to bail out the likes of Lehman. We might dismiss such talk as electioneering. This continues the series of tough comments from the German government. It remains a certainty that there will be zero progress on euro area institutional reforms this side of the German elections. Weíll have another four months of such talk then, at the risk that the talk will become ever more bellicose as we approach the September poll.  The risk is all the greater as matters are turning sour for the present German government. The IHT lead over the weekend was ìTrouble at the core: pressure builds on Merkel amid anti-austerity clamourî. Merkelís CDU is suffering in the polls on the Hoeness story and is even seeing defections to the anti-euro party. And the FDP coalition partner is flagging. Meanwhile, German 2013 tax revenue looks set to be less than forecast. Maybe worst of all, we are seeing headlines like ìFrance Declares Austerity Over as Germany Offers Wiggle Room. Franco German entente however is at the core of the euro. Franco German fiscal policy divergences cannot last for long into 2014, at the risk of serious trouble. In a new presentation, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slock highlighted the German election race as of one of the potential flashpoints that could cause an escalation in the euro crisis, citing the subordination of crisis management to domestic politics.
Germany's September national elections are rapidly approaching, and there are signs that it could start to get interesting. Alternative f¸r Deutschland †(AfD) ñ a new political party running on a platform advocating dissolution of the euro ñ is already making impressive gains in the polls, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel's incumbent government is losing support. In a new poll released today, support for Merkel's center-right coalition fell to 42%, meaning they are without a majority heading into September. Another poll showed their support slipping to 37% from 40%. Meanwhile, the German economy may be coming into a bout of weakness, as the latest manufacturing data suggest (the ECB went as far as to suggest that part of the rationale behind last week's rate cut was the spread of economic weakness to the "core" euro zone). Markit, BME, Bundesbank Against this backdrop, German newsmagazine Der Spiegel reports that members of established German political parties are defecting to AfD: The numbers are so far not particularly threatening to the country's largest parties. Just over 1,000 of AfD's freshly minted members previously belonged to Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats, while Germany's largest opposition party, the Social Democrats, have seen 558 members defect. But the threat to smaller parties,†particularly the CDU's junior coalition partner, the pro-business Free Democratic Party, is more acute. The FDP has lost 587 members lured by the AfD's slogan: "Straight talk instead of SÄdatives". In the state of Hessen, home to Germany's financial capital, Frankfurt, the FDP has even lost a seat in the regional parliament. Just this week, Jochen Paulus switched parties from the FDP to Alternative for Germany, thereby becoming its first representative. Add in a tax evasion scandal involving Bayern Munich football club President Uli Hoeness†ñ†who is seen as being close to Merkel ñ as well as more rumbling over economic policies between French and German policymakers, and you get "ominous long-term vibes," writes†SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale fixed income strategist Ciaran O'Hagan in a note to clients: The wider newsflow in the euro area continues to hold ominous long-term vibes. Germanyís MoF Schaeuble again said Monday that bank resolution mechanisms must remain national. That is evidently silly in a monetary union: youíd never expect Delaware on its own to bail out the likes of Lehman. We might dismiss such talk as electioneering. This continues the series of tough comments from the German government. It remains a certainty that there will be zero progress on euro area institutional reforms this side of the German elections. Weíll have another four months of such talk then, at the risk that the talk will become ever more bellicose as we approach the September poll.  The risk is all the greater as matters are turning sour for the present German government. The IHT lead over the weekend was ìTrouble at the core: pressure builds on Merkel amid anti-austerity clamourî. Merkelís CDU is suffering in the polls on the Hoeness story and is even seeing defections to the anti-euro party. And the FDP coalition partner is flagging. Meanwhile, German 2013 tax revenue looks set to be less than forecast. Maybe worst of all, we are seeing headlines like ìFrance Declares Austerity Over as Germany Offers Wiggle Room. Franco German entente however is at the core of the euro. Franco German fiscal policy divergences cannot last for long into 2014, at the risk of serious trouble. In a new presentation, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slock highlighted the German election race as of one of the potential flashpoints that could cause an escalation in the euro crisis, citing the subordination of crisis management to domestic politics.
In a conference call, hedge fund manager David Einhorn said that he got a big boost from the weakening yen, reports Bloomberg. What's more, he says Apple took a "step forward" and that he's adding to his bet. Einhorn owned $1.5 million shares of Apple at the end of Q4 2012 and he was very public about desire to get the company to issue preferred stock (you can check out his presentation about it here). He even sued Apple over the matter but dropped the lawsuit eventually. As for the yen, Einhorn isn't the only one who's been playing in Japan. Dan Loeb of Third Point Partners said that Japanese Macro was his 2nd biggest trade for the month of April in his latest letter. Third Point is up 10.5% YTD.
Americans' confidence in the economy has reached a five-year weekly high, according to Gallup's weekly tracking index. This week's reading matched a five-year high set the week ending Feb. 3. It comes just a week after¬†The Conference Board's April Consumer Confidence survey¬†showed a huge surge¬†to 68.1 from last month's upwardly-revised 61.9 reading. The current confidence score in Gallup's confidence reading is -8, which was a surge from -13 the previous week. The index has reached as low as -22 this year.¬† Monthly economic confidence in April also matched a five-year high, coming in at a marked improvement over March's reading, which was likely low because of the budget sequester. "The recovery in April to the levels seen in January and February suggests the impact of the sequester may have been offset by the gains in stock values," Gallup associate editor Alyssa Brown wrote. Here's a chart from Gallup: Gallup
Nationwide home prices including distressed sales were up 10.5% year-over-year in March, according to CoreLogic's latest home price report. On a monthly basis home prices were up 1.9%. This was the thirteenth straight monthly rise, and the fastest pace of increase since March 2006. Ex-distressed sales, home prices were up 10.7% year-over-year and 2.4% on the month. ‚ÄúFor the first time since March 2006, both the overall index and the index that excludes distressed sales are above 10 percent year over year,‚Äù said Dr. Mark Fleming, chief economist at CoreLogic in a press release. Home prices are being driven by demand from investors and homebuyers even as supply stays tight. Here are some details from the report: Here's a look at the home price index from January 2002 on: CoreLogic
Gold prices are falling, down nearly a full percent. Here's the NY spot price. KITCO Earlier today Bloomberg reported John Paulson's gold fund lost 27% in April. Looks like there's even more pain coming.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingI've had a few skirmishes this week re: Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway (full disclosure: I am long the stock for clients and personal accounts). It's always amusing to me to hear people who've not accomplished 1% of what Buffett has throw mud at him or challenge his record. I find that the people who "hate" Warren Buffett tend to fall into three buckets, with some overlap. People Who Hate Warren Buffett: 1. Conspiracy theorists who can't let go of the fact that one of the world's richest men probably has some advantages and influence that others don't have. To which I say grow the f--- up, this is how the world works, read a book about the Roman Empire or the Renaissance or even the elitist philosophy of Confucianism circa 500 BC. Did not Nathan Mayer Rothschild have runners and messengers in boats speeding word to him of Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo? And did he not engineer a panic on the London bond market, first dumping consols and then scooping up everyone else's before the official news arrived at the marketplace? Did Buffett's viewpoint on rescuing the banks weigh on the TARP vote? Probably. Maybe. But it's not like Warren made it a secret that he was expecting this outcome. The New York Times op-eds about betting on America might have been your first clue, Sherlock. 2. Hardcore right-wingers and libertarians who are incensed at Buffett's ideas about making the tax system more progressive and eliminating absurd loopholes like carried interest. They also despise Buffett's general views on the government's role in capitalism, his support for President Obama and his photo ops with Jay-Z. They'll impugn the man's business and investing record when they can find no rational arguments against the Buffett advocacy for smarter and more equitable tax laws. They'll call him a hypocrite and slime him for his investments in banks and derivatives. But it's about politics, they can't see past it. And they'll never bring up his charitable contribution of just about the entire fortune he's amassed. 3. The purveyors of complex investing products, sophisticated (read: expensive) strategies and short-term trading proponents who thrive on transactions and get paid when people turn greedy and fearful, buying and selling while generating turnover and¬†commissions¬† To them, the folksy, slow-money, common-sense approach that Buffett and Berkshire stand for are a constant obstacle in their never-ending quest to dazzle the public and, by extension, extract fees from them. Anyway, the naysayers will criticize til the cows come home, it's become fashionable to be skeptical and to rip down other people's heroes. If you tell them, for example, that Berkshire Hathaway is up 32% over the last year versus a 16% gain for the S&amp;P 500, they will dig up a timeframe during which it's lagged. If you discuss a smart move or deal Berkshire has made, they'll explain to you why it's unfair. A total waste of time debating with people who have already decided the answer to everything you're going to say. So let's put the¬†qualitative stuff aside and focus on the one thing that isn't subject to anyone's¬†preconceived¬†notions or personal biases - the long-term track record of building wealth for Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. Since this is all Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger ever focus on, let's judge them based solely on the merits of their results in that regard. I defer to Jeff Matthews, a long-time Buffettologist, who's written both realistically and critically of Berkshire for more than a decade now: But how good is Warren Buffett‚Äôs track record, really? Well, Berkshire‚Äôs stock has appreciated‚Äîthis is appreciation only, no dividends, mind you‚Äî981,150% since May 10, 1965. And if you‚Äôd put $16 into the S&amp;P 500 instead of into one share of Berkshire on that same day, your share of the S&amp;P 500 wouldn‚Äôt be worth $162,905 today from appreciation (we‚Äôre leaving out the dividends for now.) In fact, your S&amp;P 500 share wouldn‚Äôt be worth $100,000 today. It wouldn‚Äôt even be worth $10,000 today. It would be worth about $600. Throw in dividends and you‚Äôre north of $1,000 but south of $2,000 on your $16 investment.¬†¬†The Berkshire shareholder has $162,904. That‚Äôs¬†how good Warren Buffet‚Äôs track record really is. No one is under any illusions that this kind of thing can be repeated given the fact that Berkshire is now the fifth largest public company on earth. But as Munger explained to the crowd, even if it slows down, the ride should still be pleasant. Let me assure you that, after fifteen years in the investing game, "pleasant" - if it can actually be achieved - will be a better outcome than any of the mud-slinging hotshots will themselves be able to deliver, net of fees, net of excess volatility, net of trading costs, net of bullshit. I know these guys and I've seen it all - they're not fit to wash Warren's Cadillac. Source: ‚ÄúWe Want to Win‚Äù: The Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting, 2013 Edition (Jeff Matthews)
Tech pundits are still weighing in on Google's computerized glasses, Google Glass. Assessments are all over the map. But getting a free version of a new gadget, or being rich enough that you can plunk down $1,500 for one, is very different from actually choosing to buy one as a normal person. And that, for any new gadget, is where the rubber meets the road. So what's the current consensus for future Google Glass sales? According to a poll we ran over the weekend, the consensus is that there really isn't a consensus. The assessments, again, are all over the map. If there is a bias, though, it's to the negative. More people think Google Glass is going to flop that think it's going to be a runaway hit. Specifically, more than a quarter of people expect Google to sell less than a million units of Glass (or equivalent) in three years. More than half expect Google to sell less than 8 million units a year. Given the early excitement around the technology, both of those outcomes would be considered a flop. Meanwhile, 14% of people think Google will sell more than 80 million units a year in three years. That sales level would be a massive home run. Here are the current results of the poll. ¬†You can cast your own vote here. Business Insider
Government borrowing costs across the euro zone have fallen to record lows and stock markets are rising despite a deepening economic contraction across the currency bloc. Investors have put their faith in the prospect of ECB bond buying should the crisis flare again, but for now, markets are calm. As Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slock points out in his latest presentation, there are still several flashpoints across the euro zone that could cause such a flare-up. Deutsche Bank Research
ReutersJohn Paulson's gold fund was down 27% in April, according to Bloomberg. By the middle of the month, he already lost more than $300 million. † ìPaulson has roughly $9.5 billion invested across his hedge funds, of which about 85 percent is invested in gold share classes.î Gold was up as much as $1,600 before declining to as low as $1,323.
Evan Agostini/Invision/APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Tax Fix / Flickr, CCDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics about which he's talking with traders this morning. We summarize in bullets:
Things continue to look bright on the market front. US futures have been gathering steam all morning. FinViz Helping things is a strong German factory orders number, which is giving a lift to everything.
Reddit It's going to be a very slow week for economic data, which is exactly the opposite of how last week was. But the most interesting datapoint will be coming out later today. Consumer Credit for March will be released at 3 p.m. ET. Analysts expect $16.3 billion in new consumer credit, down slightly from February's $18 billion. One of the big questions in the economy is how aggressively the consumer sector is willing to re-leverage after the enormous blow to household balance sheets following the housing collapse. If the leverage cycle really picks up, that will go a long way towards offsetting other drags on the economy.
Copyright Daniel ShihTAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwan's exports shrank unexpectedly in April as sales to China and Europe sputtered, underscoring increasing fragility in global demand, especially for the island's high-tech products. April exports fell 1.9 percent from a year earlier, much worse than the 1.35 percent growth forecast in a Reuters poll and compared with growth of 3.3 percent in March. Exports to China stalled, inching up a scant 0.2 percent, versus 5.2 percent growth in March, while exports to Europe dropped 19.3 percent, a much faster contraction than the 12.3 percent decline recorded the previous month, the finance ministry said on Tuesday. Shipments to the United States were the lone bright spot, rising 4.9 percent after contracting 1.9 percent in March. "Exports in 2013 will be challenging," the ministry told a news briefing, adding that year-on-year export growth in the second quarter could be lower than the 2.4 percent seen in the first quarter. Mainland China, Taiwan's biggest export market, is showing signs of losing momentum. The closely-watched official government Chinese PMIs showed slowing growth last week in both services and manufacturing sectors. Factory-sector activity in China stumbled in April to further underline the impact of a fragile global economy, which is under pressure from the euro zone recession. "Chip shipments have been growing for a few month, and electronics shipment are not doing bad, so the decline had to do with slowing global growth," said Frances Cheung, a senior strategist of Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. "I'm worried that exports in Q2 will be below expectations, but looking into Q3, we're still confident about the recovery in the U.S. and economic growth in China so exports should do better in that quarter," Cheung added. Orders for Taiwan's exports in March unexpectedly shrank 6.6 percent from a year earlier, contracting for the second straight month and heralding slowing momentum for some of Asia's trade-reliant economies. Taiwan's export orders are a leading indicator of demand for the region's exports and typically lead actual exports by two to three months. Taiwan's economy grew by a much-slower-than-expected 1.54 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, badly undershooting a median forecast of 3 percent as export growth fell short of expectations and private consumption sputtered. Smartphone maker HTC Corpon Monday reported a 37 percent fall in April sales from a year earlier. Asian suppliers to Apple Incsuch as Hon Hai Precision Industry, the world's largest electronics contract maker, have also suffered as the U.S. tech giant's growth momentum slows. (Additional reporting by Clare Jim; Editing by Jacqueline Wong &amp; Kim Coghill) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
APDHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) ó Hundreds of survivors of last month's collapse of a building housing garment factories in Bangladesh protested for compensation Tuesday, as the death toll from the country's worst-ever industrial disaster passed 700. The police control room overseeing the recovery operation said the death toll stood at 705 on Tuesday afternoon as workers pulled more bodies out of the wreckage of the eight-story building that was packed with workers at five garment factories when it collapsed on April 24. The factories were making clothing bound for major retailers around the world. The disaster is the worst ever in the garment sector, surpassing the 1911 garment disaster in New York's Triangle Shirtwaist factory, which killed 146 workers, and more recent tragedies such as a 2012 fire that killed about 260 people in Pakistan and one in Bangladesh that killed 112, also in 2012. It is also one of the deadliest industrial accidents ever. APRelatives identify the dead.No one knows what the final toll will be, as the exact number of people inside Rana Plaza at the time of the collapse was unknown. More than 2,500 people were rescued alive. Hundreds of garment workers who survived the disaster blocked a major highway near the accident site in a Dhaka suburb on Tuesday to demand the payment of wages and other benefits. No violence was reported, although traffic was disrupted for hours. REUTERS/Andrew Biraj Finding survivors.Local government administrator Yousuf Harun said they are working with the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association to ensure the workers get paid. The workers, many who made little more than the national minimum wage of about $38 per month, are demanding at least four months in salary. The workers had set Tuesday as the deadline for the payment of wages and other benefits. Harun said no salary remained unpaid except for the month of April and there was an agreement for the workers to receive an additional three months of pay. After a team from the BGMEA arrived at the protest and pledged to make the payment later Tuesday, the workers left the highway, Harun said. The BGMEA had said Monday that it was preparing a "complete list" of the workers employed in the factories and they would need a few more days to finish it and to clear the salary. REUTERS/Andrew Biraj Bangladesh earns nearly $20 billion a year from exports of the garment products, mainly to the United States and Europe. Authorities have not set any specific timeframe to complete the recovery operation at the building site, saying they will continue until all bodies and debris are removed. Officials say the building's owner illegally added three floors to Rana Plaza and allowed the garment factories to install heavy machines and generators. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
TheCreativePenn/FlickrOvernight the Reserve Bank of Australia (Australia's central bank) cut benchmark interest rates by 25 basis points to 2.75%. The full statement from Governor Glenn Stevens is here. In a note, Nomura economist Charles St. Arnaud flags one particularly interesting line that will get the "currency wars" crowd buzzing.: The accompanying statement was not overly dovish and did not signal a dramatic change in the way the RBA views the economy. It continues to expect the economy to growth at below trend in 2013 as the level of resource investment peaks this year. While other sectors of the economy are improving, it seems that the RBA believes any improvement is unlikely to be strong enough to offset the slowing of the resource sector. Moreover, concern over the strong AUD seem to have risen, the RBA noting that ìthe exchange rate has been little changed at a historically high level over the past 18 months, which is unusual given the decline in export prices and interest rates during that timeî. We take this to reflect that the currency strength is not supported by fundamentals, and thus is a disproportionate drag on the economy. The Aussie dollar did fall last night after the cut, but its strength over the last several months has been discussed, as it's inconsistent with the weakness in China and commodity prices. The Reserve Bank of Australia would not mind the exchange rate coming down.
 REDWOOD CITY, Calif. (AP) ‚Äî As smoke thickened and a fire grew in the back of a limousine, Nelia Arellano desperately tried to squeeze through a 3 foot by 1 ¬Ω-foot partition. Stuck for a moment, Arellano made her way into the front seat. Four of her friends quickly followed. Five others didn't make it. Their bodies were later found pressed against the partition. Arellano said in an interview Monday with KGO-TV that she believes the driver, Oliver Brown, could have done more to help during the fire, which took place Saturday night on one of the busiest bridges on San Francisco Bay. "When he stop the car, he get out from the car, he just get out from the car," she said. Arellano and other women had started the night celebrating the recent wedding of Neriza Fojas and were headed across the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge to a hotel in Foster City. Brown ‚Äî a San Jose man who worked for the limo company the past two months ‚Äî has said in interviews that one of the passengers tapped on the partition behind him, saying something about smoke as music blared from the back. No smoking was allowed, he told them. Then the taps turned to urgent knocks, and someone screamed "Pull over!" Brown said he stopped on the bridge as soon as he could. Then he helped pull the women out through the partition, he said. One of the women who made it through the partition ran to the back and yanked open a door, but Brown said that provided oxygen to the fire and the rear of the limo became engulfed in flames. Brown said he believed it was an electrical fire. "It could have been smoldering for days," he told KGO on Monday, noting there was no explosive boom. Authorities searched for answers Monday, hoping to learn what sparked the blaze and why five of the victims killed Saturday night couldn't escape. The position of the bodies at the partition suggested they were trying to get away from the fire, San Mateo County Coroner Robert Foucrault said. Fojas, 31, a registered nurse from Fresno was planning to travel to her native Philippines to hold another wedding ceremony with relatives. Her friends in the limousine were fellow nurses. Fojas was among the five who died. Her mother, Sonya, broke into tears during an interview in the Philippines with local TV network GMA News. "How painful, how painful what happened," she said. The U.S. ambassador to the Philippines, Harry Thomas Jr., on Tuesday expressed condolences to the Fojas family. "Mystery surrounds deadly limo fire," he said in a Twitter message. "Condolences to the Fojas family in the Philippines and the U.S. and other nurses." Fojas and another woman who died, Michelle Estrera, were nurses at Community Regional Medical Center in Fresno. The remaining three victims haven't been identified. The medical center's CEO, Jack Chubb, said in a statement Monday that Fojas and Estrera were outstanding nurses, loved by their patients, colleagues and staff. "Both were good friends, stellar nurses and excellent mentors who served as preceptors to new nurses," he said. A relative of Fojas said the young nurse was preparing to get her master's degree. Christina Kitts said Monday that Fojas lived in Hawaii while she reviewed for her nursing exam, then took a job in Oakland for two years before moving to Fresno about a year ago. Three survivors hospitalized were identified as Jasmine Desguia, 34, of San Jose; Mary Guardiano, 42, of Alameda; and Amalia Loyola, 48, of San Leandro. Arellano, 36, of Oakland, was treated and released. California Highway Patrol Commander Mike Maskarich said the state Public Utilities Commission had authorized the vehicle to carry eight or fewer passengers, but it had nine on the night of the deadly fire. Maskarich said it was too early in the investigation to say whether overcrowding may have been a factor. State PUC spokeswoman Terrie Prosper said Monday that the commission is looking into whether the operator of the limo, Limo Stop, willfully misrepresented the seating capacity to the agency. If so, Limo Stop could be penalized $7,500 for each day it was in violation. Limo Stop is licensed and has shown evidence of liability insurance, Prosper said. The company has seven vehicles with a seating capacity of up to eight passengers listed with the commission, and it has not been the target of any previous enforcement action. The CPUC requires that all carriers have a preventive maintenance program and maintain a daily vehicle inspection report, Prosper said. Carriers also certify that they are have or are enrolled in a safety education and training program, she said. Prosper said requirements for emergency exits only apply to buses, and limousines are not required to have fire extinguishers. Joan Claybrook, the top federal auto-safety regulator under President Jimmy Carter, said the stretch limousine industry is poorly regulated because the main agency that oversees car safety doesn't have enough money to prioritize investigating the small businesses that modify limos after they leave the assembly line. "I think the oversight is pretty lousy, because the modifications are so individualistic, and there are not that many companies out there that do this. Mostly, they are mom-and-pop operations," said Claybrook, a former administrator at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration who previously led consumer group Public Citizen. Instead, the agency tends to focus more on problems with new cars and major recalls, she said. U.S. Department of Transportation data shows five people died in three separate stretch limo accidents in 2010, and 21 people died in another three stretch limo accidents in 2011. Stretch limos are typically built in two ways. In the first process, one carmaker builds the limousine's body, then another company customizes or stretches the vehicle. The second company has to issue a certification that the car meets National Highway Traffic Safety Administration safety standards for new vehicles, and that all safety equipment is working as required before it can be sold to the public, said Henry Jasny, an attorney with the Washington-based nonprofit Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. In the second process, a customer buys the limousine directly from the carmaker, then takes it to be customized. But modifying the car after it has been sold is considered a retrofit, so is not something NHTSA would regulate, Jasny said. Many older models such as the 1999 Lincoln Town Car that caught fire Saturday were modified after they left the factory, said Jerry Jacobs, who owns a boutique limousine company in in San Rafael with a fleet that includes two stretch limos. "There is nothing wrong with having these older models on the road. Many have low mileage and immaculate interiors because we take care of them. But when these cars start getting older and the rubber boots wear out, they start running hot," Jacobs said. "The key is you have to keep doing all the right maintenance to make sure they're running smoothly." ___ Associated Press writers Sudhin Thanawala in San Francisco and Gosia Wozniacka in Fresno contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Public DomainJust two and a half weeks ago, the bears were starting to feel good. Markets around the world seemed to be rolling over. Commodities were falling. People were talking about deflation. And then, the market turned, and then we got Friday's strong jobs report. Now the market is back to making new highs again, and the market bears are crushed. A new note from Olivier Korber at SocGen is titled "US payrolls annihilated 'sell in May.'" Basically, whatever temptation there was to dump risky assets starting in May (as the cliche goes) has been sapped. Separately, Steven Englander of Citi wrote yesterday: The implications of the payroll release for FX is that the US is back on track as an outperformer (admittedly modest, but still standing out) in a world of underperformance,¬† From a Fed perspective labor market improvement since last year has been steady but clear, with household and payroll employment and aggregate hours converging to a 1.5% y/y gain (Figure 1, upper panel). This is probably at the low end of what the FOMC core would consider acceptable. This idea of the US being the one country that you "must own" was a huge theme in markets during the first quarter. Everyone sensed that the US was going towards liftoff, and that regardless of whatever else, exposure to the US was a must. The same takeaway was offered from trader Mark Dow, who tweeted yesterday. As scary as it is to say here, pain trade is higher. NPF was a bodyblow, pushing guys off of long-held spring swoon/sell in May view $SPX
APSAN FRANCISCO (AP) ‚Äî Microsoft is retooling the latest version of its Windows operating system to address complaints and confusion that have been blamed for deepening a slump in personal computer sales. The tuneup announced Tuesday won't be released to consumers and businesses until later this year. The changes, part of a software package given the codename "Blue," are a tacit acknowledgment of the shortcomings in Windows 8, a radical overhaul of Microsoft Corp.'s ubiquitous operating system. With the makeover it released last October, Microsoft hoped to play a more prominent role in the growing mobile device market while still maintaining its dominance in PCs. But Windows 8's design, which emphasizes interactive tiles and touch controls, seems to have befuddled as many people as it has impressed. One leading research firm, International Data Corp., says Windows 8 contributed to a 14 percent decline in worldwide PC sales during the first three months of the year ‚Äî the biggest year-over-year drop ever. Meanwhile, sales of smartphones and tablet computers are booming. The biggest beneficiaries have been Apple Inc., the maker of the iPhone and iPad, and Samsung Electronics Co., which sells the most devices running on Google Inc.'s Android software. Google is also benefiting from Android's popularity through increased traffic to its services, creating more opportunities for the company to display ads. By contrast, leading PC makers such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc., which primarily sell Windows-powered machines, have been mired in a financial funk that has battered their stocks and raised questions about their futures. Despite the troubling signs, Microsoft insists it's pleased with Windows 8's performance. The company, which is based in Redmond, Wash., says more than 100 million Windows 8 licenses have been sold so far, up from about 60 million licenses in January. The licensing volume "is in the same general ballpark," as Microsoft's previous operating system ‚Äî Windows 7 ‚Äî at a similar juncture of its sales cycle, according to Tami Reller, who serves as the marketing and financial chief for Microsoft's Windows business. In an interview, Reller said Microsoft still realized changes need to be made to make Windows 8 easier to navigate and capable of taking full advantage of technology improvements that have come out since October. "Are there things that we can do to improve the experience? Absolutely," Reller said "There is a learning curve (to Windows 8) and we can work to address that." For now, Microsoft isn't saying what kind of changes will be introduced with the release of Blue, which the company plans to anoint with a different name when the update is available. Microsoft also isn't saying whether it will charge existing owners of Windows 8 devices to get the fixes in Blue. The company plans to release Blue in time for the holiday season. Reller said more details about Blue will be released before Microsoft holds a developers conference in San Francisco in late June. Some of Blue's features are expected to be previewed at that conference. If Blue is meant to make people more comfortable, the changes may incorporate more of the elements from earlier versions of Windows. A common complaint has centered on the lack of a "start" button in the Windows 8 menu. Other critics have pined for an option that would allow the system to begin in a desktop mode suited for running applications designed for earlier versions of the operating system. Windows 8 currently starts off showing a mosaic of interactive tiles tailored for swiping through programs with a finger instead of using a computer mouse. Blue also might make it easier to find a set of controls ‚Äî known as "charms" in Windows 8's parlance ‚Äî that currently must be pulled out from the right side of a display screen. Besides responding to customer feedback, Blue also will improve Windows 8's ability to work on smaller tablets with 7- and 8-inch display screens, Reller said. She declined to say whether Microsoft intends to make smaller version of its own Surface tablets. In a conference call with analysts last month, Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said the company was working with other manufacturers to make smaller tablets. One thing that Blue won't fix: the relatively small selection of mobile applications tailored for Windows 8. Reller said the Windows 8 store now has more than 60,000 apps. By contrast, there are more than 800,000 apps available for Apple's mobile's devices and nearly that many for Android devices, too. In one of the most glaring omissions on Windows 8, Facebook Inc. still hasn't designed an app to make its online social network more accessible on that system. Facebook has about 750 million mobile users. Microsoft's decision to tweak Windows 8 so soon after it went on sale may reinforce perceptions that the product is a flop. Reller is trying to frame the changes as evidence that Microsoft is becoming more agile and nimble as it responds to a rapidly evolving technology market. Smartphones and tablet computers have been at the epicenter of the upheaval, diminishing the demand for PCs as more people and businesses opt for the convenience of increasingly powerful mobile devices. The mobile computing movement is the main reason that Microsoft made the most dramatic redesign of its Windows operating system since 1995. Given how different that Windows 8 is from its predecessors, Reller said Microsoft always knew it might have to make some adjustments less than a year after the software came out. "It had to be a very big change to take advantage of the mobile opportunity," she said. Analysts say one reason Windows 8 got off to a slow start is because there weren't enough devices designed to take advantage of the system's touch-screen features. But that is about to change as HP, Dell and other PC makers prepare to roll out a wide variety of laptops and tablets with displays that respond to touch. More than 2,400 devices have now been certified to run on Windows 8, up from 2,000 in January, Reller said. Most of the touch-screen laptops will sell at prices $50 to $250 below the first wave of comparable machines running on Windows 8, reductions that Microsoft hopes will prod more people to check out the system. "As we look at Windows 8, it's important to remember a lot of its full potential won't be realized until there are more touch devices on the market," Reller said. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
APJust another bad European datapoint. Dow Jones: ¬†Industrial output in the euro zone's second-largest economy fell 0.9% in March from the previous month, Insee said. Analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires had predicted a smaller 0.2% monthly decline.¬† January was also revised slightly downward. France is "core" Europe in the sense that it pays super low rates, as everyone knows that it's in the will-not-default club. But its economy looks increasingly like the periphery.
TokyoJapan wasn't open on Monday, but in its Tuesday session it had a gigantic day. The Nikkei surged 3.5%, blowing past 14,000 for the first time in five years. The other big overnight story was the Reserve Bank of Australia cutting rates amid a slump that's in large-part related to china. More rate cuts are seen as likely. Meanwhile, Europe is higher on not much news. Italy is up 0.8%. Germany is up 0.13%. U.S. futures are pretty flat. As yesterday was very quiet, today could be as well. There's virtually no economic data coming out this week, and earnings are tapering off. Things are in a bit of a lull.
