Are we or aren't we in a stock market bubble? To answer that question, some folks point straight to the stock market, which is currently at an all-time high. However, the nature of the current rally is very different compared to the rallies going into the 2000 and 2007 peaks. RBC Capital Market's Jonathan Golub included this interesting chart in his latest research note. "From time to time, investor euphoria toward a narrow group of stocks can put the broad market at risk," noted Golub. "This was clearly the case in the late 1990s with Technology stocks." "Investors have recently raised concerns about the performance, and bubble-like behavior, of a narrow group of stocks (i.e., Internet and Biotech names, Amazon, Chipotle)," he added. "However, when we look at the performance dispersion across the S&amp;P 500, the marketís behavior seems quite normal." While this metric doesn't have a lot of historical precedent, it's interesting. Golub expect the S&amp;P 500 to hit 1,950 in 2014. For what it's worth, here's his chart... RBC Capital Markets
REUTERS/Eric ThayerA competitor adjusts his hat before the gate opens for him to begin his ride, during the Professional Bull Riders invitational at Madison Square Garden in New York, January 6, 2013.At one point this year, we declared Jefferies' Sean Darby the most bullish strategist on Wall Street. In his new US 2014 Outlook note, Darby maintains a bullish stance, slapping a 1,931 target for the S&amp;P 500 for 2014. "We remain bullish on the US equity market versus its peers," wrote Darby in his massive 68-page note. "We would expect the market to outperform emerging markets but trade in line with Europe. The US equity market offers selective value and we would expect the high level of margin debt as well as high investor sentiment readings to discourage very aggressive weightings in the short-term." While Darby is obviously bullish, he sees plenty of opposing forces pulling and pushing at the markets. Equities are unlikely to suffer a major pull-back until a combination of disappointing earnings and deterioration in credit markets occurs. Equally, further share price gains appear capped given the recent rise in supply which has overwhelmed share buybacks. There are natural limits to PE expansion as companies will take the opportunity to raise ëcheap equityí from their perspective if the multiple expands too fast. However, if earnings growth fails to keep step with the price change and if the economy were to suffer a bout of weakness, then we believe equities would experience a fairly sharp de-rating given how high expectations have been raised. Darby expects S&amp;P 500 EPS to climb 10% to $121.20 in 2014. "We expect double digit earnings growth but the impact of share buybacks to fade thus hurting y-y comparisons," he added. "With valuations already stretched, earnings need to grow at least in line with forecasts to keep the multiple from becoming stretched." With a year-end target of 1,931, Darby is above the median forecast of 1,900.† However, he is less bullish than UBS's Julian Emanuel (1,950) and RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub (1,950).
REUTERS/Mike BlakeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Should Be More Worried About Low Volatility Than A Stock Market Bubble (BlackRock)  The U.S. stock market has enjoyed a great run so far this year, and now many are expecting a correction. But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich writes that low volatility is a bigger risk especially in the near term. He points out that U.S. stocks have had an "exceptionally smooth ride." Year-to-date market volatility is around 14, compared with a historical average of 19. "The problem today is that even after accounting for strong momentum and benign credit conditions, volatility looks unjustifiably low," he writes. Also, the low volatility also suggests that investors are also ignoring what's going on in Washington. This suggests they expect a last-minute deal after budget talks resume in January and that they are ignoring the "fallout from the Affordable Care Act (ACA)."  Wealthy U.S. Investors Made The Same Investment Errors As Everyone Else (Financial Times)  Wealthy investors make almost the same mistakes as everyone else according to John Authers at the Financial Times. A study of 115 U.S. households with an average net worth of $90 million between 2000 - 2009 showed that the wealthy "are just as keen as their poorer brethren to follow investment fads." But the wealthiest are different, writes Authers. "The richest of the rich steadily expanded their advantage over other wealthy people as the decade continued." So Far, This Has Been The 8th Best Year For The S&amp;P 500 Since 1947 (RBC Capital Markets) "The S&amp;P 500 is up an impressive 26.5% year‚Äêto‚Äêdate, the eighth best year in the post-war era," RBC Capital Market's Jonathan Golub wrote in a note to clients. But unlike many others he doesn't expect a correction. "While these results are excellent, especially in the context of weak economic and earnings growth, they are hardly out of the ordinary." RBC Capital Markets A New Business Aims At Bringing In More Clients For Advisors (Investment News)  2,600 financial advisors from 27 broker-dealer firms have signed up with AdviceIQ, which Megan Durisin at Investment News thinks is a new way from advisors to attract clients. The site lists "their assets under management, client characteristics, mission and contact information. It couples that with a blend of fact-checked articles written by financial advisers that are syndicated daily to 12 media sites, including Morningstar, The Motley Fool and Forbes," writes Durisin. It also checks their background with four regulators including the SEC. While advisors aren't certain if this helps them bring in new clients they do realize it helps them gain visibility.  Value Investors Are Experiencing A Separation From The Meaning Of Their Investments (Epsilon Theory)  Value investors like Jeremy Grantham are experiencing "separation of an investor from the meaning of his investment," according to Ben Hunt chief risk office at Salient Partners. "Sure, you can go¬† on¬† investing¬† on¬† the¬† basis¬† of¬† your¬† discounted¬† cash-flow¬† model¬† or¬† your¬† earnings¬† margin reversion-to-the-mean model or whatever it is that floats your boat, but it‚Äôs just going to be a continuing exercise in frustration so long as we live in a Fed-centric universe." So what are value investors to do instead? "Go buy a farm ‚Ä¶ or an apartment building ‚Ä¶ or a fleet of tankers ‚Ä¶ or a portfolio of bank loans ‚Ä¶ anything where your investment process has meaning again and isn‚Äôt hijacked by the game-playing and trend-following that dominates public capital markets. If you have to stay in public securities, at least move into areas of the market where you are not dominated by the game-players and where there remains a critical mass of your fellow value investors to make a¬† community of sorts ‚Ä¶ small and mid-cap industrials, say, or maybe activist targets."
The Telegraph's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard re-circulated this popular map from McKinsey on Twitter today. "McKinsey's dramatic global power shift. Conventional wisdom, but is it still true?" he tweeted.¬† Here's the map, which researchers found by taking each country's geographic center and weighting its distance from the center of the earth by GDP. And when they added in 2025 GDP projections, it looks like we're heading back to where we started. Of course, the big story this year is the slowdown in emerging markets while developed markets begin to recover. And we can expect this tension to be a major theme economists look at in the coming years. McKinsey & Co.
It‚Äôs pretty simple: Income taxes penalize saving. That‚Äôs bad. Savings and investment are critical to long-run economic growth. Consumption taxes do not penalize savings. See, under an income tax, workers who save to consume in the future are taxed more heavily than a worker who consumes today. Replacing the current income tax system with a consumption tax would boost saving, which would increase the capital stock and promote long-run growth. Yup, pretty simple. So, of course, that is not how the United States does it ‚Äî as these charts from Michael Graetz of Columbia‚Äôs law school show:   The difference here is that the U.S. is the only advanced economy without a value-added tax. So not only is the U.S. tax code more progressive as a result of relying on the income tax, it is also less efficient. (Thank heavens for the U.S. entrepreneurial spirit.) In The Wall Street Journal today, David Wessel outlines Graetz‚Äôs tax reform plan: He would impose a new national value-added tax and use the money, in part, to eliminate the income tax ‚Äî and the filing of income tax returns ‚Äî for families with incomes under $100,000. For others, there would be three marginal tax brackets (14%, 27% and, for income above $600,000,¬† 31%.) He‚Äôd also lower the corporate tax rate to 15%, cut the payroll tax and give cash to low-income families with children. While the Graetz Plan may not be my¬†first choice for tax reform ‚Äî it does, after all, keep the income tax rather than converting it into a consumption tax ‚Äî it is way better than the status quo and unfortunately better than what Washington is likely to cook up.
Subsequently there have been numerous corporate announcements of locating plant and production in the US.¬† Some of it has been on-shoring, by US companies.¬† Some has been foreign companies bringing production to the US. News at the end of last week suggest this trend is still very much alive.¬† Foxconn Technology Group, the flagship company of Taiwan's Hon Hai announced plans to invest $40 mln in Pennsylvania.¬† This is notable as well because much of the new manufacturing operations are located in the south part of the US, where labor costs and taxes are often less. About three-quarters of the investment will go to building a high-tech factory for components for telecom equipment and internet servers in Harrisburg.¬† The company plans on creating about 500 jobs on top of the 30 employees it currently has in that city.¬† The remaining quarter will finance a R&amp;D operation at Carnegie Mellon University.¬† A year ago Foxconn indicated it was preparing to expand its North American operations, partly responding to customer request that more of their products be domestically produced.¬† Separately, a report in the Financial Times today cites research by the UK's government's Manufacturing Advisory Service, that found that one in six British manufacturer has brought production back onshore or are doing so.¬† The survey of over 500 small and medium size firms found that the on-shoring is outstripping off-shorting by a magnitude of almost 4-to-1.¬† The three most common reasons for the change were cost-savings (26%), improving quality (20%) and reducing the lead times (18%).¬† It appears that labor costs in particular are not the key factor that they might have been in the past.¬† On one hand, the combination of higher wages and higher inflation in China erodes its competitive advantage.¬† On the other hand, the secular rise in productivity means it takes less labor to produce goods.¬† This reduces the share of labor costs in the total cost of production.¬† Many businesses seem to perceive they have more control over labor than other input costs such as raw materials or the cost of capital.¬† Therefore they often focus there for savings. Ironically, the on-shoring movement reverses the internationalization of production that was a distinguishing feature and driver of the post-World War globalization.¬† It is coinciding with the return of the home bias in some spheres of the finance, especially in Europe. ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiThe S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high of 1,804 on Friday, and Wall Street's short sellers with the resources to ride out the high have been salivating waiting for the market to crumble. Goldman Sachs' new Hedge Fund Monitor report, which¬†looks at 783 funds with nearly $2 trillion in gross equity positions, lists the 50 favorite short positions among the world's largest hedge fund managers. "More than half of the 50 key short¬†positions have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 YTD, and five have returned over 100%," noted Goldman's Amanda Schneider. Perhaps the stock that have outperformed during the rally will underperform during the collapse. We ranked the top 25 stocks on the list based on the dollar value of short interest.
YouTube/Billy TalenActor/climate change activist¬†"Reverend" Billy Talen is facing a year in prison after he and eight members of the Church of¬†Earthalujah sauntered into the lobby of a Chase bank dressed as Central American golden toads. The species is extinct as a result of climate change, and Talen was there to protest JP Morgan Chase's role in financing fossil-fuel intensive projects, the¬†Guardian's John Vidal reports. Both Talen and his choir director were arrested after the June demonstration and charged with riot, trespass, unlawful assembly, and disorderly conduct. Apparently, people at the bank (or at least the manager) thought it was being robbed by the gang of toads, and "at least one customer or employee started crying." "Our whole thing was 15 minutes long. And for 15 minutes [they] want to put us in jail for a year?" Talen told the Guardian. "I've served three days in the Los Angeles prison in 2006, other than that ‚Äì my 75 arrests were usually just overnight. It's surprising." Watch the video:  Read the full report at the Guardian ¬ª
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonNew Zealand's Ben Smith (C) is challenged by Ireland's Paul O'Connell (L) in their International rugby union match at Aviva stadium in Dublin, November 24, 2013. The Nasdaq saw 4,000 for the first time since 2000. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Featureflash / Shutterstock.com Following the surprise announcement of Rupert Murdoch's divorce from Wendi Deng this year, everyone began to try and work out what exactly the divorce meant. Much of the speculation revolved around an allegedly close relationship between Deng and the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair, which was spurred on by a coyly titled article by Murdoch biographer Michael Wolff. The speculation was so rife that Blair's team were forced to release an outright denial of an affair. This weekend, however, the Daily Mail reignited the rumors with an article titled "Murdoch's feud with Blair over wife Wendi: Friendship came to 'terminal' end over claims of 'multiple encounters' between ex-PM and tycoon's wife." The article claimed that sources close to Murdoch say he was angered as Blair had secretly stayed with Deng at their home a number of times, and that Blair and Deng had enjoyed "multiple encounters." However, the best part of the article was the following sentence: There is no suggestion by this newspaper of any impropriety by Mr Blair or Ms Deng. No, there is definitely no suggestion of "impropriety" during these multiple secret encounters that the Mail reports on. Definitely not. The Daily Mail is hardly a stranger to innuendo or potentially libelous claims (in fact, they are sometimes quite admirable in their bold attitude to such matters). What this line and its prominent placement hints at the PR war going on behind the scenes here. Much of the reporting in the Mail story clearly comes from sources close to Murdoch, perhaps speaking for him, and Blair's team has been fastidious about contacting media publications and warning them that allegations of an affair are "offensive, defamatory, and actionable." Wolff alluded to the PR war in a couple of tweets this weekend: Don't know re sex. But Wendi/Tony in close and often hostile cahoots against Rupert. Lots of ridicule about the old man. Sex suggestion may be Rupert camp's strike at Blair over his betrayal. He took Wendi's side against Rupert.
Kids, this is why you shouldn't slam anyone over e-mail. A college student bashed Wells Fargo bankers calling them "doofuses" and "boners" in an email sent to some "bros" at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. † The student, who had met the BAML guys at a bar he calls "Fratty Kips," then proceeded to tell the Bank of America guys that he'd like to work at their firm. He presumably thought the email would remain confidential between the BAML guys. †Of course, emails like this never remain private on Wall Street as history has shown us time and time again.† The email is still making the rounds on Wall Street. To make matters worse, it made its way back to a senior Wells recruiter and the Wells Fargo banker who was at this student's campus recruiting event.† We've included the emails below and a few of the reactions from bankers at other firms. † Here's the first one sent to a BAML guy calling the Wells Fargo bankers "boners." Business Insider tipster Here's the other one where he calls the Wells folks "doofuses."† Business Insider tipster The email made the rounds and even landed in the inbox of a senior campus recruiter at Wells Fargo. † Business Insider tipster It also made it back to one of the guys at the campus recruiting event.† Business Insider tipster
You go into an interview. You really want the job. You're clamming up. You're anxious. What do you do? In an interview with OneWire, a career site for financial professionals, executive coach Ann Mehl says it's actually not that hard to get rid of your nerves as long as you're open about them. "I often say to folks, when you get to the meeting, if you feel nervous and you're sweating and you're feeling like you're panting, admit it. Say it. Drop it into the room. Just say, "My nerves are getting the best of me right now and I just want to admit that." Because the other person is human and I think they'll relate to you more if you share it than if you're all strung out." Mehl, who launched her executive coaching business in 2005, has worked with employees from Citigroup, Kickstarter, Etsy, Morgan Stanley, Yahoo and more. In that time, she's found that the same open, honest energy you should apply to an interview, should be applied to leadership in the workplace as well. ìThe first thing I think about [that makes a good leader] is positive energy. That means that when they show up, theyíre not whining about an issue, or trying to blame someone, or telling me they havenít slept or eaten in days, I think goes a long way.î Watch the video below, or head to OneWire to check out more interviews from their Open Door series.  
One of the more painful lessons in investing is that the prudent investor (or ‚Äòvalue investor‚Äô if you prefer) almost invariably must forego plenty of fun at the top end of markets. This market is already no exception, but speculation can hurt prudence much more and probably will. Ah, that‚Äôs life. And with a Fed like ours it‚Äôs probably what we deserve. ‚Äì Jeremy Grantham, macro fund manager and noted Bear (Nov. 19, 2013) I cannot look at myself in the mirror; everything I have believed in I have had to reject. This environment only makes sense through the prism of trends. ‚Äì¬† Hugh Hendry, macro fund manager and noted Bear (Nov. 22, 2013) ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs go.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe can‚Äôt.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhy not?‚Äù ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre waiting for Godot.‚Äù ‚Äì¬† Samuel Beckett, ‚ÄúWaiting for Godot‚Äù (1953) Karl Marx may not have had a small-l liberal bone in his body, but he was one of the keenest observers of the human condition to ever live, and his writings are a phenomenal resource for anyone seeking to understand our lives as social animals. In 1852 Marx published an essay titled The 18th¬†Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte, recounting the 1851 coup where Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte (nephew of THE Napoleon) seized dictatorial¬† powers¬† in¬† France. The essay was, Marx wrote, intended to ‚Äúdemonstrate how the class struggle in France created circumstances ¬†and relationships that made it possible for a grotesque mediocrity to play a hero‚Äôs part,‚Äù and it is here that Marx describes his view of the individual‚Äôs role in history. Which is to say ‚Ä¶ not much, as individuals are almost always prisoners of the past and their class, particularly shadow or derivative individuals, as Louis-Napoleon was to his uncle and Yellen is to Bernanke. This was the essay where Marx famously said that history always repeats itself, only the second time as farce, a phenomenon I‚Äôve written about at length as the emergency Fed policies that saved the world in ¬†2009 have been transformed into a more or less permanent government insurance program.¬† I started this note with quotes from two prominently bearish money managers ‚Äì Jeremy Grantham and Hugh Hendry ‚Äì both of whom are throwing in the towel on the upward trajectory of the market in the face of inexorable government bond-buying. Their change of heart reflects (finally and begrudgingly) the overwhelmingly dominant Narrative of Central Bank Omnipotence, that for better or worse it is central bank policy (particularly the Fed‚Äôs QE policy) that determines market outcomes. This Narrative is encapsulated in the following chart, a graph that we‚Äôve all seen a million times in one form or another and has become a meme unto itself. www.mcoscillator.com This is the Common Knowledge of our day ‚Ä¶ that so long as the Fed continues to buy, the market will continue to go up. Maybe they taper the rate of purchases or even stop expanding altogether, but if the market gets squirrelly they will just start buying again. The Narrative of Central Bank Omnipotence doesn‚Äôt mean that the market will only go up; it means that central bank policy is the overwhelming causal factor for market levels. It is as powerful a Common Knowledge structure as I‚Äôve ever measured, and it‚Äôs at the heart of Grantham and Hendry‚Äôs hand-wringing. They aren‚Äôt capitulating to the market going up, but to WHY the market is going up. It‚Äôs a market dynamic that is alien to their (formidable) talents as money managers and to their (strongly held) belief structures on the meaning of an investment. But for both Grantham and Hendry (and I suspect every investor who has been fighting the Fed in one way or another), this is a temporary capitulation. They both cling to the notion that this, too, shall pass, that we shall someday return to a market environment where real-world business fundamentals matter more than monetary policy. Maybe the return to ‚Äúnormal‚Äù comes with a bang ‚Ä¶ some sort of ‚ÄúMinsky moment‚Äù and asset price collapse where there‚Äôs a sudden realization that the Emperor has no clothes (or no more bonds to buy) ‚Ä¶ or maybe it comes with a whimper, as the Fed slowly and calmly drains the excess reserves it has built up in the financial system with the magical ‚Äútools‚Äù that are touted every time Bernanke (and now Yellen) testifies before Congress. To which I say ‚Ä¶ maybe. Or maybe that‚Äôs just wishful thinking for a market clearing Shock Ending or Happy Ending, as opposed to what seems to me to be the more likely ¬†outcome of the Entropic Ending, a long gray slog through a more or less permanently depressed world and a more or less permanently Fed-centric market. Louis-Napoleon‚Äôs reign may have been a farcical shadow of his uncle‚Äôs Emperorship, but the truth is that Napoleon I set into motion structural changes in the world that dominate our lives still. Napoleon changed the meaning of nationalism. He changed the meaning of war. He changed what it means to live as a human animal in a mass society. I mean, the entire concept of mass society really begins with Napoleon and the lev√©e en masse, the Napoleonic Code, the notion of Total War, and the authoritarian co-opting of revolutionary ideals. Put the political inventions of Napoleon (and his Prussian and English opponents) together with the mechanical inventions of the Industrial Revolution and you have ‚Ä¶ the modern nation-state, a massive and entrenched insurance company attached to an equally massive and entrenched standing army. I think it‚Äôs likely that government policy initiatives of the past ten years, particularly monetary policy and particularly US monetary policy, have created a structural shift in the meaning of capital markets and the global economy that rivals what Napoleon did almost exactly 200 years ago. I think Larry Summers is right ‚Äì we are mired in a world of secular stagnation and a more or less permanent liquidity trap. The degree to which ZIRP and QE and bubble-promoting monetary policy creates that secular stagnation by delaying the deleveraging, loss assignment, and creative destruction that vibrant growth requires is ludicrously underappreciated in Summers‚Äô speech, but as a statement of economic reality it‚Äôs pretty spot-on. I think Paul Krugman is right, too ‚Äì in for a penny, in for a pound. Central bankers have come this far. Do you really think they‚Äôre going to back down now? I‚Äôm not saying that Krugman‚Äôs argument is ‚Äúright‚Äù in terms of being intellectually honest or even very smart. I‚Äôm saying that I believe it is an accurate representation of the world as it is. Here‚Äôs the crucial part of what Summers and Krugman are saying: this is not a temporary gig. This isn‚Äôt going to just ‚Äúget better‚Äù on its own over time. This really is, as Mohamed El-Erian of PIMCO would call it, the New Normal. And if you‚Äôre Jeremy Grantham or anyone for whom a stock has meaning as a fractional ownership stake in a real-world company rather than as a casino chip that gives you ‚Äúmarket exposure‚Äù ‚Ä¶ well, that‚Äôs really bad news. So what‚Äôs the point of all this? Denial ain‚Äôt just a river in Egypt, and alienation ain‚Äôt just a movie with Mandy Patinkin in heavy make-up. For my money, the smartest thing Marx ever wrote was on the concept of alienation, the separation of a worker from the meaning of his labor. Marx believed that the greatest theft that capitalism perpetrated on the working class was psychological. The Industrial Revolution and the assembly line crushed a worker‚Äôs spirit by eliminating the sense of pride, the sense of accomplishment, the sense of place and meaning that an honest day‚Äôs work previously imbued. Instead of seeing, feeling, and knowing the object of his labor, the modern worker made ‚Ä¶ a widget. He made a cog and he was a cog. What traditional value investors like Grantham are experiencing today is alienation in the traditional Marxist sense. In today‚Äôs context it‚Äôs not the separation of a worker from the meaning of his labor, but the separation of an investor from the meaning of his investment. Sure, you can go ¬†on ¬†investing ¬†on ¬†the ¬†basis ¬†of ¬†your ¬†discounted ¬†cash-flow ¬†model ¬†or ¬†your ¬†earnings ¬†margin¬†reversion-to-the-mean model or whatever it is that floats your boat, but it‚Äôs just going to be a continuing exercise in frustration so long as we live in a Fed-centric universe. As Hugh Hendry says, it‚Äôs hard to look at yourself in the mirror every morning when everything that you‚Äôve held dear as your investment belief structure doesn‚Äôt seem to matter much anymore. Nostalgia, as Milan Kundera points out, is a form of suffering. Life‚Äôs way too short to wallow in those waters. Marx has an answer to the alienation problem ‚Ä¶ end it, don‚Äôt amend it. Take your ball and go home, or at least find a different game. For the alienated proletariat, this is easier said than done. You‚Äôve got to throw off your chains, rise up in violent class struggle, create a vanguard political party that maintains the necessary ideological discipline, watch out for counter-revolutionaries ‚Ä¶ creating a worker‚Äôs paradise is hard work! For the alienated value investor, on the other hand, the portability of capital makes the road to greener pastures quite a bit easier -- just get out of public markets. Go buy a farm ‚Ä¶ or an apartment building ‚Ä¶ or a fleet of tankers ‚Ä¶ or a portfolio of bank loans ‚Ä¶ anything where your investment process has meaning again and isn‚Äôt hijacked by the game-playing and trend-following that dominates public capital markets. If you have to stay in public securities, at least move into areas of the market where you are not dominated by the game-players and where there remains a critical mass of your fellow value investors to make a ¬†community of sorts ‚Ä¶ small and mid-cap industrials, say, or maybe activist targets. Just don‚Äôt kid yourself into thinking that your deep dive into the value fundamentals of some large-cap bank has any predictive value whatsoever for the bank‚Äôs stock price, or that a return to the happy days of yesteryear is just around the corner. It doesn‚Äôt and it‚Äôs not, and even if you‚Äôre making money you‚Äôre going to be miserable and ornery while you wait nostalgically for what you do and what you‚Äôre good at to matter again. Spoiler Alert: Godot never shows up. But maybe you‚Äôre not a dyed-in-the-wool value investor wracked by feelings of severe alienation. Maybe you‚Äôre pretty agnostic about the whole investment style box thing and you‚Äôre just looking to grow your wealth as quickly as possible with the least risk as possible. If you don‚Äôt really care WHY the markets are going up, only that they ARE going up; if you don‚Äôt feel an existential angst about Fed policy, but are actually quite happy that they‚Äôve got your back; if you‚Äôre looking to play the investment game better, regardless of what the rule changes might be ‚Ä¶ well, Marx has some good advice for you, too. Think for yourself. Marx is most famous for his concept of ‚Äúthe means of production‚Äù, the notion that human history is best seen and understood through an economic lens, that what we have been told is a story of Great Men and Empires and Discovery is really just a byproduct of class struggle for the control of those economic means of production. But what‚Äôs less appreciated is that Marx made a distinction between material production (all the stuff that we characterize as economic activity) and what he described as ‚Äúmental production‚Äù ‚Äì the creation of ‚Äúthe ruling ideas‚Äù that do all the heavy lifting in maintaining control over the proletariat. Now Marx wrote this in the 1840‚Äôs (!), so it‚Äôs going to need some contextual updating to speak clearly to us 170 years later. To wit: in the same way that Marx‚Äôs concept of alienation is more relevant today to capitalist investors than it is to labor, so, too, is this concept of mental production and ruling ideas. We investors ‚Äì big or small, retail or institutional ‚Äì are the proles. A¬† well-to-do and content proletariat, to be sure, kind of like professional athletes, but a proletariat nonetheless. We control neither the means of material production (the public capital markets in which we labor) nor, more importantly, the means of mental production ‚Äì the creation of the ruling ideas that drive our behavior and are taken for granted. We are ALL suckers for a good story that has more truthiness (to use Stephen Colbert‚Äôs word) than truthfulness, and you don‚Äôt have to be a raving Marxist to believe that the institutions that do in fact control the means of material and mental production depend on this central truth about human nature to maintain their position. What are the ruling ideas in investment theory and practice today? There are plenty, but I‚Äôll highlight two: ‚Äústocks for the long haul‚Äù and Modern Portfolio Theory. I‚Äôm not going to go into a long critique of either ruling idea, as I‚Äôve written on this topic here, and I have lots more planned for the future. But for now I‚Äôll just ask this: does the Narrative of Stocks For the Long Haul or the Narrative of Modern Portfolio Theory serve your best interests and your clients‚Äô best interests ‚Ä¶ or theirs? It‚Äôs a question that deserves to be asked and explored again and again, and that‚Äôs what I‚Äôll keep doing with Epsilon Theory.
The historian Michael Beschloss recently tweeted this picture of 5th Avenue and 51st Street in New York City in 1900. Looking at the picture, it's hard to believe that that was only 113 years ago. Fifth Avenue was dirt! Michael Beschloss Things changed fast in the early decades of the 20th Century. The picture below, from "Flames on Fifth Avenue," is from the Easter Parade in 1929, the year the stock market crashed. The picture is of a group of women lighting Lucky Strikes in a protest in support of equal rights for women. In the 1920s, it still wasn't considered appropriate for women to smoke. Or work. (They had only just gotten the right to vote.) That was only 84 years ago! Flames on Fifth Avenue And both of these pictures look quite different from today. Here's the Google StreetView version of 5th Avenue and 51st Street, the same block as in the top photo above. The first one is looking north, toward the park. The second, south toward Washington Square. (I can't tell which way the 1900 picture is looking ‚Äî if you can, please tell me). A lot has happened in the past 113 years... Google StreetView Google StreetView
Asia's thirst for fine wine seems to have few limits. A case of 1978 RomanÈe-Conti Grand Cru sold for $476,280 on Saturday, setting a record for RomanÈe-Conti and making it one of the most expensive cases ever sold at auction. That works out to about $39,700 per bottle or about $4,900 per glass. Christie's said the buyer was from Asia. The sale price was more than three-times the high estimate for the case. (Read more:†Wealthy pour more money into vineyards) The sale shows that despite a slowdown earlier this year in wine sales to Chinese and Hong Kong buyers, demand for the most prestigious bottles remain strong. Chinese buyers are paying especially high prices for RomanÈe-Conti, which is regarded as the top status wine brand in China. In an interview with CNBC Monday morning, billionaire Wilbur Ross said that prices for fine art and wine have gotten "a little bit extreme." Asked about the RomanÈe-Conti sale, he joked: "I don't think I have clothes good enough to wear while I'm drinking $400,000 wine. Just save it." Christie's sold $9 million worth of wine during the three-day sale, with a total of more than $1.6 million worth of RomanÈe-Conti during the auction. In addition to the $476,280 case, a second case of 1978 RomanÈe-Conti sold for $301,644, while a case of 1985 RomanÈe-Conti sold for $285,000ótwice the estimate. A collection of 105 bottles of Chateau Latour sold for $301,000. (Read more:†China has a word for its crass new rich) "This auction emphasized the growing demand and importance for premium wines with the finest provenance," said Simon Tam, Christie's head of wine for China.
Traders need information at all hours of the day, especially if they're trading markets that aren't bound by US time. That's probably why they were the first to notice that in early October, Bloomberg TV started airing infomercials while the rest of us are sleeping. A trader who is up odd hours watching Asian and/or European markets tells us he now turns to CNBC-E now whenever the infomercial come on. It's not an ideal situation because CNBC-E does not have US Futures and other data scrolling as Bloomberg did. Bloomberg TV confirmed that the infomercials are now on Sunday nights from 11:00 pm to 12:00 am, Tuesday to Saturday from 2:00 am to 3:00 am, and Monday from 12:00 am to 2:00 am. However, they are still considered to be an experiment on the network's part. The extra monetization grab comes as the New York Times reports that terminal sales are down dramatically, and news that Bloomberg news recently had a round of layoffs.
If you're a smart enough hacker, you can break into a company that stores bitcoins for people and wipe out their bank accounts. Thieves have done just that with BIPs, one of Europeís biggest bitcoin payment processors, the company announced on its website. The crooks walked away with 1,295 bitcoins, BIPs founder and CEO Kris Henriksen, told his customers via a post to the company's online forums. That's about $990,00 based on today's value of Bitcoins on Coindesk (about $760 per coin). BIPs offered a service that lets merchants accept bitcoins and exchange them into other currencies. As part of that service, it stored people's bitcoins for free in what's known as a bitcoin wallet. That's akin to a bank account. Hackers broke into that service on Friday and wiped out people's wallets, Henriksen said. The company explained how the hackers broke in: First they created what's known as a deniel of service attack, which is when computers on the Internet send a website so many hits that the website can't handle all the traffic and it shuts down. That hack let them discover a weakness in the website. Then they did a second attack two days later, broke into company's network, controlled the company's computer storage systems where the bitcoins were stored, and transferred the money into their own bitcoin wallet, Henriksen said in his blog post. After the robbery, Henriksen tried to shrug off some of the blame, telling his customers, "Web Wallets are like a regular wallet that you carry cash in and not meant to keep large amounts in." Needless to say, the people who were using BPS's free web wallet to store their Bitcoins are not happy that they were robbed. One user, "cubicdissection" wrote: As someone who pursues and gets merchants to sign up for your service, you surely realize that many if not most of them are not well versed in Bitcoin. At NO point did you EVER say hey you shouldn't keep your BTC with us. In fact, your website said: Your data is secure at BIPS ... BIPS protects your payment information with industry-leading security and fraud protection. ... So yeah, I felt pretty god---- secure leaving my BTC balance there. ... So basically ALL balances are gone? Here's the warning about the robbery that BIPs posted to its website: BIPS temporarily closes consumer wallet initiative after security breach Nov19To protect the successful merchant processing business BIPS has decided to temporarily close down its consumer wallet initiative.†BIPS has been a target of a coordinated attack and subsequent security breached. Several consumer wallets have been compromised and BIPS will be contacting the affected users.†As a consequence BIPS will temporarily close down the wallet initiative to focus on real-time merchant processing business which does not include storing of Bitcoins. Subsequently BIPS will consider to reintroduce the wallet initiative with a re-architected security model.†The consumer wallet initiative has not been BIPS core business and as such regrettably affecting several users has not affected BIPS merchant acquiring.†All existing users will be asked to transfer bitcoins to other wallet solutions, and users affected by the security breach will be contacted.†Additional support information:†BIPS help desk system is currently not accessible and will not be re-enabled until an alternative hosting solution has been arranged for this. In the mean time, support is reachable via email to support(at)bips(dot)me. Previously submitted tickets need to be resubmitted via email. Please be patient and allow 24-72 hours to receive a reply.

"They see the market here still has room for appreciation," said Irvine-area real estate agent Kinney Yong, of RE/MAX Premier Realty. "What's driving them over here is that they have this cash, and they want to park it somewhere or invest somewhere." Yong's phone has been ringing off the hook, with more than 5,000 new homes slated for the nearby Great Park Neighborhood. Most of the calls are from overseas, but prospective buyers are not looking solely for financial returns on the real estate.  "We are seeing a lot of Asians who are buying as an investment, but their kids are going to school here, so kids live in the home. They are looking at it more as an investment in education," said Emile Haddad, CEO of Fivepoint Communities, developer of the Great Park Neighborhood. ¬† That is Brian Yang's plan. Speaking from his home in China, Yang said he purchased a home in Irvine this year, but he will wait five years, until his daughter turns 10, before moving his family to the U.S. He has several reasons for taking the leap. "Education in America is very good and world class, so the first one is for education, and I think the second one is for the property appreciation," explained Yang. (Read more: China has the youngest billionaires) While American secondary schools and universities are a big draw for the majority of Chinese buyers in California, Yang, and many of his colleagues, are also concerned about China's political instability, inflation, even pollution. They are paying all-cash for real estate in California, using it as a safe-haven for their wealth. Yang was reluctant to talk about the money, but he admitted, "I feel the same way to some extent." For now, Yang is renting out the four-bedroom home, and, he said, getting a 5 percent return on the investment. While Yang purchased an older home, the new model homes at Great Park are drawing thousands of potential buyers. In fact, more than 20,000 attended the opening weekend, according to developers. The vast majority of lookers were Asian, and that fact is not lost on the builders. Hoping to cash in on this new wave of investors, they are tailoring the homes to the demand. Some are incorporating multigenerational floor plans and even Feng Shui designs. "The imbalance of supply and demand here is really driving a lot of competition for these homes," said Haddad. The homes range from the mid-$700,000s to well over $1 million. Cash is king, and there is a seemingly limitless amount. "The price doesn't matter, 800,000, 1 million, 1.5. If they like it they will purchase it," said Helen Zhang of Tarbell Realtors. (Read more: China's richest man snaps up $28 million Picasso art) ¬† Zhang was coming out of one of the models with a Chinese couple pushing a toddler in a stroller and carrying an infant. As our CNBC camera crew interviewed Zhang, another group of potential buyers roaming the neighborhood models raised their brochures to hide their faces when they saw the camera. ¬† (Read more: China's rich buying up yacht companies) ¬† While no one would say specifically why certain families were shying away from the media, some alluded to the fact that many of the buyers don't want any questions about where the cash is coming from. Some are buying multiple homes as investments, while others are moving their families to the U.S., intending to stay at least until their children graduate from college. ¬† ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Diana Olick. Follow her on Twitter @Diana_Olick. 
By Bassano [Public domain], via Wikimedia CommonsBertrand Russell, looking awesomeWe recently wrote about how infinitely large sets are not all the same size as each other, but we were a bit vague about what we meant by a set. The people who invented set theory also started out with a pretty vague idea of what sets are, and this vagueness led to some serious problems. Mathematician Georg Cantor and the other early set theorists were operating in a world of what we now call "naive set theory". Their idea of what a set is was very loosely defined. We have an intuitive idea that a set should be a collection of things, and naive set theory basically takes this as the definition of a set. There is good reason to have a fairly open-ended definition like this. We want sets to be extremely flexible objects, capable of taking on many roles in different parts of mathematics. A finite collection of variables, like {x, y, z}, should be a set. An infinite collection of numbers, like the natural numbers N = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ...} should also be a set. In geometry, we want the collection of all points between two given points ó the line segment connecting the two given points ó to be a set. To make things more complicated, we also want to consider collections of sets. Above, we thought of a line segment in the plane as a set. So, in studying the geometry of line segments, we are analyzing the properties of the set of all line segments in the plane ó a set whose component elements are themselves sets. In probability theory, we think of events as being sets of outcomes, and so a collection of events would also be a set made up of other sets. Once they started nesting sets inside of other sets, the early set theorists considered an intriguing proposition ó could a set contain itself as a member? This comes about naturally from our open-ended, naive definition of a set. We have the set of all natural numbers. So, it makes sense that we would also have the set of everything that is not a natural number. This set would include quite a few things ó the numbers -3, 1/2, and p are all not naturals, and so they would be members. The word "pizza" is not a natural number, so that would be a member. The state of California is not a natural number as well, so we would throw that in there too. Since this set is itself pretty clearly not a natural number, but instead an enormous collection of everything ever that is not a natural number, it must be a member of itself. Indeed, with our naive definition of a set, it is tempting to consider a set of everything, or a set of all sets. Naturally, being itself a set, the set of all sets would also have to contain itself as an element. Around the turn of the century, analytic philosopher extraordinaire Bertrand Russell identified a serious problem with this idea, known as Russell's Paradox. Let's start by looking at the set of all sets that contain themselves as elements, and let's call this set A. We've seen a couple members of A ó the set of everything that is not a natural number, and the set of all sets. Does A contain itself? This is a bit of a problem, since the answer could go either way. If A contains itself, then great! A satisfies the condition we set up for being a member of A ó containing itself. If A does not contain itself, no problem there ó if A doesn't contain itself, then A doesn't satisfy the condition for being in A. This is an undecidable proposition ó something that, given what we know, we cannot prove or disprove either way. Undecidable propositions, while a little uncomfortable feeling, are not enough to constitute a paradox that completely blows up a logical system. The question of whether or not the set of self-containing sets contains itself just lies outside the scope of our system. So far, naive set theory seems to be holding up elsewhere, so we are still okay. The paradox comes in when we think about the inverse of A ó the set of all sets that do not contain themselves as members. Let's call this set B. Does B contain itself? We are now in trouble. Suppose B contains itself as a member. We defined B, however, as the set of all sets that do not contain themselves. So if B does contain itself, it goes against the condition we used to define B, and thus B does not contain itself. But then if B does not contain itself, it does satisfy the condition to be a member of itself, and so it would have to contain itself! This gives us a contradiction ó the set of all sets that are not members of themselves simultaneously must and cannot be a member of itself. This contradiction makes naive set theory inconsistent ó we have a statement that has to be simultaneously true and false. This paradox, and other problems that emerge from having sets that contain themselves as members, and from having giant, poorly defined sets of everything, led to a more formal axiom-based idea of what sets are. The modern set theory axioms are very specific about how to build sets out of other sets. In particular, the axioms very quickly forbid a set from being a member of itself. We are also much more careful with constructions like "the set of everything that is not a natural number". Rather than using a broad universe of "everything", sets like this must be constructed as subsets of a larger set that we have already defined. So, I can define the set of all real numbers that are not natural numbers, but I cannot make a set of "everything" that is not a natural number. Despite these restrictions, the modern set theory axioms are still sufficiently flexible that, combined with the rules of formal logic, they provide a solid grounding for basically all of modern mathematics. Russell's Paradox and its resolution in modern axiomatic set theory show how our understanding of mathematics evolves and is refined over time. We often start with some intuitive idea of how something should work, but then see something strange or paradoxical in our intuition, and then find a way to deal with the strangeness or fix the problem.
LuxFreeport.lu They never really left their perch in the first place, but rich people are definitely on top of the world again. Pick your evidence: setting a record price on a painting purchase, flipping your Gulf Stream jet, buying a flat in London for a price rivaling the GDP of a small country, or turning down a $3 billion offer for your photo-taking mobile app. Now the global 1 Percent is investing in another new toy ó but you may not notice it at first. The Economist recently reported on the existence of an unassuming warehouse outside Luxembourg's main airport that's been under construction. But this is no ordinary hangar. Instead, it is a "freeport," designed to house the collectibles, like art or gold, of the 1%, shielding them from the taxman and offering layers of anonymity not available at other high-end storage facilities. As the Economist explains: "[Freeports'] attractions are similar to those offered by offshore financial centres: security and confidentiality, not much scrutiny, the ability for owners to hide behind nominees, and an array of tax advantages. This special treatment is possible because goods in freeports are technically in transit, even if in reality the ports are used more and more as permanent homes for accumulated wealth. If anyone knows how to game the rules, it is the super-rich and their advisers." Here's the thing: the place is awesome ó way more awesome than it should be for just a warehouse. Remember the village in the movie "Gattaca" where genetically superior beings prepared to launch into space? It looks like like that, but with a way more ludicrous soundtrack. But you really need to watch the whole video, which is only about two minutes, and contains the New Age background music, to get a sense of how the super rich live these days. Click here for the full video ª
Win McNamee/Getty ImagesThe economy is stuck in a weak recovery and unemployment remains high, but the Federal Reserve long ago exhausted the normal tool it uses to spur economic growth. Now, it is considering a policy change that could lead banks to charge depositors negative interest rates. The Fed has control of short-term interest rates. During recessions, it cuts those rates to bring about greater investment and growth. ¬†However the Fed cannot make rates negative, because people will withdraw and store their money instead of letting it slowly decrease over time. This is called the zero lower bound and it limits the Fed's power. In recent weeks, economist have discussed the idea of how to implement a negative interest rate while preventing people from hoarding paper currency. Economist Miles Kimball has discussed creating an electronic currency and having an exchange rate between it and dollar bills. Others have discussed going cashless and eliminating paper currency altogether. The European Central Bank (ECB) has also recently considered adopting a negative interest rate on bank deposits as well. Whether it will follow through with the policy is unclear, but it has sparked fears in banks around the Eurozone. The goal of these ideas is to allow desired savings to equal desired investment. Right now, that would require a negative interest rate, but since it cannot happen, savings are too high and investment too low, leading to the middling growth we've seen over the past few years. The larger worry is what Larry Summers brought up in his IMF talk a few weeks ago that the Fed being stuck against the zero lower bound could be the new normal. When the next recession undoubtedly hits in a few years, rates will only be slightly above zero, giving the Fed limited power to bring about a recovery. It will soon find itself stuck up against the zero lower bound once again. However, a different Fed policy change could bring about a negative rate on deposits and test the power of the zero lower bound. The Fed is considering tapering its asset purchases in the coming months, but its October minutes revealed that it is also interested in providing another stimulative measure when it does so. One such measure could be reducing the interest rate it pays to banks on excess reserves - those stored at the Federal Reserve - from 0.25% to 0%. In response, U.S. banks have warned the Fed that they may start charging depositors a negative rate if such a a change happens. The banks say that doing so is a necessity to break even since they must pay small premiums to government insurance programs. At the 0.25% rate, the banks say they are breaking even, but a rate cut would put them in the red and thus force them to implement negative rates. Such a change would be a test to see if negative rates lead to mass withdrawals that many economists expect would happen. At a -0.25% rate for example, it's unclear if savers would take out their money en masse and risk storing it at home. At a lower rate, they may do so, but -0.25% may not be harmful enough to hoard money. However, no one knows how it would unfold. That uncertainty is a major concern of the Fed and one of the reasons it has not cut rates below zero. It wants to avoid mass withdrawals from the banking system at all costs. To prevent this, the Fed may set up a separate facility where it would give banks a low rate on some reserves to offset the premiums and prevent banks from charging depositors to hold their money. It could also keep rates at 0.25% and choose a different stimulative measure such as lowering the unemployment threshold.¬† For customers, it means that soon they could be faced with two options: either watch their money slowly decrease or withdraw all their savings and find somewhere else to store them away. That's a choice few Americans have faced.
FlickrCan we invest our own personal portfolio in a sophisticated way, to maximize our risk-adjusted returns, without incurring high costs or having to be financial experts ourselves? In his book Investing Demystified: How To Invest Without Speculation And Sleepless Nights, Lars Kroijer says yes. Kroijer was a hedge fund manager who argues forcefully against hedge funds, because of their high costs as well as because most active managers claim an ‚Äòedge‚Äô on markets which they are unlikely to really have. A priest‚Äôs guide to atheism As he says in his introduction, the irony of his position is not lost on him. It ‚Äúmay seem like a priest writing the guide to atheism.‚Äù As ‚ÄúAnonymous Banker‚Äù of course I am personally all in favor of finance folks criticizing, from their experience, the financial industry‚Äôs areas of high cost/low value-added. We need the Lars Kroijers of the world to tell us that ‚Äúsimple is better,‚Äù ‚Äúlow cost is better,‚Äù retail investors should avoid complex financial products,‚Äù and a better solution exists. The author says that he designed his book as the grey Volkswagen, rather than the red Ferrari, of investing.¬† (The jacket cover confirms his sensible/boring/diffident approach, as the grey cover with block letters is unconvincingly enlivened with awkward rainbow-colored arrows all pointing in the same direction. ¬†It‚Äôs not the red Ferrari of jacket covers either.)60-Second Version of Investing Demystified. Kroijer helpfully offers a ‚Äú60-second version‚Äù of his book ‚Äì the 4 take-aways to remember: 1. We as individuals do not have an ‚Äòedge‚Äô in financial markets. We should invest accordingly. 2. We can construct a cheap and simple optimized portfolio using world-equity tracking indexes and the highest-rated government bonds. We can then choose whether to add a level of complexity by deciding about a) What % of the portfolio should be in our ‚Äòrisky‚Äô equities bucket, and b) Whether adding some corporate bonds or risky governments bonds also makes sense.¬† 3. We need to think carefully about personal a) risk appetite b) Tax consequences c) non-investment assets and liabilities such as real estate, income, and debt. 4. We should pay attention to investment and transaction costs as these matter a whole lot in the long run.¬† I like Kroijer‚Äôs 4 lessons because they are correct, simple, easy-to-remember guides to personal portfolio construction that eschew hype. His VW will get you from here to there with minimal cost, minimal risk, and maximum performance. I also like that Kroijer‚Äôs personal background and professional experience make his advice free of national bias. What he says about personal portfolio construction applies equally to a Belgian, a Brazilian or a Bostonian.International perspective advantage One advantage Kroijer brings to the typical discussion of optimal, low-cost, low-maintenance personal investing is that he‚Äôs a Dane by birth, a Londoner by choice and profession, and a citizen of the world. As a result, he solves the personal portfolio puzzle differently than your average American who has a US-centric view of the investing universe. He‚Äôs unmoored from a parochial investment approach. This matters because: Your dominant currency may not be the US Dollar. Your tax regime may not be the US tax regime. Riskless bonds in your portfolio may not necessarily come denominated in your home currency, or from your own national government. The best, low-cost diversified mutual fund from Kroijer‚Äôs perspective is not a Russell 5000 index tracker therefore, but rather a whole-world equity market tracker. Only through a ‚Äòwhole-world‚Äô index tracker, Kroijer argues, can you achieve the optimal point of an efficient frontier portfolio. Recommendation I would recommend this book to a friend who has a traditional ‚ÄúLeft Brain‚Äù orientation with an accounting, engineering, or mathematical background, but who may never have studied personal finance up to this point. For that person, Kroijer‚Äôs vocabulary and engagement with portfolio theory will be quite gentle, because Kroijer never actually goes too far with technical explanations. For the creative or non-technically inclined, however, Kroijer‚Äôs grey Volkswagen approach ‚Äì and especially the peeks under the hood at the financial theory ‚Äì may leave them a bit cold. The practical, diffident, Dane isn‚Äôt flashy, and he isn‚Äôt trying to entertain. He‚Äôs just rational, right, and could help you get wealthy.
Reuters/Shannon StapletonFormer Citibank employee Debrahlee Lorenzana (L) and her attorney Gloria Allred answer questions during a press conference in New York June 28, 2010A notorious ex-Citi banker who claimed she was fired for being too sexy has quietly filed a new lawsuit claiming that Quest Diagnostics screwed up a blood test, the New York Daily News reports. Debrahlee Lorenzana, 36, says she suffered severe injuries after a hapless nurse drew her blood. The lawsuit claims she suffered ‚Äúsevere shock and damage to her nervous system and certain internal injuries,‚Äù according to the Daily News. The allegedly shoddy bloodwork ‚Äúdamaged her psychophysical motor skills,‚Äù making her "suffer severe physical pain and mental anguish as a result,‚Äù according to the lawsuit. Her lawyer, Frank Panetta, told the Daily News that the allegations that his client got nerve damage from bad bloodwork aren't all that odd. "What‚Äôs unusual about that?" he told the Daily News. "Sometimes they screw up.‚Äù Lorenzana gained national prominence in 2010, when she filed a lawsuit claiming she got harassed at Citibank for being too hot and then fired. That year, she spoke to Elizabeth Dwoskin of the Village Voice about her experience at the bank. From Dwoskin's article: Her bosses told her they couldn't concentrate on their work because her appearance was too distracting. They ordered her to stop wearing turtlenecks. She was also forbidden to wear pencil skirts, three-inch heels, or fitted business suits. Lorenzana, a 33-year-old single mom, pointed out female colleagues whose clothing was far more revealing than hers: "They said their body shapes were different from mine, and I drew too much attention," she says. The case went into arbitration (an outside-of-court dispute resolution), and Citi has made it clear that it didn't pay her a cent.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderBut what if we don't want to sell?!Media guru Michael Wolff wrote a column in USA Today suggesting that we should sell Business Insider. Mr. Wolff first said some nice things about me personally (thank you!). Then he did some back-of-the-envelope math and suggested that we should sell now for $100 million. Interestingly, when we started Business Insider six years ago, I used to tell people that our goal was to build a great publication and then sell it to Rupert Murdoch for... $100 million. In those days, when we had only a few people on the team and a few thousand readers a day, this goal seemed so preposterous that it made people laugh. And it's fun to make people laugh. So I kept telling them that. Over the past 6 years, though, the goal has evolved. First, we now have more than 125 people on the team and 1-2 million readers a day (30+ million a month), which would have been inconceivable back in our loading-dock days. Last month, this readership made us the third biggest digital business news publication, behind only the Wall Street Journal and Forbes. (We now have more readers each month than Bloomberg.com, BusinessWeek.com, CNBC.com, the FT, the Economist, and many other awesome publications. That's pretty cool!) Second, I have come to understand that great media brands take decades to build, not a few years. The other 8 big business publications, for example, have been around for a combined 737 years. CNN launched in 1981, and it was at least a decade before it really went mainstream. And it was 16 or 17 years before Ted Turner finally sold it to Time Warner. Third, as I suspected 6 years ago, successful digital journalism really is different ‚Äî as different from print and broadcast journalism as print and broadcast are from each other. To build a successful digital journalism business, you have to build a native digital newsroom, native digital distribution, a native digital business model, and a native digital cost structure. And building those things isn't as easy as it may seem. (Think about the NYT suddenly trying to launch a cable news network, and you get the idea. The New York Times is amazing at print. And TV networks are amazing at TV. But digital is different, and you can't just shove square print and broadcast pegs in round digital holes.) I love my job and am in no hurry to stop doing it. And I'm proud as hell of our team. And I really do think that this is a golden age for journalism and that we're only in the early innings of what good digital news companies like Business Insider can become. (Specifically, we can become great.) So, bottom line, we don't feel any great desire to sell.* We would never say never, of course. There are many benefits to consolidation and scale in media, and I fully expect the digital media industry to consolidate. At some point, we will probably either help consolidate the industry or be consolidated. But I honestly don't know when or which. By the way, there are a couple of things I don't think Mr. Wolff gets quite right about us (in addition to the numbers, but those are just estimates). First, he suggests that I am a fixture on the New York media party circuit. One prominent digital journalist who is, in fact,¬†a fixture on this circuit‚ÄîFelix Salmon‚Äîsnarfed in his coffee when he read this. Felix points out that I actually don't make it to these parties all that often.¬† Second, I'm not sure Mr. Wolff fully appreciates how the trends in the digital media business are playing out with respect to native digital companies like ours. Mr. Wolff is right that there is pressure on ad prices across the industry. And he is right that mobile readership currently "monetizes" at lower rates than readership on big screens.¬† But what Mr. Wolff may not fully appreciate is that these trends are actually helpful to us. You see, our major competitors ‚Äî the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg, for example ‚Äî still charge (and receive) very high prices for their digital ads. ¬†Thanks to the rapid growth of ad networks, social networks, and native digital publications, however ‚Äî all of which help premium clients reach readers more cost-effectively ‚Äî these prices are increasingly unsustainable.¬†This trend is what is clobbering the digital ad business of the New York Times and other traditional publications. Native digital publications like ours, meanwhile, help clients reach readers more cost-effectively. We also reach the next¬†generation of business leaders ‚Äî the digital generation ‚Äî not just folks who read print publications. As a result, as we continue to introduce more clients to the benefits of working with Business Insider, our revenue per reader is actually rising.¬† Happily, our revenue per reader is also already above the level we need to build a sustainable long-term business. As a result, we will be profitable this quarter, despite continuing to invest heavily for next year and beyond. Now, there are no guarantees in life, and it's certainly possible that we will look back and feel like morons for not following USA Today's advice.¬† But having done this for as long as I have, I can attest to the fact that there are many great reasons to build a business beyond the "exit." And obsessing about an "exit," I think, often causes companies to make short-term decisions that ultimately hurt them over the long haul. At Business Insider, we have two simple priorities: We believe that if we do those things well, everything else will take care of itself. SEE ALSO: Business Insider Secrets Revealed! *¬†Especially for a mere $100 million! ;)
It's been a great year for stocks. Currently, the S&amp;P 500 is clearing all-time highs. "The S&amp;P 500 is up an impressive 26.5% year‚Äêto‚Äêdate, the eighth best year in the post-war era," said RBC Capital Market's Jonathan Golub. "Not surprisingly, many investors are asking whether this sets us up for some type of pullback," he continued. "In our view, the answer is a resounding ‚ÄúNo.‚Äù While these results are excellent, especially in the context of weak economic and earnings growth, they are hardly out of the ordinary." While Golub's thesis is more comprehensive, not everyone will agree with his assessment that this year's returns are ordinary. Here's his chart of calendar year returns for every year since 1947. RBC Capital Markets
Bloomberg TVThe findings are in. Over 2,600 people responded to Business Insider's survey on financial TV, and question after question Bloomberg TV beat out CNBC and Fox Business News as the preferred channel among those polled. It's a fierce debate in financial circles. CNBC has consistently claimed the top spot, but Bloomberg TV isn't tracked by Nielsen, the ratings pollster, so the true favorite among financial professionals and business news consumers has been unclear. So Business Insider decided to ask its own readers. Respondents answered questions about everything from their favorite anchors, to Maria Bartiromo's recent move to Fox Business News. They gave their opinion on which network has the best tech coverage and their favorite morning show. But there was one crucial question that sums up the entire network battle. Bloomberg TV and CNBC are in a dead heat over who has the best guests. If Bloomberg TV edged ahead in that department, who knows what would happen.
Let me explain. Monetary policy is all about modulating nominal aggregate transactions. Monetary policy affects the amount of a certain kind of credit created in the economy -- credit that is created, figuratively, out of thin air. An increase in this thin-air credit enables the recipients of it to increase their purchases of goods, services and/or assets ñ physical and financial ñ without necessitating anyone else to correspondingly reduce his current spending/transactions. Regrettably, there do not exist data of total transactions in the U.S. economy. But there is a measure calculated by the Bureau of Economic Analysis that is an estimate of the nominal dollar amount of expenditures by U.S. residents on currently-produced goods and services, some of which are produced domestically, some of which are produced abroad. This measure is called nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. Plotted in Chart 1 are year-over-year percent changes in quarterly observations of nominal Gross Domestic Purchases and the sum of Federal Reserve credit and depository institution credit from 1953:Q1 through 2013:Q2. As I have discussed ad nauseam in previous commentaries, both Fed credit and depository institution credit are created, figuratively, out of thin air. The measure of Fed credit included in the credit sum is another sum ñ the sum of Fed outright holdings of securities and Fed holdings of securities via repurchase agreements. The Fedís current Quantitative Easing (QE) policy involves increased outright acquisitions of securities. Depository institution credit consists of the loans and securities on the books of institutions that issue deposits redeemable at par ñ commercial banks, saving institutions and credit unions. Since the S&amp;L crisis of the early 1990s and the financial crisis of 2008, commercial banks account for the overwhelming largest component of depository institution credit. †Notice in Chart 1 that changes in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit, advanced by one quarter, has a correlation coefficient of 0.65 (out of a possible maximum of 1.00) with changes in the sum of nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. This correlation of 0.65 is higher than that obtained when the two series are compared on a coincident basis. This correlation is higher than that obtained when changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases is advanced one quarter relative to changes in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit. Thus, the evidence in Chart 1 suggests that not only do changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases and changes in the sum of Fed credit and depository institution credit move in close tandem, but also that changes in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit ìcauseî (in a statistical sense) changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. The Econtrarian Plotted in Chart 2 are year-over-year percent changes in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit along with changes in depository institution credit by itself. From 1953 through 2008, the year-over-year percent changes in both of these series were very close to being equal. This implies that from 1953 through 2008, up until the recent financial crisis and the advent of QE, the behavior of depository institution credit dominated the behavior of the sum of Fed and depository institution credit. In other words, the Fed was providing a relatively small amount of ìseed moneyî for thin-air credit creation to depository institutions. Depository institutions, operating in a fractional required reserve monetary system, were ìmultiplyingî this Fed seed money into a much larger amount of thin-air credit to the non-depository-institution public. The Econtrarian Chart 3 shows this more explicitly. Depository institution credit as a percent of the†sum†of Fed and depository institution credit has a median value of 92.3% from 1953:Q1 through 2013:Q2. In 2013:Q2, this percentage had dropped to a low of 78.2%. As implied in Chart 3, following the financial crisis of 2008, the Fed has become a considerably larger provider of†total†thin-air credit as private depository institutions have had to restrict their thin-air credit creation because of capital constraints resulting from loan losses as well as increased regulatory capital requirements. The Econtrarian Chart 4 shows the†actual†year-over-year percent change in quarterly observations of nominal Gross Domestic Purchases along with the†predicted†changes in the same. The predicted values were obtained from a linear OLS regression I ran with percent changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases as the†dependent†variable. The†explanatory†variables were a constant term,†lagged†percent changes in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit and†lagged†values of the percent changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. Looks like a tighter fit than OJís glove, eh? The adjusted R-squared for this regression is 0.87, which means that the explanatory variables ìexplainî 87 percent of the variation in percent changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. The Econtrarian Alright, so why am I bullish on nominal transactions for 2014? Because I am expecting the key ìmoverî of nominal transactions, the sum of Fed and depository institution credit, to average year-over-year growth from now through the end of 2014 slightly†above†its long-term median growth of 7.6% .†Sustained†growth in total thin-air credit of this magnitude has not occurred since the mid 2000s. I am making very conservative assumptions about the behavior of Fed credit and depository institution credit in my calculation of the projected sum of Fed and depository institution credit. I am assuming that the Fed will taper its net acquisitions of securities by $10 billion per month starting in January 2013 and taper further by another $10 billion per month starting in July 2014. In the 12 months ended October 2013, commercial bank credit increased 0.9%. I am assuming that depository institution credit will continue to grow at this modest rate. Chart 5 shows the actual year-over-year growth in the sum of Fed and depository institution credit from 2000:Q1 through 2013:Q2 and my†projected†growth in it from 2013:Q3 through 2014:Q4. The projected average year-over-year growth for the six quarters ended 2014 is 7.8%. The Econtrarian Plugging these conservative projected growth rates for the sum of Fed and depository institution credit into my aforementioned regression, I obtained forecasts of year-over-year percent changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases from 2013:Q3 through 2014:Q4. These forecasts, along with actual percent changes in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases starting in 2000:Q1 are shown in Chart 6. The Econtrarian Notice that the forecast shows a rising trend in year-over-year growth in nominal Gross Domestic Purchases in the (shaded) 2013:Q4 through 2014:4 period. For 2014:Q4, the year-over-year growth forecast for nominal Gross Domestic Purchases is 7.2%, the fastest year-over-year growth since 7.6% in 2005:Q4. Now, I do not view the point forecasts of nominal Gross Domestic Purchases as the Gospel. But I do believe that the projected rising trend in the growth of the sum of Fed and depository institution credit does portend a rising trend in the growth of nominal Gross Domestic Purchases. Moreover, I believe that my growth projections of the sum of Fed and depository institution credit are very conservative. Given the capital-raising campaigns undertaken by U.S. depository institutions in recent years, given the diminished uncertainty about future regulatory capital requirements and given the rising trend in residential real estate prices, I believe that depository institutions are more able to step up their credit creation. Lastly, if I have erred in my projection of Fed credit, I suspect I have erred on the side of restraint. It is not a done deal that the Fed will commence a tapering in its securities purchases in the December 2013 or January 2014, as I have assumed, especially given how low consumer inflation is. For example in the three months ended October, the All-Items CPI increased at a compound annualized rate of 0.8%; the CPI ex Food &amp; Energy at 1.5%. If the Fed were to delay its initial round of tapering until March 2014, it also would likely delay its second round of tapering ñ i.e., initiating an additional amount per month of reduced securities purchases ñ until after July 2014. My projection of a rising trend in the growth of the sum of Fed and depository institution credit has a positive implication for the prices of U.S. risk assets ñ equities, high-yield bonds, real estate and maybe even commodities. The recipients of this projected rising trend of thin-air credit are going to purchase something with it. If the borrowers purchase currently-produced goods and services, this would result in higher corporate profits, which, in turn, would be positive for equities and high-yield bonds. The recipients of this increased supply of thin-air credit might purchase risk assets directly. After all, margin credit is on the rise. What my projection of a rising trend in the growth of the sum of Fed and depository institution credit has a distinctly negative implication for are the prices of investment grade fixed-income securities. The likely faster growth in nominal aggregate demand will have a ìmultiplierî impact on the effective demand for credit. That is, as growth in sales of goods and services increases, businesses will be induced to borrow more to expand the scale of their operations. Household creditworthiness will improve, inducing them to activate their latent demand for credit. Rising credit demand will put upward pressure on interest rates, especially interest rates on longer-maturity securities. Presumably, interest rates on short-maturity securities will be held in place by the Fedís continued zero-interest-rate policy (ZIRP). But, speaking of ZIRP, growth in nominal domestic aggregate demand higher than what the consensus and the Fed expect (is making a distinction between consensus expectations and Fed expectations a distinction without a difference?), which is my expectation, will cause the consensus to move up in time the forecast for the first Fed interestñrate hike and, therefore, revise up the level of the expected future course of short-term interest rates. This will put upward pressure on the current levels of longer-maturity interest rates. Lastly, stronger-than-expected growth in nominal domestic aggregate demand would likely result in an upward revision in inflation expectations, also putting upward pressure on the current levels of bond yields. So, as you gather around the dining table with your family this coming Thursday to enjoy your Thanksgiving feast, you can reflect on not only your good fortune in 2013, but look forward to an even more bountiful ìharvestî at Thanksgiving 2014, thanks, in no small part, to the generosity of the Federal Reserve. But you might want to ìput upî more of that expected bountiful 2014 harvest because the Fedís generosity will already have waned around the time of Thanksgiving 2014. The Fed is likely to become downright miserly soon thereafter, which implies that 2015 will be a much leaner year.
Robin Hood Foundation Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, gave another massive slide-presentation attacking Herbalife. Late last year, Ackman gave a 342-slide presentation on why he thinks the nutritional supplement seller will go to $0.† Ackman believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people, particularly from the Hispanic population. † Since Ackman declared his short, shares of Herbalife have skyrocketed. They have risen more than 68% since he publicly confirmed his short. † What's more is a number of hedge fund managers have piled on by going long the stock. †Those who are long include George Soros, Richard Perry, Stanley Druckenmiller, and Ackman's rival Carl Icahn. Daniel Loeb was long for a few weeks in the first quarter, but sold his stake for a profit. Icahn has said he believes Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."† A month ago,†Ackman's Pershing Square said it repositioned the $1 billion short by swapping more than 40%†of the equity short position in Herbalife for put options in an effort to reduce risk. † Even after losing about $500 million in mark-to-market losses, Ackman has remained confident in his short thesis. He has said he will take his Herbalife short bet to "the end of the earth."† We have included his slide-deck from last week's Robin Hood Investors Conference. †The stock rose as Ackman gave his takedown. † Please note that Ackman's slides include a bunch of video clips. †You can watch them here.†
San Francisco FedThe Dallas Fed's November report on manufacturing activity is out. The report's headline index unexpectedly fell to 1.9 from October's 3.6 reading, suggesting a continued slowdown in regional manufacturing. Economists were expecting the index to bounce back to 5.0 after falling to 3.6 in October from September's 12.8 reading. The November reading of 1.9 is the lowest since March, when the index stood at -10.5. The Dallas Fed surveys manufacturers across Texas, southern New Mexico, and northern Louisiana to compile the report. Below is the full text of the release: Growth in Texas factory activity picked up for a third consecutive month in November, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The¬†production¬†index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 13.3 to 16.9, reaching its highest reading in five months. Other measures of current manufacturing activity indicated further expansion in November. The¬†new orders¬†index came in at 5.4, similar to its October level, and marked a seventh consecutive month of increased demand. The¬†capacity utilization index rose to 16.2, its highest level since March 2011, and the¬†shipments¬†index edged up to 14.8. Perceptions of broader business conditions remained modestly optimistic in November. The¬†general business activity¬†index posted its sixth consecutive positive reading but edged down to 1.9. The¬†company outlook¬†index also posted its sixth positive reading in a row and moved up to 8, its highest level since June. Labor market indicators reflected continued employment growth and longer workweeks. The November¬†employment¬†index was 5, down slightly from its October level but still indicative of increased employee headcounts. Fifteen percent of firms reported hiring new workers compared with 10 percent reporting layoffs. The¬†hours worked¬†index held fairly steady at a reading of 4.2, suggesting a slight increase in average workweek length. Upward pressure on prices and wages continued in November. The¬†raw materials price¬†index was unchanged at 22.6, with 27 percent of firms noting an increase in input costs. The¬†finished goods price¬†index remained positive for the fourth month in a row but edged down to 2.2. The¬†wages and benefits¬†index fell from 20.4 to 14.6, indicating that upward pressure on compensation costs eased slightly this month. Looking ahead, 38 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 33 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions remained optimistic in November. The index of future¬†general business activity¬†was little changed at a reading of 7, and the index of future¬†company outlook¬†rose 5 points to 20.1. Indexes for future manufacturing activity pushed further into positive territory. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state‚Äôs factory activity. Data were collected Nov. 12‚Äì20, and 85 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been¬†seasonally adjusted¬†as necessary. Click here for the full release ¬ª
APWestern powers agreed to a deal with Iran this weekend to curb its uranium enrichment activities. We explained why we should be reasonably optimistic that the crisis is actually getting defused. But in its account of the deal, the White House appears to have glossed over two key details of the deal regarding concessions to Iran. In its fact sheet on the agreement, the White House says that Iran must now "dilute below 5% or convert to a form not suitable for further enrichment its entire stockpile of near-20% enriched uranium before the end of the initial phase." That's technically true, but it glosses over a key point. The accord states that half of the 20%-enriched uranium will be converted into a powder fuel destined for the Tehran Research Reactor ‚Äî you know, for research. However not everyone is convinced the fuel will be used for that purpose, and Israel has said it would be relatively simple to reconvert the powder back into the enriched uranium used to make a nuke. "They have no problem converting back what they allegedly turned to nuclear fuel," Israel's former military intelligence chief said earlier this year. "Within a week, it could be turned into nuclear material for a bomb." Actually, there is disagreement concerning how long the reconversion process would actually take. Carnegie Endowment fellow Mark Hibbs says three weeks. As we reported, Harvard's Olli Heinon says two months, and that in any event reconversion is expressly prohibited by the agreement (which may explain why the White House omitted that fact). The Wall Street Journal says that the full process of reconverting the fuel and then constructing a nuke would take six months. Plus, the new inspection regimes are now daily, which increases the odds that any attempt at a "breakout" from the agreement to build a nuke detected in real time, though Hibbs says the reconversion process can be carried out on the sly. Still, if you are convinced that any deal with Iran will prove faulty, this appears to be one escape valve that has been left open to them. Secondly, the deal appears to have given Iran the opportunity to boost exports by up to 285 thousand barrels a day, even though the White House says current export restrictions will remain in place. This contradiction was first reported by Reuters' Daniel Fineren. More oil in world markets is good for the rest of us, and this fact may already be weighing on Brent crude prices, which fell as much as 2.5% overnight (though have since come up a bit) and remains below $110/barrel. But it will also help boost Iranian revenues. Here's what actually happened: although restrictions on Western imports remain in place, the West also agreed to ease restrictions on selling insurance for products imported from Iran, something that applies to Asian countries who'd still been able to purchase Persian crude. The deal also says those countries must maintain the "current" amount of oil they now purchase from Iran. The deal benchmarks "current" amounts tothe 1 million barrels per day average over the past 12 months. However, the most recent IEA estimate puts exports at about 715 kbbl/d.Put these two facts ‚Äî the insurance and the averaging of the benchmark ‚Äî together, and you provide Iran with thethe opportunity to put up to 285 thousand more barrels on the market. In a follow-up email to BI, ClearView Energy Partners' Kevin Book offered an explanation of why this may have occurred: "...we don‚Äôt find it particularly surprising that last night‚Äôs White House fact sheet made no mention of the relaxed E.U. sanctions. First off, E.U. shipping and insurance sanctions preceded the U.S. equivalent measures by a year, so the E.U. may have been deemed to have primary responsibility. Second, the Obama Administration may also have been seeking to deflect Congressional criticism of the Geneva deal by minimizing perceived benefits to Iran." The consensus among most analysts remains that this is a solid deal, or at least a good start. But the details suggest Iran is getting more than you may have thought.
Japan is famous for its radical residential architecture. But as Tokyo architect Alastair Townsend explains, its penchant for avant garde housing may be driven by the country‚Äôs bizarre real estate economics, as much as its designers‚Äô creativity.  An unconventional home requires an unconventional client, one who‚Äôs willing to take-on, or can afford to ignore, one or more types of risk: privacy, comfort, efficiency, aesthetics, etc. But Japan‚Äôs experimental commissions aren‚Äôt necessarily luxury villas for a wealthy cultural elite. Many are small middle-class homes, not a typology where we expect to find bold avant garde design. So, what is it about Japan that encourages such everyday risk taking? At least that‚Äôs enshrined Western logic. Safe as houses,right?¬†Travel to Japan and this home truth is turned on its head, largely because the Japanese can not expect to sell their homes. Here, without wishing to resort to clich√©s, a little cultural background offers some insight...  Depreciation is also a holdover from the collapse of Japan‚Äôs economic bubble in the late 1980‚Äôs. Then, the ballooning price of land shot up so rapidly, buildings were considered temporary installations. This perception persists today, propped-up, in part, by policies that artificially sustain land prices, despite years of economic stagnancy and population decline. Japan‚Äôs army of loyal salarymen enjoy secure jobs for life, and rarely move to relocate to a new job. Although this is starting to change, a stable salaried job is still a prerequisite for a mortgage, which borrowers slowly repay in full over the course of their careers. Selling up ‚Äì much less profiting from the resale ‚Äì is out of the question, since no one wants to buy a pre-owned home. As the salaryman dutifully slaves away to pay off the mortgage, his or her property‚Äôs value is all the while depreciating, eventually leaving only the value of the land (minus the cost of demolishing the house). In other words, negative equity is the norm. Grinding economic and, consequently, geographic immobility is an entrenched reality for most Japanese homeowners. Without property values to safeguard, Japan, generally lacks planning scrutiny or incentives to protect and preserve local character. Neighbors are largely powerless to object on aesthetic grounds to what gets built next door. This is a boon to architects‚Äô creative license, but it also reduces the collective incentive to maintain and beautify communities by, say, nurturing greenery or burying overhead power lines. Japan‚Äôs younger architectural clientele may be more open to risk-taking at the behest of their architect, for whom each project presents an opportunity to test new and innovative ideas. Perhaps there‚Äôs also a measure of youthful na√Øvet√© as to the long-term consequences of design decisions that they, as end users, will have to tolerate for the rest of their lives. Alastair Townsend (@AlaTown)¬†is co-founder of Tokyo Architects BAKOKO. He also writes about architecture and housing in Japan at alatown.com. He was the former editor of the website ja+u (Japan Architecture+Urbanism) and editor of JA Yearbooks 1990-2011.
REUTERS/Richard ClementPending home sales fell 0.6% month-over-month in October. This was worse than expectations for a 1% rise.¬† Meanwhile, pending home sales were down 2.2% on the year, worse than expectations for a 1.1% fall. Last month's number was revised up to show a 4.6% fall, compared to an initial reading of a 5.6% monthly fall.  Year-over-year the index was revised up to show a 2% rise, compared with an initial reading of a 1.1% rise. "The government shutdown in the first half of last month sidelined some potential buyers," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release.¬† "In a survey, 17 percent of Realtors reported delays in October, mostly from waiting for IRS income verification for mortgage approval." Limited inventory and declining affordability can continue to weigh on the index. Yun thinks the housing recovery is still at a healthy pace and attributes the decline in pending home sales to a cooling down of run up we had seen in housing recently. Here's a look at the regional breakdown: Pending home sales have been falling for some time now and the index is considered to be a leading indicator for future existing home sales. The Commerce Department expects that 80% of signings will become existing home sales transactions within two months. The PHSI looks at all homes where a contract has been signed but the sale is not complete. Here's a look at the trajectory of pending home sales: NAR
Flickr/cstrzrockWith the US stock market repeatedly reaching†all-time highs in recent weeks, many investors are becoming leery of investing in stocks. Focusing on the marketís level is a mistake, in our view. Itís market valuation, not level, that matters.† Since 1900, the S&amp;P 500† Index has been close to (within 5%) of its prior peak almost half the time. Thereís a simple reason for this. The stock market goes up over time, along with the economy and corporate earnings. As a result, the market typically has regained its prior peak level fairly quickly after†dropping.†Then, it has resumed its upward march. Alliance Bernstein Fear of investing at market peaks is understandable. In the short term, thereís always the risk that other investors will decide to take gains, or that geopolitical, economic or company-specific news will trigger a market pullback. But for longer-term investors,†market level has no predictive power. Market valuationónot market levelóis what historically has mattered to future returns. Alliance Bernstein The green bars on the left side of†Display†2 show average market returns after points at which the market level was close to its prior peak. The dotted line shows average market returns after all points since 1970 (we donít have good valuation data before then). †Over 1-, 3-, 5- or 10-year periods, annualized returns were about the same after points at which the market was close to its prior peak level as after all points since 1970. Display 2 also shows that buying when the market was at least 5% below its prior peak level (indicated by the blue bars) didnít help much. It added slightly to annualized returns over 1- and 10-year periods, but detracted from returns over 3- and 5-year time periods. By contrast, buying at high valuations detracted significantly from returnsóand buying at low valuations added significantly. The green bars on†the right side of Display 2 show annualized average market returns for 1-, 3-, 5- or 10-year periods after market valuations were expensive, based on price-to-trailing earnings; theyíre far below the dotted line that indicates showing the average for each period since 1970. The blue bars show†returns after points when market valuations were low; the returns for these periods†were significantly above†average. What does all this mean for investors today? The S&amp;P 500 may be at an all-time high†level, but itís far below its all-time high†valuation. At 18.7 times trailing earnings, the US market today is more expensive than average but itís not†extremely†expensive (Display 3). Outside the US, however, equities havenít rebounded as far, so the MSCI World Index †of developed-market equities remains close to its long-term average valuation. Alliance Bernstein But with interest rates still near historical lows, bonds are extremely expensive. Both US and global stocks are very attractively valued versus bonds, as shown by the earnings yield premium bars on the right side of Display 3. While thereís always the risk of a market correction,†we think long-term investors†should invest in stocks at close to their strategic allocations. And, as always,†itís wise to diversify†globally. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice, or trade recommendations, and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations, and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. Dianne F. Lob is Chairman, Private Client Investment Policy Group at Bernstein Global Wealth Management, a unit of AllianceBernstein. Ding Liu is a Senior Quantitative Analyst at Alliance Bernstein.
The U.S. stock markets are open and they are once again heading to new all-time highs. Of note, the Nasdaq just crossed 4,000 for the first time since 2000. On Friday, the Dow closed above 16,000 for the first time ever and the S&amp;P 500 closed above 1,800 for the first time ever. According to Citi's Tobias Levkovich, "euphoria" has returned to the markets.¬† And according to Citi's proprietary stock market model, this could be bad news. "Euphoria readings indicate the market may retreat with an 83% historical probability of losses in the next 12 months," said Levkovich. Here's a look at the Nasdaq since 1999 via Yahoo Finance. Yahoo Finance
US sanctions effectively bar Iran from repatriating earnings from oil exports, forcing customers to pay into a bank in their country. Washington estimates that Iran has around $100 billion in foreign exchange earnings trapped in such accounts. Under the terms of the deal, Iran will be allowed access to $4.2 billion of oil export revenues. But nearly $15 billion still will flow into accounts overseas over the next six months, according to the US government. Nevertheless, if the interim agreement is setting the stage for a diplomatic resolution of the Iran nuke issue, then the price of oil could drop even before sanctions are completely removed. The price of a barrel of Brent crude oil jumped $3.36 to $111.95 last week on pessimism about a deal getting done. It could tumble on expectations of a rebound in Iran‚Äôs crude oil exports, which plunged by more than one million barrels per day since sanctions were imposed in early 2012. Of course, Libya‚Äôs oil output has also dropped over the past few months as a result of the anarchy caused by numerous rival militia groups. Nevertheless, world crude oil supplies rose to a new record high of 90.9mbd during October, led by a sharp increase in non-OPEC production in recent months. The combined output of the US and Canada rose to a record 11.5mbd during October, exceeding Saudi Arabia‚Äôs output of 9.5mbd. These developments should put a lid on energy inflation. In the US and Europe, CPI energy inflation rates, on a year-over-year basis, were -4.8% and -1.7%, respectively, during October. The price of gold continued to slide last week, suggesting that other commodity prices may also remain weak. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Nuclear Option. (1) Nuclear reactions. (2) Reid lobs the bomb. (3) Yellen is in like Flynn. (4) Flying with the doves. (5) The Supreme Leader got a good deal. (6) A second Nobel Peace Prize. (7) Badly wanting a bad deal. (8) ‚ÄúHistoric mistake.‚Äù (9) Obamacare as ‚Äúvaporcare.‚Äù (10) Oil prices could tumble. (11) Stage set for stock market melt-up. (12) US economy muddling along. (13) Germany looking up, while France looking down. (More for subscribers.)
Wal-MartWalmart CEO Mike Duke is retiring and a successor has been named. Duke has been with the company since 1995. He will stay on as chairman. Shares are up 0.43% pre-market. Doug McMillon will take over in February as head of the world's largest retailer.¬†He currently serves as¬†the president and chief executive officer of Walmart International, which operates Walmart chains and affiliates in 26 countries.¬†He was also the former CEO of Sam's Club. He grew up in Jonesboro, Ark. Full release: Bentonville, Ark., November 25, 2013¬†‚Äì Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today announced that its board of directors elected company veteran Doug McMillon, 47, to succeed Mike Duke, 63, as president and chief executive officer, effective February 1, 2014. McMillon was also elected to the company‚Äôs board of directors, effective immediately.¬† ‚ÄúThis leadership change comes at a time of strength and growth at Walmart,‚Äù said Rob Walton, chairman of Walmart‚Äôs board of directors. ‚ÄúThe company has the right strategy to serve the changing customer around the world, and Doug has been actively involved in this process. The company has a strong management team to execute that strategy.‚Äù¬† Walton continued, ‚ÄúDoug is uniquely positioned to lead our growing global company and to serve the changing customer, while remaining true to our culture and values. He has broad experience ‚Äì with successful senior leadership roles in all of Walmart‚Äôs business segments ‚Äì and a deep understanding of the economic, social and technological trends shaping our world. A merchant at heart, Doug has both a long history with our company and a keen sense of where our customers globally are heading next. He has also shown strong leadership on environmental sustainability and a commitment to using Walmart‚Äôs size and scale to make a difference in the lives of people, wherever they might be.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe opportunity to lead Walmart is a great privilege,‚Äù McMillon said.¬†‚ÄúOur company has a rich history of delivering value to customers across the globe and, as their needs grow and change, we will be there to serve them.¬†Our management team is talented and experienced, and our strategy gives me confidence that our future is bright.¬†By keeping our promise to customers, we will drive shareholder value, create opportunity for our associates and grow our business.‚Äù¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚ÄúMike put in place the building blocks for the next generation Walmart and today the company is stronger, more global and more unified across all our stores, mobile and online,‚Äù said Walton.¬† ‚ÄúHe also reinvigorated the productivity loop and delivered strong financial performance. During his tenure the company made critical investments in talent and technology to expand Walmart to even more customers globally and stepped up its progress on social and environmental issues.¬† Mike also has a strong commitment to diversity, and has been especially engaged in advancing women throughout organization. He set a tone at the top to never be satisfied, to always accelerate and do better, while remaining true to the culture that has been core to the company‚Äôs success.‚Äù ‚ÄúThis is a great company and it has been an honor to help advance Sam Walton‚Äôs vision of giving people around the world a better life,‚Äù said Duke. ‚ÄúOur associates make it all possible and I‚Äôve learned so much from them. No matter where I traveled, our associates continued to inspire me with their commitment to living our values, serving our customers and taking care of each other.‚Äù Duke will continue serving as chairman of the executive committee of the board and, in the tradition of his predecessors, stay on as an advisor to McMillon for one year. The company plans to make an announcement on McMillon‚Äôs successor as CEO of Walmart International by the end of the fiscal year. NOTE: Bios of Doug McMillon and Mike Duke are available at:¬†http://corporate.walmart.com. A high resolution photo of Doug McMillon is also available for downloading from the site.
The stock market is at an all-time high. And gains have been bolstered by earnings, which in turn have benefited from historically high corporate profit margins. These expanding margins have allowed flat to modest revenue growth translate to relatively strong earnings growth in a phenomenon formally known as operating leverage. The bears believe these margins are doomed to fall back to a long-term mean. They argue that weaker demand and rising rates among other things will cause sharp margin contraction. The bulls believe that margins are undergoing a structural change. Increased overseas exposure, balance sheet deleveraging, and technological improvements have margins in a long-term upswing. This latter argument is supported by industry analysts via their bottom-up consensus forecasts. As you can see in this chart from Goldman Sachs, Wall Street's stock pickers only expect profit margins to move higher. For what it's worth, Goldman expects higher labor costs and decelerating IT margins to act as headwinds to margin growth. Still, they see the S&amp;P 500 rising to 1,900 by the end of 2014, to 2,100 by the end of 2015, and to 2,200 by the end of 2016. Goldman Sachs
Not many people are able to invest directly in hedge funds. And that's not necessarily a bad thing. Through Q3 of this year, hedge funds on average have returned a measly 6% year-to-date. This is according to Goldman Sachs latest Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report, which examines the performance of 783 hedge funds with $1.7 trillion of gross equity positions. This year's hedge fund returns compare with a 25.3% gain in the S&amp;P 500. Even mutual funds returned 24.8%. Interestingly, hedge funds have actually been pretty good at picking long positions. From Goldman Sachs: "Our Hedge Fund VIP list contains the 50 stocks that appear most frequently among the top 10 holdings of fundamentally driven hedge fund portfolios. The basket has returned 30% YTD, 330 bp better than the S&amp;P 500... The top 5 stocks are AIG, AAPL, GOOG, GM, and C, the same as the last two quarters." However, many hedge funds take short positions to hedge their long positions. This has offset what could've been a great year for the industry. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/YT Haryono Villagers sit on a truck as they evacuate to a safe spot, as Mount Sinabung spews ash into air at Aman Teran village in Karo district, Indonesia's North Sumatra province, November 24, 2013.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Wikimedia CommonsTrading volume is going to be light this week as America celebrates Thanksgiving on Thursday. But everyone will want to keep an eye on the business news wires. "The data docket is relatively full in what is a holiday shortened week for financial markets," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. We'll get crucial up-to-date reads on consumer sentiment and the health of the housing market. Meanwhile, the stock market is at all-time highs. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary The stock market is at an all-time high. And sentiment is looking pretty frothy too. "This weekís Panic/Euphoria reading was 0.52; versus last weekís revised number of 0.49, which points to two weeks in a row of euphoric signals, matched by increased money flows," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients on Friday. This is a contrarian indicator, which means euphoria is a bad sign for things to come. And the last time we saw this level of euphoria was back in 2008 before the stock market crashed. "Euphoria readings indicate the market may retreat with an 83% historical probability of losses in the next 12 months," added Levkovich.
REUTERS/Pascal LauenerPascal Lamy, Director-General of the World Trade Organization (WTO) attends the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos January 26, 2013. PARIS (Reuters) - If European policy elites could choose the next head of the EU's executive, Pascal Lamy, the Frenchman who stepped down as head of the World Trade Organisation in July, would be near the top of most people's list. Lamy, 66, was chief-of-staff to Jacques Delors, the Commission president who pulled Europe out of the doldrums in the 1980s by tearing down internal barriers to create a single market and paving the way for the euro single currency. Now he says the European Union needs a new dream to revive its sagging fortunes, based on modernizing its "social market" model of tempering economic forces with social protection to keep it sustainable. That's why he probably won't get the job. Lamy is not a candidate and says he will support Socialist European Parliament President Martin Schulz for the role, but he makes no secret of his readiness to "serve Europe" again if the opportunity arises. "I am in agreement with 95 percent of social democrats in Europe. The trouble is the other five percent all live in my country," he joked at the annual conference of the Friends of Europe think-tank in Brussels, where he was guest of honor. Four years of financial and economic crisis have shattered public confidence in the EU, and the moderate socialist is a bogeyman to many on the left in France, where he is associated with "ultra-liberal" free-trade policies. Eurosceptical parties are expected to make unprecedented gains in European Parliament elections next May and Lamy's federalist vision of Europe is at odds with the Zeitgeist. He says EU governments deliberately weakened the European Commission during the euro zone debt crisis by taking decision-making out of its hands but leaving it to enforce austerity policies made elsewhere. As a result, citizens are confused about who is responsible for what in Europe and "Brussels" takes the blame. Noting that support for Europe has historically ebbed and flowed with the economic cycle and is now at low tide,¬†Lamy argues that the EU needs a new narrative reconciling economic efficiency with social progress. "When the cake is getting bigger, people are less reluctant to share it. When it stops growing, there's a sense of crisis amplified by the fact that Europe was long sold to citizens as a protection against a menacing outside world," he told Reuters in an interview. "Now we have to reformulate the European project," he said. The "never again" spirit that inspired the EU's founders to pool their coal and steel industries in a common market on the ruins of World War Two no longer resonates with today's Europeans, most of whom have never experienced armed conflict. Instead, Europe needs a new rationale based on preserving a combination of high living standards, democracy and civil rights, environmental protection, social justice and work-life balance that still make it the envy of many beyond its borders. "Europeans have to live up to what non-Europeans see as the European identity," Lamy said. "The 'European way of life' remains an attractive brand... It's a peculiar balance between individual freedom, the market, systems of solidarity and a certain economic dynamism." Dismantling the 17-nation euro zone, breaking up the EU or re-erecting protectionist barriers would bring economic disaster and make it impossible to go on financing the generous benefits that distinguish the European social model, he said. Failure to keep Europe's economies competitive could also undermine the ability to fund the welfare state. "There are no solutions that could resolve today's global challenges better without European integration than with it." Lamy earned his spurs first at the French Finance Ministry and then at the Commission. A workaholic who ran marathons and eschewed the Brussels business lunch for a banana and a piece of wholemeal bread at his desk, he made sure the Commission machine delivered an unprecedented wave of single market legislation on schedule. Wags dubbed him the "Dalai Lamy" because of his shaven head and ascetic lifestyle. After returning to France in 1995 to help rescue stricken Credit Lyonnais bank, he became EU Trade Commissioner in 1999, helping launch the Doha round of global negotiations, before heading the WTO in Genevafor eight years. Those jobs put him in the cockpit of globalization just as China, India, Brazil and other emerging economies were challenging the pre-eminence of Europe and the United States. Lamy quoted an Asian statesman as telling him that the world looks to Europe to "civilize globalization" by spreading its rules-based system of governance that smoothes the rough edges of capitalism. Without directly criticizing outgoing Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, he says the former Portuguese prime minister was installed by EU leaders because they wanted to call the shots themselves. "He was put there deliberately. He didn't fall from the moon," Lamy said. "The fact is that in this difficult period, member states took things back into their own hands in the institutional set-up." Barroso's successor should revert to Delors' method of building a consensus among member states and parliamentarians on one or two major objectives for European reform, Lamy said. This could involve creating a real single energy market, true liberalization of the internal market for services that make up two-thirds of European output and employment, and the transition to a low-carbon economy. "I don't have that project and I have no mandate to draw it up. But we need that kind of project," he said. (Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Ruth Pitchford)
UPDATE: The researchers have retracted their claim, click here to read the story ª The two most important moments in the history of Bitcoin are its creation, and the founding of illicit goods and services site Silk Road, which created the first ever market for the digital currency. Now, two Israeli mathematicians,†Dorit Ron and Adi Shamir of the Weizzman Institute south of Tel Aviv, write in a new paper (first reported on by John Markoff at Bits) that they've found a "very surprising connection" between the individual or individuals behind the first and the individual allegedly behind the second. In October,†the FBI arrested San Francisco resident Ross Ulbricht, accusing him of being Dread Pirate Roberts, the hacker handle of the guy who ran Silk Road. They seized his laptop, shuttered Silk Road, and after considerable effort ó 25 days ó they took control of all 144,336 of Ulbricht's Bitcoins, which would now be worth more than $115 million, and transferred them into FBI-controlled accounts. Upon doing so, the agency gave anyone a way to trace the history of Ulbricht's Bitcoin wealth.†Although both parties in a Bitcoin transaction are anonymous, the details of all transactions ó the address of the buyer and seller, the quantity, and the date ó are publicly known, chronicled in a master ledger which can be found here or here (the researchers used the former). So if you can match a given amount with a given personality, it's possible to excavate the entirety of that person's Bitcoin banking records. Given the quantities seized, it was immediately obvious which Bitcoins had belonged to Ulbricht, though the FBI publicly released the address of the seized funds account anyway. Out of curiosity, Ron and Shamir traced the history of every transaction executed by addresses connected to the Bitcoins seized by the FBI. Eventually they made a surprising discovery: on March 20 of this year, an Ulbricht-controlled account received 1,000 Bitcoins from an account created on Jan. 16, 2009 ó††just one week after the first-ever Bitcoins were mined.†That account accumulated over†77,600 BTCs, mostly through mining, until 2011, when it began shooting off its balance into separate accounts, as illustrated here. Ron/Shamir Such a transaction is unusual, they explain: "Such a single large transfer does not represent the typical behaviour of a buyer who opens an account on Silk Road in order to purchase some narcotics (such buyers are expected to make an initial deposit of tens or hundreds of dollars, and to top the account off whenever they buy additional merchandise). It could represent either large scale activity on Silk Road, or some form of investment or partnership, but this is pure speculation.† Instead, it may be evidence of something more profound: "The short path we found (which is depicted in Figure 6) suggests (but does not prove) the existence of a surprising link between the two mysterious figures of the Bitcoin community, Satoshi Nakamoto and DPR. It is reasonable to assume that all the accounts described along the top of Figure 6 belong to the same person, but to be on the safe side we refer to him as a ìFounderî rather than as Satoshi Nakamoto. We are sure that analyzing this figure will start a very vigorous debate in the Bitcoin community." Bitcoin aficionados themselves like to play down the importance of knowing the identity of Satoshi, heralding him/her/them as more of a benevolent specter who created a universe and whose true identity is immaterial to that world's success. But given that Bitcoins are now worth $800 and rising ó and assuming that Satoshi owns or owned a lot of them (some suggest he has 1 million), many still wonder whether a secret multi-millionaire now stalks the land. Meanwhile, for the latest in everything we know about Satoshi Nakamoto, check out this chart from Chartgirl.com.
AppleGoldman Sachs is out with its latest list of the stocks that "matter most" to hedge funds. These stocks are defined as "50 stocks that most frequently appear among the largest 10 holdings of hedge funds." Here they are:
flickr/Daniel DIonneIn his latest Weekly Kickstart note, U.S. equity strategist David Kostin lays out four big ideas for beating the market in 2014. First-off, however, he notes that his year-end forecast for the year is 1900 on the S&amp;P, so a gain, although not nearly as big as this year. We summarize his four big ideas:
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidThe New York Times has a big four-author, four-page article about the problems at Bloomberg, which recently had to do a modest round of layoffs. There's one nugget in there that explains all of the company's issues: The total number of terminal subscriptions increased by 23,000 in 2010 and 14,000 in 2011, but only by 1,000 in 2012 and 3,000 so far this year, according to several employees‚Äô estimates. That's it. At Bloomberg, the Terminal is the Sun God, which provides money to everything else. If growth there dries up, then the problems reverberate everywhere. Read the whole thing here &gt;
A number of economists continue to talk about the "structural shift" in US labor markets that took place during the Great Recession. For example, back in September, Georgetown University published a report called†Failure to Launch: Structural Shift and the New Lost Generation†(see document). The paper focuses on changes with respect to youth employment that appear to be structural (long-term) rather than cyclical.But how does one measure the degree to which the labor markets deviate from historical norms? The simplest indicator of this shift remains the Beveridge Curve (see discussion). It's a scatter plot of job openings versus the unemployment rate (here we use the U5 rate). More job openings should result in lower unemployment. But the path and the slope of the curve tells us something about the current situation relative to recent history. The data captures structural effects such as: 1. Weak labor mobility - with mortgages underwater, many workers for example can't simply move to North Dakota where the job market is vibrant.2. Skills mismatch - workers with a college degree often go on unemployment rather than taking a low-paying job in the fast food industry for exmple. At the same time workers with specialized skills may be difficult to find (see example).3. Part-time vs. full-time mismatch - many workers who receive unemployment benefits do not accept part-time work.4. Impact of long-term unemployment - workers who have been out of work for a long time have trouble reentering the workforce even if there are job openings.5. Some argue that increased poverty creates barriers to entry into the labor markets for certain groups.6. One reader suggested that unlike in the past, job openings are not always for immediate hires. Openings could persist for some time without resulting in a job creation.What's powerful about this simple measure is that it can be updated on a monthly basis. And in spite of arguments to the contrary (here) recent results seem to suggest an ongoing divergence from historical behavior in the post-recession economy. Sober Look The question now (6 years after the start of the Great Recession) is whether we will start seeing a shift toward normalization. It's a critical issue for monetary and fiscal policy decision makers because the curve tells us something about the "natural rate of unemployment". That's effectively the long-term unemployment rate under the best case scenario. At least in theory no matter how much the economy improves, the unemployment rate will not decline below the "natural rate" without igniting significant inflation.  In the chart above for example if the structural shift persists, the best outcome for U5 unemployment is now about 2% higher than in the past. If however we see some normalization, the natural rate could potentially go lower. If the overall unemployment rate continues to fall in the next few months, we should be able to tell more about the trajectory of the†Beveridge†Curve and the expected level of the natural rate of unemployment.
China's declaration of an air defence identification zone that includes disputed islands is "profoundly dangerous", Japan's prime minister said Monday, as South Korea weighed into the war of words against Beijing. The warning came as Beijing and Tokyo summoned one another's ambassadors to discuss increasing tensions between the rivals. Shinzo Abe issued his statement after Washington said it would stand by Japan in the event of any military clash over the Senkaku Islands, which Beijing claims as the Diaoyus. "I am strongly concerned as it is a profoundly dangerous act that may cause unintended consequences," Abe told parliament. "Japan will ask China to restrain itself while we continue cooperating with the international community," he said. The comments are the first from the premier on the issue since Beijing on Saturday announced it would require all aircraft flying over an area of the East China Sea to obey its orders. US Secretary of State John Kerry declared Washington "deeply concerned", saying the move raised "risks of an incident". "This unilateral action constitutes an attempt to change the status quo in the East China Sea," Kerry said. In announcing the new rules, a Chinese defence ministry spokesman said they would safeguard territorial sovereignty and maintain "flight order". Aircraft are now expected to provide their flight plan, clearly mark their nationality, and maintain two-way radio communication allowing them to "respond in a timely and accurate manner" to identification inquiries from Chinese authorities, the defence ministry said. The announcement of the area, which also includes waters claimed by Taipei and Seoul, provoked ire in both cities. Part of the zone overlaps South Korea's own air defence zone and incorporates a disputed, submerged, South Korean-controlled rock -- known as Ieodo -- that has long been a source of diplomatic tension with Beijing. "I'd like to say once again that we have unchanging territorial control over Ieodo," defence ministry spokesman Kim Min-Seok said Monday. In Taipei, which also claims the Senkakus, the government pledged to "defend its sovereignty over the archipelago, protect the rights of Taiwan fishermen in surrounding waters, and maintain patrols to safeguard fishing activities". Japan's foreign ministry said it would not respect the Chinese demarcation, which it said had "no validity whatsoever in Japan". 'Hypocritical and impudent' Beijing is engaged in a series of bilateral tiffs over the ownership of islands and the waters surrounding them, including several separate disputes in the South China Sea. But the most serious is with Japan over the archipelago in the East China Sea. The disagreement has simmered for decades, but snapped into focus in September 2012 when Tokyo nationalised three of the islands. Japan billed the move as an attempt to avoid a much more inflammatory purchase by a vocal nationalist, but China reacted with fury and relations went into meltdown. The two countries now play an almost permanent game of cat and mouse in the area, with official ships and aircraft shadowing each other. Observers say the frequent presence of military or paramilitary bodies from both sides raises the risk that a miscalculation or a crash could quickly escalate into a conflict, dragging in the United States. Tetsuro Kato, professor emeritus at Tokyo's Hitotsubashi University, said the move by China was to be expected because thus far, no one has stopped Beijing as it tests how far it can change the status quo. "China is trying to make Japan admit to the fact that there is a territorial dispute," he said. "It is trying to make Japan... go back to the state before it nationalised some of the islands," he said, referring to an informal entente that was reached in the mid-1970s when the two sides agreed not to talk about the subject. "China is seeing what Washington and Tokyo will do," said Kato. Chinese newspapers on Monday threw back Japan's outrage over the air defence identification zone. "Tokyo is hypocritical and impudent in its complaint with Beijing," said an editorial in the Global Times newspaper, which is close to China's ruling Communist Party. The paper accused Japan of double standards as its own air defence zone is as close as 50 kilometres (31 miles) from Russia and 130 kilometres from China. "If Japan sends warplanes to 'intercept' China's jet fighters, Beijing's armed forces will be bound to adopt defensive emergency measures," it said. The world's second- and third-largest economies have significant business ties but their political relationship is heavily shadowed by history including Japan's brutal invasion of China before World War II.
Brent crude prices fell by more than two percent on Monday following a key deal between world powers and Iran on its controversial nuclear programme. Brent North Sea crude, the European benchmark, for January delivery fell $2.48, or 2.23 percent, to $108.57, while New York's main contract, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for January, was down 82 cents, or about one percent, at $94.02. Iran on Sunday agreed to curb its nuclear programme for the next six months in exchange for limited sanctions relief, in a preliminary accord with world powers meant to lay the foundations for a comprehensive agreement later this year. "Brent had rallied last week in response to market talk that the negotiations weren't going so well, and what we see right now is a downward correction of prices after the deal," Victor Shum, managing director at IHS Purvin and Gertz in Singapore, told AFP. "The impact of the deal on global oil supply will however be limited since much of the sanctions continue to remain in place." Tan Chee Tat, an investment analyst at Phillip Futures in Singapore, said WTI was less affected by the deal as any potential influx of Iranian oil into global markets will mainly soften Brent. "Brent and Iran crude oil are catered to the same regional clients. As such, the news had a greater negative impact on Brent crude instead of WTI crude," he said. The deal was reached following marathon talks in Genevabetween Iran and the so-called P5+1 nations comprising the United States, China, France, Britain, Russia and Germany. The West and Israel suspect Iran is pursuing a nuclear weapons capability alongside its uranium enrichment programme, which Tehran insists is entirely for peaceful purposes.
In case you hadn't noticed, gold is really looking weak these days again. It's falling to its lowest levels since the middle of the summer, and in danger of falling below $1,200 soon. From Kitco: Kitco
prb10111 / FlickrThe week begins and markets are in rally mode again. It's pretty much like clockwork. US futures are up to the tune of 0.3% or more. Germany is up 0.6%. France is up 0.3%. Japan had a big night, as the Nikkei gained 1.5%. Meanwhile, oil, silver, and crude are all down over 1%. If there's one thing to point to as "news" it's the Iran agreement, which at least has some marginal impact on easing immediate tensions in the region (it would seem). Otherwise, this week will be light on volume and short on time, but actually packed with economic data.
