Google ImagesJASON SOMERVILLE, a professional poker player, could see that all the cards had been dealt and the final board was 3, 4, 5, 6, 3. Mr Somerville had an ace and a king. His opponent paused. He was down to the final five seconds of his time bank before he finally bet. That could have meant one of two things. Either it was a hard decision, or he was distracted. Had the game been in a casino, Mr Somerville would have been able to see which. But it was online, so he couldn't. Instead, he took into account how quickly the game had progressed previously, and called. He was right, and he won. The best online poker players learn to decipher betting patterns as shrewdly as their offline peers read faces. Mr Somerville, for example, has won $2.3m over the past decade. But he has lost a packet, too: not only from losing but also because, until recently, he had little recourse when the people he beat did not pay up. America tends to ban online gambling rather than regulate it. Since the Justice Department indicted popular gambling websites such as Full Tilt Poker and PokerStars in 2011, millions of Americans have turned to illegal betting sites. An estimated 1,700 offshore sites handle bets worth more than $4 billion a year. They offer scant safeguards for players; nor do they effectively keep out children. Some states are trying to fix this mess. In February Nevada legalised online gambling. Within three months UltimatePoker.com, currently the only legal real-money online poker site, was open for business in the Silver State. New Jersey and Delaware have also approved online gambling in the past two years. Several other states are following. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, California, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Pennsylvania and Texas are working to legalise online gambling this year. At the federal level, not much will change. In June Peter King, a Republican congressman from New York, introduced a bill to legalise most online gambling and set up a federal regulator, but it is unlikely to pass. No matter: the American Gaming Association, a casino-industry group, noted in a recent report that "all of our industry experts foresee the US market increasing in size over the next five years"as a result of some states legalising online gambling. Mr Somerville, meanwhile, has moved from his native New York to Nevada. He says he finds the regulations there reassuring "after all the years of basically wild wild West [online] poker". Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
This is an important chart for the entire emerging world, or at least the substantial portion of it that relies on Chinese commodity demand for outside money. Chinese demand for commodities is surging again, per this chart from Morgan Stanley. Of late, Chinese data has come in much better than expected, and there's a general sense that the country is stepping on the gas pedal again, investing in infrastructure and so forth to rev up GDP. Morgan Stanley
It's a pretty quiet night in world markets. US stocks finally fell after three straight days of triple-digit gains for the Dow Jones. Meanwhile, Japan is on the rise. Nikkei.com
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders gather for the IPO of Phillips 66 Partners LP, on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange, July 23, 2013. Phillips 66 Partners LP, a limited partnership formed earlier this year by Phillips 66, opened at $23.00 a share.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. stock exchanges agreed with regulators on Thursday to reforms including a "kill switch" to stop trading during emergencies, after a software glitch with Nasdaq's stock quote processor last month led to a three-hour trading halt. Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Mary Jo White met privately in Washington with top executives of the major exchanges and later announced five reforms in response to recent trading problems. The exchanges will be required to draft action plans to establish testing and disclosure protocols about systems changes for their securities information processors, or SIPs, which disseminate stock quotes and other data. They also are required to provide a plan to address how regulatory halts are communicated, assess their other critical infrastructure systems and review their current rules for busting trades and re-opening trading after a halt. "Today's meeting was very constructive," White said in a statement after the meeting concluded. "I stressed the need for all market participants to work collaboratively - together and with the Commission - to strengthen critical market infrastructure and improve its resilience when technology falls short." The August 22 Nasdaq trading outage escalated the SEC's concerns about the stability of exchanges. The SEC in March proposed reforms to strengthen the robustness of exchanges' technology after a series of glitches over the past year. Last month's outage was caused by a software bug that clogged Nasdaq's processing of stock quotes from the country's 13 various exchanges. "We didn't focus on any one day's event," Gary Katz, president and chief executive of the International Securities Exchange, told Reuters after the meeting. Katz said none of the recent technology glitches were related and the participants were focused on how best to deal with disruptions in the future. Other exchange executives who spoke briefly with reporters after leaving the SEC's headquarters said the meeting was constructive and that the rival exchanges were ready to work together. "Mary Jo ran a very good meeting. We all have pretty clear homework assignments," NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Duncan Niederauer told two reporters. "It's all about working together. We are collectively responsible for investor confidence." The reforms will need to be filed by the exchanges as formal changes to their rules, as required by federal securities laws. The SEC would then review them before they could go into effect. Niederauer and William Brodsky, executive chairman of Chicago Board Options Exchange operator CBOE Holdings Inc, said the exchanges are supposed to come back to the SEC within 60 days. Another attendee in the SEC's meeting, however, said the 60-day time frame is just a benchmark to help speed things along, and the rule changes are not expected to be completed by then. The August 22 outage at Nasdaq was the latest in a series of high-profile software errors that have shaken investor confidence. Nasdaq suffered another major failure - and ultimately paid a $10 million civil fine to the SEC - after it fumbled the May 2012 initial public offering for Facebook. In August 2012, major market maker Knight Capital nearly collapsed after a software error led to a $440 million trading loss. It was around that time that the kill switch idea first started to gain momentum. At an SEC roundtable in October, exchanges generally endorsed the concept of deploying kill switches to stop trading so that errors could not be unleashed onto the broader marketplace. The details of how such a switch would be triggered still need to be ironed out. One person who attended the SEC's meeting on Thursday said that individual broker-dealers would likely set their own exposure limits, and if those thresholds were crossed, then an exchange's technology would kick in and halt trading. In March, the SEC proposed rules for a broader set of market participants, including trading platforms known as "dark pools," that would require them to conduct certain testing and have steps in place to prevent or address systems problems. That proposal is still being weighed by the SEC. The source, who spoke anonymously because Thursday's meeting was not public, said it is possible the exchange rule changes discussed on Thursday could get completed first. SEC Commissioner Luis Aguilar, a Democrat, said he hopes the agency will work toward adopting a strong version of the March proposal. He also said he is happy to see a kill switch is being considered. "These market interruptions are unacceptable. It is long past the time for the SEC to take action," Aguilar said. (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch in Washington; additional reporting by Herbert Lash in New York.; Editing by Karey Van Hall, Nick Zieminski and Tim Dobbyn)
There is no shortage of skeptics betting against Elon Musk and his electric car company Tesla. But there's also no question that Tesla has come much farther than many have expected. Earlier this year, the company managed to deliver its first and second net profits (adjusted for items) ever. Still, the short interest on the stock is very high. Just a year ago, Fox Business Network's Liz Claman asked Musk about the stock. ìI think itís very unwise to be shorting Tesla," warned Musk. "Thereís a tsunami of hurt for those holding a short position. Itís going to be very unpleasant. I advise people to exit while there is still time.î Since that interview, the stock has more than quintupled. Watch the video here. The discussion about the stock begins at 4:45:
Flickr / Missabefan"The earth there is unusual, filled with ore. So there is something happening that is hard to define. There is a magnetic attraction there. Maybe thousands and thousands of years ago, some planet bumped into the land there." ó Bob Dylan† Much of U.S. economy these days is based on putting your fingers onto small plastic squares and pressing down all day. But if you know where to look, you can find survivors of the great service economy tidal wave.† One such pocket: Northern Minnesota's Iron Range. As Dylan, a native of Hibbing, Minn.,†once explained to Ron Rosenbaum†in the above quote, the area contains astonishing deposits of iron ore ó some of the most extensive in the nation. Indeed, northern Minnesota†sits on some of the oldest continent in the world. Over the past few years, Todd M., an Iron Range resident, has captured the vast, hulking industrial complex that makes the region tick, from the monstrous diggers, to the endless ore trains, to some of the last remaining natural resource ports in the country. † Looking at it from his perspective, you'd think you were†standing in one of Mongolia's vast mining operations.†† With his permission, we've shared his narrated tour of America's magnetic mystery land.
APTwitter is preparing to go public. But rather than do it in a conventional way, Twitter will go with a "confidential" IPO. What is a confidential IPO?† It's an IPO that lets Twitter avoid the spotlight that comes with going public. Confidential IPOs are a part of the JOBs Act which passed on April 5, 2012.† The SEC says that it's for "emerging growth" companies. An emerging growth company has less than $1 billion in revenue.† The confidential IPO lets Twitter avoid publicly releasing financials until 21 days before its roadshow.†The roadshow is when Twitter's management travels around to big institutional investors selling the stock.† Typically, companies that do the confidential IPOs are genuinely confidential in their approach. They don't go announcing it on Twitter, like Twitter did.† We assume Twitter announced its secret IPO because it was getting hounded by the press and it just couldn't continue the process. There's almost no reason not to do a secret IPO as far as we can tell. It allows a company to not have to deal with the public knowing about how the SEC is treating the S1 filing. It avoids the rampant speculation that dogged a company like Groupon during the filing process.†
Twitter has filed for an IPO, it announced on its own Twitter feed. The S-1 filing has been long-awaited. It will give us a first glimpse of the real financial numbers behind the micro-blogging company. S-1 IPO filings with the SEC require that the company disclose its historic and current revenues, profits and balance sheet holdings, prior to selling stock to the public. Here's the tweet: Twitter In what appears to be a joke, Twitter immediately followed its announcement with this tweet (below). TwitterThe IPO filing had been expected. Twitter has clearly grown into a huge business ‚Äî it's expected to do more than $500 million in revenues this year and has taken more than $1 billion in funds from investors ‚Äî and the rumors and chatter swirling around the company had reached fever pitch. We noted earlier today that Wall Street and other observers all seemed to be behaving as if an IPO was expected. The most recent tantalizing clue was the fact that Twitter CEO Dick Costolo declined to answer questions yesterday after giving a speech on leadership at Techcrunch Disrupt. Companies that are filing paperwork with the SEC often go through "quiet periods" which restrict executives from saying anything that might prime the market. Months after becoming Twitter's new finance chief, Mike Gupta began talking to investment banks about handling the company's initial public offering, according to the San Francisco Chronicle. Gupta has a previous relationship with Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, with whom he worked at Zynga. Jared Keller, a freelance reporter, says Goldman is leading the underwriting. The IPO filing is currently "confidential," according to the tweet. Confidential IPOs are favored by companies that have less than $1 billion in annual revenue: Filing as an emerging-growth company requires less paperwork, including submitting just two years (rather than the usual three) of financial statements to the SEC. What's more: Every bit of the filing, including correspondence about it, is kept out of the eyes of the media, competitors, and the investment community until the company decides to make it public (no later than 21 days before the IPO presentation series, known as a roadshow). MarketWatch has a good explanation also: The confidential nature of the filing appears to be based on the law passed last year, called Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, which allows some companies planning to go public to keep some of its information confidential, until the deal gets closer to pricing. Some believed Twitter had held off filing for an IPO after the experience of Facebook, which went public at $38 but then immediately became embroiled in a controversy over whether Wall Street analysts had been given different information in phone calls with the company than was contained in the company's other disclosures. Retail investors interest in a Twitter filing will likely be intense: Although Facebook's stock initially fell in value by half it has since popped up to $44.75. Facebook's investor relations crew has basically spent the last year explaining to investors how social media advertising and marketing works ‚Äî and Twitter will benefit from that educated investor market. P.S. Note that Business Insider was just 12 days amiss in its February estimate of when Twitter would file for an IPO.
In a new study on the "composition, consumption and consequences" of sugar, Credit Suisse flags an interesting chart measuring Diet Coke consumption vs. education. The chart, broken down by region, shows that areas of the U.S. with more bachelor's degrees consume higher levels of Diet Coke as a share of the general Coca-Cola intake. We're not sure you can quite say that smarter people drink Diet Coke, but it's a start. Credit Suisse
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why It's Important For Advisors To Know About The Relatives Of Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  It's becoming increasingly important for advisors to consider the relatives of their high-net-worth clients during the financial planning process, writes Jean-Luc Bourdon California-based BrightPath Wealth Planning in a new WSJ column. This is because these clients often want to help struggling family members.¬† "Many clients assume that their relatives aren't relevant to the conversations they have with their advisers, but I tell all of my clients that it's critical I know about their extended families. We can have the most secure financial plan for a client, but if they have close relatives in precarious financial situations, it can weaken their own financial outlook." The Most Compelling Argument To Own Cash (Advisor Perspectives)  "The best time for an investor to own cash is when it pays next to nothing. ," writes Francois Sicart of Tocqueville Asset Management. "This may sound counterintuitive, and it is the opposite of what most investors do when cash pays nothing: They scramble to find better-paying alternatives, even if it means taking on more risk. But the contrarian aspect of this rule has always appealed to me, and my own experience has generally vindicated it." "Personal biases aside, the most compelling argument to owning cash when interest rates are close to zero is simply that, from that point, they basically have nowhere to go but up. And when they do, sometimes with a lag but sooner or later, lower prices for stocks and bonds will result." This May Be The Beginning Of A Big Swing From Bonds To Stocks (Dr. Ed's Blog)  Retail investors could be flooding out of bonds and into stocks. In fact, over the past 13 weeks bond funds have witnessed cash outflows of $438 billion at an annual rate, while equity funds have seen inflows of $92 billion at an annual rate, according to the Investment Company Institute. "I wouldn‚Äôt describe that as a 'Great Rotation' just yet, but it could be the start of a big swing by retail investors into equities," writes Dr. Ed Yardeni. FINRA To Consider Revised Broker Compensation Rules (FINRA)  During its September 19 meeting, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) will consider a revised proposal that would require brokers to disclose their compensation when they switch firms. The proposal was initially slated to be considered in a July meeting, but was postponed. At the time, Simon Roy, president of Jemstep told Business Insider that this had wirehouse support because "the proposed legislation is expected to reduce poaching of productive brokers from their ranks which could reduce broker compensation costs and increase firm profitability." The Gold Bounce Is Over (Societe Generale)  Gold prices are falling again and Societe Generale's analysts who have been bearish on gold have said the "gold bounce is over." They make a few bearish arguments. 1. A military strike on Syria looks a lot less likely. And gold prices have peaked early during Middle East crises. 2. The weakness in the rupee and other such "Forex rate trends have turned bearish for gold price." 3. The physical demand for gold in Asia is weakening while supply from ETF selling is making its way to Asia. 4. Selling of gold ETFs will probably pick up as "Syria is no longer a bullish factor and US Fed tapering is likely to start at the September meeting."
This chart ‚Äì taken from a new study by Credit Suisse titled "Sugar consumption at a crossroads" ‚Äì shows a general correlation between GDP per capita and soda consumption per capita. In other words, as countries get richer, they tend to increase their soda consumption. The U.S. is clearly the most extreme outlier. Soda consumption per capita in America is way more than the relationship to GDP per capita would suggest. Note that the U.S. is such an outlier that Credit Suisse literally had to expand this chart to include it.¬†Without the U.S., the range of the y-axis wouldn't even have to go up to 160. Euromonitor, Nielsen XAOC, Credit Suisse Research
REUTERS/Eliana AponteThe stock market ended a winning streak that was highlighted by three straight days of triple-digit gains in the Dow. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.

The sell-off in gold has gotten worse this afternoon. Right now, the yellow metal is trading around $1323 an ounce, down 3.0% from yesterday. Moments ago, it hit the lowest level of the day at $1322.20. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategists told clients earlier this week that the bounce in gold is over, and advised them to sell the metal with a $1200 price target. The chart below shows the sharp drop today. Thinkorswim
Stock Twits/gm_fxIf history is our guide, then the S&amp;P 500 looks set for a cataclysmic event after the upcoming September FOMC meeting, when the Fed will presumably announce a "taper" of its asset purchasing program known as quantitative easing. It is 1987 again! gm_fx posted the chart to the right on StockTwits.com. In 1987, the stock market spent most of the year rallying before a harrowing 22% collapse on October 19th, better known as "Black Monday." With October fast approaching, it's time to ask if 2013 is 1987. Even a cursory Google search shows that "1987 all over again" has been a popular market axiom for a few years now. Admittedly, if you said this in 2007-2008, you were kind of right. If you've said it since, you were pretty wrong (or maybe just early). 2012: On October 23, 2012, Bespoke Investment Group cautioned that it might be 1987†again. In both years, the S&amp;P 500 started off strong, saw a first half peak in the Spring, and then sold off. †In both years, the market regained its footing around Memorial Day weekend, kicking off a Summer rally. †In 1987, the S&amp;P 500 peaked in late August and had two successive failed rallies where each subsequent sell off made a lower low. †Likewise, this year the S&amp;P 500 peaked in mid September and has since had two successive failed rallies where the index has made lower lows. 2011: Doug Kass and Jim Cramer emailed each other on August 9, 2011 about how 2011 was 1987: In an early-morning email exchange with Jim Cramer, Jim reminded me that the price behavior of the U.S. stock market over the past week most resembles the October 1987 crash, a period of incomprehensible and unpredictable price action that did not necessarily reflect the economic fundamentals. 2010: On May 17, 2010 it was also almost 1987. Here's†Fortune's Shawn Tully: Don't be deceived by the rebounding economy, any more than the bulls should have been misled by the balmy climate during the late Reagan years. Right now, stocks are extremely vulnerable to the same scenario. The reason: The market is even more overpriced than when thunder struck on that distant Black Monday. Could 1987 happen again? Sure, maybe. If we keep guessing every year, eventually it will be.
Not a lot of funny things happened during the financial crisis ‚Äî in fact it's safe to say that nothing about it was funny. Except for this one moment. Five years ago, as hundreds of men and women that worked at Lehman Brothers packed their things and left their broken firm, two men nailed the video bomb of financial news history. It's unclear whether or not CNN's Allan Chernoff realized that two guys were pretending to furiously make out as he reported, but in our opinion America probably needed that cameraman to linger a bit. For the sake of¬† a little levity. It's also possible that someone got to "2nd base" here...  Start watching about 30 seconds into the video: 
From a new Credit Suisse study "on the dietary impact of 'sugar and sweeteners' and their role in the ongoing health debate surrounding obesity and diabetes" comes this chart, which shows that calorie consumption really took off in America in the early 1980s. In 1981, calorie consumption in the U.S. averaged 3200 per day. In 2012, that number was 3900 per day. USDA, Credit Suisse Research According to the USDA's¬†Agriculture Fact Book, "Some of the observed increase in caloric¬†intake may be associated with the increase in eating out. Data from USDA‚Äôs¬†food intake surveys show that the food-away-from-home sector provided 32 percent of total food energy consumption in¬†1994-96, up from 18 percent in 1977-78.¬†The data also suggest that, when eating¬†out, people either eat more or eat higher¬†calorie foods‚Äîor both‚Äîand that this¬†tendency appears to be increasing." The USDA continues: "A variety of factors are responsible for¬†the changes in U.S. consumption patterns in the last 50 years, including¬†changes in relative prices, increases in¬†real (adjusted for inÔ¨Çation) disposable¬†income, and more food assistance for¬†the poor. New products, particularly¬†more convenient ones, also contribute to¬†shifts in consumption, along with more¬†imports, growth in the away-from-home¬†food market, expanded advertising programs, and increases in nutrient-enrichment standards and food fortiÔ¨Åcation.¬†Sociodemographic trends also driving¬†changes in food choices include smaller¬†households, more two-earner households, more single-parent households, a¬†taller population, an aging population,¬†and increased ethnic diversity." And as for the results of the Credit Suisse study: "While the implications of the global obesity epidemic have been well analysed, the specific role sugar plays merits closer examination. Public and legal discussion of over-consumption has been gathering momentum. We expect this to build with regulatory and fiscal intervention an ever-growing risk. We believe the end result will be a structural decline in sugar consumption and ongoing risk for the price of the commodity." Who wins, and who loses? "We see a specific negative risk for beverage and bottling stocks such as Coca-Cola, Dr Pepper, and Femsa," says the Credit Suisse study. "Food manufacturers would be exposed to a drop in sugar demand (Tate, Mondelez, Bimbo Suedzucker, Cosan, AB Foods, Wilmar). Stocks likely be relative beneficiaries from a decline in sugar consumption include the sweeteners space and food companies with broad portfolios (PureCircle, Senomyx, Danone and Nestle). If this overall theme plays out, there might ultimately be a question over the market size for diabetes drugs where the likes of Novo and Eli Lilly stand out."
Justin Sullivan / Getty ImagesLet me start by saying that I'm a loyal Apple customer and shareholder. I have a lot of respect for the folks who are running Apple, but I think they are making a big mistake. I think Apple is letting its obsession with short-term profits blind it to the current realities in the mobile industry. And I think that Apple's emphasis on short term greed instead of long-term investment will end up hurting the company and its shareholders and customers over the long haul. Five years ago, when Apple introduced the iPhone, it had the market to itself. Apple was so far ahead of its competitors that, for the next three years, the iPhone was by far the best phone available. Apple's manufacturing prowess and volume advantage, meanwhile, enabled it to produce and sell iPhones at the same or lower price than its competitors.¬†This combination--best product, best price, and lowest unit cost--produced astounding profits for Apple, giving the company a mind-boggling ~30% profit margin and allowing it to amass a staggering $150 billion in cash. But in the last two years, several things have changed: If smartphones and tablets were not a platform--if the only thing that mattered to the value of the product and a customer's purchase decision was the gadget itself--then Apple's loss of market share would not make a difference. Apple zealots would be correct when they smugly assert that what matters is Apple's "profit share" not "market share." But smartphones and tablets are a platform. Third-party companies are building apps and services to run on smartphone and tablet platforms. These apps and services, in turn, are making the platforms more valuable. Consumers are standardizing their lives around the apps and services that run on smartphone and tablet platforms. Because of these "network effects," in platform markets, dominant market share is huge competitive advantage.¬† In platform markets, as the often-hated but always insanely powerful Microsoft demonstrated for decades in the PC market, the vast majority of the power and profits eventually accrue to the market-share leader. BIINiche platforms, meanwhile, get marginalized--just the way Apple's Mac platform was marginalized (and nearly killed off) in the PC market. Apple understands that the mobile market is a platform market--that's why the company is always emphasizing the strength and value of its iOS "ecosystem." What Apple does not seem to understand, however, is the fate that almost all niche platform providers eventually succumb to--gradual loss of influence, power, and profitability, followed by irrelevance. If you don't understand what happens to platform providers that lose momentum and become niche players, just look at BlackBerry. Five years ago, before Apple arrived on the scene, BlackBerry was wildly profitable and basically the only game in town. Now, BlackBerry is fighting to survive. What Apple zealots who crow about the company's current profitability should recognize is that BlackBerry was highly profitable only a few years ago. Now, it's losing buckets of money. And BlackBerry's stock price, just like Apple's stock price, foretold the company's fall long before the company's profits began to tank. The most frustrating thing about Apple's loss of market share to Google, Samsung, et al, is that this loss is entirely due to short-sighted and greedy choices by the company. ¬†Apple has more than enough resources to continue to offer the same value proposition in its smartphones and tablets that it offered just after it launched them: The best product at the best price. But purely to protect its already insanely high profit margins, Apple is no longer offering the best products at the best price. It's offering similar (at best) products at¬†significantly higher prices.¬†(This is now true in both smartphones and tablets.) This strategy is fine in the U.S. and other rich countries with carrier subsidies: The difference between a three-year-old phone that is "free" with a two-year contract and a new phone that is $199 with the contract is tiny compared with the total cost of the contract as a whole. So buying the latest, greatest Apple phone for the same price or just a little more than another phone is an easy decision. But in emerging markets, which is where most of the growth in the smartphone industry is, paying $500-$700 for an unsubsidized Apple phone compared to, say, $150 for an unsubsidized Samsung or Xiaomi phone that does almost all of the same things is also an easy decision. And it's a decision that has caused Apple's sales in China to tank--while the company hands almost the entire market to Android. To be clear: Apple does not have to sell parity products at super-premium prices. It does not need to make so much money. Apple is so fantastically profitable, and so unfathomably rich, that it can easily afford to reinvest some of its profits in lowering its gadget prices or investing more aggressively in the development of future products. Apple made $42 billion last year. $42 billion! And Apple has ~$150 billion of cash. With that staggering level of profitability and liquidity, Apple could easily sell the iPhone 4S, the iPhone 5C, or some other product at a price that would beat almost any other phone on the market and allow it to capture a huge amount of ¬†market share. It could do this while still selling its top-of-the-line phone to rich people in subsidized markets for $650 or more. And, importantly, it could do this while still making a ton of money. (What would happen if Apple made $25 billion next year instead of the $42 billion it made last year? Well, then its cash mountain would grow by slightly less than it did last year. It's stock price would also probably temporarily tank while greedy short-term traders voted with their portfolios and sold the stock. But so what? The stock prices of Amazon, Facebook, Netflix, Google, and many other companies all tanked when the companies made smart long-term investment decisions at the expense of short-term profitability. Apple would still be wildly profitable. It would still be piling up cash. It would still be paying big dividends. And, over the long haul, it would likely have more sustainable and higher total profits.) This growth of Apple's market share in the middle and low ends of the market would increase the value of Apple's ecosystem and platform. More Apple owners would sign up for iTunes. More Apple owners would start buying things through their iPhones and iPads. More Apple owners would start using their fingerprints to unlock their phones and pay for things. And more Apple owners would standardize their lives around Apple's platform, which would increase Apple's "lock-in." The smartphone market is maturing and smartphones are becoming a commodity. Apple could respond to those facts of life by taking a long-term view and reinvesting more of its staggering profits in its platform. But Apple is not doing that. Instead, Apple is clinging to super-high profit margins and the same risky "premium" strategy that almost bankrupted it in the PC market of the 1990s. Apple, in short, is being short-term greedy. This greed and stubbornness might make Apple's stock trade at a slightly higher price for as long as Apple can maintain its staggering profitability. But even if Apple does not get completely marginalized, this strategy will likely hurt the company and its shareholders (and its customers!) over the long haul. And it could be disastrous.
Men's Wearhouse says that the number 13 could be to blame for disappointing sales.† "Numerical anomalies" have weighed on wedding sales in 2013, CEO Doug Ewert said during a call with investors today.† "Historically, weíve seen numeric anomalies in the calendar effect when brides choose their wedding date, and we believe that the number 13 in 2013 is causing a small, but meaningful number of brides to avoid getting married this year," Ewert said. "Itís reassuring to see a significant increase in advance reservation for 2014 wedding though," the CEO added. Steven Russolillo at The Wall Street Journal writes that extreme fear of the number 13 is more common than most people realize.† "Media reports earlier this year suggested steeper-than-usual bargains would be found in the wedding industry in 2013 in order to†convince superstitious couples to set a wedding date this year," Russolillo writes.† Sales at Men's Wearhouse are down 2.3% this quarter.†
William Wei, Business InsiderStep into the Business Insider world. Business Insider is on the hunt for a paid Social Media Editor intern. We're looking for somebody that eats, breathes and sleeps social media. This person already knows or is eager to learn how to reach an audience on each different social network with the right brand tone and content, and somebody who understands that social media waits for nobody. Keeping up with innovation and social trends will be a must. Requirements -Communication pro -Some writing experience -Addicted to the Internet -Ability to multi-task -Extremely fast learner -Is looking for a career in social media editorial -A sense of humor -Good news judgement -An eye for imagery -Basic Photoshop skills¬† -BA or anticipated graduation by December A bonus if you have ... -Experience running/growing social media networks/campaigns for a brand or publication.¬† -CMS experience -Understanding of social metrics and traffic tracking (Google Analytics, Facebook Insights, Twitter Analytics, etc)¬† -Can create killer gifs What you will be doing ... -Monitor social traffic across the board -Post daily to Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and G+ -Build BI presence on new social media platforms¬† -Problem solve social media issues when they arise If you're interested (and you should be), please send your resume, online profile, writing samples, links to your personal social media accounts (Twitter, LinkedIn, Facebook, Etc.), and any social media accounts you have run for a brand or organization to¬†jliebman@businessinsider.com.  Please note that the internship is 40 hours a week at our Manhattan office.
Wikimedia Commons/Florian HirzingerThe U.S. government posted a deficit of $147.9 billion in August, according to the latest¬†monthly budget statement¬†just released by the Treasury Department. Economists expected the Treasury to report a slightly smaller August deficit of $146 billion. Government spending outlays were $333 billion, while receipts were $185 billion. This month's deficit is down 22% from last year's August deficit of $190.5 billion. In July, the Treasury posted a deficit of¬†$97.6 billion.
The headline just crossed Bloomberg. According to Bloomberg, CFO Jay Rasulo told an investor conference in Beverly Hills that the company plans to buy back as much as $8 billion worth of shares. In recent years, many companies have opted to take advantage of low interest rates by borrowing money to finance share buybacks. With interest rates trending higher since May, corporate financial officers and treasurers may be worried that the opportunity to leverage up there companies cheaply is fading away. BloombergDisney's intraday stock chart
It's never a good time to go head to head with swarms of federal regulators, but now is an especially bad moment for the government to be cracking down on JP Morgan. The bank's widely publicized onslaught of investigations coincides with a particularly uncertain time in the bond market ‚Äî when the Federal Reserve's five year experiment with quantitative easing is entering its final stages, impacting bond portfolios the world over. JP Morgan, naturally, is no exception to this. The bank's CFO, Marianne Lake, told attendees at a conference on Monday that the bank's bond portfolio could lose $15 billion on a 2% rise in interest rates. On the other hand, higher rates do mean that JP Morgan can charge borrowers more. Lake said those two factors should help balance each other out, but, as Stephen Gandel at Forbes points out, that balancing is based on some assumptions that "don't always work out." Gandel recalls Q2 2013, when interest rates on the 10 year Treasury bond "rose nearly two-thirds of a percentage point, JPMorgan's bond portfolio dropped, down $3.3 billion, as expected, but so did its net interest income. So much for that offset." How much action the Fed will take, and what impact that will have on rates, remains to be seen.¬† What we do know is that even the rumor of the "taper" roiled bond markets early this summer. Meanwhile, the bank has hired 3,000 more compliance employees and raised an additional $1.5 billion to combat the myriad of lawsuits it faces. It just paid out $300 million to settle accusations that it forced homeowners to buy over-priced property insurance and entered into kickback deals that inflated policy prices, and it's nearing a settlement over issues with its credit card collection and identity theft products. But that still leaves a lot of serious suits on the table. To name only two known suits, there's the $6 billion the FHFA is seeking over financial crisis mortgage claims. JP Morgan must also still answer for missteps during the London Whale trading loss, which, according to the Wall Street Journal, could cost it $500-$600 million. The list of other knowns goes on, still more troubling though, are the unknowns. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder told the Wall Street Journal last month that Wall Street should prepare for a wave of financial crisis era lawsuits, and he was specifically asked about Jamie Dimon, JP Morgan's CEO, and his bank. From the WSJ: "These are complex cases that require enormous amounts of effort to put together, but we are at a point‚Äîas you've seen, I think, recently‚Äîwhere the results of that difficult work is starting to bear fruit," he (Holder) said... Asked about J.P. Morgan and its chief executive, James Dimon, Mr. Holder declined to discuss specific cases, but added, "No individual, no company is above the law. We don't investigate companies based on who a CEO is, but we don't avoid investigating companies based on who the CEO is, either." All this said, it's not like the bank didn't see this coming. Jamie Dimon mentioned that regulators had their eyes on the bank in his annual investor letter back in April saying: ...we received regulatory orders requiring¬† improved performance in multiple areas, including mortgage foreclosures, anti-money laundering procedures and others. Unfortunately, we expect we will have more of these in the coming months. We need to and will do all the work necessary to complete the needed improvements identified by our regulators. That means "derisking" the business, according to a source close to the situation. Cutting loose some of the parts of JP Morgan that could run the bank afoul of regulators, like its private equity business. And like its physical commodities business, which was just fined $410 million to settle allegations that its traders manipulated energy markets. Regulators still aren't done probing that part of the business yet, either, and this month the Federal Reserve will decided whether or no the bank is legally allowed to keep it either way. That's why the Wall Street Journal reported that the bank could circulate memos on the sale of the physical commodities business this week, and that legendary head of the business, Blythe Masters, could exit the bank as part of the deal to sell it. Still, sources inside the bank see this as short term pain. The drudgery of learning new compliance enhancements and rejiggering the business will pay off, they say, because lets face it ‚Äî JP Morgan still makes a whole lot of money. It's still the biggest bank on the Street.
via FoursquareA UBS banker was arrested in Sydney, Australia last weekend after allegedly punching a night club bouncer leaving him in a coma, The Sydney Morning Herald reported.¬† The banker is 32-year-old James Ian Longworth, who reportedly works in the market support division of UBS.¬† Longworth told the court that Bar 333's security guard Fady Taiba "made fun" of him and that he had "too much to drink" and he "just snapped."¬† Taiba wouldn't let Longworth and his friends in the club because they were too intoxicated, the SMH report said citing police. According to the report, police allege that Longworth hit Taiba when he was looking away. ¬†The bouncer fell and hit his head on a tiled floor.¬† According to The Daily Telegraph, as of yesterday Taiba was still unconscious and induced a coma in the hospital. ¬†Following the incident, he had an emergency surgery and part of his skull was removed, the report said.¬† Longworth got out on bail of more than $1 million, according to The Daily Telegraph.¬†He's not allowed to drink or leave the country.¬†
Corn prices were down more than 3% after the USDA unexpectedly increased its corn yield estimates. The agency now forecasts 155.3 bu/a yield for 2013 against 153.9 expected. It would be the greatest yield since 2009. Production was also revised slightly higher, to 13.8 billion bushels. If realized it would be the most corn ever produced in the U.S. Futures have come back up a little bit but are still near lows. Investing.com Meanwhile, soybean futures shot back up to pre-report trading levels after the agency's yield forecasts basically came in in-line with expectations at 41.2 bu/a. We are now a far way off from last summer's record highs of more than $8.
Today's Morning Briefing: Complacency.¬†(1) Biblical warning. (2) Beware of bullish perma-bears. (3) Is doomsaying out of fashion? (4) Fewer recession scares. (5) The beginning of a Great Rotation? (6) The bears are mostly in the correction camp. (7) China‚Äôs hard landing postponed again. (8) Government-engineered liquidity squeeze scared Chinese officials more than lenders. (9) The Great Leap Backwards. (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog
REUTERS/ Daniel MunozIt's been five years since the beginning of the financial crisis forever changed the trajectory of American banking¬†‚Äî and American history. The plot lines of the financial crisis are well-documented, but it should still give any market watcher pause to stop and think again about the events as they unfolded. From Lehman's collapse to AIG's bailout, September and October of 2008 were, simply put, absolutely nuts. To celebrate the 5-year-anniversary, we take a walk down memory lane with a cast of familiar faces.
Via @stocktwits, here's the new cover of TIME Stocktwits Confetti! Wall Street! So is this one of those bearish cover-jinx indicators? No. The not-so-subtle message is that the recovery has been a sham perpetrated by banksters and that we're on the verge of collapse "all over again." This has been the standard line since day 1 one of the recovery, that it's all a fraud and that it will all go busto any day now. Get really worried if you see the skepticism and anger disappear.
APTo no one's surprise, Dell is now a private company. The shareholder vote was this morning, and the majority voted in favor of Michael Dell and Silver Lake Partners' $25 billion bid to take Dell private. Shareholders will receive $13.75 per share and a $0.13 cent dividend on each share. That's more than Michael Dell's team initially proposed. A feud with billionaire hedge funder and large Dell stakeholder Carl Icahn made them up the bid. Dell's stock has been tanking since 2004, when the PC market became saturated. Now smart phones and tablets are killing the PC market altogether. Dell has spent the past few years investing in its enterprise solutions business. In other words, creating solutions and software for small to mid-size companies. But PC sales still account for nearly half of Dell's revenue, according to its last earnings report. Dell is interested in the enterprise space because the margins are higher and it's too far behind in mobile to catch up. All of its mobile attempts, like the Dell Streak tablet, have flopped. But the enterprise space has stiff competition from companies like Oracle, Cisco and IBM. Dell will have to work hard to earn its keep. Michael Dell has a true entrepreneurship story. He founded the company in 1984 from his Texas dorm room. He found a way to make the PC supply chain more efficient, and by selling computers directly from the manufacturer, he was able to cut the cost of PCs from thousands of dollars to a few hundred dollars. He's responsible for bringing home computers to the masses, and it made him a billionaire. Dell was on top of the world in the early 2000s when it was the number one PC maker. Now it has fallen to number three and while others jumped into mobile, Dell stood still. Michael Dell is widely respected, but he's never been considered an innovator. Time will tell if has has the chops to reinvent the company. But it's hard to bet against someone whose legacy is on the line.¬† Michael Dell plans to keep his current board in place. It will likely need to invest heavily in R&amp;D, make smart acquisitions, and say a prayer if it wants to succeed as a leader in enterprise.
Bloomberg Risk TakersNow a journalist and author, Michael†Lewis is no stranger to Wall Street's draw on young minds. He worked at Salomon Brothers before resigning to write†Liar's Poker†in 1989, a†tell-all book on mortgage-backed bonds and those who peddled them. Lewis would go on to write The Big Short, one of the most seminal books on the financial crisis. Five years on, Bloomberg Businessweek is out with a special issue looking back on the crisis, and Lewis offers his take on the state of Wall Street. From Businessweek: BusinessWeek: Has Silicon Valley replaced Wall Street as the place for bright young people to make their millions? Lewis: My sense is that even though the financial crisis has lessened the appeal of the big Wall Street firm, itís still appealing to kids in school, for the simple reason that unlike Silicon Valley, where you do have to know something to break in, the barriers to entry on Wall Street are quite low once you have the [Ivy League] credentials. If youíre a certain kind of kid who doesnít actually know anything about anything, Wall Street is still a great place to go. Just don't do anything stupid or Michael Lewis will report about it. Read the full interview at Bloomberg Businessweek†ª
I am very much in the camp of people resisting all of the¬†bubble¬†talk ‚Äì whether it‚Äôs on stocks, housing or what have you. In the aftermath of two major bubbles in stocks and housing, every time you get some froth in one market or another, a chorus of pundits declare it‚Äôs a¬†bubble. I lean very heavily against that kind of¬†psychology. But‚Ä¶ Fully 70% of the¬†psychology¬†for buying houses is now driven by low rates¬†‚Äì low mortgage rates at 37% and rising prices at 33%. This is crazy.¬†John Carney tells us¬†that not only are homes now growing increasingly less affordable, but the psychology of the US housing market is changing to one of the fear of being priced out. People are now falling all over themselves to buy houses because they think prices are running away from them. And literally a year or two ago, the psychology was almost exactly the opposite. Wow. Frankly, I can‚Äôt believe we are here again, but we are. www.creditwritedowns.com [Editor's note: Redfin asked about rising home prices for the first time in Q3 '13. What Harrison is noting, however, is that people citing low mortgage rates or rising home prices together are at a worrying 70%.] I wouldn‚Äôt call this a bubble, to be sure. Nonetheless, the Fed is starting to have some serious headwinds to fight against in taming animal spirits. I don‚Äôt know how they manage this while trying to prop up the economy with monetary policy. It‚Äôs an impossible task. I will have a lot more to write on this issue because the next Fed statement on September 18th is going to be¬†veryimportant. Watch for my coming posts on the issue.
APOne of the more common arguments from the political right about why the recovery is so slow is that government is creating "uncertainty."††Barry explained why this is an incredibly stupid argument†in a Washington Post Column. Mike Konczal over at the Next New Deal†pretty much destroyed the "uncertainty index"†created to show "uncertainty."† I would simply put it like this: there is always uncertainty because time is linear and we can't see into the future.†† But if you really want to blame someone for creating uncertainty, look at the Republican House. Starting with the debt negotiations two years ago that resulted in a Standard and Poor's credit downgrade, to last years budget fiasco to the current situation where the House leadership literally†can't get anything done, the reality is this:†Republican House leadership is creating a ton of political uncertainty through their utter ineptness, from Politico: There are times when it looks like Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor have no idea how to run the House Republican Conference.In just two frantic days, rank-and-file House Republicans sidelined leadershipís plan to fund the government and take another nonbinding, quixotic vote on defunding President Barack Obamaís signature health care law. These Republicans said the leadership plan is too weak, lacks a long-term strategy and is akin to waving a white flag on Obamacare.
via Bloomberg TV Thirty-seven year-old activist investor Richard Trainor†McGuire III (a.k.a. "Mick") runs "one of the country's hottest hedge funds", according to Reuters.† McGuire, who has been called a†Bill Ackman "protÈgÈ", is the founder and CEO of $2.2 billion Marcato Capital Management. So far this year, his fund is up 17.1% this year, reports Reuters Svea Herbst-Bayliss. McGuire been in the financial news lately because he's one of the big activist shareholders involved in Sotheby's. Daniel Loeb and Nelson Peltz are the other big name fund managers who are top shareholders in the auction house.† Ackman, who is considered to be somewhat of a matchmaker, even called McGuire a "handsome and successful guy" at a conference earlier this year. † † "Actually, really for the group, so Mick runs one of the few hedge funds that's out in San Francisco and he tells me the only downside is apparently there are no women in San Francisco, so I thought I would make a little bit of an advertisement while he no longer needs to raise a lot of capital like some of the other start-up managers there are other needs that need to be fulfilled. And he's quite a handsome and successful guy. I wanted to point that out," Ackman told the audience at the Harbor Investment Conference in February after McGuire finished up his presentation.† At such a young age, McGuire has quite a lot of accomplishments under his belt. McGuire's Marcato Capital was named†the U.S. equity hedge fund of the year by Absolute Return Alpha.†Institutional Investor named him the emerging fund manager of the year.† McGuire started his hedge fund in 2010 with financial backing from Blackstone. He previously worked as a partner at Pershing Square. †He was with Pershing from 2005 until January 2009. †Be fore that, he held various roles at JH Whitney &amp; Co. and Stonington Partners.† Marcato also has experience in the corporate boardroom. †When he was only 32, he served as a director for Borders. †Eventually, he became the youngest ever non-executive chairman of the bookseller. † McGuire is a native of Columbia, Missouri. †His father Rick is the head track &amp; field coach for University of Missouri. His mother Jane is a retired†Spanish and French high school teacher. His sister Wendy is a lawyer.† He graduated with a degree in economics from Princeton. †He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School.† Watch Below: Miss USA Explains How Working As An Accountant Prepared Her For Beauty Pageants
mugley / FlickrNEW YORK (Reuters) - Just days after UBS AG &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; said that it would gut its fixed-income trading business last October, three of the Swiss bank's senior executives left to launch a firm to go where big banks won't anymore. The fund, called¬†Melody Capital Partners, is raising about $750 million to make loans or buy debt of companies and other entities with bad credit or no credit rating. Often the borrowers are in financial distress and the financing arrangements tend to be unusual in nature. For instance, Melody recently lent tens of millions of dollars to a private-equity fund that wanted to buy more shares of a company it already had a stake in, but had all its capital tied up in other investments. Melody also hunts for cash-starved companies that have collateral to seize if loans go bad in industries ranging from telecommunications to real estate. Once, such risky but lucrative deals fattened the profits of Wall Street banks, including UBS,¬†Goldman Sachs Group Inc¬†&lt;GS.N&gt;, and¬†Deutsche Bank AG¬†&lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;. But five years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers turned a mortgage crisis into a full-blown financial panic, banks are pulling back their balance sheets from the fringes of the credit markets, with more and more risk being driven to unregulated lenders that comprise the $60 trillion "shadow-banking" sector. Fragmented and opaque, shadow banking comes in many forms - from payday loans and "crowdfunding" websites on Main Street, to securitized products, money-market funds and repurchase agreements on Wall Street. Banking regulators traditionally paid little attention to it, but when Lehman went under, shadow banking intensified the tumult: money markets and repurchase markets seized up, and investment banks and major corporations suddenly had trouble funding themselves. The financial sector, which had spent years trying to avoid regulation, began begging for government rescues. Rulemakers acknowledge they need to fix the shadow banking sector as they reform the financial system. But their progress on that front has been halting, while regulation for the conventional banking sector has ramped up quickly and severely. In interviews, regulators, bank executives and academics said the increasing regulation of the big banks may be spurring growth in shadow banking, which in turn could be sowing the seeds for the next financial crisis. "We haven't done as much as we should to fix this," said former U.S. Treasury Secretary¬†Henry Paulson, who recently reissued his 2011 book "On the Brink" with a new prologue that among other things speaks to the risks in shadow banking. "I'm not making light of 'too big to fail' and challenges posed by big banks," Paulson told Reuters, "but I think we've come a long way there, whereas we have not when it comes to dealing with some of the structural issues of the financial markets." While no one can predict what precisely the seeds of the next crisis will be, a big concern is that one part of the shadow banking sector will go belly up and infect larger parts of the system. Not only would it come as a shock, but it also would be more difficult to contain if regulators had no grasp of the systemic risks that were building. According to Paulson's definition, shadow banking is non-bank short-term funding, which is used to finance longer-term obligations by financial institutions and industrial companies. Therefore, funds that use long-term investor money to make long-term loans are less of a concern than money-market funds or repurchase agreements, which provide short-term cash to corporations and financial firms. SHRINKING SEGMENTS To be sure, the riskiest parts of the shadow banking system may still be too small and too diffuse to create systemic risk. And regulators globally plan to collect data on now-opaque segments of the financial markets, and enforce tougher rules on a host of areas including credit funds, exchange-traded funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, securities broker-dealers, credit insurance providers, securitization and finance companies. Some shadow banking segments have already started shrinking. For example, the size of the U.S. market for repurchase agreements is down 3 percent to $1.65 trillion since 2010. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage finance giants that now back nearly 90 percent of new home loans, have also been shrinking their balance sheets, as mandated by terms of their rescue in the financial crisis. There is no blueprint yet, however, for what will replace them. Joseph¬†Abate, a money market strategist at Barclays, said he expects most major shadow-banking markets to shrink further as new regulations are devised. "If you talk to the regulators, they would generally acknowledge that the system is safer but it could be even safer,"Abate¬†said. "If you talk to the industry, you would get the view that enough has been done." But even as some shadow banking areas shrink, others are growing. For example, the market for collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, is on track to double in 2013 from last year, with $51.2 billion having been sold so far this year. These securities package pools of loans into bonds that are sliced up and sold to investors. The precise size and number of middle-market credit funds like¬†Melody Capital Partners¬†is difficult to estimate, but many such funds have launched lately, or are raising money. Since the financial crisis, 232 hedge funds that perform direct lending have launched - 3.5 times as many as had ever launched before then, according to the research firm¬†Preqin. Those funds have performed better and shown less volatility than the overall hedge fund industry,¬†Preqin¬†data shows. Firms including Blackstone&lt;BX.N&gt;,¬†Cerberus¬†and¬†Avenue Capital, have all raised or are in the process of raising sizeable middle-market loan funds. Business development companies, which make loans to small companies and have to pay little corporate tax, have also grown at a rapid clip since the financial crisis.¬†Prospect Capital Corp, which makes $5 million to $100 million loans to middle-market companies, for example, had grown its assets to nearly $4.5 billion in June 2013 from about $500 million in June 2008, representing an annualized growth rate of over 50 percent. "Prospect and other non-bank lenders are growing at the expense of banks for regulatory reasons that are not expected to¬†abate¬†in the years to come," said Grier Eliasek, Prospect's president. Bill Winters, a former JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; executive, said shifting risk from regulated banks to unregulated entities is not necessarily a bad thing. Winters launched Renshaw Bay in 2011, a firm that makes investments in credit in areas where banks are withdrawing. "This is all very healthy," he said. "Banks are supposed to be central to the transmission of credit, but not be the only game in town." But others are alarmed.¬†Steven Schwarcz, a professor of law and business at¬†Duke University, said the Dodd-Frank financial reform law - the main regulatory reform package introduced in the U.S. as a result of the financial crisis - fell short by focusing primarily on banks. "Dodd-Frank hasn't addressed financial market risk," said Schwarcz, who has written papers on shadow banking and systemic risk. COMPETING WITH BANKS The growth comes as banks become more cautious. Several banks, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; have put in place committees that must approve new products and certain transactions to avoid introducing inappropriate risks to the firms or to their clients. Big universal banks like JPMorgan and Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt; have pulled out of lending businesses such as student loans. Regulators, bank executives and others say that the idea of unregulated entities stepping further into banks' traditional businesses is troubling. "We should have no confidence that the system is safe," said¬†Richard Carnell, associate professor of law atFordham University Law School¬†and a former assistant Treasury Secretary for Financial Institutions under President¬†Bill Clinton. (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra and David Henry; Additional reporting by Matthew Goldstein, Greg Roumeliotis, Emily Flitter and Peter Rudegeair; Editing by Tim Dobbyn)
REUTERS/ B MathurDhanender Kumar Jain, 65, a shopkeeper, holds a garland made of Indian currency notes in the old quarters of Delhi July 12, 2010.The RBI, India's central bank, has asked people to stop using bank notes to make garlands, the Wall Street Journal reports. Decorative garlands at marriages and political rallies are¬†widespread¬†in India. Rupee notes are often used, damaging the currency. "Bank notes should be respected as they are a symbol of the Sovereign and public should not misuse them and help in increasing the life of bank notes," the RBI said in a statement. The bank also said it will attempt to supply clean banknotes throughout the country and urged its citizenry to comply with a "clean note policy." India's recent economic decision making is likely to exacerbate¬†inflation. Should somebody tell the RBI that garland making, which destroys many rupees at one time, is inherently deflationary?
There‚Äôs a lot of discussion about whether automating people out of a job is ethical or even good for society. I‚Äôve been called some¬†not so nice things¬†for suggesting that we¬†solve the BART strike by automating it¬†(BART trains are actually¬†already automated). But the point is really this: regardless of whether you believe automation is good or bad it is inevitable. The various unions that represent BART workers may postpone that inevitability for a while (as the¬†NY transit unions did) but eventually it will happen. Does anyone really believe that we won‚Äôt have a fully automated transit system in 10 or 20 years time? But this is about more than a local transit issues. The bigger point is that we‚Äôre on the cusp of an era of accelerated automation of our workforce.¬†(see:¬†Why Software is Eating the Worldby Marc Andreessen) This automation will happen at a speed that will mean people won‚Äôt simply be able to retrain into another role as has happened in the past. I see these soon-to-be-obsolete jobs everywhere I go: from the dealers at a casino in Reno (the poker room was already dealer-less) to anyone working a checkout counter to taxi drivers being replaced to self-driving cars. And this automation isn‚Äôt relegated simply to ‚Äúblue collar‚Äù jobs either. There‚Äôs less demand than ever for ‚Äúwhite collar‚Äù office jobs too. Really the only class (currently) unaffected is the creative class. But despite the media spin, this isn‚Äôt about technologists versus the working class. Avoiding automation isn‚Äôt a viable option at scale. If we don‚Äôt automate and seek increasing efficiencies in our economy someone else will and we won‚Äôt be able to keep pace. As a society the discussion we should be having is not about whether or not to automate but what we want life to look like on the other side of that transition. The increasing frequency I see concepts like¬†universal basic income¬†being presented is a good start. I don‚Äôt know what the answers are but if we play our cards right we‚Äôll grow our creative class and¬†enable more people to pursue their true passions over a paycheck. If we don‚Äôt‚Ä¶ well there are plenty of movies that paint a painful representation of what that looks like. Let‚Äôs not let that happen. The author is the Founder &amp; CEO of customer feedback company @UserVoice
Thousands of personal finance books on shelves today promise to teach you to spend less, save more, invest better, retire earlier, get out of debt faster, and solve just about every financial conundrum in between. But perhaps none said it better than a book published in 1937. Napoleon Hill, a Great Depression-era author and former advisor to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, interviewed "more than five hundred of the most successful men this country has ever known" to¬†figure out the key to their good fortune. He wrapped all of his insights in a 200-page package and published "Think and Grow Rich," which went on to become one of the best-selling books of all time. Don't expect to find any stock-picking or gambling advice in it. Despite Hill interviewing some of the most iconic businessmen of his day, none of his findings involved any particularly hard-to-attain skills. His entire premise is helping people overcome the psychological barriers that keep them from wealth.¬† "Wishing will not bring riches," Hill writes. "But desiring riches with a state of mind that becomes an obsession, then planning definite ways and means to acquire riches, and backing those plans with persistence which does not recognize failure, will bring riches." In one passage, he sums up six steps to turning a desire for wealth into "its financial equivalent": First. Fix in your mind the exact amount of money you desire. It is not sufficient merely to say ‚ÄúI want plenty of money." Be definite as to the amount. (There is a psychological reason for definite- ness which will be described in a subsequent chapter). Second.¬†Determine exactly what you intend to give in return for the money you desire. (There is no such reality as ‚Äúsomething for nothing.") Third.¬†Establish a definite date when you intend to possess the money you desire.¬† Fourth.¬†Create a definite plan for carrying out your desire, and begin at once, whether you are ready or not, to put this plan into action. Fifth.¬†Write out a clear, concise statement of the amount of money you intend to acquire, name the time limit for its acquisition, state what you intend to give in return for the money, and describe clearly the plan through which you intend to accumulate it. Sixth.¬†Read your written statement aloud, twice daily, once just before retiring at night, and once after arising in the morning. AS YOU READ, SEE AND FEEL AND BELIEVE YOURSELF ALREADY IN POSSESSION OF THE MONEY.¬† It seems basic, but if you actually compare this to just about any personal finance guide out there, you'll find exactly the same simple steps. They just come with a lot more bells and whistles.¬† If anything, Hill's book is a reminder that one of the only ways to achieve true wealth is to understand that more often than not our emotions and our mindset are what keep us from succeeding, and that it's our job to come up with a plan to overcome them. "When riches take the place of poverty, the change is usually brought about through well conceived and carefully executed plans," he wrote. "Poverty needs no plan. It needs no one to aid it, because it is bold and ruthless. Riches are shy and timid. They have to be 'attracted.'" This post was originally written by Mandi Woodruff.
Famed equity analyst Meredith Whitney is rumored to be in dire straights at her new firm, but being right during the financial crisis was still sweet. Whitney reflects on the crisis five years on in an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek's Nick Summers. Whitney gained notoriety in 2007 for predicting Citigroup would need to cut its dividend due to capital concerns. Later, of course, the firm did. Whitney became an overnight stock-picking fixture, though the crisis "was a really scary time for everyone."†From Bloomberg Businessweek: BW: So getting a huge prediction right isnít all itís cracked up to be?Whitney: No, being right is always all itís cracked up to be. Though, Whitney says she lost "between a quarter and a half a million dollars on financial positions" during the crisis. "I rode Lehman all the way down to zero. Itís pretty ironic, right? That, I donít think anyone knows," she told Businessweek.
Gold continues to move further and further away from the peak it made August 28 following the latest rally in the shiny yellow metal. This morning, it's down 2.5%, trading right around $1329 an ounce. Earlier, it fell as low as $1326. On Tuesday, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale commodities strategists, who have been bearish on gold all year, declared that the "gold bounce is over," and advised clients to "sell gold with a $1200 target." The strategists outlined a few bearish arguments against the metal: A US military strike now looks much less likely with Syria having accepted Russiaís proposal for Syriaís chemical weapons to be given up for UN control. While it is yet to be seen whether Syria is serious about its offer, it does make near-term US military strikes much less likely. And even if the Syrian offer turns out to be just a delaying tactic, it is not clear that the US Congress would vote in favour of military action. Recent polls, political soundings, and preliminary vote counts in Washington suggest that the US Congress is unlikely to back a military strike, as President Obama has requested. From a political perspective, it would be extremely difficult ñ indeed, almost impossible -- for him to take military action after asking for Congressional approval and not getting it. Finally, gold has a mixed record as an effective hedge against geopolitical risks from the Middle East. The gold price peaked on several occasions early during crises in the Middle East. For example, when Iraq invaded Kuwait on 2 Aug 1990, gold peaked 11% higher within the first month and was trading below its starting point shortly after the beginning of the US-led counter-attack. Another example is the US-led 2003 invasion of Iraq. Gold rallied hard in the run-up to the invasion but peaked already in early Feb 2003, i.e. ahead of the 19 March 2003 start of the invasion, and by April, gold had dropped 15% from the February 2003 peak. In other words, gold has often peaked ahead or during the early phase of military action in the Middle East.  Foreign exchange rate trends have turned bearish for the gold price. The dramatic trend decline in the Indian Rupee against the US dollar has sharply increased the local price of gold with the gold price measured in Rupee up some 20% since late June. The Indian jewelery market, which is a major component of global jewellery demand, has tended to be price sensitive. Thus the high local gold price is likely to dampen Indian jewellery demand and boost scrap supply. Furthermore, the trend weakening of the South African Rand and the Australian dollar have lowered gold mining cuts in the two countries with the highest production costs which makes production costs less likely. It is also worth noting that the gold labour strikes in South Africa are now over.  Asian gold price premiums over the London price have declined and so has the backwardation at the front end of the forward curve. This suggests that the recent surge in Asian physical demand for gold is weakening and that supply from ETF selling is finding its way to Asia. The Asian gold premiums and forward curve backwardation came about as a result of a mismatch between strong Asian demand and the time-consuming process of refining ETF gold supply into more deliverable parcels.  We expect strong ETF gold selling to resume soon as Syria is no longer a bullish factor and US Fed tapering is likely to start at the September meeting. Our US economists expect the Fed to start tapering at the next meeting despite the weaker than expected payrolls data last month. The Fed has stated they want to halt asset purchases once the jobless rate hits 7%. The†latest downtick in the jobless rate to 7.3% tips, in our view, the scales toward the announcement of a small ($10 billion) reduction in asset purchases following the 18 September meeting. If the FOMC were not to act in September, then that would mean waiting until December because a post-meeting press conference is not scheduled following the October meeting. With US real bond yields sharply higher recently and geopolitical risks abating, investors are likely to resume large-scale ETF selling soon. The chart below shows the move in gold this morning. Thinkorswim
bytemarks / FlickrOkay, the Department of Labor just released its latest report on weekly unemployment insurance claims. But there's a big "but." First, jobless claims plunged to 292,000, which was much lower than the 330,000 expected by economists. According to Bloomberg, this is the lowest level since April 2006. However, the DoL is attributing the decline to the upgrade of two computer systems. From Bloomberg's Jeanna Smialek: Jobless claims in the U.S. declined last week to the lowest level since April 2006 as upgrades to computer systems in two states caused those employment agencies to report fewer applications....No states estimated jobless claims last week, the Labor Department spokesman said as the report was released to the press. A larger state and a smaller one that retooled their computer networks still provided the Labor Department with applications counts. He also said that the decrease in filings probably didn‚Äôt signal a change in labor-market conditions. This is one of the final economic data releases before the Federal Reserve holds its FOMC meeting next week. "Jobless claims become especially important at times like this," said High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan."While the precise relationship between claims and net employment growth varies -- the pace of new hiring also matter -- significant ups and downs in the trend in employment growth are invariably reflected in downs and ups in claims; that is the clear mess from our chart below." HFE
AP1,129 garment workers killed in Rana Plaza factory collapse last April.(Reuters) - A dozen retailers and clothing brands are meeting in Geneva to discuss providing compensation to the victims of the Rana Plaza and Tazreen factory disasters in Bangladesh, although several companies were noticeable by their absence. The talks, chaired by the International Labour Organisation in Geneva, are aimed at setting up funds to compensate the victims of both the Rana Plaza disaster in April, when an eight-storey building collapsed, killing 1,129 people, and the fire at the Tazreen Fashion factory in November 2012 that killed 112 workers. The collapse of Rana Plaza, a factory built on swampy ground some 20 miles outside Dhaka, ranks among the world's worst industrial accidents and has galvanized brands to look more closely at trying to improve safety standards at suppliers. About 3.6 million people work in Bangladesh's clothing industry, making it the world's second-largest clothing exporter behind China, but some of the workforce, which is mostly female, earn as little as $38 a month. Garment exports in the last financial year which ended in June were up 13 percent at $21.5 billion, with 60 percent of the clothes going to Europe and 23 percent to the United States, according to the country's Export Promotion Bureau. "The families and the injured have already waited far too long," said Monika Kemperle, assistant general secretary of the IndustriALL international trade union federation that is coordinating the talks. "Companies who are serious about conditions in their Bangladeshi production chain can send a clear sign of their sincerity at these meetings," she said in a statement. IndustriALL is seeking a deal on a long-term fund for Rana Plaza worth more than 54 million euros ($71.8 million), with 45 percent to be contributed by brands. It plans a statement on the outcome of the talks, which started on Wednesday, later on Thursday. The companies expected to attend included Zara-owner Inditex &lt;ITX.MC&gt;, the Primark discount chain owned by Associated British Foods &lt;ABF.L&gt;, Canada's Loblaw Cos Ltd &lt;L.TO&gt; and European retailer C&amp;A, according to the Clean Clothes Campaign, a group which has led the drive for compensation and is involved in the talks. Inditex later said it was not attending as it was not supplied by either the Tazreen or Rana Plaza factories. The other firms the Clean Clothes Campaign expected at the talks are Bonmarche, Matalan and Store Twenty One from Britain, Germany's Karl Rieker and KiK, Camaieu of France, Mascot of Denmark and Spanish department store chain El Corte Ingles. But some retailers have attracted attention for staying away, including Wal-Mart, which sourced garments from the factory hit by the fire, as well as Italian clothing retailer Benetton and Spanish fashion chain Mango, which placed orders at Rana Plaza. Benetton's chief executive Baigio Chiarolanza said many companies had not joined the Geneva talks due to a "lack of clarity" around objectives and a lack of involvement by several key stakeholders, without elaborating. "We decided to focus our efforts and resources in working directly with those affected by the Rana Plaza disaster and their families so that we can provide them with concrete help while they need it the most," he said in a statement. No one at Wal-Mart or Mango was immediately available to comment. DIVISIONS Since the disasters Wal-Mart has focused on providing loans to improve factories rather than compensation, joining a North American safety group that is separate from a European-led group which includes a larger number of retailers and union groups. The North American plan has been criticized by groups like IndustriALL that think the European-led agreement is stronger, as it uses a binding arbitration process that will be enforceable in the courts of the country where a company is domiciled. IndustriALL said the compensation plan it was working on was based on a scheme it developed following other factory accidents that takes into account loss of earnings, pain and suffering, as well as medical costs, funeral costs and other family expenses. C&amp;A, KiK and El Corte Ingles already agreed in April to contribute to a $5.7 million fund for the victims of the Tazreen fire, but were discussing details of that plan in Geneva. ($1=0.7518 euros) (Reporting by Emma Thomasson in Berlin; Editing by Greg Mahlich)
When the Federal Reserve concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting next Wednesday, economists expect to hear that the Fed is tapering its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage-backed bonds. This is something that Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his peers have been talking about since May. The decision to taper is tied to the Fed's economic expectations, which Fed-watchers believe allow for the taper to begin in September. As such, Fed-watchers also warn that the Fed risks losing credibility if it decides not to taper. However, Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach thinks its a mistake to consider credibility when forecasting Fed policy. If FOMC Meetings Always Went as Expected‚Ä¶‚Ä¶they would not be very important events to markets globally. So critically analyzing market expectations helps to expose risk scenarios. In the case of tapering, the most common rationale used to explain why the Fed will taper in September deals with Fed credibility. Given the market expects the Fed to taper in September and the Fed has yet to push back in a meaningful way, not tapering would cause investors to lose faith in future Fed communications and create undue volatility. We find this logic flawed. The Fed does not pander to market expectations. And Fed pushback against market expectations does not only occur in between FOMC meetings. Finally, the Fed has shown its willingness to accept near-term market volatility (that may result if it chooses not to taper) if it will help avoid even higher volatility in the future. In our view, markets may interpret a delayed tapering as a signal to a more prolonged purchase plan, and react accordingly. While the Fed might value an additional six or twelve weeks given the current downtrend in payroll data, the market may interpret the decision differently. Delaying tapering ‚Äì relative to market expectations ‚Äì could change the debate back to ‚Äòwhy taper‚Äô, as opposed to ‚Äòwhy not taper‚Äô, and create a large market reaction... So, don't be surprised if Bernanke throws the market a curveball next Wednesday.
AppleIf you don't understand how cool this is, you just don't get it.SINGAPORE / SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - By adding a fingerprint scanner to its newest mobile phone, Apple Inc is offering a tantalizing glimpse of a future where your favorite gadget might become a biometric pass to the workplace, mobile commerce or real-world shopping and events. Although Apple's executives said at Tuesday's launch that its Touch ID technology embedded into the iPhone 5S' home button would only provide fingerprint access to the phone and its own online stores, analysts said Apple's embrace of such technology, called biometrics, would be key to wider adoption. "It really propels biometrics into the mainstream," said specialist Alan Goode, the UK-based managing director of research consultancy Goode Intelligence. Jonathan Ive, Apple's senior vice president of design, hinted of its future in a video presentation at the launch. "Touch ID defines the next step of how you use your iPhone," he said, "making something as important as security so effortless and so simple." Passwords and personal identification numbers (PINs) have long been the mainstay of access to devices, bank accounts and online services, despite their poor record. Many passwords can easily be guessed, while others can be hacked by brute-force attacks - essentially a computer program running through all possible permutations. They also involve one too many steps for lots of users: Apple said that half of smartphone users don't bother to password-protect their devices. Hence the appeal of biometrics, which take something unique to the individual - a fingerprint, an iris, voice or facial features - as authentication. COMFORT FOR COMMERCE Apple's move may not have an immediate impact beyond improving the way users unlock their devices and interact with Apple services like iTunes and its App Store. But that is itself a significant step. Apple has more than 500 million iTunes accounts. Anything that increases security and removes steps in the payment process is bound to boost online purchases. It will also raise the comfort levels of companies supplying the content to a mobile commerce sector expected to reach $40 billion next year in the United States alone, according to Euromonitor estimates. Users afraid of using their mobile device to make purchases online or in the real world because they fear it will be stolen or their password seen may feel liberated using a fingerprint, said Michael Chasen, CEO of SocialRadar, which is building location-based mobile applications for social networking. For mobile commerce, he said, that could "be the missing piece". Beyond the web, Apple could combine the Touch ID with its existing "Passbook" app that stores coupons, tickets to events and boarding passes on an iPhone and allow event organizers and airline companies to validate those documents, said Sebastien Taveau, chief technology officer at California-based Validity Sensors, which makes sensors for other manufacturers. "Apple wants to make deals with music and entertainment companies with very strong opinions on digital rights management," Taveau said. The fingerprint scanner, when used in transactions with these companies, could "reassure all these industries". Biometric security should also appeal to enterprises nervous about allowing the personal devices of employees on the office network, analysts and industry insiders said. "If this has been implemented right, every enterprise that enforces a password or PIN lock on the device will begin using the fingerprint sensor instead," said Song Chuang, Singapore-based research director at Gartner. Apple is not the first to try to make biometrics work for the consumer. Fingerprint scanners have already found their way into laptops, external hard-drives and electronic wallets. Companies like Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc, Fujitsu Ltd and Pantech Co Ltd have incorporated fingerprint scanners into their mobile phones. But none has really taken off. Partly, that's because of cost and partly because there's been little in the way of an ecosystem to build support for the products. "Biometrics have been historically viewed as a more expensive 'nice to have' component, rather than a 'must have'," said Bill Morelli, an analyst at IHS. Also, fingerprint scanners have tended to make things harder rather than easier for users. Chuang at Gartner said it could take users up to six swipes for a sensor to 'learn' a user's fingerprint. "This is not a great user experience," he said. All things, say some, that Apple was put on this earth to fix. Ben Thompson, a Taipei-based industry observer who writes a blog at stratechery.com, said Apple was focusing on the apparently trivial problem of entering a password - but one that irked users dozens of times a day. "It's classic Apple to expend tremendous energy on simplifying a small irritation, even if it's not a classic feature list item." BADLY KEPT SECRET BOOSTS INDUSTRY The badly kept secret of Apple's biometric plans had already given the industry a boost long before Tuesday. The company has been filing patents on biometric security since at least 2009. "Apple has been working on it for more than two years and they have extremely competent engineers," said Validity's Taveau. Apple reached out two to three years ago to Microlatch, an Australian company, to license and test its peripheral fingerprint sensors. Apple asked it to build a Bluetooth connection to the phone and accompanying software, Microlatch managing director and founder Chris Burke said, so Apple could gauge user reactions and habits, particularly in e-commerce strongholds like China. "In their roadmap it was clear there would be fingerprint scans, so they'd plot their course, rather than just trying something," Burke said in a phone interview. Last year Apple also paid about $350 million for AuthenTec, a key player in fingerprint sensors and until its purchase a supplier to Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, Hewlett-Packard Co, Dell Inc, Lenovo Group Ltd and Fujitsu. Apple's moves have reawakened interest in the space. Swedish biometric component maker Fingerprint Cards AB, for example, has seen its share price rise 1,400 percent in the past year. The company predicts the industry will ship up to 100 million consumer electronic devices embedded with fingerprint scanners this year, rising to more than 1 billion in 2015 as biometrics finds its way into TV remotes, gaming consoles and cameras. DOWNSIDE OF NICE, NOT NECESSARY There are downsides to fingerprint technology. It is not as accurate as companies touting its benefits make it sound, and PINs and passwords can be reset or changed if someone steals them. "Fingerprint recognition is not perfect," said Geppy Parziale, biometrics expert and CEO of Invasivecode, a firm that develops applications for Apple's mobile devices. Then there's the problem of the fingerprints themselves: acquiring a large enough set of them to test the accuracy of such devices is complicated by privacy and legal issues, Parziale said. But if anyone can bring this technology into the mainstream, experts say, it's Apple. It has, for example, embedded the scanner into the iPhone's home button, while other mobile devices usually have it on the back, making it awkward for the user and increasing the number of failed attempts. Samsung and fellow South Korean electronics manufacturer LG Electronics Inc have had problems incorporating the technology into finished products. LG's head of domestic marketing, Ma Chang-Min, last month said the company had abandoned efforts to include a fingerprint sensor to the back cover of its flagship G2 smartphone "as we need more work to improve reliability and usability". That gives Apple a headstart. It can also build the sensing and security deep into its operating system and the A7 mobile chip which Apple itself designed, putting it ahead of rivals such like Google, which develops the Android mobile OS and licenses it to manufacturers like Samsung, said Taipei-based KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo. But its edge may not last. Microsoft Corp, for one, is building fingerprint recognition into the latest update of its Windows operating system and, said Taveau of Validity Sensors, "it is fair to assume that the Android community won't be long to react". (Additional Reporting By Clare Jim in TAIPEI and Miyoung Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Matt Driskill)
The ugly move comes after the yoga-pants maker said comparable-store sales climbed by 8% in its fiscal Q2. However, management slashed its full-year sales and earnings estimates. "Lululemon same-store sales peaked 13 quarters ago," tweeted retail expert Brian Sozzi. From the outlook section of the company's earnings announcement: For the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we expect net revenue to be in the range of $370 million to $375 million based on a comparable-store sales percentage increase in the mid-single digits on a constant-dollar basis. Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.39 to $0.41 for the quarter. This assumes 146.0¬†million diluted weighted-average shares outstanding and a tax rate of 30.0%. For the full fiscal 2013, we now expect net revenue to be in the range of $1.625 billion to $1.635 billion and diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $1.94 to $1.97 for the full year. This assumes 146.0¬†million diluted weighted-average shares outstanding and a tax rate of 30.0%. "We are well on our way to finishing 2013 as a much stronger company than when the year began," said lululemon's Christine Day. "I am confident that the leadership currently in place coupled with a new CEO will have tremendous success leveraging the platform for growth."
LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Consumers are sticking to frugal shopping habits developed in the recession even as developed economies show signs of recovery, suggesting some behavior changes could be permanent, industry executives say. With household budgets under pressure since the financial crisis of 2008, consumers have flocked to discount stores, shifted from branded goods to private-label alternatives and shopped more often at convenience stores or online rather than spending on expensive fuel to drive to out-of-town hypermarkets. Those trends have benefited discounters like Aldi and Lidl as well as retailers that have the widest own-label ranges and networks of smaller stores, prompting consumer goods firms to retaliate with brand promotions and smaller packaging. "If you look at data from Millennials, who have really sort of grown up with this, price is more important to them ... than it was to the last generation," Walmart U.S. Chief Executive Bill Simon told the Reuters Global Consumer and Retail Summit, referring to the generation born between 1980 and 2000. Walmart U.S. is the largest unit of Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;WMT.N&gt;, the world's largest retailer which benefited from trading-down during the recession, but cut its forecasts last month, citing weak results in many key markets. The U.S. economy is expected to accelerate towards the end of the year, helping cut unemployment, while the euro zone's tentative recovery looks set to continue, although wage growth will continue to lag inflation, dampening purchasing power. John Rogers, chief financial officer of Britain's No. 3 grocer J Sainsbury &lt;SBRY.L&gt;, said consumer behavior was not yet responding to signs of economic recovery. "Consumers are still in the place of tightening their belts, watching how they spend, savvy shopping," he told Reuters in London. "That's not a change that is going to quickly reverse." Rogers said consumers were unlikely to change the habit of shopping more frequently and wasting less food as the economy recovers: "It is an ingrained behavior," he said. Strong growth of sales at convenience stores and online, as well as of own-label goods which rose to nearly 7 percent in the first quarter, have helped Sainsbury outperform Tesco &lt;TSCO.L&gt;, Wal-Mart's Asda and Morrisons &lt;MRW.L&gt;. Rabobank expects private-label goods to double their share of food retail to 50 percent by 2025 from 25 percent in 2010, although growth has slowed in some mature markets as brands and stores have launched promotions like "buy one, get one free". "The moment they stop with promotions, private label grows again. It is a temporary effect," said Rabobank analyst Sebastiaan Schreijen. PRICE POINTS In addition to aggressive promotions, consumer goods firms like Unilever &lt;ULVR.L&gt; and Reckitt Benckiser &lt;RB.L&gt; have responded to the own-label threat by offering brands like Dove soap or Harpic toilet freshener in smaller packs as well as with new value ranges. "It is amazing how consumer behavior has changed especially in southern Europe," Unilever CFO Jean Marc Huet told the Reuters summit, noting a lack of traffic on a visit to Lisbon. "Some consumer behavior is going back 20, 30, 40 years." Unilever is packaging more products around the 1 pound or 1 euro price, as well as rolling out completely new budget brands of margarine and ice cream for struggling economies like Greece. "We don't expect any significant changes in developed markets, both for Europe and for North America," said Huet. Reckitt Chief Executive Rakesh Kapoor told the Reuters summit the recession had prompted his company to do more testing of product innovations in emerging economies like Brazil and then roll them out to mature markets, reversing the usual trend. "At this point of time, people will think about value in a much more holistic way. They look at price points and benefits in combination," he said. "So you lower the price, improve benefits and it is very appealing for consumers." WAIT FOR SALES A Euromonitor survey from 2011 showed that three-quarters of U.S. and British consumers expressed a strong interest in finding bargains, with a majority of Brazilians, Germans and French also keen on a good deal, while fewer than half of Indians, Chinese and Japanese were bargain hunters. "It is now ingrained for people to wait for the sales. The sales have become ongoing and constant," said Euromonitor senior retailing analyst Antonia Branston, adding that other habits such as shopping around for food deals might be less enduring. "It became quite fashionable to be penny pinching but that kind of thing isn't sustainable. After a while it becomes a grind to shop around for the cheapest product," she said. The recession has also produced what some marketers call the "lipstick effect" - consumers still treat themselves to small luxuries like cosmetics, a glass of champagne or premium chocolates even as they economies elsewhere. "The crisis has reinforced this trend of consuming champagne at home," Pierre-Emmanuel Taittinger, Executive Chairman of Taittinger champagne, told Reuters in Paris, adding that in restaurants more champagne was now drunk by the glass. Rabobank expects the squeeze on mid-range products to persist, predicting that value products will make up 30 percent of spending by 2017 from 25 percent now as premium products grow to 20 percent from 15 percent. "In a recession people become more aware of value for money but also want to indulge themselves. So they shop at Lidl but also buy Prada shoes," Rabobank's Schreijen said. (For other news from the Reuters Global Consumer and Retail Summit, click on http://www.reuters.com/summit/Retail13) (Additional reporting by Astrid Wendlandt in Paris, Martinne Geller in London; editing by David Evans)
REUTERS/Joshua LottModels relax before presenting creations from the Michael Kors Spring/Summer 2014 collection during New York Fashion Week, September 11, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERSAUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Michael Dell is expected on Thursday to clinch shareholder approval for his $25 billion offer to buy and take Dell Inc private, ending months of conflict with the company's largest investors and removing uncertainty that has clouded the world's No. 3 PC maker. Dell, who founded the company from a college dorm-room in 1984, fought for months to convince skeptical investors his offer was the best option. This week, he gained the upper hand after one of his staunchest opponents, activist investor Carl Icahn, bowed out of the conflict because he said it was "impossible to win." Shareholders begin casting their votes on Thursday morning in Austin, Texas, and if the billionaire and his partner, Silver Lake, secure shareholders' okay at the special meeting as is widely expected, the pace of transformation should quicken. It may also assuage customers who have grown wary of the company's direction during a very public battle that pits major Wall Street players Icahn, Southeastern Asset Management and T. Rowe Price against the CEO. "Once the deal is consummated, they can move on and close some of the large infrastructure deals they've been working on. I do think there's been a bit of a pause," said Cross Research analyst Shannon Cross. Dell reported a 72 percent slide in quarterly earnings last month, reflecting price cuts intended to soothe nervous customers and spearhead a foray into the enterprise market. Michael Dell has argued that revamping his company into a provider of enterprise computing services in the mold of IBM is a complex undertaking best performed outside of the spotlight of public markets. It remains to be seen if Dell can build its storage, networking and software portfolios to vie with Hewlett Packard Co and others. But with the PC market expected to shrink again in 2013, investors say the company has little choice. Some analysts think it may be too late, since a large swathe of the corporate market has been locked up by IBM and HP. GUTTED Dell Inc in recent years has become one of the more prominent victims of PC market erosion from mobile devices, such as Apple Inc's iPad. Its fortunes remain closely tied to sales of the venerable personal computer, despite $13 billion in acquisitions since 2008 to expand into everything from software to networking. PC sales, which have been shrinking for the last three years, still yield half of its revenue. Global PC sales are expected to fall 7 percent this year and 4.5 percent next year, according to analysts at CLSA. Dell's own revenue is projected to shrink every year through 2016, according to Boston Consulting Group, the firm hired by Dell's board to review the buyout offer. A vote on the buyout had been postponed three times as Michael Dell and the company's board scrambled to garner enough votes in favor. But on August 2, Michael Dell raised his offer price, tacked on a special-dividend sweetener, and got the board to change voting rules so that abstentions no longer count against him - turning the tide in the CEO's favor. A change in the record date by more than two months was also seen as enfranchising so-called arbitrage investors - hedge funds that bought Dell stock more recently to earn a few cents per share, and would thus be more likely support the buyout. The current agreement before shareholders includes a 13 cent special dividend on top of a 10-cent increase in the sale price to $13.75 a share. Dell's stock ended Wednesday flat at $13.85. (Additional reporting by Edwin Chan; Editing by Ken Wills)
Much of the recent data out of Europe has reflected that of an improving economy. But today's industrial production numbers are a bit worrisome. Industrial output in Italy unexpectedly fell 1.1% in July, missing expectations for a 0.3% increase. Industrial production across the 17-nation eurozone fell 1.5%, which was worse than the 0.3% decline expected. Market strategists have been recommending European stocks as a way to play the global recovery. Today's numbers may give prospective investors some pause. Here's a historical chart from Markit's Chris Williamson. @WilliamsonChris
REUTERS/David GraySome have delighted in the positive economic data out of China this weekend. But we've already pointed out why this could be short-lived.¬†  It would appear that China's credit growth and infrastructure investment helped boost industrial production. In the absence of credit growth, economic growth could weaken. And as credit growth continues to rise, the long-term risks to China's economic and financial stability also increase. Diana Choyleva at Lombard Street Research points out that many of the driver's behind the economy's weak performance for instance, export demand, yuan overvaluation, China's business sector, and low deposit rates: "Feeble export demand and the yuan‚Äôs overvaluation have lowered real export growth sharply. Real yuan exports grew by an average quarterly rate of just 1.5% since the economy started its cyclical ‚Äúhard landing‚Äù in Q4 2011 in comparison with 5% a quarter in the strong growth phase between Q3 2009 to Q3 2011. The data so far in Q3 show real yuan exports up by 2.4%, but that is hardly a sharp improvement. "Weak export demand and fast rising unit labour costs have cut into business profits and investment. There is no respite in sight for China‚Äôs business sector as growth of both European and US consumer demand is likely to be feeble. Corporate profits, both on the industrial profit and quoted firms measure, rose in Q3. But that spells bad news for the consumer, suggesting firms have finally started to improve the bottom line by cutting costs. The data for Q3 is not yet available, but real wages fell in Q2. "Meanwhile, real lending rates remain high at 7.6% in August (deflated by the PPI) hurting the corporate sector further. Real deposit rates on the other hand are too low at 0.4% (deflated by the CPI) underpinning households‚Äô desire to save excessively, with their savings rate rising further in 2012. Some have interpreted the increase in the flow of total social financing as suggesting faster output growth is in store. But total social financing is a measure of leverage and not indicative of the economy‚Äôs overall monetary conditions. On our estimates of broad money, which include most of banks‚Äô shadow banking activities, monetary conditions have deteriorated sharply in recent months." The key question continues to be: Will the government just alleviate the current strains on the economy or is it really pushing for structural reform?
As the rest of the world economy improves, Greece seems to only be getting worse According to the country's statistics service ELSTAT, Greece's unemployment rate climbed to 27.9% in June from 27.6% in the month prior. This is the highest level since at least 2006, which is when ELSTAT started releasing these numbers. REUTERS/Vincent Flasseur
China's rapid economic growth has yielded unsafe and often illegal practices that sometimes catch regulators flat-footed. That brings us to these bizarre images, which we first noticed when Reuters' Joel Dimmock tweeted them. REUTERS/China DailyHouses are seen on the rooftop of a factory building in Dongguan, Guangdong province, September 10, 2013. From Reuters: "Houses are seen on the rooftop of a factory building in Dongguan, Guangdong province, September 10, 2013. The houses were completed two years ago. According to local media, the government said the size of the houses was not in line with the original design submitted, thus the construction should be deemed illegal. Picture taken September 10, 2013." REUTERS/StringerPeople look at houses on the rooftop of a factory building in Dongguan, Guangdong province, September 10, 2013.
APJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, addresses the International Olympic Committee session during the Tokyo 2020 bid presentation in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Saturday, Sept. 7, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan is considering $50 billion in economic stimulus to cushion the blow of a national sales-tax increase that is meant to rein in the government's massive debt, people involved in the decisions said on Thursday. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is set to raise the tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in April, rejecting calls by some advisers to delay or water down the fiscal tightening in order to keep the economic recovery on track. The tax hike is the biggest effort in years by the world's third-largest economy to contain a public debt that, at more than twice the nation's annual economic output, is the biggest in the world. But Abe has said he must balance the long-term need to balance the budget against his top priority of breaking Japan free from 15 years of deflation and tepid growth. To offset the drag from the tax increase, Abe this week instructed his government to craft a stimulus package by the end of the month. One option is a spending package worth 5 trillion yen ($50.01 billion), one of the sources said. The government estimates that each 1 percentage point rise in the tax will generate roughly 2.7 trillion yen in revenues. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said Abe has not yet decided on the tax increase, a move expected on October 1 after a key survey of business sentiment from the Bank of Japan. Suga, the top government spokesman, said Finance Minister Taro Aso and Economics Minister Akira Amari will work out the size and contents of any package. Aso's ministry, concerned about getting Japan's finances in order, is a strong proponent of the tax increase and wants to minimize any further spending. Amari has said the economic package must be bigger than 2 trillion yen to avoid an economic relapse. Options include payments to lower-income people to promote housing purchases, tax breaks for companies that increase capital spending and possibly a one-off income-tax cut, sources said. The prime minister has been proceeding cautiously since many politicians blame the last sales-tax hike, in 1997, for plunging the country into recession. The economy has improved smartly since Abe came to office in December on a platform of fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and growth-promotion measures, but the rebound remains fragile. With a big upward revision to second-quarter GDP this week and the feel-good boost of Tokyo winning the right to host the 2020 summer Olympics, "the justification for delaying or changing the tax hike disappeared," one source said. Political leaders from a spectrum of parties agreed last year to double the sales tax to 10 percent in two stages by October 2015. But the law requires the government to certify that the economy is strong enough to weather the drag from the tax hike. (Additional reporting by Shinji Kitamura, Leika Kihara and Elaine Lies; Writing by William Mallard; Editing by Kim Coghill)
Wells FargoBank Indonesia unexpectedly raised the country's benchmark interest rate to 7.25% from 7%. According to Bloomberg's Mia Saini, 16 of 23 economists expected rates to be held unchanged. The move is intended to defend Indonesia's currency, the rupiah, which has been one of the weakest currencies in the world this year. "Indonesia hikes 25bp. Seemingly against the consensus of unchanged but what were they supposed to do...?" tweeted Barnejek, a savvy emerging markets commentator. Emerging market countries like Indonesia and India have the seemingly impossible task of stimulating their local economies while containing runaway inflation.
Wikimedia CommonsStocks are doing very little early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is flat. Italy's FTSE MIB is flat. Spain's IBEX is up 0.7%. Later today in the U.S., we'll get weekly unemployment claims. This will be the final indicator of the U.S. labor market ahead of the Federal Reserve's FOMC meeting next week. U.S. index futures are down modestly.
