Occupy Wall Street was a movement protesting the greed of big corporations‚Äîincluding Wal-Mart.¬† Now, in an ironic twist, Wal-Mart is selling a poster portraying the protests in New York City. Here's a screengrab from Wal-Mart's website:¬† Wal-Mart  An outside vendor is selling the item on Wal-Mart's marketplace, but many people still found the poster ironic.¬† "Quite possibly the only thing funnier than being able to purchase a¬†Ch√© Guevara¬†tee shirt at a big box chain store would be the ability to buy a¬†panoramic poster¬†featuring Occupy Wall Street‚Äôs encampment in Lower Manhattan from that chain," writes Andrew Kirell at Mediaite.¬† Here's the closest image we could get of the actual poster:¬† Wal-Mart 
btckeychain/flickrChina's crackdown on Bitcoin has begun in earnest, according to Bill Bishop,†the editor of the Sinocism newsletter and a New York Times contributor. Bishop†is confirming†this evening†an earlier report from †Coindesk.com's Emily Spaven†that the†People's Bank of China has issued a new ban on third-party payment processors from doing business with Bitcoin exchanges. It's a sign, he Tweeted, that China is "now cracking down harder" not just on Bitcoin but most other digital currencies, including Litecoin.†"PBOC does not like it, does not want it to become another speculative bubble here. Tough to fight the PBOC,"†Bishop wrote. Bitcoin prices on the yuan-traded BTC China exchange are down 34% on the news, and prices on the USD-traded Mt. Gox exchange were†flirting with $700 all night. Mt. Gox prices were off 19% on the day.† The latest ban is a a separate regulation from the People's Bank of China's Dec. 5 ruling barring formal financial institutions from processing Bitcoin.†Rui Ma, a China-based angel investor, commented that if the crackdown continues, Chinese may only be able to purchase Bitcoins via miners or other traders. Hardcore Bitcoin evangelists maintain that these are all expected bumps in the road. But restricting commerce in China would be a huge blow ó it was Chinese demand, after all, that helped Bitcoin prices more than triple in the past few months. Click here to view Bishop's Twitter account ª
Goldman Sachs / YouTubeAt the beginning of the year, Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius offered answers for 10 big questions regarding 2013. Today, he followed that up with what really happened. It turns out he did quite well. Here's a quick rundown of his questions and his self-assessment: That's about 7.5 out of 10. Not bad given this crazy year. That's why Hatzius is one of the best.
Carpe DiemIt's well-known that the U.S. stock market breached all-time record levels repeatedly in recent months. But what about the rest of the world? According to new data from the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), the combined market cap of the world's major stock markets hit an all-time high in November. We first read about this on Professor Mark Perry's Carpe Diem blog. Here's Perry: As of the end of November, the total value of equities in those 58 major stock markets reached $63.4 trillion and set several milestones. First, global equity value reached a new all-time record high in November, and second, exceeded for the first time the previous all-time record monthly high of $62.8 trillion for global equity valuation in October 2007, several months before the global economic slowdown and financial crisis started, and caused global equity values to plummet by more than 50% (and by almost $34 trillion), from $62.8 trillion at the end of 2007 to only $29.1 trillion by early 2009... Read more from Perry at AEI-Ideas.org.
The Federal Reserve will hold it's next Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting from December 16-17. Among other things, they will decide whether or not to begin tapering quantitative easing, the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. This program was launched to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low and credit markets liquid. The incoming economic data has been good. However, economists aren't sure the Fed will announce tapering this week. (Although they will acknowledge that the odds of a Dec-taper are up.) "The best argument for a December taper is the risk that economic data weaken before the January 28-29 FOMC meeting, closing what is now an open window for scaling back QE," wrote Neal Soss in his FOMC preview. "The best argument against a December taper is the reduced market participation and liquidity around the holidays, which pose an extra hurdle to significant year-end policy changes." "Our assumption remains that the next monetary policy move will be toward fewer asset purchases balanced by strengthened forward guidance on retaining low policy interest rates," he added. "And the likely timing of such a decision now appears to be practically a toss-up between December and January." A "toss-up."† That's not very satisfying. But Soss's reasons for and against a Dec-taper are evenly split. From his note (verbatim): More reasons to taper in December. More reasons not to taper in December... For now, the consensus continues to bet on a taper announcement occurring some time in early 2014.

That‚Äôs how I started my last column, in which I explained how the recent U.S. equity market highs have been creating ‚Äúaltitude sickness,‚Äù or value asphyxiation, for investors. If you look down from 30,000 feet, the market is trading at a significant premium to its average long-term valuation, especially if you normalize earnings for sky-high profit margins. The view from the trenches is not much different. I spend a lot of time looking for new stocks, either by screen or by reading or talking to other value investors. We are all having a hard time finding many stocks of interest. In fact, we‚Äôve been doing a lot more selling than buying. I often get asked a question: Are we in a bubble? Bubble is a word that has been thrown around a lot lately. There may be an academic definition of what a bubble is ‚Äî probably something to do with valuations at least a few standard deviations from the mean ‚Äî but I don‚Äôt really care what it is. (Only academics believe in normal distributions.) From the practitioner‚Äôs perspective, a bubbly valuation occurs when the price-earnings ratio of a company is so high that its earnings will have a hard time growing into investors‚Äô expectations. In other words, the stock is so expensive that investors holding it will find it difficult to realize a positive return for a long time (think of Cisco Systems, Microsoft and Sun Microsystems in 2000). There are some bubbly stocks in the market today. Most years you see some, but today there are probably a few more than usual. We see a lot of overvalued or fully valued stocks. Expectations (valuations) of those stocks have already more than priced in rosy earnings growth scenarios. If these scenarios play out, investors will likely make very little money, as earnings growth will merely offset P/E compression. But here is where it gets interesting: The line between overvalued and bubbly stocks is often very murky. If the economy‚Äôs growth is lower than expected or corporate profit margins revert toward the mean (or, in the situation we have today, decline), the return profiles of these stocks will not be substantially different from those of the bubbly ones. Unfortunately for the value-asphyxiated investor, there are a lot of stocks that fall into this overvalued bucket. It is very hard for investors to remain disciplined and stick to an investment process. Selling overvalued stocks is hard, because every sell decision brings consequent pain as overvalued stocks that are not aware you‚Äôve sold them keep on marching higher. Just as Pavlov‚Äôs dog responded to a bell, the pain of selling teaches us not to sell. If that pain were not enough, cash keeps burning a hole in our portfolios. Cash doesn‚Äôt rise in value when everything else is rising; thus investors feel forced to buy. When you are forced into a buy or sell decision, the outcome will usually not be good. Forced buy decisions are usually bad buy decisions...
No billionaire is complete without a superyacht of his or her own. In fact, a November report from Wealth-X and the UBS Global Billionaire Census found that the average billionaire spends $22 million on yachts.¬† The latest study from Wealth-X ranks the most expensive luxury asset acquisitions of all time, and it shouldn't come as too much of a surprise that eight of the top ten purchases were yachts.¬† Wealth-X uses a proprietary valuation model to assess all asset holdings including privately and publicly held businesses and investible assets to develop their Net Worth Valuation.¬† Here, in reverse order, are the 8 most expensive yacht purchases of all time.¬† Axou, Wikimedia CommonsAlisher Usmanov, Russia's wealthiest man, bought this 360-foot superyacht for $263 million in 2012. Dilbar, named after the billionaire's mother, has accommodations for 20 guests and up to 47 crew members, in addition to a helicopter pad, swimming pool, and swanky formal dining room.¬† Jose Antonio Moreno Monge/FlickrOriginally commissioned by Russian oligarch Boris Berezovsky, this 360-foot yacht was sold to Abdulla Al Futtaim, a billionaire car dealer from the United Arab Emirates. Radiant's amenities put a James Bond twist on the typical superyacht experience.¬†It's equipped with sonic guns that would burst the eardrums of attackers, along with water cannons that could sink an approaching boat from 100 yards away. There's even a smaller speedboat designed specifically for a quick escape.¬† Music mogul David Geffen purchased Pelorus¬†from Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich in May 2011. Since one helicopter pad just isn't enough, this superyacht has two, in addition to two swimming pools and a collection of smaller boats on the tender deck. One guest suite has a wall that lowers to transform into an ultra-private veranda. Ross Land/Getty ImagesThe Dubai, which currently belongs to Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Sheikh of the emirate of Dubai, was the most expensive yacht in the wold when it was built by Blohm + Voss in 2006. At 524 feet, it's the third-largest private yacht in the world, and it boasts seven decks, a squash room, helicopter pad, and even a small submarine. Reuters/Tim ChongThis elegant, Philippe Starck-designed superyacht belongs to Russian oligarch Andrey Melnichenko. Among its luxurious amenities are bath faucets worth $40,000, staircase banisters worth $60,000, and a bed that rotates with the touch of a button, allowing for perfect views of the sunrise and sunset. A has had its fair share of controversies, however, as the Melnichenkos are currently suing Dutch paint corporation Akzo Nobel, claiming the yacht's paint is not as reflective as they had requested.¬† martinvarsavsky, FlickrRussian vodka distributor Yuri Scheffler owns this 440-foot yacht, which has turquoise neon lights that give it a nighttime glow. It has a combined 48,000 square feet of covered space on its seven decks, including indoor and outdoor pools, 12 staterooms, and an outdoor screening room. Scheffler purchased the Italian-designed yacht for $330 million in 2011.¬† Robert Johnson/Business InsiderRussian oligarch Roman Abramovich purchased the 536-foot-long Eclipse in 2010, when it still held the title for world's largest yacht. Eclipse has two helipads, a disco, cinema, hair salon, and restaurant, plus it's rumored to have a laser defense system against paparazzi trying to photograph high-profile guests.¬† Klaus JordanThe largest and most expensive yacht in the world is a staggering 590 feet long (longer than some commercial cruise ships) and owned by Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan, president of the United Arab Emirates. It took German shipbuilders¬†L√ºrssen Yachts¬†four years to build this behemoth of a ship, which is rumored to have up to 50 private suites. According to Wealth-X, the $627 million purchase was only about 3.5% of Sheikh Khalif's net worth of $17.9 billion.¬† There have been two other luxury purchases in the range of these superyachts. They were:¬†
Renewable energy production will grow faster than any other power source through 2040, according to the EIA. ¬† In its new annual energy outlook, the agency forecasts that from 2012 to 2040, solar, wind and geothermal production will have nearly doubled over the next 25 years. The next closest is natural gas, which will have grown 56%.¬† Strangely, EIA does not break down renewables into solar and wind. That may be because, despite its surging growth rate, renewables will still comprise just 3.8% of total energy production in 2040, compared with 38% for natgas. Anyway, here's our mockup of the growth data: Rob Wile/Business Insider, data from EIA
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Real Reason It Isn't Easy To Bring Financial Planning To The Masses (Nerd's Eye View)  The real challenge to bringing financial planning to the masses is not the technology needed to lower the cost of financial planning, according to Michael Kitces of Nerd's Eye View. "The real challenge is how difficult it remains to get new clients in the first place, especially given that so many financial planning firms have relatively little cash flow available for broad-based marketing programs." This Client/Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) is especially high in the financial planning world because it is hard to explain the service to the public especially when trust in financial services has been low.† "The end result of these difficulties is that financial planning firms struggle to serve the middle class and mass affluent - not because it's expensive to provide planning, per se, but because the high cost to acquire clients leaves most planning firms under-capitalized and/or "stuck" with a relatively modest growth rate that necessitates higher prices simply to be able to afford to make a living," writes Kitces. Investment Professionals Think The US Will Present The Best Investment Opportunity But Are Concerned About Market Integrity (CFA Institute) Sixty-three percent of those surveyed in the CFA Institute 2014 Global Market Sentiment Survey said they expect the global economy to expand in 2014. This is up from 40% last year. 71% said equities were the asset class most likely to perform best, up from 50% in last year's survey. 26% said the U.S. would provide the best investment opportunity, followed by 10% for China, and 6% for Japan and Germany. Brazil was no longer on the list.† 29% of those surveyed said improved regulation and oversight of systemic risk† was most needed to improve investor trust. 21% also said there needed to be more transparency in financial reporting and other disclosures.† "Members do not think mis-selling of products by financial advisors is the most serious issue facing global markets in the coming year,"according to the press release. "Market fraud, such as insider trading (24 percent, up from 19 percent last year), use and reporting of derivatives (20 percent, down from 23 percent in 2013ís report), and the honesty/integrity of financial reporting (21 percent, consistent with last year) are viewed as more serious issues." The annual survey measured the opinion of 6,561 CFA charterholders and members. Mutual Funds Look Set To Have Strongest Inflows Since 2009 (Morningstar)  Long-term mutual funds have seen $258.8 million in inflows year-to-date (Ytd), and $14.5 million in November alone, according to Morningstar. These are on pace for the strongest inflows since 2009. Overall mutual fund assets are now up to $10.8 trillion, boosted by strong flows and stock market appreciation. Alternative mutual funds have drawn a record $37.1 billion Ytd, a 41% organic growth rate.† Vanguard is expected to be the winner in terms of flows in 2013, with $65 billion in Ytd flows. Vanguard has come in first or second in terms of flows since 1994. Dimensional Fund Advisors came in second in terms of Ytd flows with $20.98 billion, and PIMCO came in third with Ytd flows of 19.99 billion.  2013 Taught Us 4 Key Lessons In Investing (AllianceBernstein Blog) Before diving into 2014, Seth J. Masters at The Alliance Bernstein Blog thinks it is important for investors to think about four important lessons from 2013. 1. "You have to be in it to win it" ó "Staying on the sidelines may seem safe, but it also ensures a loss of purchasing power over time." 2. "If you run with the crowd, you can get trampled" ó Doing so suggests that some investors are just chasing past returns, when they should really be establishing an investment strategy based on their own goals and risk tolerance. 3. "Diversification means owning some things that underperform" ó It is important to maintain exposure to an asset class or a geographical region that isn't performing well right now, because it could end up doing very well. 4. "It's what you keep that counts" ó Investors should watch for tax management strategies that could help them defer taxes or avoid them. The Cost Of Trading Stocks Has Been Tumbling For Decades (Deutsche Bank) The decline in the cost of trading has helped boost stock market trading volumes, according to Deutsche Bank's David Bianco. "Transaction costs related to owning large cap stocks have plummeted in the past few decades and remain low relative to most other assets," wrote Bianco. "We estimate that the competitive cost of owning a well diversified large cap equity portfolio has declined from about 300bp annually from 1960-1980 to under 1% today. Given that investment costs are tax deductible, we estimate that this decline should justify a 100-150bp reduction in the fair real cost of equity, all other factors the same." Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisHomeless men, 41-year-old Argiris (R) and 76-year-old Alexopoulos (L), sleep by the entrance of a metro station in central Athens, January 21, 2013.The economic situation remains dire in Greece. And it's not just about high unemployment and low paychecks. MacroPolis points us to the Hellenic Statistical Authority (ELSTAT) new data on living conditions in Greece, and it's all heart-breaking. "During the last 5 years (2008-2012), there is an increase in material deprivation in at least 4 out of 9 categories of basic goods and services," wrote ELSTAT. "This increase is greater at ages 0-17 and 18-64 than at ages 65+. Specifically, 19.5% of the total population in 2012, faces financial burden with an enforced lack of at least 4, out of potentially 9 material deprivation items, in the 'economic strain and durables' dimension, while this percentage was 15.2% in 2011, 11.6% in 2010, 11.0% in 2009 and 11.2% in 2008." Here's how they define deprivation: "enforced incapacity to face unexpected financial expenses, to afford one week's annual holiday away from home, to have a meal with meat, chicken, fish -or vegetarian equivalent- every second day, to afford the adequate heating of the dwelling, to purchase durable goods like a washing machine, colour TV, telephone, mobile telephone or car, or being confronted with payment arrears, such as for mortgage or rent, utility bills, hire purchase installments or other loan payment." As the temperature drops around the world, almost everyone can appreciate the value of a heated home. Unfortunately, too much of the Greek population cannot adequately heat their homes. "26.7% of the total population declares inability to keep their home adequately warm, while the corresponding percentage of the poor population is estimated at 47.6% and the percentage of the non-poor population is estimated at 20.8%." It's an unbelievably sad situation. ELSTAT
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesJust under two months ago, when the¬†$13 billion settlement for JP Morgan Chase¬†was coming down the chute, word leaked out that the deal was no sure thing. Among other things, it was said that prosecutors investigating Chase's role in the Bernie Madoff caper ‚Äî Chase was Madoff's banker ‚Äî were insisting on a guilty plea to actual criminal charges, but that this was a deal-breaker for Chase. Something had to give, and now, apparently, it has. Last week, it was reported that the state and Chase were preparing¬†a separate $2 billion deal¬†over the Madoff issues, a series of settlements that would also involve a deferred prosecution agreement. The deferred-prosecution deal is a hair short of a guilty plea. The bank has to acknowledge the facts of the government's case and pay penalties, but as has become common in the Too-Big-To-Fail arena, we once again have a situation in which all sides will agree that a serious crime has taken place, but no individual has to pay for that crime. As University of Michigan law professor David Uhlmann noted in a¬†Times¬†editorial at the end of last week, the¬†use of these deferred prosecution agreements has exploded¬†since the infamous Arthur Andersen case. In that affair, the company collapsed and¬†28,000 jobs were lost¬†after Arthur Andersen was convicted on a criminal charge related to its role in the Enron scandal. As Uhlmann wrote: From 2004 through 2012, the Justice Department entered into 242 deferred prosecution and nonprosecution agreements with corporations; there had been just 26 in the preceding 12 years. Since the AA mess, the state has been beyond hesitant to bring criminal charges against major employers for any reason. (The history of all of this is detailed in "The Divide,"¬†a book I have coming out early next year.) The operating rationale here is concern for the "collateral consequences" of criminal prosecutions, i.e. the lost jobs that might result from bringing charges against a big company. This was apparently the thinking in the Madoff case as well. As the¬†Times¬†put it in its coverage of the rumored $2 billion settlement: The government has been reluctant to bring criminal charges against large corporations, fearing that such an action could imperil a company and throw innocent employees out of work. Those fears trace to the indictment of Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen . . . There's only one thing to say about this "reluctance" to prosecute (and the "fear" and "concern" for lost jobs that allegedly drives it): It's a joke. ¬† Yes, you might very well lose some jobs if you go around indicting huge companies on criminal charges. You might even want to avoid doing so from time to time, if the company is worth saving. ¬† But individuals? There's absolutely no reason why the state can't proceed against the actual people who are guilty of crimes. [Another Batch of Wall Street Villains Freed on Technicality] If anything, the markets might react positively to that kind of news. It certainly did so in the Adelphia case, in which the government dragged cable company executives John, Timothy and Michael Rigas out of their beds and¬†publicly frog-marched them¬†in handcuffs on the streets of the Upper East Side at 6 a.m. The NYSE had been on a four-day slump up until those arrests. After they hit the news, it surged to its¬†second-biggest one-day gain¬†in history. From the AP report on July 25, 2002: Although stocks began the day by extending a four-day losing streak, the arrest of top Adelphia Communications Corporation executives for allegedly looting the cable TV company triggered a broad rally that intensified as the session wore on. Of course, that was an isolated example, and the broad market rally that day didn't save Adelphia, which¬†had already gone bankrupt¬†by the time of the Rigas arrests. But certainly it gave credence to the sensible argument that the markets generally would rather see the government punish criminals than not. Anyway, it's hard to not notice the fact that crude Ponzi schemers like Madoff (150 years)¬†and Allen Stanford (110 years) drew enormous penalties ‚Äî essentially life terms for both ‚Äî while no one from any major firm has drawn any penalty at all for abetting those frauds. Madoff and Stanford were safe prosecutorial targets. There was no political fallout to worry about for sending up two guys who mostly bilked other rich people out of money. Also, there were no "collateral consequences" in the form of major job losses that had to be considered, just a couple of obnoxious families that would lose their jets and their ski vacations. But most importantly, Madoff and Stanford were simple scam artists who could have come from any generation. There was nothing systemic about their crimes. It was possible to throw them in jail without exposing widespread corruption in our financial system. That's what's so disturbing about this latest Justice Department cave. It underscores the increasingly obvious fact that the federal government is not interested in getting to the bottom of our financial corruption problem. They seem more to be treating bank malfeasance as a PR issue for the American financial markets that has to be managed away, instead of a corruption problem to be thoroughly investigated and fixed. In a way, the administration seems to have the same motivation as Chase itself ‚Äî as CEO¬†Jamie Dimon put it¬†last week, "We have to get some of these things behind us so we can do our job." Madoff's con was comically crude: He never executed a single trade for a client, and instead just dumped all of their money¬†into a single checking account. To say, as Madoff himself did, that his bank "had to know" what he was up to seems a major understatement. [Chase Isn't the Only Bank in Trouble] Remember, independent investigator Harry Markopolos¬†figured the whole thing out¬†years before the Ponzi collapsed without the benefit of complete access to Madoff's financial information. Markopolos really needed just one insight to penetrate the Madoff mystery. "You can't dominate all markets,"¬†Markopolos said, years ago. "You have to have some losses." That this basic truth eluded both the SEC (which somehow failed to notice the world's largest hedge fund never making a single trade) and Madoff's own banker for years on end points to horrific systemic problems. A prosecutor who actually cared would floor it in court against everyone who made that fraud possible until he or she got to the bottom of how these things can happen. Our response was different. We gave 150 years to the main guy, and now it seems we're quietly taking a check to walk away from the rest of it. It's not going to be a surprise when it happens again.
Bitcoin is down 22% on the BTC China exchange on a report that the People's Bank of China plans to bar third-party payment companies from doing business with Bitcoin exchanges. The report, highlighted by Coindesk.com editor Emily Spaven, is unconfirmed. But an unnamed source told her, ‚ÄúPBOC, in no uncertain terms, directed third-party payment companies not to do business with bitcoin exchanges in China.‚Äù  Evidently those companies were not included in a Dec. 5th PBOC ruling barring financial institutions from processing Bitcoin. Prices are down 14% on the Mt. Gox exchange to $770. Here's the BTC China chart: BitcoinCharts
CNNMoneyScroll down for our annotations.As stocks repeatedly ripped to fresh highs, the finance intellegentsia†spent the better part of 2013 wondering aloud whether or not we're in a bubble. The possible tech bubble redux got a lot of hype. But our own Joe Weisenthal argued that those saying we are "partying like it's 1999" have "no recollection" of what the late '90s were actually like. Either way, people are pumped right now. The Motley Fool's Morgan Housel pointed us to CNN Money's homepage, which he described as a "worrying sign of excitement." He was speaking specifically of the "story about a guy turning $1500 into $1 million trading penny stocks." Any reader can't help but see that and think, "That could be me!" It may not have been intentional, but various elements in CNN Money's homepage feels enthusiastic to a point that makes us feel a bit uneasy. Some highlights:
REUTERS/Eric ThayerIt's cold, but we like it.It was a great day to be a stock market investor today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Last week, the U.S. Treasury sold back its last share of General Motors stock, ending the bailout that brought the automaker out of bankruptcy. That same day, GM announced that CEO Dan Akerson, hired to guide the automaker back from the dead, will step down next month and be replaced by Mary Barra. Akerson addressed the national Press Club today, and spent the first half of his speech explaining all the terrible things that drove the automaker into bankruptcy. Akerson was pretty harsh, listing the various "poor decisions," "indecisions," and "no decisions that started to pile up in the 1970s and 80s like so much rotting firewood," that eventually left the once-great automaker "disgraced." Here are a few excerpts from his remarks, which show how GM slowly ruined its reputation and business model. On cost control: For example, in 1978 GM paid almost as much in benefits as it earned in net income. Yet the very next year, it agreed to the largest pension increase in UAW history. Eventually, GMís pensions plans ñ the largest private sector funds in the world ñ became chronically and dangerously underfunded despite tens of billions of dollars in cash and stock infusions. That actually weakened the company because it treated the symptoms, not the disease, robbing precious dollars from product development. More recently, U.S. hourly labor costs increased 4 percent annually from 2003 to 2007, even though the company had total operating losses of $17.6 billion from 2005 to 2007. In other words, while management was burning the furniture to keep warm, we were also automatically increasing our fixed costs. On wasteful complexity: Complexity was everywhere. Just a few short years ago, GM had 30 different vehicle architectures supporting sales of about 9 million vehicles. The company also had more than 70 different advertising agencies around the world for the Chevrolet brand alone. Thatís staggering, and shows that we lost our economies of scale. On diminished quality and debt: In another move, GM leaders outsourced nearly all of the companyís information technology. We effectively dismissed data capture and proprietary analytics as a core competency just as the Internet was about to transform all modern business models. We also ended up with 23 leased or partially owned data centers, which is costly and risky. Now, we are taking that down to two, fully owned by GM. We couldnít even close our books in a timely manner. This list goes on. We all know what happened next. The company that topped the Fortune 500 list when it was first published in 1955, and stayed there for 35 years, became disgraced. This part of the speech set Akerson up to explain how much better things are today. GM has reduced the number of brands and models it makes, improved its financial systems, and has a new CEO in Mary Barra, who is well-positioned to continue that success.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidHerbalife just announced the completion of their financial re-audit by PriceWaterhouseCoopers. There were no material changes. Earlier this year, KPMG resigned as Herbalife's auditor after one of its auditors leaked non-public information to a third party.¬† The stock re-opened after being halted and the market seems pleased. Shares of Herbalife were last trading up more than 9% in the afternoon session.¬† Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional supplements and weight loss shakes. It's also the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is short. ¬†Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and he's betting the stock will go to $0.¬† His rival Carl Icahn and a number of other fund managers including George Soros and Richard Perry disagree with that thesis and are long the stock.¬† Icahn is pleased with today's news.¬† "I'm certainly happy about it. I'd like to say I never really doubted this was a viable company," Icahn said in a phone interview with Scott Wapner on CNBC. He added that he believed the criticism against Herbalife "was nonsense then." Icahn continued to call this investment "sort of a no brainer." He continued to call the company "undervalued." ¬†¬† Ackman still believes the company is a "pyramid scheme." "It is not the role of Herbalife‚Äôs auditor to determine if the company is a pyramid scheme.¬† Rather, that determination depends on whether distributors earn more from recruiting new distributors than from retail sales to consumers who are not distributors.¬† The few Herbalife distributors that make money earn the vast majority of their profits from recruiting.¬† Herbalife is a pyramid scheme that will be shut down by regulators," Ackman said in a statement.¬† Herbalife's stock has skyrocketed since Ackman publicly declared his short position late last year. ¬†Shares are up more than 60% then.¬† Here's the press release from today's audit announcement:¬† Global nutrition company,¬†Herbalife¬†(NYSE: HLF), today announced that¬†PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Herbalife's independent registered public accounting firm ("PwC"),¬†has completed its re-audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended¬†December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and the audit of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of¬†December 31, 2012. Today, the Company filed an amended 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended¬†December 31, 2012, following the completed re-audit of the Company's 2010, 2011 and 2012 financial statements. Additionally, the Company today filed amended 10-Q/As for each of these quarters of 2013 following the completion of SAS 100 reviews of those periods by PwC. With these amended filings, the Company is now up to date with its¬†SEC¬†periodic filings. There were no material changes to the Company's audited 2010, 2011 or 2012 financial statements included in the amended 10-K/A or to the Company's first, second or third quarter 2013 financial statements included in the amended 10-Q/As as compared with the Company's previously filed financial statements for and as of each of such periods1. As previously announced, the change in the Company's independent auditors to PwC, and the corresponding need to perform re-audits, was the result of the resignation of Herbalife's former independent auditor,¬†KPMG LLP¬†("KPMG") due to the impairment of¬†KPMG's¬†independence resulting from its now former partner's unlawful activities. As previously publicly stated by¬†KPMG, their resignation was not related to¬†Herbalife's¬†financial statements, its accounting practices, the integrity of¬†Herbalife'smanagement, or any other reason. Here's a chart:¬† Yahoo! Finance 
Violin Memory, a flash storage company that IPOed two months ago, just fired its CEO,Don Basile, the company announced in a press release on Monday.¬† We had heard rumblings that Besile might be fired last week when the company confirmed to us that CTO Jonathan Goldrick was out. Violin Memory offers products in a hot new area called enterprise flash storage systems. Flash storage is a hardware product installed in a corporate data center that uses flash memory to store documents and other data. Flash is the same technology used in thumb drives and smartphones and is faster, but more expensive, than traditional hard drives. Basile led Violin through its IPO in September. It raised $162 million by selling shares for $9, but on opening day the stock fell to about $7. Investors were likely scared off by how quickly Violin was burning through its cash, the fact that its one-time partner HP started competing with it by also selling flash memory, and by its struggles to find new customers,¬†we reported at the time. When we asked Basile about the stock's performance on opening day, he told Business Insider, "What the market does on any given day is not really a concern of ours." On November 22, the company reported its first earnings: a loss of $0.66 per share and an adjusted loss of $0.85 per share. Analysts had expected a loss of $0.44 per share. Multiple Wall Street analysts downgraded the stock¬†and share prices plunged nearly 46% to about $3. Then the lawsuits came:¬† At least five shareholder lawsuits have been filed alleging that the company didn't disclose how much of a hit it was taking because of the federal shutdown. Meanwhile, 2011 IPO darling and one of Violin's top competitors Fusion-io has been struggling, too. (Basile was the CEO of Fusion-io before Violin poached him in 2009.) Another Violin competitor, Nimble Storage, just had a very successful IPO last week, with shares popping over 60% on the first day, from $21 to about $34. As of today the stock is trading at over $36. Nimble's IPO proves that investors aren't soured on the flash storage industry. In fact, they're eager to invest in an industry that promises to blossom into a $1.2 billion market by 2015, according to market research firm IDC.  Violin's current chairman of the board, Howard Bain, is taking over as interim CEO. He's been chairman since August and a director since October 2012. He was previously CFO at Portal Software, Vicinity, Informix, and Symantec. Violin's stock is up slightly on the news, trading at $3.23.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe latest Barron's cover looks super bullish. It says that its top strategists expect stocks to rise 10% in 2014 on top of the extraordinary gains of 2013.† But drowned out by the bullishness, was an interview with Ned Davis, founder of Ned Davis Research, and strategists Timothy Hayes Lance Stonecypher. Davis told Richard Rescigno at Barron's that he expects a stock market correction next year in the 20% range. "Right now, about 78% of industry groups are in healthy uptrends. That would have to fall to about 60% for us to say the market had lost upside momentum. We also focus on the Federal Reserve, and it's still in a very easy mode, despite all the talk about tapering. So, those two indicators are bullish.† "However, we've looked at all the bear markets since 1956 and found seven associated with an inverted yield curve [in which short-term interest rates are higher than long ones] -- a classic sign of Fed tightening. Those declines lasted well over a year and took the market down 34%, on average. Several other bear markets took place without an inverted yield curve, and the average loss there was about 19% in 143 market days. We don't see an inverted yield curve anytime soon. So, whatever correction we get next year is more likely to be in the 20% range." But Davis expects the correction to be followed by a "great buying opportunity." Davis also expects 2.5-3% GDP growth next year. Read the entire interview at Barron's ª
LONDON (Reuters) - European banks have filled their balance sheets with national debt since 2011, bringing them easy profits but reinforcing a "doom loop" linking weak banks to governments with shaky finances. The euro zone debt crisis showed banks can suffer big losses from holdings of their own countries' bonds, which in turn can torpedo state finances if banks need to be bailed out. Policymakers have been trying to loosen the mutual exposure of banks and governments that ensured they dragged one another down during the crisis. But the†European Banking Authority†(EBA), the†European Union's banking watchdog, said on Monday the share of bonds issued by sovereigns under stress held by their domestic banks had "increased markedly" between December 2010 and June 2013. The net exposure of banks to sovereign debt fell 9 percent in 2011 but then rose 9.3 percent in the 18 months to June this year, data released by the EBA showed. The data confirms what many already suspected - that banks, particularly in†Italy†and†Spain, have been plowing cheap funds from the†European Central Bank†into buying more of their own countries' bonds, a lucrative carry trade that has also helped ensure governments can fund their deficits at sustainable rates. Regulators partly blame a move by banks to rein in cross-border activity and build up new liquidity buffers made up predominantly of government debt as a way of reducing risk. But the EBA's data - which updated core capital and holdings of sovereign debt and loans at 64 leading European banks - is likely to reinforce fears that the fortunes of the banks and the states in which they are based are still too closely intertwined. It will also fuel a debate over whether all government debt should be treated as equally risk-free when it comes to calculating bank capital requirements. IMPROVING CAPITAL In June this year, Spanish banks held 89 percent of the 199 billion euros of†Spanish government†debt held by the 64 leading banks surveyed by EBA, up from 78 percent in December 2010. There were some big jumps at individual banks. Santander's &lt;SAN.MC&gt; net direct holding of Spanish bonds was 63.6 billion euros at end-June, up from 45.6 billion at the start of the year. Italian banks held 76 percent of the 274 billion euros of Italian debt bought by the 64 banks, up from 59 percent. Intesa Sanpaolo &lt;ISP.MI&gt; held 83.5 billion euros of Italian bonds in June, up from 77.4 billion in December. UniCredit's &lt;CRDI.MI&gt; holding of Italian bonds rose to 56.8 billion from 48.9 billion six months earlier. Figures for†Ireland,†Greece,†Cyprus, Britain were also high, with†Finland†the only one in single figures, at 6 percent. With no pan-EU stress test of banks since 2011 and the results of the next not due until October 2014, the EBA wants analysts to mine the data and run their own checks in the meantime to improve investor confidence and the standing of the region's banks. It said its figures confirmed that banks were becoming better capitalized, if more domestically focused. Capital held in the core buffers of the banks analyzed rose by 80 billion euros between December 2011, when the data was last updated, and June this year. Combined with a cut of 817 billion euros ($1.1 trillion) in risk-weighted assets - in particular securitized debt and derivatives - it led to an average core capital buffer of 11.7 percent, up from 10 percent at the end of 2011. EU regulators say that, while their definition of core capital is not fully compliant with the global accord known as Basel III, capital levels at European banks are on a par with, or better than, their U.S. peers. Loans to companies, individuals and others fell 3 percent in the 18 months to June. The figure may offer some relief to policymakers who fear banks have slashed lending. Leading EU banks undergo a review next year of the quality of their assets to make sure they have been valued properly. The process will be reinforced by a stress test of those lenders. Any shortfall in capital will be announced in October 2014, part of wider efforts to draw a line once and for all under doubts over the true health of†Europe's banks. The EBA's data covered only EU banks, except one from non-EU member†Norway. ($1 = 0.7271 euros) (Additional reporting by Steve Slater; editing by Tom Pfeiffer)
Mustang JoeIf you hear anyone pointing out that the Baltic Dry Index (BDI) is at a three-year high, ignore them. As an economic indicator, the BDI ‚Äî the daily survey of spot shipping rates‚Äî is highly problematic,¬†as it doesn't tell us anything about the broader global economy, other than that what it costs to ship. We've written about this multiple times. The main problem is that it reflects the relationship between the spot¬†supply of available ocean freighters and the spot demand for commodities. And the smallest misalignments can cause the index to fluctuate wildly. Too few ships, for instance, can cause it to skyrocket ‚Äî and it only takes a couple ships to have too few. Ocean freighters may be able to hold a lot, but they're pretty expensive to build. As Vincent Fernando explained several years ago: "...predicting ship supply and commodities demand has a pretty high margin of error... ¬†remembering how sensitive the BDI is to small mismatches due to the inelastic nature of its underlying supply and demand, and you quickly realize that predicting the BDI¬†is a fool's game and also that it is not a reliable forward indicator." A better measure is simply to look at an individual country's export and import volumes. For the U.S., the former are up more than the latter.¬† Still, if you must know, the Baltic Dry Index now stands at a three-year high of 2,330 points, and has averaged 1,815 in Q4 according to Bloomberg, the strongest quarter since 2011.¬† But again, all this could mean is a near-term shortage of ships that could be readily remedied. If you want a newsworthy indicator, keep looking. BloombergThe Baltic Dry Index
First of all (and there‚Äôs a lot of all), this rule comes in the form of nearly 1,000 pages of incomprehensible legalese embedded in what was already a morbidly obese Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform (ha!) and Consumer Protection (ha!) Act of 2012 that clocked in at 20,00 pages, not counting the immense rafts of mandated interpretations and adumbrations, of which the new Volcker¬†Rule is but one. These additions were required because the Dodd-Frank Act itself did not really spell out the particulars of enforcement but rather left it to the regulatory agencies to construct the rules ‚Äî which they did with ‚Äúhelp‚Äù of lobbyist-lawyers furnished by the banks themselves. That is, the lobbyists actually wrote the rules for Dodd-Frank and everything in it, which means the banks wrote the rules. Does this strain your credulity? Well, this is the kind of nation we have become: anything goes and nothing matters. There really is no rule of law, just pretense. The Volcker¬†Rule was a lame gesture toward restoring the heart of the Glass-Steagall provisions of the Banking Act of 1933, which were repealed in 1999 in a cynical effort led by Wall Street uber-grifter Robert Rubin and his sidekick Larry Summers, who served serially as US Treasury Secretaries under Bill Clinton. Glass Steagall was passed in Congress following revelations of gross misconduct among bankers leading up to the stock market crash of 1929. The main thrust of Glass Steagall was to mandate the separation of commercial banking (deposit accounts + lending) from investment banking (underwriting and trading in securities). The idea was to prevent banks from using money in customer deposit accounts to gamble in stocks and other speculative instruments. This rule was designed to work hand-in-hand with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), also created in 1933, to backstop the accounts of ordinary citizens in commercial banks. The initial backstop limits were very modest: $2,500 at inception, and didn‚Äôt rise above $40,000 until 1980. Investment banks, on the other hand, were not backstopped at all under Glass-Steagall, since their activities were construed as a form of high-toned gambling. The Glass Steagall Act of 1933 was about 35 pages long, written in language that was precise, clear, and succinct. It worked for 66 years. Banking during those years was a pretty boring business, commercial banking especially. It operated on the 3-6-3 principle ‚Äî pay 3 percent interest on deposits, lend at 6 percent, and be out on the golf course at 3 p.m. Bankers made a nice living but nothing like the obscene racketeering profits engineered by the looting operations of today. Before 1980, the finance sector of the economy was about 5 percent of all activity. Its purpose was to allocate precious capital to new productive ventures. As American manufacturing was surrendered to other countries, there were fewer productive ventures for capital to be directed into.¬†What remained was real estate development (a.k.a. suburban sprawl) and finance, which was the enabler of it. Finance ballooned to 40 percent of the US economy and the American landscape got trashed. The computer revolution of the 1990s stimulated tremendous ‚Äúinnovation‚Äù in financial activities. Much of that innovation turned out to be new species of swindles and frauds. Now you understand the history of the so-called ‚Äúhousing bubble‚Äù and the crash of 2008. The US never recovered from it, and all the rescue attempts in the form of bail-outs, quantitative easing, zero interest rates, have turned into rackets aimed at papering-over this national failure to thrive. It is all ultimately linked to the larger story of industrialism and its relationship with the unique, finite, fossil fuel resources that the human race got cheaply for a few hundred years. That story is now winding down and we refuse to pay attention to the reality of it. The absurdity of Dodd-Frank and the Volcker¬†Rule in the face of that is just another symptom of that tragic inattention. The baroque prolixity of these statutes must have been fun for the lawyers to construct ‚Äî thousands of pages of incantatory nonsense aimed at confounding any attempt to enforce decent conduct among bankers and their supposed regulators ‚Äî but it does nothing to really help us move into the next phase of history. Read more posts on Kunstler.com ¬ª
Cameron Winklevoss, famed digital currency enthusiast and 50% of the Winklevoss twins, "loves him some Bitcoin," according to his†Reddit "Ask Me Anything." Winklevoss is one of the most high-profile Bitcoin bulls, and he and his brother once claimed to own 1% of the cryptocurrency. Now he says he has "yet to sell a single Bitcoin." Of course, redditors prodded Winklevoss over his infamous legal battle with Facebook (as depicted in Aaron Sorkin's†The Social Network). Eventually, Winklevoss took the bait after one question pulled directly from a line in the film†(via Seth Fiegerman). Reddit Bitcoin is currently trading at around $800.
One reason why stock market trading volumes have trended higher is because the cost of trading has come down sharply. Deustche Bank's David Bianco included this chart in his 2014 outlook for the stock market. "Transaction costs related to owning large cap stocks have plummeted in the past few decades and remain low relative to most other assets," wrote Bianco. "We estimate that the competitive cost of owning a well diversified large cap equity portfolio has declined from about 300bp annually from 1960-1980 to under 1% today. Given that investment costs are tax deductible, we estimate that this decline should justify a 100-150bp reduction in the fair real cost of equity, all other factors the same." This is important because the only returns that actually matter to investors are the returns that come after inflation, after taxes, and after transaction costs. In other news, Bianco recently reiterated his expectation that the S&amp;P 500 would rally to 1,850 in 2014. Deutsche Bank
Muni investors have a lot to be frazzled about. Municipal bonds used to be considered a safe investment ‚Äì though that may have been propaganda more than anything else. Munis are exempt from federal income taxes, hence their attractiveness to conservative investors in high tax brackets. Munis packaged into bond funds appealed to those looking for a convenient way to spread the risk over numerous municipalities and states. While the Fed was repressing rates, muni bond funds were great deals. Then came the bankruptcies. The precursor was Vallejo, CA, a Bay Area city of 115,000 that filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection in 2008 and emerged two years ago. But it‚Äôs already struggling again with soaring pension costs that had been left untouched. Jefferson County, which includes Alabama‚Äôs largest city, Birmingham, filed in 2011 when it defaulted on $3.1 billion in sewer bonds, the largest municipal bankruptcy at the time [but it‚Äôs¬†already¬†issuing new bonds; read.....¬†Municipal Bankruptcy? Why Not! And so The Floodgates¬†Open]. Stockton, CA, filed in June 2012. Mammoth Lakes, CA, filed in July 2012. San Bernardino, CA, filed in August 2012. They were dropping like flies in the ‚ÄúGolden State.‚Äù Detroit filed in July this year, crushing all prior records with its debt of up to $20 billion. That‚Äôs $28,000 per person for its population of 700,000. But Detroit is just a fraction of what is skittering toward muni investors: the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The¬†poverty rate¬†is 45.6%.¬†Unemployment¬†is 14.7%. The economy has been in recession since 2006. The labor force has shrunk 16% from 1.42 million in 2007 to 1.19 million in October. The number of working people, over the same period, has plunged from 1.8 million to 1.1 million, a breathtaking 39%. Puerto Rico had a good run for decades as federal tax breaks lured Corporate America to set up shop there. But when these tax breaks were phased out by 2005, the companies went in search for the greener grass elsewhere. To keep splurging, the government embarked on a borrowing binge that left the now lovingly named ‚ÄúGreece of the Caribbean‚Äù with nearly¬†$70 billion in debt. That‚Äôs 70% of GDP, and for its population of 3.67 million, about $19,000 per capita, or about $64,000 per working person. And then there is the underfunded pension system. But unlike Detroit, Puerto Rico is struggling to address its problems with unpopular measures, raising all manner of taxes and cutting outlays. Not even the bloated government payrolls have been spared. Too little, too late? Given the enormous poverty rate and long-term shrinking employment, what are the chances that this debt will blow up? Pretty good, according to Moody‚Äôs Investors Service. Last week, it put $52 billion of Puerto Rico‚Äôs debt under review for a downgrade ‚Äì¬†to junk. Moody‚Äôs litany of factors: ‚ÄúFailure to access the public debt market with a long-term borrowing, declines in liquidity, financial underperformance in coming months, economic indicators in coming months that point to a further downturn in the economy, inability of government to achieve needed reform of the Teachers‚Äô Retirement System.‚Äù This followed a similar move by Fitch Ratings in November. Alas, Puerto Rico has swaps and debt covenants with collateral and acceleration provisions that kick in when one of the three major credit ratings agencies issues the threatened downgrade. Which ‚Äúcould result in liquidity demands of up to $1 billion,‚Äù explained Moody‚Äôs analyst Lisa Heller. It would ‚Äúsignificantly narrow remaining net liquid assets.‚Äù Now Puerto Rico is under pressure to show that over the next three months or so it can still access the bond markets at a¬†reasonable¬†rate. If not.... Puerto Rico‚Äôs debt was a muni bond fund favorite because it‚Äôs exempt from state and federal taxes. Now fears of a default on $52 billion or more in debt are cascading through the $3.7 trillion muni market. But Puerto Rico isn‚Äôt alone. Numerous municipalities and some states have ventured out on thinner and thinner ice. Default risks are dark clouds on the distant horizon or remain unimaginable beyond the horizon. And hopes that disaster can be averted by a miracle still rule the day. However, the Fed‚Äôs taper cacophony is here and now, and though the Fed is still printing money and buying paper at full speed, the possibility that it might not always do so hangs like a malodorous emanation in the air. Taper talk and bankruptcies are a toxic mix for munis. Now add the lure of stocks that have become the official risk-free investment vehicle with guaranteed double-digit rates of return for all years to come. So muni-fund investors, tired of losing money, are seeking refuge in stocks. This has pressured munis further. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch master municipal index has dropped 2.8% and, unless a miracle happens, will end the year in the red. A first since 2008. Its index of bonds with maturities of at least 22 years has skidded almost 6% ‚Äì though the Fed hasn‚Äôt even¬†begun¬†to taper. The Fed‚Äôs easy money policies over the decades encouraged borrowing binges by municipalities and states. When the hot air hissed out of history‚Äôs greatest credit bubble in 2008, the Fed‚Äôs remedy, its ingenious QE and zero-interest-rate policies, blew an¬†even greater¬†credit bubble ‚Äì kudos! As that credit bubble transitions from full bloom to whatever comes afterwards, the associated asset bubbles too transition. And the plight of muni bond funds is just the beginning. The Fed‚Äôs policies of dollar destruction took on a sudden virulent form in 1970 ‚Äì clearly visible against the Swiss Franc. And it‚Äôs¬†still¬†going on. When even the Swiss couldn‚Äôt handle it anymore, they too jumped into the currency war. Read....¬†Mother Of All Currency Wars in One Chart: Dollar Vs. Swiss¬†Franc Read more posts on Testosterone Pit ¬ª
American passenger airlines reported a net profit of $3.2 billion in the third quarter of 2013, a 127% jump over the $1.4 billion they made in the third quarter of 2012. That's according to the latest numbers from the Department of Transportation's Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS). So what explains the change in profit margins, when jet fuel prices have dropped only slightly, and still gobble up 28% of airline spending? It's thanks to ancillary fees ‚Äî those annoying extra charges checking a bag, boarding early, or getting some extra legroom. They're an enormous, key source of revenue, and they're the reason the global airline industry is profitable. Only baggage fees and reservation change fees are reported to the BTS as discrete charges, so we don't know how much airlines made off things like seating assignments and onboard food sales. While third quarter revenue from baggage fees dropped between 2012 and 2013 (from $924 million to $879 million), a spike in reservation fee charges made up for it. In the third quarter of 2012, U.S. carriers pulled in $652 million from reservation cancellation and change fees. In the Q3 2013, those were worth $735 million. The good news isn't contained to the U.S. The latest financial outlook from the International Air Transport Association predicts the global airline industry will make an all-time high net profit of $19.7 billion in 2014.
Manufacturing firms are squeezing the more hours ever out of their employees than at any time since World War II. For Barclays' Cooper Howes, that means more hiring is around the corner for a sector that hasn't seen a whole lot of since the Great Recession.† The average hourly workweek in manufacturing now averages 42, most since 1945. Chart: FRED In a recent note, Howes says hours probably can't go much higher. Meanwhile, manufacturing productivity gains have also topped out, at about 2%. And max hours plus max productivity, he says, means "...employers will be forced to hire in order for output to keep up with increasing demand." It's badly needed. Over the past few years, manufacturing has seen the third-lowest jobs recovery among four major sectors of the economy. Only construction has had it worse: Barclays It's also been extremely noisy, averaging about 6,000 monthly new payrolls added over the past 12 months.††FRED But Howes says 2014†should see an average of 20,000 new payrolls added per month.†And it seems to have already begun, as the general uptick since July shows. Howes:† "...'soft' activity indicators, such† as manufacturing surveys, and 'hard' indicators such as industrial production and the †length of the average workweek, point to a recent pickup in hiring for the sector. We expect this to continue, driven largely by increased demand from the ongoing recoveries in the†housing and auto sectors." Good news for a sector which, despite looking strong on paper, hasn't been letting very many new faces through its gates.
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinGosh, that's bearish.The iron law of investing is that an investment security is nothing more, and nothing less, than a claim on some expected stream of future cash that will be delivered into the hands of investors over time. In some cases, the future payment is simple, like a bond that promises to pay a lump sum of $100 ten years from today. Pay $38.55 for that bond today, and you can expect a 10% annual rate of return on your money. Pay $67.56 for that bond today, and you can expect a 4% annual rate of return. Pay $82.03 and you can expect a 2% annual rate of return over the next decade. The more you pay today for an expected future amount, the lower your implied rate of return. Conversely, given any ‚Äúrequired‚Äù rate of return you seek on your investment, you can work backwards and figure out the ‚Äúpresent value‚Äù that you‚Äôre willing to pay. In some cases, the future payment is complicated, like an option that promises to pay you the difference between the price of a stock and some ‚Äústrike price,‚Äù provided that the actual price gets past the strike price in the next few months. For that security, you have to compute the payoff that the option might deliver at every price beyond the strike price, multiply each of those values by the estimated probability the price will get to that particular point, and then discount everything back to present value. To simplify all of that, option pricing models make various assumptions about probability distributions, volatility, and other considerations. But simple, or complex, or anywhere in the middle, an investment security is nothing more, and nothing less, than a claim on some expected stream of future cash that will be delivered into the hands of investors over time. In practice, few investors want to estimate a whole stream of future cash flows, so they take shortcuts. Those shortcuts, however, are entirely dependent on the assumptions one is willing to make. Suppose you have a security that is expected to produce a very smooth stream of future payments over time, growing at some constant rate. In that case, the current payment is really all you need to value the security because it is representative of the whole stream. On the other hand, if the current payment is not representative of the whole stream, you‚Äôre in trouble. That warning applies to price/earnings ratios, price/10-year earnings ratios, price/forward earnings ratios, and virtually every other valuation measure that takes any shortcut whatsoever. Treat your ‚Äúfundamental‚Äù as representative when it‚Äôs not, and it doesn‚Äôt matter which measure you‚Äôre using ‚Äì you‚Äôre going to get a misleading estimate of valuation. Applying a seemingly ‚Äúreasonable‚Äù price/earnings multiple to cyclically elevated earnings is a repeated mistake, and is unfortunately exactly the same one that I waved my arms to warn about in 2000 (‚ÄúOne of the hard lessons that investors will learn in the coming quarters is that technology stocks are actually cyclicals‚Äù) and 2007 (‚ÄúYou wouldn't buy a lemonade stand by extrapolating the profits it earns in August‚Äù) ‚Äì to no avail. In our own work, we rely on a broad range of valuation measures. Many of them embed various adjustments to capture the fact that earnings, dividends and other value-drivers are often not very representative of the entire future stream. A few very simplified models that still have a near-90% correlation with actual subsequent market returns are presented in Investment, Speculation, Valuation and Tinker Bell. Because the Shiller P/E (the S&amp;P 500 divided by the 10-year average of inflation-adjusted earnings) is simple to calculate and broadly quoted, I often mention it in these weekly comments ‚Äì at least it has the virtue of being less vulnerable to year-to-year swings in earnings over the course of the business cycle. But our work is emphatically not driven by the Shiller P/E, our valuation approaches go far beyond the Shiller P/E, and even the Shiller P/E is at best a shorthand measure of market valuations. To understand our deeper concern, it‚Äôs important to focus on the word ‚Äúrepresentative.‚Äù Any valuation measure like ‚Äúprice/X‚Äù is only useful to the extent that X is representative of the very long-term stream of future cash flows. As I‚Äôll detail below, the problem at this moment is that profit margins are about 70-80% above their historical norms; there is a century of history (including the experience of the most recent decade) to demonstrate that elevated profit margins have always normalized over time; we know why they normalize over time; and we already observe pressures that are likely to force this sort of normalization over the coming 2-4 years. In short, the earnings measures typically used in Wall Street‚Äôs valuation work are more unrepresentative than at any time in history, and investors are vastly overpaying for stocks as a result. In this context, remember that stocks are presently 50-year duration instruments. Even if margins were to remain elevated for several years more (which is unlikely), it would not follow that present earnings are representative of the long-term stream that is actually relevant for pricing stocks. We should begin with an observation. If one examines the historical data, there is a very weak relationship between year-to-year changes in earnings and year-to-year changes in the stock market. This lack of relationship partly reflects the fact that stock prices often recover from recessions quite briskly well before earnings advance, and stock prices often collapse well before earnings do. But even accounting for these leads and lags, the relationship between cyclical fluctuations in the S&amp;P 500 and S&amp;P 500 earnings is simply not very strong. My concern at present is emphatically not simply a concern about the near-term direction of earnings, or any assumption that stocks must closely follow earnings. Rather, my present concern is much more secular in nature. It can be expressed very simply: investors are taking current earnings at face value, as if they are representative of long-term flows, at a time when current earnings are more unrepresentative of those flows than at any time in history. The problem is not simply that earnings are likely to retreat deeply over the next few years. Rather, the problem is that investors have embedded the assumption of permanently elevated profit margins into stock prices, leaving the market about 80-100% above levels that would provide investors with historically adequate long-term returns. An equivalent way to say this is that stocks are currently at levels that we estimate will provide roughly zero nominal total returns over the next 7-10 years, with historically adequate long-term returns thereafter. There are several ways to look at profit margins, with varying implications ‚Äî though all negative ‚Äî for the extent of retrenchment that can be expected in corporate earnings in the coming 2-4 year period. The first chart below presents a rather pure mean-reversion argument. The blue line shows the ratio of corporate profits to GDP, which is currently more than 80% above its historical norm. The red line shows the annual growth in profits over the following 4-year period (inverted). Put simply, high profits/GDP are associated with weak subsequent profit growth, while depressed profits/GDP are associated with strong subsequent profit growth. At present, the extreme profit/GDP ratio we observe here is consistent with expectations of a 22% annual contraction in profits over the coming 4-year period ‚Äì which would imply a roughly 63% cumulative contraction in profits from present levels. My impression is that‚Äôs probably too aggressive an expectation except as a temporary trough. A more reasonable expectation, in my view, would put corporate profits down about 10% annually over the next few years.  Part of the reason we would expect a more muted contraction in profit margins is the recognition that government budget deficits are likely to remain relatively high in the coming years. A simple way to think of the circular flow of the economy is that corporations produce output and pay salaries, while worker/households use that income to purchase output and consume. In recent years, weak employment paired with massive government deficits have introduced a wedge into the circular flow, allowing wages and salaries to fall to the lowest share of GDP in history, even while households have been able to maintain consumption as the result of deficit spending, reduced household savings, unemployment compensation and the like. The deficits of one sector emerge as the surplus of another. As a result, deep deficits in combined government and household saving have created a mirror-image surplus of corporate profits in recent years. The chart below shows the relationship between 3-year changes in government and household savings versus 3-year growth in corporate profits (partly overlapping, but partly subsequent as inventories and other factors can induce slight lags). The upshot of this chart is that recent improvements in government and household savings are already working their way through the economy, and are likely to be observed as a contraction of corporate profits in the next few years.  Yet another way to think about corporate profits is presented below. Here, we observe that corporate profits are linked to the difference between output prices and input costs, where the majority of those inputs represent labor. The blue line in the chart below shows the annualized 6-quarter growth of the GDP deflator (an economy-wide price index for output) less the growth of unit labor costs (the amount that must be paid as labor cost in order to produce one unit of output). The red line shows the 6-quarter growth of corporate profits. The relationship here should be clear. Since 2009, and until recently, increases in the GDP deflator over and above unit labor costs were nicely supportive of corporate profit growth. Those growth rates have reversed, with unit labor costs now growing faster than the GDP deflator. This places downward pressure on corporate profits, consistent with what we expect from based on an analysis of profits from other, complementary perspectives.  Given this context, it may not be a great surprise that we‚Äôre observing an enormous surge of negative earnings pre-announcements from companies that will shortly be reporting earnings for the fourth quarter (chart h/t ZeroHedge). Last week, Thomson-Reuters reported: ‚ÄúThe 11.4 negative to positive guidance ratio is the most negative on record by a wide margin.‚Äù While the deterioration in the earnings outlook is paced by a surge in the number of negative pre-announcements, the spike in the negative/positive ratio is aggravated by a collapse in the number of positive earnings pre-announcements to a relatively small handful of S&amp;P 500 companies. While we shouldn‚Äôt interpret the spike too strongly, it‚Äôs difficult to find much encouragement in the imbalance between negative and positive surprises.  Keep in mind that the proof of any valuation measure is not simply in its construction, and not simply in its elegance. The proof of any valuation measure is the extent to which it is related to actual subsequent market returns. When the market becomes richly valued, hardly a week goes by ‚Äî especially at points like 2000, 2007 and today ‚Äî that someone doesn‚Äôt trot out some new ‚Äúadjusted‚Äù valuation measure that proposes to correct for some presumed defect in existing measures (usually by justifying overvalued prices as just fine). I enthusiastically support careful valuation research ‚Äî provided that the resulting measures are overlaid against actual subsequent total returns. This is almost never done. The rule is simple: with any novel valuation measure, analysts should provide evidence that it is closely correlated with actual subsequent market returns in numerous market cycles across history. We saw an interesting example of this last week, as a Wall Street analyst (whom I disagreed with just as strongly in 2000) trotted out a measure called a ‚Äúnormalized earnings yield gap‚Äù ‚Äî essentially the difference between the Treasury bond yield and the earnings yield of the S&amp;P 500, based on 10-year average earnings. In this construction, high levels are ‚Äúbad‚Äù because Treasuries have a higher yield than stocks, while low levels are ‚Äúgood‚Äù because bond yields are low relative to earnings yields. The basic argument was that present levels don‚Äôt look bad at all. The problem, if one cared to actually examine the data, is that this measure has a ridiculously poor relationship with actual subsequent returns in the S&amp;P 500 (in excess of Treasury returns). Remember the rule: with any novel valuation measure, analysts should provide evidence that it is closely correlated with actual subsequent returns in numerous market cycles across history. So called ‚Äúimproved‚Äù valuation methods with historical records like the one below are useless noise.  We see the same sort of novelty in a flurry of articles with proposed ‚Äúadjustments‚Äù to other valuation measures that have performed perfectly well up even into the present market cycle. Yes, several reliable valuation measures have hovered at much higher levels since the late-1990‚Äôs than were generally seen historically. But that in itself is not evidence that these historically reliable valuation measures are ‚Äúbroken.‚Äù It matters that those high valuations have been associated with a period of more than 13 years now where the S&amp;P 500 has scarcely achieved a 3% annual total return. The rule is worth memorizing because it protects against the perennial argument that ‚Äúthe old valuation measures no longer apply‚Äù and ‚Äúthis time is different‚Äù ‚Äî heard at every major valuation peak in history. As John Kenneth Galbraith wrote decades ago about the advance to the 1929 peak ‚ÄúIt was still necessary to reassure those who required some tie, however tenuous to reality‚Ä¶ as in all periods of speculation, men sought not to be persuaded by the reality of things but to find excuses for escaping into the new world of fantasy." The rule: with any novel valuation measure, analysts should provide evidence that it is closely correlated with actual subsequent market returns in numerous market cycles across history. Needless to say, one should also question the ones where data does not exist prior to the most recent cycle, or where no adjustment would have occurred in anything other than the most recent cycle. We saw this a great deal in the late-1990‚Äôs tech bubble ‚Äî it‚Äôs a version of ‚Äúthis time is different.‚Äù The following charts offer some idea of what reasonably useful valuation metrics should look like against subsequent returns. We‚Äôve got a dozen others just like these, using entirely different fundamental measures. The challenge of any new ‚Äúadjusted‚Äù valuation indicator isn‚Äôt just to make investors comfortable with whatever heights the market has scaled, but to demonstrate effectiveness in decades of data. At present, the challenge is also to address the question of why other historically reliable and varied measures ‚Äî which send exactly the same message at present ‚Äî are all wrong simultaneously.   Frankly, most debates about valuation methods can be easily settled by the data, but the same arguments emerge at every market top: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs different this time. The critics are wrong. Profit margins are fine. Valuations should be higher. And stocks are going up.‚Äù It‚Äôs a useful reminder that what may have been an unsettled debate on these points in 2007 was quickly followed by a 55% plunge in the stock market, and in 2000 by a 50% plunge. I‚Äôll be the first to agree that the uncompleted half-cycle since 2009 leaves me open to criticism on some fronts. But it's important to observe that our valuation measures were favorable in late-2008 and 2009 (see Why Warren Buffett is Right and Nobody Cares). Criticize my fiduciary inclination in 2009 to stress-test our approach against Depression-era outcomes, which resulted in a very awkward transition in methods during this half-cycle. Criticize my unwillingness to rest our security on superstitious faith in Fed policy that has no transmission mechanism except to encourage speculative yield-seeking. But don‚Äôt ignore the message that reliable valuation measures are screaming here. They haven‚Äôt missed a beat. The first valuation model most finance students learn is the ‚Äúdividend discount model.‚Äù Suppose that a security throws off a dividend every year, growing at rate g forever, and is so long-lived that any ‚Äúterminal payment‚Äù essentially has a present value of zero. In that case, the value of the security works out to D/(k-g) where k is the rate of return demanded by investors. With a $2 dividend, a long-term 10% expected return forever, and a 6% growth rate, you‚Äôll get a $50 ‚Äúfair value‚Äù for the stock price. Indeed, given assumptions about g and k, investors can forget the math. In a nice world like that, the ‚Äúfair‚Äù dividend yield is always 4%. The ‚Äúfair‚Äù price/dividend ratio in that world is always 25. The crucial point here is that a valuation multiple is a shorthand for a proper, fully-specified discounted cash flow model. A seemingly harmless multiple actually embeds all sorts of assumptions about prospective returns, growth rates, and the representativeness of the initial ‚Äúfundamental.‚Äù In the example above, if by chance the company pays a ‚Äúspecial dividend‚Äù that‚Äôs 80% above the norm for a few years, and investors carelessly slap a price/dividend multiple of 25 on that dividend, they‚Äôre going to vastly overpay. This is essentially what investors are doing here. What investors think of as a ‚Äútypical‚Äù price/earnings ratio actually embeds numerous assumptions about revenue growth rates, profit margins, dividend payout rates, return on reinvested capital and other matters. Most importantly, it embeds an assumption that this year‚Äôs earnings are fully representative of the long-term stream. A note on buybacks ‚Äî while the infinite dividend discount model is very sensitive to small changes in assumptions in the first place, one variation that should never be made using per-share data is to add stock buybacks as if they are also dividends. Values and fundamentals for the S&amp;P 500 are computed on a ‚Äúper share‚Äù basis that already accounts for buybacks, capturing their effect on both the level and the growth rate of index dividends (which can be demonstrated with straightforward but tedious arithmetic). Buybacks at rich valuations (low k) are harmful, and adding buybacks in a per-share model represents double counting. Moreover, buybacks are often simply a way to reduce the dilution that would otherwise result from grants of shares corporate insiders and employees. The general rule of thumb is that buybacks are beneficial only at valuations where investors would be well-served reinvesting their dividends into a company‚Äôs stock on their own behalf. As for dividend discount approaches, they can be very useful when they are properly computed. These approaches supported our concerns at the 2007 peak (see Fair Value ‚Äì 40% Off). But they are also vulnerable to misuse by analysts who arbitrarily choose k and g to be so close that virtually any price can be justified ‚Äì the Dow 36,000 argument at the 2000 peak was one spectacular consequence of this misuse. John Hussman will be speaking at the Wine Country Conference held in Sonoma, CA on May 1st¬†and 2nd, 2014. Net proceeds from the conference will go to the Autism Society of America for grant requests focusing on high-impact programming for individuals on the autism spectrum and their families. More information at¬†www.winecountryconference.com.
China is stabilizing. Europe is growing ñ†peripheral Europe†is growing! Japan is percolating. US manufacturing isback above pre-recession levels†and†household net worth is too. American politicians are introducing bipartisan budget deals. Iran is talking peace. The†gold investment complex†is collapsing. None of this was supposed to happen! It was all meant to unravel. WTF? The pessimists have been absolutely routed this year, itís becoming uncomfortable to watch. Their intellectual leaders are abandoning the cause or, worse,†switching sides. None of†their formulas or equations†are working, theyíre just losing more people more money every month. †Those who answer to clients have run out of excuses, theyíre now lashing out at everyone else to make themselves feel better. Because they canít have been wrong, just early ñ and itís not their fault anyhow. Itís the Fedís fault, or the fault of other financial commentators or the fault of foreign central banks. But theyíre sticking to their ìprocessî ñ and donít you ever dare question their process, no matter how poorly it works and for how long. I am not incorrect for four years running -†the entire world is incorrect.†Youíll see.† Surely this canít continue for much longer, can it? I hope not. May the fates order a ceasefire on the Permabear Alamo, and soon. I donít think they can take anymore.
With three Michelin stars under his belt at the relatively young age of 58, Danie Boulud has captured the attention and respect of foodies across the globe. And in a recent interview with The Independant, Boulud had his say about one of the most controversial debates rocking the world of meat right now ‚Äî how long should dry aged steak be aged? In New York City ‚Äî where Boulud's restaurant, Daniel, has reigned over the Upper East Side for years ‚Äî some restaurants are aging their steaks up to 125 days (like Osteria Morini) or 140 days (like Eleven Madison Park). That's extreme, and a solid 44 days is more common, but Boulud says even that's too much for him. From The Independent: He‚Äôs so approachable, you end up asking him slightly silly, while-I‚Äôve-got-you-here questions: does he believe in hanging meat for (the new fashion) 44 days? ‚ÄúNon, I don‚Äôt like that ‚Äì you can‚Äôt do it with grass-fed meat, because it would be like that‚Äù ‚Äì he bangs the table twice ‚Äì ‚Äúthere would be no fat left in it. For me, 30 days it‚Äôs already pretty good for rib eye or sirloin on the bone. I like my meat grass-fed and juicy. The French never age their meat more than two or three weeks.‚Äù Read the full profile here&gt;
Bloomberg TVDavid RosenbergGluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg thinks that as U.S. household balance sheets improve, U.S. corporate balance sheets are emerging as a primary risk.† In the new Breakfast with Dave report, Rosenberg writes that there is no real deleveraging in the corporate sector. He points out two key things. First, we're seeing "an environment of 0% productivity growth."† Second, "we just crossed the one trillion dollar mark for the year in gross investment-grade corporate bond issuance." The Q3 Fed-Flows-of-Funds data showed that the non-financial corporate sector was responsible for over $800 billion in credit market debt over the past year, which is close to the cycle peak six years ago.†† The real question is where all this money is going. Rosenberg points out that it isn't being channeled toward productive investment, like improving aging infrastructure or productivity growth: "What is the case, is that the debt boom has gone towards buying back stock, inflating EPS along the way and making the equity market appear more attractive than if we were to simply rely on the dollar value of net income in the valuation process. The Flow-of-Funds data show that the volume of equity that has been retired in the past year, in the aggregate corporate sector, has exceeded $360 billion. As such, the debt/equity ratio on a historical basis has risen on each of the past two quarters to 66.9% in Q3 from 66.6% in Q2 and 66.2% in Q1 ó to stand at the highest level since the third quarter of 2009.† Buying back shares is not a very productive use of cash if you ask me (though to be sure, they are a very accretive one).† Now clearly not all debt is bad, but when it's spent un-productively, then you start to worry. If the money had gone towards productive investment then it's a non-issue really. Bit as best i can tell it hasn'tÖ the capital stock keeps getting older, infrastructure keeps getting older. So it is not obvious to me that this debt binge in money is being productively employed." Rosenberg wonders what would happen to all the leverage if inflation were to climb, but he says that is a 2015 story. For now he wants investors to know that the rise in corporate debt but the lack of increase in the business/investment GDP ratio or productivity growth is a "disconcerting risk."
REUTERS/Andrei Mosienko/Presidential Press ServiceRussian President Vladimir Putin (R) shakes hands with his Ukrainian counterpart Viktor Yanukovich during their meeting at the Zavidova residence in the Tver region March 4, 2013. MOSCOW¬†(Reuters) -¬†Russia¬†signaled on Monday it was about to agree a loan and gas deal with¬†Ukraine¬†to helpKiev¬†stave off economic chaos and keep it in its former Soviet master's orbit. In¬†Kiev, the opposition went ahead with preparations for another big rally for Tuesday against what they see as moves by President¬†Viktor Yanukovich¬†to sell out national interests to¬†Russia¬†after backing away from a landmark deal with the¬†European Union¬†that would have shifted their country westwards. An aide to Russian President¬†Vladimir Putin¬†suggested a credit would be agreed at talks with Yanukovich inMoscow¬†on Tuesday, and a Ukrainian minister said a deal was likely on lower prices for Russian gas. Yanukovich has turned to¬†Moscow¬†for money after spurning the chance of joining a free trade pact with the EU, despite the risk of protests against him swelling. "The situation in¬†Ukraine¬†is now such that without loans, from one side or another, they will simply fail to maintain economic stability,"¬†Andrei Belousov, an economic adviser to Putin, told Interfax news agency. "I do not rule out that, if there is a request, a credit could be provided (to¬†Ukraine)." Russia's¬†Finance Ministry¬†confirmed talks on a loan were under way, and Ukrainian Energy Minister¬†Eduard Stavitsky¬†said there was a great probability a deal could be reached on reducing the price of Russian energy supplies to¬†Ukraine. Agreement on Tuesday would be seen in¬†Moscow¬†as a move keeping¬†Ukraine¬†in its political and economic orbit, more than two decades after the¬†Soviet Union¬†collapsed, and preventing a historic Westward shift by¬†Kiev. The EU's enlargement chief said on Twitter on Sunday the 28-nation bloc was halting work on a trade and political pact with the country of 46 million because the deeds of Yanukovich and his government were "further and further apart". Stefan Fuele's words suggested the EU had lost patience with¬†Kiev's demands for financial aid and was irritated by the 'bidding war' with¬†Russia¬†over¬†Ukraine. But divisions emerged in¬†Brussels¬†as other officials said the door remained open. "I think making policy on the basis of a Twitter notice by Mr. Fuele is perhaps not the best way of approaching this issue," Dutch Foreign Minister¬†Frans Timmermans¬†said. Ukraine¬†is seeking help to cover an external funding gap of $17 billion next year - almost the level of the central bank's depleted currency reserves. Belousov did not say how much¬†Russia, whose own economy is stuttering badly, would offer¬†Ukraine. But sources in¬†Ukraine¬†said the deal could be worth $15 billion, with Russian providing about $3-5 billion up front. The most¬†Brussels¬†has so far offered¬†Ukraine¬†is 610 million euros ($837.56 million) but EU officials are in discussion with the¬†International Monetary Fund, the¬†World Bank¬†and other financial institutions on ways to helpUkraine. PUTIN EYES VICTORY Apart from loans,¬†Ukraine¬†is seeking a lower price for Russian gas - now at around $400 per 1,000 cubic meters - to help it cope with its debt burden. Ukrainian Prime Minister¬†Mykola Azarov¬†was quoted as saying on Sunday that he hoped a deal on a cheaper price for gas deliveries would soon be concluded. A reduction of at least 10-15 percent is likely, sources in¬†Kiev¬†said. Tuesday's talks are intended to conclude a "substantial package" of agreements to chart out a road map to removing trade barriers for¬†Ukraine¬†with¬†Russia, both sides say. Yanukovich may be attempting to keep the attention of both¬†Moscow¬†and¬†Brussels¬†to strike as good a deal as possible to handle its huge debt and outstanding gas payments to¬†Moscow. But it is a hazardous maneuver running the risk of alienating both parties and there is no certainty¬†Ukraine¬†can avoid default or a currency crisis. Securing an agreement with¬†Ukraine¬†would be hailed in¬†Russia¬†as a geopolitical victory for Putin, who regardsUkraine¬†as vital to his dream of creating a political and economic union stretching from the Pacific to the EU's eastern borders. But Yanukovich is not expected to sign¬†Ukraine¬†up for a¬†Russia-led customs union which Putin sees as the basis for his planned¬†Eurasian Union¬†stretching from the borders of¬†Poland¬†to the shores of the Pacific Ocean.. Holding out on membership on the customs union could be Yanukovich's¬†last bargaining chip¬†as he tries to balance East against West and secure a good enough deal to be able to survive the protests in¬†Kiev¬†and win a presidential election in 2015. In¬†Kiev, the main protest camp had thinned out again on Monday after about 200,000 people protested on Sunday. A few thousand people were listening to prayers, speeches and songs, trying to warm themselves after snowfall during the night. But these numbers could swell again on Tuesday. Leaders of Yanukovich's¬†Party of Regions¬†expressed dissatisfaction with the economic crisis and urged Azarov to take action against ministers who had 'underestimated' the effects on the economy of trying to strike a deal with the EU. ($1 = 0.7283 euros) (Additional reporting by Richard Balmforth and Gabriela Baczynska in¬†Kiev, and by Andrius Sytas in Vilnius, Writing by Timothy Heritage; editing by Ralph Boulton)
Dr. Ed's Blog‚ÄúWhat about the dollar?‚Äù I heard that question more often in London last week than I usually do in the US. Odds are it will remain strong relative to the yen. Once the Fed starts tapering, the currencies of EMs, especially the ones with current account deficits, could come under renewed downward pressure, as we saw this summer when Fed officials started talking about curtailing bond purchases. The strength of the euro has been surprising given the weakness of the Eurozone economy. It certainly doesn‚Äôt help their feeble recovery since it is likely to weigh on exports. There are two obvious explanations for the strength of the euro: The Eurozone is running a trade surplus (thanks to Germany and Italy), while the US has a trade deficit. In addition, the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet is growing, and will continue to do so even when tapering begins, while the ECB's balance sheet has been shrinking since the end of June 2012. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Back Home. (1) ‚ÄúStay Home‚Äù or ‚ÄúGo Global‚Äù? (2) "World-wind" tour in London. (3) Upbeat on US, with a few concerns. (4) Obamacare is equivalent to fiscal drag. (5) Housing facing some headwinds. (6) Retail sales rising along with solid earned income gains. (7) Eurozone stock rally yet to be confirmed by fundamentals. (8) Eurozone‚Äôs hard data remains soft. (9) More downside for yen and more upside for Nikkei, but Japan‚Äôs economic prospects remain challenging. (10) China is looking better than other EMs. (11) Why is the euro so strong? (12) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Retailers. (More for subscribers.)
REUTERS/Kim Hong-JiNorth Korea has erased thousands of articles archived at multiple news sites, according to NKNews.org, a North Korea watchdog site.† The group estimates 35,000 articles have been wiped from Korea Central News Agency, the government-run news service, along with an additional 65,000 articles in Spanish, English, Chinese and Japanese. They also say†20,000 articles were removed from the archives of the Rodong Sinmun, North Koreaís state newspaper. Currently, you can only bring up articles published after October 1, 2013. NKNews said it wasn't clear if the deletions were permanent. You can still seemingly access KCNA archives on a mirror site run out of Japan. "One expert who follows North Korean media output closely, but asked not be identified for professional reasons, said she was in 'shock' about the move," NKNews said, and that it was likely related to other recent actions taken by leader Kim Jong-un to consolidate his rule.† On Friday, KCNA deleted all articles related to Jang Song-thaek, whom the government executed last week for treason, NKNews said. Click here to read the full story ª
This video is sponsored by LikeFolio. Investing in the stock market can be intimidating, especially if you're just starting to think about your financial future. But you don't need a huge portfolio and a financial advisor to buy and sell stocks. In fact, you probably know more about investing than you think you do. Watch this video to see how a service called LikeFolio can use your social feeds to help you identify ó and invest in ó the companies you already love. Learn how you can†invest with LikeFolio.  Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
Reuters/Tim ChongRussian billionaire Andrei Melnichenko's 394-foot mega-yacht "A."Andrei Melnichenko has extra reason to be concerned about the sunlight ó and we arenít talking financial transparency. The owner of Eurochem, a large Russian producer of fertilizers, says he has evidence that sunlight on his surfaces reveals rash, blotches, separations, lines, starring and sagging. He says heís paid to see his face reflected on the surfaces, but because the job has been botched, he canít. The damage he is estimating at $100 million. Thatís not Melnichenkoís person we are talking about, but the surfaces of his boat, a motor yacht named A, after his wife Alexandra, and owned by the two of them through a succession of offshore companies, starting with Niedes Ltd. of British Virgin Islands, A Yacht Charter Co. of Isle of Man, and currently Bermuda Yachts Ltd of Bermuda.Since July of 2010 Melnichenkoís New York lawyer, Patrick Salisbury, has been suing the international paints and coatings corporation, the Dutch-registered Akzo Nobel through three of its paint subsidiaries for covering the yacht with paint which failed to reflect and failed to stick. Akzo Nobelís shares are listed over the counter in the US, and it has a current market capitalization of almost $18 billion. One of the subsidiaries does business in New Jersey, where it calls itself ìone of the most reliable marine coatings suppliers in the world.î The case docket, No. L002634-10, in the Superior Court of New Jersey commenced with Melnichenkoís claim dated July 8, 2010. By late last month, it was running to 116 filings. Altogether, the file holds 260,000 pages, including 300 exhibits, 27 witness depositions, and dozens of contracts. So far it has cost both sides several million dollars. It is the biggest product liability†claim†ever made by a Russian against an international supplier. But just what sort of a claim is it when Mr and Mrs Melnichenko say they canít see their faces in the sides of their boat? According to the defence lawyers, ìPlaintiffís sole complaint is that the Awlgrip paint did not result in a highly reflective enough finish on Yacht A. That is the only ëharmí alleged, and it is not ëharmí as defined by the NJPLA [New Jersey Product Liability Act]Ö Plaintiff alleges only that the paint applied to Yacht A was not as reflective as Plaintiff (and/or the Melnichenkos) subjectively believes it should have been. Under New Jersey law, that is†not†a product liability claim, and this is†not†a product liability case.î A boat-painting expert has reportedly testified that there were no serious surface defects in the paint job causing the poor reflectivity which is the nub of the Melnichenkosí complaint. Akzo Nobel argues that ìas the only harm alleged is the subjective lack of reflectivity in the paint, Plaintiff essentially argues that paint damaged itself.î AP Photo/Sergey PonomarevAndrei Melnichenko is pictured on the left.More detail on the Awlgrip-brand paint, and on what Mr and Mrs Melnichenko have claimed about themselves in the court papers, were sealed this past July by the presiding judge, Kenneth Grispin, on the ground that they may contain trade and commercial secrets for the paint company, and privacy issues for the Melnichenkos. Still, the case is lifting the lid, so to speak, on what happens when an oligarchís toy doesnít play as he expects. Itís not the first from Mr and Mrs Melnichenko. Their lawsuit over a sculpture which turned out to be too short for their backyard ó by†100 centimetres†ó was pursued for Ä5 million, but settled after eight months without judgement and without damages. This time the proceedings are already at the three-year, three-month mark, and the claim, as itemized by the Melnichenkosí lawyers, is for more than $100 million. That sum, the complaint alleges, has been calculated from ìascertainable losses of at least $100 million plus attorneyís fees and costsÖ These ascertainable costs include those required to correct the paint and coatings defects and repaint the entire Vessel, which will take at least 18 months. Further, these costs include the loss of use of the yacht and cost of a replacement yacht during the repair period.î The shipbuilder, Blohm &amp; Voss, is being sued separately and elsewhere for Ä13 million. The Akzo Nobel defence documents argue that painting a yacht is a ìcomplex process and requires, among other things, the appropriate environment, necessary equipment, and highly skilled and experienced applicatorsî. But they categorically deny product defects, negligent painting, or fraudulent warranties. As for the biggest item in the Melnichenkosí bill, the cost of a boat for them to sail about while Yacht A is laid up for repainting, a source close to the case calls the 18-month period ìnonsenseî. In the court papers it is argued ìPlaintiff has suffered no compensable damagesî. According to International Paint LLC, the New Jersey company which is immediate target of the court action, the Melnichenko claim is misdirected. If the paint job turned out to be as non-reflective as the Melnichenkos are claiming, the alleged damages ìif any, were not the result of any act or omission on the part of International Paint LLC, but exist by reason of operation of nature over which International Paint LLC had no control.î In short, Mother Nature is to blame. Or to be specific, Aeolus, God of the sea winds, Briareus, God of the sea storms, Oeolyca, in charge of sea waves, the Harpies (gusts and water spouts), not to mention Poseidon, God of all the sea. According to a source close to the case, ìindependent inspection concluded there was nothing wrong with the paint job. They [Mr &amp; Mrs Melnichenko] were happy with the job. They signed off their acceptance. A normal paint (ship) job would last four to five years. But that depends on the weather and sea.î The court record reveals an uncharacteristic reluctance on the part of Melnichenkoís wife Alexandra to put her mouth where her husbandís er, lawsuit is. In September of this year, according to one of the filings by lawyers for the Akzo Nobel group, the court was told that Mrs Melnichenko had been notified that she should appear for a deposition in the spring of 2012. It then took the paint group almost a year to compel her to appear. ìDespite her clear importance to this case, Plaintiff refused to produce Mrs Melnichenko ñ forcing Defendants to move to compel her production for depositionî. The compel order was filed in August of 2012. Mrs Melnichenko finally gave her deposition to the defence lawyers on February 12, 2013. That document, plus Andrei Melnichenkoís earlier witness statement, are among the documents sealed by the court. Akzo Nobel is also accusing the Melnichenkosí lawyers of withholding another dozen witnesses whose testimony, the company says, is required for the court to adjudicate the claims, including Philippe Starck, the designer of the exterior shape and interior decoration of the boat.John HelmerAccording to the defence lawyers, the Melnichenko side ìhas not only refused to make these witnesses available but has also opposed Defendantsí efforts to depose themî. Just one witness has been located so far in the US. He turns out to live, not in New Jersey but in the neighbouring state of Rhode Island. But thereís a problem: ìMr Carroll has never seen Yacht A; has no idea of what products were applied to Yacht A; knows nothing about the paint application to Yacht A; and knows nothing about tests or experiments performed on Yacht A, stating that ëI know absolutely nothing about the paint jobí.î Before any of these claims can be adjudicated, the New Jersey courts must decide whether they should exercise jurisdiction to hear the case, as Salisbury, the Melnichenko lawyer, is insisting; or whether, according to the Akzo Nobel group, the courts of Germany or England are the proper forum ñ Germany, because thatís where the boat was built, and where it and a 10-tonne mock-up of Melnichenkoís boat were painted; England, because thatís where all but two of the components in the Awlgrip-branded paint used on the boat were fabricated, and where the paint experts are located. In a judgement issued on October 22, Judge Grispin decided there is something to be said on both sides. He agreed that ìeither Germany or England is an adequate alternative forum to New Jerseyî. On the other hand, he agreed the expense of moving the case into the German or English courts would be enormous, and that the Akzo Nobel lawyers ìhave not met the burden of overcoming the presumption against dismissalî. On that triple-negative, and in the absence of a compelling argument either way, Grispin ruled that his court should keep jurisdiction, and the case should proceed. Akzo Nobel has yet to register whether it will appeal this ruling, or go to trial.
Image via NestseekersThe Midtown Manhattan penthouse Leonardo DiCaprio's character Jordan Belfort used in the upcoming film "The Wolf Of Wall Street" is on the market, New York Daily News reported.† The Penthouse B at the Milan Condominium at 300 East 55th is for sale for $6.495 million. "Million Dollar Listing" star/Nestseekers broker Ryan Serhant has the listing, the NYDN report said. † The apartment is the location of the infamous scene where Belfort's crew beat up the butler and dangled him over the balcony threatening to drop him. †
Michael Bloomberg had such a great time running NYC that when he leaves the Mayor's office he'll put his expertise to work by consulting cities all over the world. Bloomberg Associates, his new consulting group partially made up of members of his current administration, will tackle problems from infrastructure development to crime, the NYT reports. The organization won't be charging cities a dime, either. Its tens of millions of dollar budget will be funded by the success of Bloomberg's magic machine, the Bloomberg terminal. From the NYT: Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu of New Orleans recalled receiving a $4 million grant from Mr. Bloomberg last year to hire a team of eight outside experts that advised the city on how to lower its murder rate. Since then, the city has created a multi agency team to combat gang activity, set up a midnight basketball league to keep young men off the streets and pushed to make it harder for those charged with gun crimes to get out of jail. The murder rate in New Orleans has fallen by 17 percent this year. So it looks like this could work well. For the rest of the story, head to NYT&gt;
REUTERS/John GressA British Petroleum oil refinery sits on the shore of Lake Michigan in Whiting, Indiana, August 15, 2007. Industrial production jumped 1.1% in November, the greatest gain in 12 months, the Fed says. Consensus was for an increase 0f 0.6%. October was revised to 0.1%. The November reading is up 3.2% year-over-year. All subsectors save one saw increases, led by the utilities industry at 3.9% month-over-month. ¬† Capacity utilization also climbed to 79%, versus consensus of 78.4%, and revised 78.2% prior. We've been on a mostly upward trend since reaching a post-recession low in May.¬† Capital Economics' Paul Dales commented: "The 1.1% m/m increase in November took the level of US industrial production back above the pre-recession peak for the first time and provides more evidence that economic growth is gaining momentum. "Some of the rise was due to a 1.7% m/m gain in mining output, which won‚Äôt be repeated as it was a result of oil and gas rigs in the Gulf of Mexico reopening after tropical storm Karen. The surge in utilities output, of 3.4% m/m in November, will probably continue into this month as the fall in temperature further below seasonal norms boosts heating demand.  "The 0.6% m/m rise in manufacturing output is the best guide to the underlying trend, and it suggests that producers are benefitting from stronger demand both at home and overseas. After not rising at all over the summer, output is now increasing at a 3m/3m annualised rate of 3.1%. Some of the survey evidence (such as the ISM and Markit indices) suggests that growth will soon accelerate further. Wednesday‚Äôs Fed policy decision remains a close call, but at the margin these data support our view that it is most likely that the Fed will announce the start of tapering. The industrial sector accounts for less than 20% of GDP, yet creates much of the cyclical variability in the economy.¬†
Dan WintersAfter a rough week, U.S. markets are surging. The Dow is up 165 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 14 points, and the Nasdaq is up 30 points. Earlier today, we learned industrial production jumped 1.1% in November, smashing expectations for a 0.6% gain. October numbers were also revised higher. "Alongside an upward revision to October (now 0.5%, previously 0.3%), manufacturing output looks set to register its strongest quarter since the beginning of 2012, with growth tracking an annualized 5.6% q/q in Q4, based on October and November, up from 1.4% in Q3," noted Barclays' Peter Newland. "Some of the rise was due to a 1.7% m/m gain in mining output, which won‚Äôt be repeated as it was a result of oil and gas rigs in the Gulf of Mexico reopening after tropical storm Karen," said Capital Economics Paul Dales. "The surge in utilities output, of 3.4% m/m in November, will probably continue into this month as the fall in temperature further below seasonal norms boosts heating demand." All eyes are on the Federal Reserve this week as it holds its two-day FOMC meeting to discuss the path of monetary policy. For now, economists expect the Fed to announce no change in its near-zero interest rate target or its $85 billion quantitative easing program. Here's the intraday Dow futures action via FinViz: FinViz
In an effort to ease traffic conditions and reduce air pollution, China's northern municipality of Tianjin is imposing a quota on new car license plates, according to Xinhua. On Sunday, the day before the city imposed its restrictions on car license plates, residents rushed to the used car market. Amy Yuan Zhuang, Senior Analyst at Nordea Markets, tweeted this image characterizing it as "panic" buying. #Tianjin introduces #car ban from today. In a second-car market last night people panic bought cars like cabbage. pic.twitter.com/R2CM6liqRb Like Beijing, Tianjin will block cars from the streets depending on the last digit on their number plates, with two numbers banned every day. The ban is expected to take effect on March 1. Tianjin will also ban vehicles with non-local license plates from using the city's outer ring during rush hour.¬† Chinese automakers began to sell off on the news, according to CNBC's Dierdre Wang Morris. Dierdre Wang Morris via Twitter See more images at China Daily.
BloombergDavid BiancoDeutsche Bank's David Bianco has had a reputation for being one Wall Street's biggest bulls. During fall of 2011 while stocks were tumbling and economic data were deteriorating, he went full contrarian and cranked up his price target on the S&amp;P 500. Some speculated this led to his ouster from the Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Today, it's hard to argue that he's more bullish than his peers. In a new note to clients, Bianco reiterates his call for the S&amp;P 500 to hit 1,850 in 2014, a forecast he first made in June. 1,850 is the lowest target of the 12+ Wall Street strategists followed by Business Insider. "We think the S&amp;P likely stays within +/- 5% range from 1800 for the next several months as investors watch EPS and interest rate trends," wrote Bianco. "We expect 2014 to be a year of normal EPS growth, normal PEs, normal total returns, but also normal volatility. Normal volatility includes at least one S&amp;P 500 price dip of 5% -9.9%. Since 1960, the only years when the S&amp;P didnít suffer a 5%+ dip were 1964, 1993 &amp; 1995. We see low risk of a correction when less than 1850." This is not to say Bianco is a bear. He expects the S&amp;P 500 to reach 2,000 by 2015.† But he's "uncertain" about the direction of the market's next 5% move.
Analyst Robert Peck, of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, is downgrading Twitter to hold after the stock's recent run. He's maintaining his $50 price target, but says that since it is 20% ahead of that target, it's time to downgrade the stock.¬† In the last two weeks Twitter has increased by 40%. Peck has a list of reasons for the increase, but he doesn't think these reasons really justify the bump. "More interestingly, the company‚Äôs stock has run over 40% in the last 2 weeks on several announcements, but nothing truly significant or unexpected, including: Apple buying Topsy; roll out of Tailored Audience; direct messaging of photos; and MoPub native ads implementation. We think all of these announcements are positive, but expected and they don‚Äôt fully explain the recent stock run." He is still a believer in Twitter for the long run, but at today's price ~$59, he thinks the valuation is stretched: "On consensus 2014 revenue and EBITDA estimates, it trades at 36x and 295x (34x and 235x based off of our estimates). On 2015 consensus, the company still trades at significant premiums, at 23x and 125x (over 20x and 113x our estimate). In comparison, the average of other industry fast growers is 8x 2015 Revenues and 24x 2015 EBITDA. EPS and FCF valuation multiples are non-meaningful given their nascent positive turn." And, here's one more twist to that thinking. What it would take for the stock to justify investing today: "For an investor to buy Twitter stock at current levels there are several assumptions that must be made. Assuming an investor requires the standard 20% annualized return that would imply a $101 stock price at the end of 2016. An investor would therefore need to be willing to pay 17x an aggressive $4b 2017 revenue estimate, or 11x an even higher $6.5b estimate, to justify this (vs. the industry multiple of 8x in 2015). While those estimates may be achievable, we don‚Äôt feel comfortable being that aggressive yet off the current revenue base of ~ $630m." Peck was the first analyst to issue a big bold buy call on Twitter. While Twitter was on its IPO roadshow, Peck put a $50 target on the stock.¬†
Celso Flores/FlickrThe New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing Survey was a disappointment. The headline index climbed to just 0.98 in December from -2.2 in November. This was far short of the 5.0 expected by economists. Here's some more color from the NY Fed: ...The new orders index inched up, but remained negative at -3.5, while the shipments index rose to 7.7. The unfilled orders index fell to -24.1, and the inventories index declined twenty points to -21.7; both indexes reached their lowest levels since 2009. The prices paid index was little changed at 15.7, and the prices received index climbed to 3.6. Labor market conditions remained weak, with the index for number of employees holding at 0.0 for a second month in a row and the average workweek index dropping six points to -10.8. Indexes for the six-month outlook generally conveyed a fair degree of optimism about future conditions, though to a lesser extent than in the November survey. According to the report, the biggest concern among employers was benefit costs. When firms were asked about the extent to which each of these issues was expected to become more or less of a problem over the next year, their responses again put employee benefit costs at the top of the list: 80 percent of respondents anticipated that this would be more of a problem a year from now. Finding qualified workers and government regulation were also seen as becoming increasingly problematic by a majority of those surveyed. Other categories where pessimists outnumbered optimists by a substantial margin were taxes, employee wage costs, the cost of resources, and the quality of government services. The cost, terms, and availability of credit were not only seen as relatively minor problems now but were also widely expected to be even less of a problem a year from now. Head to NewYorkFed.org for the whole report.
REUTERS/Bruno KellyVillagers from the Rumao Island community paddle their canoes loaded with arapaima or pirarucu. The surprisingly strong November jobs report, the surprisingly strong November retail sales report, and the earlier-than-expected U.S. budget deal are just a few of the things that have people feeling pretty good America's economic prospects. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will surely be talking about it when they meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss the path of monetary policy. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary According to strategists followed by Business Insider, the S&amp;P 500 will head to 1,950 in 2014. This will come on EPS of $116. On Friday, JP Morgan's Tom Lee predicted the S&amp;P 500 would head all the way to 2,075 on $132.00 of EPS. This call makes him the most bullish strategist on Wall Street. "Historically, bull markets lasting at least 4 years (since 1897) have only ended with a recessionóthat is, they typically do not end just because "everyone is too bullish," said Lee.  "The bull market, which began in March 2009, is acting like a ìclassicî secular bull market," he added. "History says we could see a 20% gain in 2014."
Dried squid may be the most delectable of the savory snacks that come from the Korean peninsula. That probably explains why North Korean president Kim Jong-un is smiling as he walks down what Reuters' correspondent James Pearson describes as " a tunnel of squid bricks." In this morning's Rodong Shinmun, Kim Jong Un is standing in what can only be described as a tunnel of squid bricks: pic.twitter.com/3KPwHpOO26 REUTERS/KCNANorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un gives field guidance to the August 25 Fisheries Station under KPA 313 Unit, in this undated photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) in Pyongyang, December 16, 2013. 
Real quick, here's Goldman Sachs' current forecasts for the U.S. economy and every major financial asset class in the world. It comes from David Kostin's US Weekly Kickstart note. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesA model presents a creation by Italian designer Giambattista Valli as part of his Spring/Summer 2014 women's ready-to-wear collection for fashion house Moncler Gamme Rouge during Paris Fashion Week, October 2, 2013.MILAN (Reuters) - Moncler &lt;MONC.MI&gt; shares jumped more than 40 percent on their first day of trading in Milan as investors scrambled to put their money into the maker of luxury down jackets, attracted by its strong revenue growth prospects. Moncler, which started life as a ski jacket maker in the French Alps in 1952, wooed investors with the worldwide reach of its brand and consumer appetite for chic outdoor gear. "There was incredible demand," said Bernstein luxury goods analyst Mario Ortelli. "In the short term, I expect the company will have stronger growth than the market." Moncler shares were changing hands at around 14.5 euros by 1126 GMT on Monday, compared to a listing price of 10.2 euros. Milan's bourse was broadly flat on the day. The listing of around 31 percent valued Moncler at 2.55 billion euros ($3.5 billion), but the share spike indicates it is now worth around 3.6 billion euros. Moncler's main shareholders raised 681 million euros through the share sale, Italy's biggest initial public offering (IPO) since 2010 and the biggest by an Italian company since Prada's Hong Kong listing in 2011. A source familiar with the matter said new investors in Moncler had included Italian luxury leather group Salvatore Ferragamo &lt;SFER.MI&gt; and LVMH &lt;LVMH.PA&gt; head Bernard Arnault. Sovereign wealth funds from Qatar, Singapore, Abu Dhabi and China also bought shares, the source said. The company said it received subscriptions worth 27 times the number of shares on offer, including a "greenshoe" over-allotment option. If this option is exercised, allowing extra shares to be sold to meet the strong demand, the size of the sale could increase by 15 percent to around 784 million euros. Around 80 percent of investors who placed orders for shares in the offering, which closed on December 11, received nothing, two people familiar with matter said. Moncler's first-day gain far exceeded that of Salvatore Ferragamo after its 2011 listing. Ferragamo's shares settled around 6 percent above their IPO price after their debut. GROWTH PROSPECTS Moncler's revenues are expected to rise 16 percent this year and a further 18 percent next year to 670.9 million euros, according to a document used to market the listing to investors by joint bookrunner Banca IMI. Company president Remo Ruffini, who bought the brand in 2003 and is the biggest shareholder after the listing, said at a ceremony to mark the start of trading that shares were allocated "to reflect Moncler's geographical reach: a third in Europe, a third in the Americas and a third in Asia". French investment firm Eurazeo &lt;EURA.PA&gt;, private equity group Carlyle &lt;CG.O&gt; and Brands Partners sold part of their holdings, but will all keep a stake in Moncler. The IPO price gave the maker of $1,200 goose down jackets a forward price to earnings ratio of about 20.5 times, putting it at a premium to bigger luxury peers such as Richemont &lt;CFR.VX&gt; and LVMH &lt;LVMH.PA&gt;, which are trading on about 16.5 times, but at a discount to Prada &lt;1913.HK&gt;, which is on about 23 times. Ruffini has said the company plans to expand its product offering beyond the down jackets for which it is best known, a plan which shareholders hope will guarantee sales growth. "The real challenge for the company in the long run is to decrease dependency on the main product line," said Ortelli, adding it should adapt its shops to accommodate new products. "When you are reliant on one product category you run the risk of fading because people get bored." The offering was run by Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;BAC.N&gt;, Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;, and Mediobanca &lt;MDBI.MI&gt;. ($1 = 0.7283 euros) (Additional reporting by Elisa Anzolin in Milan and Kylie MacLellan in London; editing by Astrid Wendlandt and Tom Pfeiffer)
REUTERS/Hampus Andersson/TT News AgencyRight-wing extremists clash with members of an anti-Nazism demonstration in the Stockholm suburb of Karrtorp December 15, 2013. One policeman and two others were injured whilst 28 persons were arrested, local media said.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Wikimedia CommonsSea bream at Gordon Ramsay's Plane FoodSOFIKO, Greece (Reuters) - Greek fish farmer John Stephanis has a problem. Global demand for his sea bass and bream is strong. But his company Selonda Aquaculture SA is so strapped for cash that it cannot expand its farms. One solution, says Stephanis, is smaller fish. By growing slimmer fish - to about 370 grams from the current average of 400 - Stephanis can grow more of them in each of his 50 farms. And by keeping prices unchanged, he can start paring his losses. "We've managed to put our fish on shelves around the world," said Stephanis, a former advertising executive who founded Selonda in 1981. "Ours is a national industry". Leaner fish is just one way in which Selonda, like other Greece aquaculture firms, is trying to resurrect itself from a fall in fortune that has mirrored that of the broader Greek economy. Once the "El Dorado" of the country's industry - Greece farms about half the global output of sea bass and bream - aquaculture companies are now unravelling under the weight of cheap credit they piled on during two decades of booming growth in the 80s and 90s. One of Greece's four major firms filed for bankruptcy in September while others are in talks with Greek banks - themselves propped up by bailout funds provided by the European Union and International Monetary Fund - to restructure their debt. The U.N.'s Food and Agriculture Organization predicts that Greece will lose its position as the biggest producer of Mediterranean fish to Turkey, after a 7 percent fall in production expected this year. The future of Greece's aquaculture industry is important for the country as a whole, as it tries to claw back years of lost competitiveness. Six years of deep recession have shrunk the economy by a quarter and shut thousands of businesses and fish farming is seen as one of the few sectors that could help pull Greece out of the quagmire - if it sorts itself out first. Fish, mainly sea bass and sea bream, was Greece's second-biggest agricultural export last year, beating even its famed olive oil. The sector currently employs about 20,000 people, and is one of the few industries - alongside tourism - that has enjoyed strong demand, especially by international customers. In a 2012 report, McKinsey &amp; Company identified Greece's aquaculture sector as the rising star of the economy, saying it could contribute to growth over the next five to 10 years - if companies managed to improve their business models. "The sector is close to sinking," Ilias Baras, Selonda's business development manager, said on a boat ride through the farm in Sofiko in the Peloponnese region, drawing parallels to Greece's crisis. "The only difference is that Greece was not allowed to collapse. If these businesses fail, this land has nothing to hope for," Baras said, as men in bright orange suits worked through heavy rain to keep up with orders pouring in from as far away as Australia. FROM TINY ISLETS TO SINGAPORE The mood was not always this glum among Greece's fish farmers, who set up their firms in the 80s when growing fish in cages was an alien concept to a nation with a long history of fishing and used to eating fresh-caught fish from the sea. Sea bass, in particular, has long been popular and known as difficult to catch - the Greek expression "I caught a sea bass" is used to refer to great and unexpected success. Soon enough, round floating cages began popping up all over Greece's vast coastline. Thanks to generous private and European investment and easy access to credit, fish farms developed even in tiny islets, where there was not much other investment. The number of firms grew from 10 in 1986 to 370 in 2008, government data shows. For many firms including Selonda, which exports more than 80 percent of its output, the only way was up. In 1996 it sent Greek managers to work a fish farm in Kuwait that was destroyed during the Gulf War, and later built facilities for tropical fish, all set with Greek nets and cages, in Singapore. "The 90s was a remarkable decade," Stephanis said from his office at the foothills of the Athens Acropolis, decked with his collection of Greek antiquities, including a fishhook that inspired the company's logo. "It was an El Dorado." At its height, Selonda managed to convince the country's stock market regulator to allow it to enter the stock exchange in 1994 - the first fish farming company worldwide to do so - a remarkable feat for a relative newcomer in a global industry led by companies in northern European countries such as Norway. Today, Selonda's 50 or so farms produce up to 20,000 tonnes of sea bass and bream a year, compared to just 20 tonnes when it began. It exports to countries including Spain, Italy, France and the United States. CRISES STRIKE For many years, fish farm companies borrowed easily, either to set up their businesses, upgrade facilities or expand. Banks gave out loans without asking many questions. But prices fell sharply in 2000, revealing that the firms lacked proper hedging strategies and were unable to deal with a lengthy production cycle and sizeable operating capital for food, nets, cages and other running costs. Each time prices jumped, farmers grew more fish. But by the time they reached the market two years later, the suppliers often faced a glut of products and prices fell, forcing many to sell at a loss. By the early 2000s fish farms were still borrowing - but this time it was to plug holes in their balance sheets rather than invest. The result was that in 2008, when Greece slipped deeper into economic crisis and prices fell sharply again, Selonda, was selling fish at 3.90 euros per kilo though it cost about 4 to 4.5 euros to produce. Since 2008, prices have ranged between 4 and 5 euros, leaving little profit margin. These days, even though demand continues to rise, the 10 biggest firms owe Greece's squeezed banks over half a billion euros - more than their combined sales. Selonda alone owes 185 million euros and its equity was wiped out in the first half of this year. It reported sales of 133 million euros in 2012. The company trades at 10 euro cents a share, down from its peak in 1999 of 24 euros a share. WANTED: A MAGIC SOLUTION For Stephanis, the industry is too precious to let it fail, and a debt restructuring - with banks turning part of the debt into equity and extending maturities and lowering rates on the rest - is urgently needed. The companies have pledged shares as collateral for their bank loans and at Selonda, this collateral amounts to 21 percent of its share capital. ¬†A senior Greek banker who declined to be named acknowledged that fish farming was overborrowed and that Greek banks were "not negative" to the idea of restructuring their loans. But Greek banks themselves are in a tight spot. Hammered by the recession, the four major lenders had billions pumped into them to prop them up after a sovereign debt restructuring last year and rising bad loans. In the meantime, fish farms are working hard to improve their businesses. Selonda is exploring ways to shorten the farming process from the roughly 24 months it now takes to 18 months, as a way to get the fish to market more quickly, and part of that will come from growing the fish to smaller weights, Stephanis said. Fish farming companies that have spent the last three decades competing against each other are also looking to consolidate among themselves to weather the storm. Selonda agreed to merge with rival Dias, but put the deal on hold after Dias filed for bankruptcy protection in October, Stephanis said. It has also approached rival Nireus for a possible merger, an offer Nireus is weighing. Once arch-rivals, fish farmers were now left with no choice but to join forces, Stephanis said. "We have to agree - it is imperative," he said. At the farm in Sofiko, where truckloads of fish are ready for the packing factory and then markets around the world, questions remain about how an industry that could have been Greece's pride has become a symbol of all that has gone awry. While the similarities with Greece's own downfall are easy to spot, a way out is harder to identify, Baras, the business development manager, said. "The truth is, a magic solution is still being sought". (editing by Janet McBride)
Seven of the eight indexes in my international focus group posted losses over the past week. The average of the eight came in at -1.43%, the worst collective performance since the week that ended on June 14th. The amazing Nikkei recorded the sole advance, up a modest 0.67%. After three weeks as the top performer, the Mumbai SENSEX came in a distant second, with a loss of 1.34%. The third-place S&amp;P 500 (also third last week) declined 1.69%. The range of losses for the other five indexes was fairly narrow, from the CAC 40‚Äôs -1.69% to the Hang Seng‚Äôs -2.09%. The Shanghai Composite remains the only index on the watch list in bear territory -- the traditional designation for a 20% decline from an interim high. See the table inset (lower right) in the chart below. The index is down 36.74% from its interim high of August 2009. At the other end, the S&amp;P 500 remains in the top spot, 1.83% off its all-time high, and the Nikkei is off only 2.20% from its interim closing high of December 3rd. Here is snapshot of the YTD performances, with the volatile Nikkei as the ongoing attention-grabber.  Here is a table highlighting the 2013 year-to-date gains, sorted in that order, along with the 2013 interim highs for the eight indexes. The performance of the Japan's Nikkei, despite its volatility, puts it solidly in the top spot, up 48.18%. Only the Shanghai Composite is stuck in the red YTD. A Closer Look at the Last Four Weeks The tables below provide a concise overview of performance comparisons over the past four weeks for these eight major indexes. I've also included the average for each week so that we can evaluate the performance of a specific index relative to the overall mean and better understand weekly volatility. The colors for each index name help us visualize the comparative performance over time.   The chart below illustrates the comparative performance of World Markets since March 9, 2009. The start date is arbitrary: The S&amp;P 500, CAC 40 and BSE SENSEX hit their lows on March 9th, the Nikkei 225 on March 10th, the DAX on March 6th, the FTSE on March 3rd, the Shanghai Composite on November 4, 2008, and the Hang Seng even earlier on October 27, 2008. However, by aligning on the same day and measuring the percent change, we get a better sense of the relative performance than if we align the lows.  Click for a larger image A Longer Look Back Here is the same chart starting from the turn of 21st century. The relative over-performance of the emerging markets (Shanghai, Mumbai SENSEX and Hang Seng) up to their 2007 peaks is evident, and the SENSEX remains by far the top performer. The Shanghai, in contrast, formed a perfect Eiffel Tower from late 2006 to late 2009.  Click for a larger image Check back next week for a new update. ¬† Note from dshort: I track Germany's DAXK a price-only index, instead of the more familiar DAX index (which includes dividends), for constency with the other indexes, which do not include dividends. 
Sober LookThe US initial jobless claims measure has often been difficult to interpret due to seasonal and other effects, but it has been all but useless lately. The latest spike (last week) has to do with the fact that Thanksgiving was late this year and the seasonal adjustment was simply incorrect. Most economists believe that the trend in US jobless claims is still downward sloping. One positive sign in particular has been the recent drop in the number of Americans receiving extended unemployment benefits. Bloomberg: - The continuing claims figure does not include the number of Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs. Those job-seekers declined by almost 102,000 to 1.25 million in the week ended Nov. 23. Whatever the case, the initial claims numbers are currently not very meaningful and should be ignored.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders gesture at each other while working in the crude oil and natural gas options pit on the floor of the New York Mercantile Exchange March 7, 2011.NEW YORK (Reuters) - As a historic oil and gas boom transforms the U.S. energy sector,¬†Wall¬†Street¬†is losing the battle to remain the partner of choice for energy producers and major consumers seeking to protect themselves against volatile prices. In the thriving Texas Permian oil patch and beyond, banks are being edged out by a handful of the world's biggest corporations including¬†BP¬†Plc, Cargill and¬†Koch Industries. With¬†Wall¬†Street¬†hamstrung by growing regulatory restrictions, a recently finalized ban on proprietary trading and increased capital requirements, these corporate behemoths are leveraging their robust balance sheets and savvy global trading desks to capture as much as a quarter of the global multibillion-dollar market for hedging commodity prices. New risks have arisen this year that could tilt the scales further, as the Federal Reserve considers limiting banks' ability to trade in real physical markets, the kind of deals that are increasingly important for many of the smaller and mid-sized companies at the fore of the U.S. energy renaissance. Just ask Alan Barksdale, president and chief executive of¬†Red Mountain Resources, a conventional driller in the Permian Basin. Early this year his company was shopping for a counterparty to execute derivative trades that would protect some of its near 900 barrels of daily production from a possible price drop. Barksdale, a former investment banker, was looking to lock in "costless collars", a type of specialized options trade. After reviewing a number of offers, including some from¬†Wall¬†Street¬†firms, he chose¬†BP Energy Corp, a unit of the oil and gas major's trading division. In part that was because¬†BP¬†was already working with the firm's lenders. But Barksdale was also interested in a partner who could one day take physical delivery of his crude, potentially netting Red Mountain an extra dollar or more per barrel. "As you grow as a company, you'd like some flexibility to get some physical delivery," Barksdale said. "When you're dealing with somebody who is long a commodity, you get better service." Ten years ago, only a handful of banks would have likely handled such a trade. Over the past decade, however, more than a dozen rushed into the commodity trading business, acting as lenders, counterparties and risk managers. Now some of the biggest are beating a hasty retreat. Deutsche Bank became the largest victim last week, announcing plans to exit most trading under mounting regulatory pressure and diminished profitability. Others are like JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Morgan Stanley are poised to carve out their large physical trading operations - things like oil storage tanks, gasoline cargoes and power plants - but will still compete fiercely on derivatives deals, trades they can combine with financing or other activities. Goldman Sachs has been resolute that the bank will continue trade both cash and paper commodities. While most banks have blamed regulations and lower market volatility for the sharp slump in commodity earnings, at least a portion of the decline appears to stem from the corporate giants quietly stealing banks' core business: serving clients. Commodity revenues at the world's top 10 investment banks has fallen from a peak of more than $14 billion in 2008 to just $5.5 billion last year, according to consultants Coalition. One senior executive at a top 10 commodity bank said corporations had taken as much as a quarter of the global hedge book away from banks, including deals with airlines and utilities. "When you look at the market overall, the commercial firms are making in-roads into the hedging business," says Andy Awad¬†of Greenwich Associates, which conducts an annual survey of hundreds of companies that hedge commodity prices. "I would imagine the pace of change is going to increase." While the big non-bank companies have not yet cracked the top tier, four of them made it into the top 20 U.S. energy hedgers this year, he said. As banks withdraw, the conventional wisdom has been that foreign, privately owned commodity merchants like Vitol¬†and¬†Trafigura¬†- which typically trade only for themselves - would fill the market void, particularly in the costly, complex realm of physical trading. While they may help bolster liquidity, most of those firms are loathe to take on the onerous regulatory burden now required to become a major derivatives trader. Yet this year, units of¬†BP,¬†Royal Dutch Shell¬†and Cargill all formally entered the big leagues of derivative dealing, registering as "swap dealers" alongside dozens of the world's biggest banks. As the most heavily regulated type of derivatives trader under the Dodd-Frank law's financial reforms, they face onerous record-keeping and trade reporting rules, but also have the latitude to hedge with far more clients, and to trade in excess of $8 billion in swaps a year. To be sure, banks retain many advantages in the business. As the leading lenders to the world's industries, they can offer bundled services and leverage existing lines of credit; the derivatives operations of the biggest players, even those selling some parts such as JPMorgan, remain competitive on pricing. Yet they are suffering set-backs across multiple fronts. Some of their most valuable traders are now being hired away by private merchants who can offer higher salaries and bigger bonuses. Tougher capital requirements under the Basel III international accord are raising banks' funding costs and narrowing profit margins. "We have a strong balance sheet and an ability to manage these price risks," said Cody Moore, head of North American Gas and Power at EDF Trading, a unit of¬†France's government-backed utility, EDF. The group was formed in 1998 and expanded its international reach ten years later with the purchase of Lehman Brothers' physical trading unit Eagle Energy during the financial crisis. Its revenue has surged 60 percent since 2008; pre-tax profits at the firm, one of the few to separate its financial performance from that of the parent group, reached nearly 500 million euros in 2012. With some 350 people in its¬†Houston¬†office alone, EDF Trading is now the leading energy management provider for power generators in the¬†United States. Last year it hired a small team to expand into oil market logistics. Corporations have another advantage - unlike banks, they are not banned from trading with their own money. Under the Volcker Rule, which was formally approved by regulators this month, banks can no longer engage in proprietary derivatives trading - giving them less incentive to chase customers simply for the benefit of valuable insight into a particular trend they may be able to trade themselves. "In the past, the information was worth something to a bank if you had a proprietary desk," says¬†Eric Melvin, a former trader at an investment bank who now runs boutique¬†Houston-based risk-advisory firm¬†Mobius Risk Group. He estimates that investment banks now account for only about half of the U.S. oil and gas-hedging business, with corporate merchants accounting for some 40 percent, up from almost nothing just a few years ago. For most of these companies, one of their biggest selling points is the ability to manage the risk of some of the most esoteric or niche energy markets in the world - typically because they already trade those commodities for themselves. "We're willing to stand in as a provider of risk-management where many or most others won't," says¬†Steve Provenzano,¬†BP¬†Energy's Chief Commercial Officer for client hedging in the¬†Americas. "Obviously our involvement in the physical business gives us credibility." Long the largest U.S. natural gas trader and a major global oil operator,¬†BP¬†also has 20 people who help arrange customer derivatives trades in North American alone, and more than 3,000 wholesale customer worldwide, he said. While¬†Wall¬†Street¬†awaits the completion of a Federal Reserve review of commodities trading - the results of which are expected early next year - corporations that hedge energy prices are placing a greater importance on the ability of a counterparty to trade in physical markets, according to Greenwich Associates' latest survey. "I think what we're seeing is that people recognize you can't divorce the financial and physical, they're linked," says Awad. Meanwhile competitors are stealing a march. Minneapolis-based Cargill, better known for its prowess in agricultural markets, has recently moved its¬†Houston trading group to a larger office with room for over 100 traders, online industry publication SparkSpread.com reported this month. Cargill employs more than 1,000 people in its¬†Geneva-based Energy, Transportation and Metals business, and executives have said they are looking to expand as others divest. A spokesman for Cargill declined to comment on the business. Koch Supply &amp; Trading, a unit of the $115 billion a year conglomerate owned by Charles and David Koch, is famed for having traded the first oil swap over 25 years ago, and says it now has nearly 500 traders, marketers and energy and metal markets professionals worldwide. It expanded its European natural gas team last year, and minces no words in promoting itself as a more constant alternative to¬†Wall¬†Street. "While some financial institutions' market coverage varies with global market cycles, KS&amp;T companies take a longer term view," it says in a recent online brochure. Koch offers market liquidity "at times when others pull back." (Reporting by Jonathan Leff; Additional reporting by Dmitri Zhdannikov in London; Editing by Tim Dobbyn)
John Moore/Getty ImagesIn 2013, interest rates rose, bonds fell, equities soared, and US¬†income-tax rates climbed higher. Before starting to place bets for 2014, investors would be wise to think about some important lessons from 2013. 1. You Have to Be in It to Win It The stock market has surged since 2009, but for most of this time, investors were busy taking money out of stocks and hoarding cash and bonds. According to Lipper and Strategic Insight data, individual investors withdrew nearly $320 billion from US-domiciled stock portfolios between 2008 and 2012, with no let up as it nearly doubled from the bottom reached in early 2009. But during 2013, investors began to pile back in: positive flows into US-domiciled stock portfolios were a whopping $182 billion through November 2013 (Display). ¬†AllianceBernstein Blog Staying on the sidelines may seem safe, but it also ensures a loss of purchasing power over time. Although equities are no longer the bargains they were at the market bottom in 2009, we think that they remain attractively valued, especially in comparison with bonds. Investors need to maintain an appropriate allocation to return-seeking investments such as stocks to reach their financial goals. 2. If You Run with the Crowd, You Can Get Trampled After the credit crisis,¬†investors favored high-dividend-paying stocks such as utilities, consumer staples and telecoms over other stocks, ¬†because of their bond-like qualities: solid income and perceived stability. Because of this crowding, the prices of these ‚Äúsafe‚Äù stocks climbed well beyond what we would consider to be their fair value, ultimately reaching a 50% premium to their normal valuation. For example, in the 12 months ending April 2013, the S&amp;P 500 telecom sector was up 28.8%, versus 16.9% for the S&amp;P 500 as a whole (Display). ¬†AllianceBernstein Blog But in the spring of 2013, as Treasury bonds dropped in value, these bond-like stocks moved down, too. From May to November, these ‚Äúsafe‚Äù investments were anything but: Utilities fell 6.3% while the overall stock market gained 14.5%. High-dividend-paying stocks remain somewhat expensive, and we think that they have further to fall‚Äîif not in absolute terms, then relative to the broad market. Something similar happened to gold, another crowded trade in the post-credit-crisis years. Investors bought gold because they expected it to be a long-term store of value and a hedge against inflation. In 2013, the shiny metal lost some of its luster. The gold price‚Äî$1,694 an ounce at the start of January‚Äîslid 26%, to $1,253 an ounce at the end of November. Following the crowd usually means chasing past returns. That‚Äôs no more sensible than looking in the rearview mirror to steer your car. A more effective (and safer) approach is to establish your own investment strategy based on your circumstances, risk tolerance and market fundamentals, and to stick to it no matter what the crowd does. That will sometimes make you a contrarian‚Ä¶until the crowd joins you. 3. Diversification Means Owning Some Things That Underperform To illustrate this point, let‚Äôs look at equity returns by geography. Of the three broad stock-market segments‚ÄîUS, international developed and emerging markets‚Äîthe top performer in 2012 was emerging markets, and the bottom performer was the US. This year, those rankings were reversed: US equities returned a stunning 29.1% through the end of November, as measured by the S&amp;P 500; developed international stocks (represented by the MSCI EAFE Index) returned a healthy 21.0% in US-dollar terms; but the MSCI Emerging Markets index returned negative 1.2%. Next year, either developed international stocks or emerging-market stocks could end up on top. The real lesson here is that you can‚Äôt predict what‚Äôs going to do well in the future, so owning a laggard at any moment in time is critical to diversification. To capture the strongest returns no matter where they may appear, investors need to maintain exposure to stocks in all the key regions. For us, 2013 shows that diversification still matters a lot. 4.¬†It‚Äôs What You Keep That Counts Taxes for high-income individuals went up across the board in 2013. Between the American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA) and the new Medicare surtax, some will face a 2013 tax bill that‚Äôs more than 14% larger than last year‚Äôs. All taxpayers‚Äîbut these in particular‚Äîstand to benefit from tax-management strategies. There are several good ways to defer taxes, such as harvesting tax losses, contributing to retirement plans and delaying the recognition of income. There are also a smaller number of ways to avoid present or future taxes altogether, such as making a charitable donation or contributing to a 529 Plan. Investors who adopt tax-aware approaches can improve their financial situation, whether through deferring taxes or permanently avoiding them. Although time is short, this lesson is best applied now, rather than in April. Especially if you‚Äôre subject to the new, higher rates, tax management should be an integral part of your investment strategy.
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gestures as he speaks during Tokyo 2020 kick off rally in Tokyo August 23.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese business confidence improved over the three months to December to its highest level in six years, a central bank survey showed, suggesting Prime Minister†Shinzo Abe's "Abenomics" stimulus policies are gaining broader traction across the economy. The†Bank of Japan's quarterly "tankan" survey showed sentiment brightened not just for big firms but also for smaller companies, which had been slower to reap the benefits of a recovering economy. Small manufacturers' sentiment hit a six-year high and the small non-manufacturers' index turned positive, which means optimists outnumbered pessimists, for the first time since 1992. The tankan reinforces the BOJ's view that the economy is recovering moderately under and likely allowing it to hold off on expanding stimulus in coming months, analysts said. "The economy is moving in line with the BOJ's forecasts, which means the central bank will keep monetary policy steady at least next week and in January," said†Junko Nishioka, chief†Japan†economist at RBS Securities. The headline index for big manufacturers' sentiment improved 4 points from the previous quarter to plus 16, the tankan showed on Monday, slightly above a median market forecast of plus 15. It was the fourth straight quarter of improvement and the highest level since December 2007, as companies benefited from robust domestic demand and a weak yen that gives their goods a competitive advantage overseas. Service-sector mood also improved as consumers rushed to beat a sales tax hike next April. The big non-manufacturers' index was up 6 points to plus 20, better than a median forecast of plus 16 and the highest level since December 2007. "Figures in the services sector were especially bright, and the positive mood is a sign that optimism is finally spreading into domestic demand-sensitive sectors from exporters," said†Hideo Kumano, chief economist at†Dai-ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. SO FAR SO GOOD Japan's economy outpaced its G7 counterparts in the first half of this year as Abe's stimulus policies boosted business and household sentiment. Growth slowed in July-September on soft exports, but analysts expect it to accelerate again in the run-up to the sales tax hike. Public works spending is also likely to offset the continued weakness in exports, thanks to a fiscal stimulus package aimed at softening the blow of higher sales tax. The BOJ has said the economy can handle the pain from the sales tax hike and still meet the bank's goal of achieving 2 percent inflation in roughly two years, due in part to the effect of its aggressive monetary stimulus launched in April. The central bank is thus widely expected to keep monetary settings unchanged at its next rate review on December 19-20. The tankan gave the BOJ few reasons to ponder imminent easing. Companies see less slack in jobs and expenditure, and are enjoying rising profits due in part to the weak yen. Big manufacturers revised up their dollar/yen projections for the current fiscal year ending in March to 96.78 yen from 94.45 yen three months ago. That is still a conservative forecast considering the dollar is now moving around 103 yen. Some analysts now discount heightening market speculation that the central bank will ease again in April, when household spending will take a hit from the sales tax hike. "I don't think the BOJ will rush in easing, given the economy is on track and how its forecasts already take into account the tax hike impact," said Nishioka of RBS. "Of course, the BOJ may act if external factors, such as a yen spike, hit business sentiment. But I don't think the chance of an April action is high." A Reuters poll conducted earlier this month found that almost two-thirds of Japanese firms expect the BOJ to increase its stimulus in the first six months of 2014. There are factors that cloud the outlook, such as weakness in emerging economies that have capped export growth. Big manufacturers and non-manufacturers both expect business conditions to worsen slightly in the three months to March, the tankan showed, highlighting their uncertainty on whether the economy will sustain its momentum. Big firms are seen raising capital spending by 4.6 percent in the current business year to next March, down from 5.1 percent seen in the previous tankan. That was less than a median market forecast for a 5.5 percent increase, underscoring the difficulty the BOJ faces in trying to nudge firms into boosting spending. (Additional reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer)
REUTERS/Andrea ComasTraders stand in front of electronic boards at the stock exchange in Madrid.Markets are up slightly across Europe. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.2%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%. Germany's DAX is up 0.5%. Spain's IBEX is is up 1.0%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.7%. These positive moves come as the preliminary Eurozone output indices signal continued, albeit lopsided, growth in the economy.
MarkitOverall, the eurozone economic story is a positive one. The eurozone's flash composite PMI climbed to a three-month high of 52.1 in December from 51.7 in November. Any number above 50 signals growth. The manufacturing PMI and manufacturing PMI output indices both climbed to 31-month highs. Here's Markit's Chris Williamson: ìThe rise in the PMI after two successive monthly falls is a big relief and puts the recovery back on track. The upturn means that, over the final quarter, businesses saw the strongest growth since the first half of 2011, and have now enjoyed two consecutive quarters of growth.î ìOn the downside, the PMI is signalling a mere 0.2% expansion of GDP in the fourth quarter, suggesting the recovery remains both weak and fragile. ìThe upturn is also uneven. Growth is concentrated in manufacturing, where rising exports have helped push growth of the sector to the fastest for two-and-a-half years, while weak domestic demand led to a further slowing in service sector growth. ìHowever, it<U+201F>s the unbalanced nature of the upturn among member states that is the most worrying. France looks increasingly like the new "sick man of Europe", as a second successive monthly contraction may translate into another quarterly decline in GDP, pushing the country back into a technical recession. In contrast, the December survey data round off a solid quarter of growth in Germany, in which GDP looks set to rise by 0.5%. ìThere<U+201F>s little here to suggest that euro area policymakers need to increase their stimulus, but on the other hand the sluggish nature of the upturn adds to the sense that policy will remain ultra-accommodative for quite some time.î
Alexander Hassenstein/Getty ImagesGermany's economy has had a strong December so far. The country's flash manufacturing PMI jumped to a 30-month high of 54.2 from 52.7 in November. The manufacturing output index climbed to a 31-month high of 57.5 from 54.9. Due to decelerating growth in services activity, the composite output index slipped to 55.2 from 55.4. "Germany's private sector expanded for the eighth month running during December, according to the latest "flash" PMI data," said Markit economist Tim Moore. "Manufacturing achieved a particularly strong end to the year, with improving new order flows and renewed job creation also providing encouragement that the sector has gained momentum since the autumn. ìGrowth of new work was the fastest for over two-and-a-half years while stocks of finished goods were depleted at an accelerated pace. As a result, inventory-to-order ratios will be more supportive of output expansion in the months ahead. Meanwhile, the strong accumulation of back logs in December provides a further positive signal for production trends into next year."
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelRiders fall during the first stage of the Tour de France cycling race from Rotterdam to Brussels, July 4, 2010.France's Flash Composite PMI fell to a 7-month low of 47.0. This is down from 48.0 in November. Any reading below 50 signals contraction. The services activity, manufacturing output, and manufacturing PMI sub-indices all deteriorated further into sub-50 levels. Here's Markit: "Respondents indicated that lower new orders was behind the fall in output, in turn linked to caution among clients. New business decreased for the third month running. Services companies recorded a modest decline in new orders that was broadly in line with that seen in November.† Meanwhile, manufacturing new orders decreased at the fastest pace since April. New export business at manufacturers declined for the second successive month." "The last flash PMI readings for 2013 paint a worrying picture on the health of the French economy, said Markit economist Andrew Harker. "The return to contraction in November has been followed up with a sharper reduction in December, with falling new business at the heart of this as clients were reportedly reluctant to commit to new contracts. Firms will hope that such reticence ends in the new year as they seek to avoid another protracted downturn."
Reuters/Shannon StapletonGold looks like it is on its way to its first annual drop in 13 years. This is bad news for central banks that have been diversifying their foreign reserves to include gold, but at a slower pace than in 2012.¬† A new report from the World Gold Council showed that year-to-date central bank gold reserves increased by nearly 300 tonnes. Global official gold holdings totaled 31,913.5 tonnes as of December 2013, according to the latest report from the World Gold Council. We pulled the numbers on the 10 biggest official reserves. Note: CBGA refers to the Central Bank Gold Agreements.¬†The first Agreement (CBGA 1) ran from September 27, 1999 to September 26, 2004.¬† The second Agreement (CBGA 2) ran from September 27, 2004 to September 26, 2009. The third Agreement (CBGA 3) will run for five years from September 2009.
