Over the first several months of the year, Japan was a one-way street. The Nikkei would gain and the yen would weaken. The Bank of Japan's aggressive easing platform got everyone betting on Japanese assets (stocks, mostly), while also betting that the yen would go down. But lately everything's reversed. Stocks are tanking, and the yen is jumping Several days ago, USDJPY (the dollar vs. the yen) was around 104. Today it's below 95, indicating a massive strengthening of the yen. And that's brutal. As this chart from Nomura shows, shorting the yen has been a wildly popular trade among speculators, as net short positions (red line) against the yen are near their most extreme levels in years.  The violent reversal, the yen surge, is causing all kinds of pain.
Rough night in Asia. The big story is the Nikkei, which continues to get walloped. But now China is open for the first time this week (it was off Monday and Tuesday for holiday) and it's getting slammed. Remember, over the weekend, some decidedly weak data came from China. As such, the Shanghai Composite is off over 3%. The Shanghai Composite, via Bloomberg.com 
H.L.I.T. / Creative CommonsKAPOW. Japan is crashing again. Earlier the Nikkei was down 5%. Now it's down over 6%. USDJPY (the dollar against the yen) is down to 95, which indicates significant yen strengthening. Not only is this a remarkable turn events for the Japanese market, but the long Nikkei/short yen trade has been one of THE trades of 2013 so far, so this is a brutal kick in the ass for hedge funds and speculators. And it's clear the bloom is coming off the rose for Abenomics (to some extent) the monetary stimulus shock treatment designed to get Japan out of the doldrums. Here's a chart of the Nikkei so far. 
BPBP has published¬†its annual statistical energy review, and we've got the charts for you. But first the key takeaways: And now the visuals...
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Medical Professionals Can Play Key Role In Preventing Financial Exploitation Of Seniors (Investment News) A national survey of 603 medical professionals, and cited by Investment News, found that 59% of doctors and nurses think cognitive impairment "very often" makes seniors vulnerable to financial exploitation. 33% think it makes seniors vulnerable "somewhat often."¬† ‚ÄúDoctors and nurses must play an important front-line role if we are going to do a better job of spotting older Americans who have been or are being victimized by investment fraud and other financial exploitation,‚Äù said Don Blandin, CEO of Investor Protection Trust told Investment News.¬†80% said they could help fight such financial exploitation if they were taught to spot red flags. 5 Reasons Not To Abandon Non-U.S. Dividend Stocks Completely (Advisor Perspectives) BlackRock's Russ Koesterich tells investors there are five reasons to be selective when abandoning non-U.S. dividend stocks at a time when bond yields are rising.¬† 1. "Over the long term, dividend paying stocks tend to outperform in both bull and bear markets." 2. Overseas U.S.-dividend companies still have attractive yields. 3. "The stocks are likely to continue to pay higher yields for the foreseeable future." 4. Non-U.S. dividend stocks are cheaper than those of dividend stocks in the U.S. 5. And the offer diversification.  A Chart Of Stocks, Bonds, Oil, Gold, And The National Debt Since 1850 (Global Financial Data) The folks at Global Financial Data looked at the S&amp;P 500, DJIA, gold, silver, West Texas Intermediate, total debt as a % of GDP, and the U.S. 10-year dating back to 1850. This chart shows that they are "they are all at or very close to all time highs with the exception of the US 10yr Yield which of course just bounced off an all time low." Global Financial Data/Ralph Dillon Former CFP Chair To Get Public Letter Of Admonition (Reuters) Alan Goldfarb, the former chairman of the CFP Board, expects a "public letter of admonition" for violating its ethical standards, according to Reuters. The CFB board is expected to admonish him for misrepresenting himself as a fee-only advisor, when is said to have received a salary from one of his ventures as well. Goldfarb resigned from his position in November 2012. Investors Have To Completely Rethink Their 2013 Playbook (The Reformed Broker (The Reformed Broker) Investment strategies that worked at the start of the year aren't working as well anymore writes Josh Brown. This is because of two key reasons. "First, U.S. stocks are now coping with rising interest rates and the bond back-up. No one knows whether or not that's done for now. The yield on the 10-year, at 2.29%, is sitting at 14 month highs. Can't be ignored. This means the yield plays at best can stabilize but should probably not be loaded up on. Secondly, we're starting to pay more attention to the overseas stuff."With that in mind Josh Brown says investors need to brace for much more volatility. "'d say position-sizing should probably come down as well. Lastly, I'd imagine that getting accustomed to gap-up and gap-down opens would be a good idea as well."
REUTERS/Yuri GripasU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (C) sits next to Governor of the Bank of Algeria Mohammed Laksaci (R), at the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC) meeting during the Spring Meeting of the IMF and World Bank in Washington, April 20, 2013. While we agree that the optics and assumptions between 94' and today are worlds apart; whereas, the element of surprise was much greater before the Fed became painstakingly transparent and the bond bull matured into the market patriarch it is today - the degree of speculation attached to that assets one way street still has considerable and like potential to disrupt and influence markets through distortions of flows as it did in 1994. Considering the perversion in correlations we've witnessed recently, and as noted¬†last week¬†with our expectations for further dollar weakness - the comparative has more harmonies than dissonant chords for now.¬†It's safe to say many had expected a range in yields within trend this year, but were tempered by the gathering disinflationary tide and the perception that Bernanke would continue to be influenced by the specter of deflation that still haunted the Fed's house. If anything, and considering the Fed's preferred measure of inflation (PCE) flirting with historic lows - or even our inflation expectations construct framed by the long:term¬†silver:gold ratio;¬†it seemed more likely that the Fed would at the very least extend the expectations of stimulus - rather than curtail.¬†In this sense and apparent in the bond markets quick ignition, the element of surprise so crucial to a central banks efficacy appears intact - and to boot has come from the opposing side of the field.¬†Whether lighting the brush in the bond market here was a sign of desperation, brilliance or causal coincidence is hard to say at this point. We are reminded of the true story of the¬†Mann Gulch Fire, that although tragically took the lives of thirteen young firefighters in Montana in 1949, rewrote the training protocols for dealing with a fire that was imminently about to overtake its handlers. To make a long but fascinating story short, a creative and desperate smokejumper named Wagner Dodge lit a fire directly in front of himself before the rapidly approaching forest fire overtook him and his crews position. After lighting the fire, he then motioned for his men to step into the newly lit area. Unfortunately, likely believing he had lost his mind - they refused and attempted to outrun the fire which was burning quickly up the hillside. In the end, Dodge survived nearly unharmed - while the fire killed thirteen of his men. ¬†¬†Reigning in expectations of stimulus by the Fed in the face of inflation data flirting with historic lows and a global economy dangerously close to stall speed might appear reckless at face value. With that said, the Fed perhaps succeeds at killing two birds with one stone by reigning in risk appetites at large, while also changing the perception from one of disinflation to inflation's right around the corner.¬†Reflexivity burns bright - assuming we don't perish in the fire.¬†
Yet, like a forbidden fruit trading has always enticed me. Trading Rock Stars A couple of years ago I visited the offices of a $7 billion macro-oriented hedge fund for some due diligence. They were quantitative and discretionary macro traders. Their trading floor was divided in half. The quants sat on one side of the room and looked appropriately geeky and mathematical as they stared at their trading screens. Their job was to make sure the computerized trading programs they developed were working properly. On the other side of the room were the discretionary traders. They were more laid back. Chatting with each other. A guitar leaning against one of the trading desks. It looked more like a hangout than a trading floor. Their job was to trade based on their individual macro philosophies. They were trading rock stars, pulling down millions a year in compensation. I met with the firm's founder and chairperson. His skill set appeared to be selecting talent, because I found his macro views to be overly simple and politicized as if he got them from the Wall Street Journal. I left that hedge fund thinking why I couldn't I be a discretionary macro trader. I've managed money long enough, spent years meeting with top hedge funds to learn how they invest, understood macro. How hard could it be? So when I quit my job, I determined I would try my hand at trading. My Life as a Trader I set up a trading account and transferred an amount of money that if I lost it all, it would sting but it wouldn't financially devastate me. Then I started trading. Gold, silver, interest rates, volatility, futures, options, future options, etc. I kept at it for six months. Not every day, but I put in enough time to come to a straightforward conclusion. I suck at trading. Here's the problem: I really, really hate losing money. Even on paper. That's a serious handicap for trading because even though my intermediate term macro view was correct, I couldn't stomach the losses that it required for that view to be rewarded. You see, in the very short-term there is absolutely no rhyme or reason to why securities move as they do. They bounce all over the place. It is completely random. And when they bounce the wrong way, then that is money lost. Losses cause pain. Emotionally, sometimes physically. Losses lead to rash decisions aimed at stopping that pain. Losses cause one to see patterns where none exist and to double down to try to make back what has been lost. So I quit trading. I was down 20%. A fair price to get trading out of my system. Why You Should Try Trading I think there is no better way for individuals to learn how difficult investing and trading can be then by setting up a small account and buying some individual securities. The account should be small enough that if you lose it all, it will not devastate you. Then see what happens. Watch how your body and emotions react. The future never looks more unpredictable than when you are staring into that unknown abyss with skin in the game. Then after you have had enough of a short-term trading fix, go back to the boring, long-term, low fee, diversified stuff. And consider yourself lucky that you got trading out of your system before you did something stupid like wager all of your retirement savings on Apple at 700, gold at 1700 or Bitcoin at 240.
The Real DealIn the eyes of city assessors, the so-called market value of Goldman Sachs‚Äô headquarters in Battery Park City has dropped by $176 million, or 26.7 percent, to $511.7 million ‚Äî the sharpest reduction of any Manhattan office building this year. (See chart above.) The market value is one of the numbers the city Department of Finance uses to calculate an owner‚Äôs annual property tax bill. It is generally only a fraction of what the building would sell for on the open market. Yet, unlike other Lower Manhattan properties that suffered damage from Hurricane Sandy, Goldman‚Äôs 200 West Street did not face a reduction due to an inherent loss in value to the building. The 2 million-square-foot, 43-story tower built four years ago notoriously remained like a fortress during the storm. Instead, the city slashed the value for the upcoming fiscal year because it compared 200 West to similar buildings in Lower Manhattan ‚Äî rather than in Midtown, as it has done in the past ‚Äî to assess the value. Typically, Lower Manhattan office properties are not worth as much as their peers in Midtown. A spokesperson for the Department of Finance was not immediately available to explain the reason for the change. A spokesperson for Goldman did not immediately return a call seeking comment. Other Lower Manhattan office towers also saw steep cuts, according to a review by¬†The Real Deal¬†of the department‚Äôs final tax rolls, published late last month. Among them were 32 Old Slip, owned by Boston-based private equity firm Beacon Capital Partners, and three towers belonging to Toronto-based Brookfield Office Properties: 1 Liberty Plaza, 4 Brookfield Place and 1 New York Plaza. TRD¬†reviewed tax records for Manhattan office buildings larger than 350,000 square feet south of Chambers Street, and ranked 10 buildings with the greatest dollar reductions in market value for the upcoming tax year, which runs from July 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014. Goldman‚Äôs headquarters and Brookfield‚Äôs 4 Brookfield Place are on Battery Park City Authority land, meaning the companies do not pay property taxes to the city. Instead, they make payments in lieu of taxes, known as PILOTS, to the authority. The payments are based on the city‚Äôs valuations. The cut in 200 West‚Äôs market value will lower Goldman‚Äôs payments, assuming tax rates remain the same, Matthew Monahan, a spokesperson for the Battery Park City Authority, said. It was not immediately clear what the annual impact would be on the payments. ‚ÄúReductions in the city‚Äôs Department of Finance assessed value of properties within Battery Park City generally would lower PILOT revenues if the tax rates remain constant,‚Äù Monahan said. Beacon‚Äôs 36-story 32 Old Slip saw its market value slide by $65.7 million, or 21.6 percent. The next highest decline was Brookfield‚Äôs 1 Liberty Plaza, falling $63.8 million, or 9.7 percent, and its 4 Brookfield Place, declining by $39.6 million, or 9.3 percent. The next group of properties was impacted by Hurricane Sandy. The city chopped the value of the German investment fund RREEF‚Äôs 17 State Street by $21.1 million, or 14.2 percent; Brookfield‚Äôs 1 New York Plaza by $20.8 million or 4.4 percent; and the commercial condominium building managed and partially owned by Time Equities at 125 Maiden Lane by $20.3 million, or 28.6 percent. The last three properties were 180 Water Street, owned by Melohn Properties, which saw a $13.5 million decline in value, amounting to 14.4 percent; Jack Resnick &amp; Sons‚Äô 199 Water Street, which was cut by $10.3 million, or 4.7 percent; and Savanna Partners‚Äô 80 Broad Street, which lost $8.1 million in market value in the city‚Äôs eyes, or 13.2 percent. Brookfield and a spokesperson for Resnick declined to comment. The other landlords did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesNo economic data in the United States today, but the market fell all day long. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
There are bars, and then there are bars. There are places where you can get a decent beer, and then there are bars where cocktails are actually a brilliant thought process brought to fruition by a combination of the perfect mix of ingredients, a creative mind, and a steady hand. These are places are part watering hole, part religious experience ‚Äî think of them as a kind of cocktail Mecca, and in the past few years they've become a global craze. The U.S. is no exception. But that isn't to say that what is made in these bars can't be done at home ‚Äî it's magic, after all, not rocket science. So Business Insider reached out to some of the most badass bartenders at some of the most badass cocktails bars in NYC, Portland and Washington D.C., to find out what they're putting on their menus this summer. Some of this requires a little finesse, but not too much. You're creative enough to get it right. Here are the recipes they sent over broken down by city and bar ‚Äî you're welcome. Let's start with New York City: Bar: Employee‚Äôs Only - 510 Hudson Street (and definitely one of the coolest bars in town) Drink: The Waterloo Created by Jason Kosmas &amp; Dushan Zaric, founders of Employee‚Äôs Only NYC 1.5 pts Plymouth Gin.75 pts Simple syrup (2:1).5 pts Campari.5 pts Fresh squeezed lemon juice4 (1x2-inch) chunks of watermelon1 watermelon wedge, with rind, for garnish Muddle the watermelon chunks and syrup in the bottom of a mixing glass until the fruit has turned into a juice. Then add the gin, juice, and Campari and fill the glass with 5 large cold ice cubes. Shake briefly and pour unstrained into a tall Collins Glass. Garnish with the watermelon wedge. Drink: The Martinez 2.5 pts Beefeater 24.5 pts Luxardo Maraschino liqueur.25 pts Dolin Blanc Vermouth.25 pts Absinthe Bitters1 lemon twist for garnish Pour all liquid ingredients into a mixing glass. Add large cold ice cubes and stir for 40 revolutions. Strain into a chilled cock glass. Garnish with the lemon twist. Bar: Gin Palace Drink: Irish Blood, English Heart 1.5 pts Beefeater Gin.5 pts Jameson Irish Whiskey.75 pts Lemon Juice.5 pts Ginger Syrup.25 pts Grenadine Combine all ingredients and shake. Strain into a Collins glass. Top with soda. Float (carefully dash) 4-5 dashes of angostura bitters. Garnish with a lemon wheel. Drink: Nelson‚Äôs Fix 1.5 pts Beefeater Gin.75 pts Lemon1.5 pts Amontillado Sherry.5 pts Simple Syrup2 raspberries Do not muddle, whip shake with 3 kold draft cubes or a small amount of ice. Strain (only once) into a double rocks glass filled with crushed ice. Garnish with one raspberry speared through with a mint sprig. Now onto Washington D.C.'s cocktail scene: Bar: Firefly Drink: Caravan 1 pt Beefeater Gin.5 pts Bulleit Rye.5 pts Kina Avoin d‚Äôor.25 pts Honey.25 pts Scrappy‚Äôs Cardamom Bitters Combine all ingredients and shake. Strain into a Collins glass. Bar: Brixton Imperial Tonic 2 pts Beefeater Gin1.5 pts Safari Cordial Pour into a mixing glass with ice cubes. Stir well. Strain into a chilled cocktail glass. And last but not least, cocktails from Portland: Bar: Portland Penny DinerDrink: Coat of Arms created by Brandon Wise .75 pts Plymouth Gin.75 pts Lillet blanc.75 pts Bonal gentian aperitif.5 pts Tea-infused Dolin Blanc.25 pts Rothman and Winter Pear liqueur Stir in mixing glass, strain into chilled coupe glass, garnish with expressed lemon peel Bar: Gilt Bar/Hogsalt HospitalityDrink: Bijou 1.5 pts Plymouth Gin.75 pts Carpano Antica.5 pts Green Chartreuse1/3 of a dropper of Orange Bitters Stir ingredients slowly in an ice filled mixing glass for 20-25 seconds. Strain into a coupe glass and garnish with an orange peel and luxardo cherry Last Word .75 pts Plymouth Gin.75 pts Green Chartreuse.75 pts Luxardo Maraschino.75 pts Lime Shake ingredients in an ice filled shaker for 20 seconds. Double strain into a coupe glass and garnish with a luxardo cherry
Two window cleaners were reportedly trapped after scaffolding collapsed at the top of Hearst Tower in Manhattan, NBC New York is reporting. The men were rescued after the scaffolding was secured, and a firefighter was able to pull them through the window on the 43rd story. According to the Fire Department of New York, the cause of the scaffolding collapse was the center motor failing. There were no major injuries,¬†Shimon Prokupecz of WNBC in New York tweeted. The tower is 46 stories tall, and 20-30mph winds were believed to be causing a problem in the rescue attempt. Parts of 57th and 58th Street and 8th Avenue were reportedly shut down. This tweeted picture gives you a good sense of the stakes: #Hearst Tower scaffolding collapse with 2 window washers up there. #NYC #Breakingnews twitter.com/BElias23/statu‚Ä¶ ¬† ABC 7 has live footage of the scene. It appears that the scaffold has broken in the center: ABC 7 Here you can see one man close up: ABC 7 The FDNY appears to have dropped safety lines down to the workers. They have also reportedly removed a window in a bid to secure the scaffolding. ABC 7 Hearst Tower has a pretty complex window-washing system. The New Yorker wrote about it recently (the full article is behind a paywall), saying the scaffolding system cost $3 million and has a "computer that monitors 67 electromechanical safety sensors and switches." The project's construction manager said it was "like a ride at Disneyland." The system is supposed to be checked for safety each morning. Here's what the building looks like, if you need a refresher: Wikimedia Commons We will be updating this post as we find out more...
Stocks are trading right at their lows of the day (as they have been pretty much all day long). Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1612, down 0.8%. The Dow is off 120 points, trading right at 15,000, also down 0.8% on the day. Meanwhile, after a morning of ups and downs, the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury is 4 basis points higher to 2.22%, at its high of the day. Gold is trending lower and is currently trading at $1386 an ounce (up 0.7%), while oil is trading at $95.85 a barrel, up 0.5%. The dollar-yen exchange rate is heading lower ‚Äì currently trading around ¬•95.55 ‚Äì but is up off its earlier lows of ¬•95.13. Given the lack of economic data releases in the U.S. today, concerns over Federal Reserve tapering remain the hot topic in the markets. The chart below gives a look at today's trading in S&amp;P 500 futures. Not a great look. FINVIZ.com
AllianceBernstein's Bob Brackett has weighed in on the debate over whether the global shale revolution is merely hype. And his answer is: yes ‚Äîin part. As far as U.S. shale gas goes, it's pretty much living up to the talk: the newer plays are seeing strong recovery rates over large acreage, meaning gas will keep flowing. ¬† That is not the case for shale oil. Productivity of the newest plays to come on drillers' radars have not come close to what's been coming out of the Bakken in North Dakota and Eagle Ford in Texas. And even for those two, he says, peak recovery rates of new wells drilled have been declining and flat, respectively. As a result, drillers are moving on to less productive basins and lower-quality acreage. "The prime locations have already been drilled," he writes. All this means crude prices will have to go back up:¬† In order to maintain current levels of overall production, marginal conventional production must be maintained with high oil prices. We expect marginal cost inflation will continue as well productivity declines, resulting in an oil price forecast that differs significantly from the forward curves. We forecast $96/bbl WTI for 2013, $101/bbl WTI for 2014, and longer term prices above $120/bbl and rising after 2017. Brackett extrapolates the struggle to find high-yielding, low-cost acreage to the rest of the world. The marginal cost of drilling is going to keep rising...Bob Brackett/AllianceBernstein ...Which means Brent price growth won't see a dent from shale production. Quite the opposite, it's going up to $160 by the end of the decade:Bob Brackett/AllianceBernsteinIn sum:Bob Brackett/AllianceBernstein
Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesIf youíre counting on an inheritance, you might think again. Recent data show that more†older adults today are in debt†than before. A study†earlier this year from the†Employee Benefit Research Institute†found that the percentage of households with credit card debt headed by someone age 75 or older doubled from11 percent in 1998 to 22 percent in 2010. And a 2011†University of Michigan Law School study†found that those 65 and older are the fastest-growing segment of the U.S. population filing for bankruptcy and they carry 50 percent more credit card debt than younger debtors. RELATED:†The High Cost of Growing Old Alone In addition to credit card debt, todayís older Americans carry loans that were rare in the past for their age group. Fourth-quarter†2012 data†from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York show that 2.2 million adults age 60 and older have student loan debtówith one in eight delinquent on payments. And since 1989, the proportion of those older than age 75 with mortgage debt has†quadrupled. Many seniors are racking up debt because of high medical bills and dwindling retirement savings, thinking that it will be forgiven when they die. While most debt cannot be transferred to their children, creditors can go after a seniorís home, their savings, and sometimes their families, who might have unknowingly cosigned a loan or who pay simply because theyíre unsure who is responsible. Children also can get bitten by a parentís back taxes. If a deceased parent gifted money to a child, and that gift occurred after the IRS informed the parent that they owed the government, the IRS can reach into the childís bank account, says California estate planning attorney†Mark Powell. Some parents will try to gift their children money or assets to avoid creditors, but if the child takes it knowing that the parent did so to circumvent those seeking repayment, courts can order it seized once the parent is gone, Powell says. In New York, for example, transfers to a child or another person that are made as early as 6 years before a debtor defaults on money they owe (including because the debtor dies) can be subject to seizure to repay the debt, he says. In other states, the†ìlook-backî period†is four or five years. Other mistakes are more basic: if a child co-signs a loanóhelping a parent refinance into a better mortgage rate, for exampleótheyíre liable for the entire amount if their parent dies, says Ted Beck, president and CEO of the National Endowment for Financial Education (NEFE). Declining health is a major driver of older adultsí straitened finances. Out-of-pocket†health care costs†in the 5 years before death average almost $39,000 for individuals and more than $51,000 for couples in which one spouse dies, according to a†study†this year in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. For one in four of the participants, those costs outstripped the value of their total household assets. New York City elder law and estate planning attorney Ann-Margaret Carrozza also says long-term care costs not covered by health insurance, such as for nursing home care, are the single-biggest financial problem for her clients 65 and older. And a survey released June 3 by the NEFE found that among older adults with cognitive decline, 47 percent pay bills late or not at all, 36 percent have trouble calculating simple math problems, 35 percent have made irrational purchases, and 21 percent have depleted their savings accounts. Carrozza says sheís seeing a growing number of cases in her practice of nursing homes coming after children for outstanding debts owed by deceased parents. She says it happens because during the admission process, children unwittingly sign a third-party guarantee to pay their mother or fatherís outstanding debts when theyíre gone. Failing that, debt owed to a nursing home by someone who dies gets absorbed by the institution. And most homes are operating on slim margins, says Greg Crist of the American Health Care Association, which represents the nursing home industry. Federal law prohibits creditors from discriminating against prospective borrowers based on age. A 70-year-old can take out a 30-year mortgage loan just like everyone else if she qualifies, says Nessa Feddis of the American Bankers Association óbanks also arenít allowed to give extra scrutiny to a borrowerís qualifications based on age. But she says creditors themselves havenít yet appeared to be affected by the growing ranks of indebted seniors. Children can take preventive steps to avoid surprises at a parentís death. When they sense a parent is in financial trouble, they should work with the parent to develop a plan for one of the children to help in overseeing their finances, says Beck. ìToo many children donít know their parentsí financial situation,î says Powell. ìThey donít realize that every year when the parent writes them a check at Christmas time, that shouldnít be happening.î Powell recounts a recent case of an older client who was paying for her grandchildrenís college tuitions by withdrawing equity from her house. Her children could have afforded to pay for their own childrenís school costs and were shocked to discover that their mother had drawn down 40 percent of her equity to keep up the school payments. Robert Stammers of the†CFA Institute†also advises children to consider hiring the same financial advisor or accountant as the parentóthe professional then can serve as an objective outsider who also knows the complete picture. And Kevin Gallegos of Freedom Financial Network says that for cases of serious debt, children should consider working with a credit counseling agency or a company that provides debt settlement servicesóthe latter can often get clients savings of up to 50 percent of the total debt, he says. (The Federal Trade Commission†offers advice†in selecting among these services.) Those can both help children protect themselves and avoid what may be worseómoney-related family arguments that often arise when parents get into financial trouble. ìThe number of people I know who are feuding with siblings over how [money decisions] are being managed with mom and dad is just incredible,î says Beck. ìThis is the little family secret that everybodyís dealing with.î †
Bloomberg TVFormer Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain, who now runs CIT Group,†told Bloomberg TV's Erik Schatzker and Sara Eisen on "Market Makers" that a financial crisis like 2008 could "absolutely" happen again.† "If anything, too big to fail is a bigger problem because the biggest financial institutions are more concentrated today than they were. Dodd Frank did not solve too big to fail," Thain told Bloomberg TV.† Here's a transcript from the full segment courtesy of†Bloomberg TV:† Thain on how comfortable we should be with what Wall Street has become since September 2008: "If you are asking about too big to fail and can what happened in 2008 could happen again, the answer is yes, it absolutely can happen again. If anything, too big to fail is a bigger problem because the biggest financial institutions are more concentrated today than they were. Dodd Frank did not solve too big to fail." On why there is so much resistance from the leaders on Wall Street re: too big to fail and why anyone would put the financial system and economy at risk again by being so large and complex: "There are different things. They push back against parts of Dodd Frank because a lot of parts of Dodd Frank have nothing to do with the financial crisis or too big to fail. Proprietary trading was not the problem in the financial crisis. There are a lot of things in Dodd Frank that don't help the too big to fail problem. The higher capital levels do help the too big to fail problem and make the failure much less likely. Higher capital levels are fine. But the regulatory burden and all of the rulemaking that goes inside of Dodd Frank, a lot of that is not helping." On whether he has any desire to go back to Wall Street to run one of the largest institutions: "I've been at bigger companies and I've been at smaller companies. The New York Stock Exchange was a relatively smaller company especially when I started. I enjoy the challenge of fixing things, whether it was Merrill Lynch, which was certainly broken when I got there, or the NYSE or CIT, it has been fun to take companies that have good core businesses that have been damaged by the prior management and fix them." On how Merrill Lynch today compares to the firm that it was: "I regret having to sell Merrill Lynch because it was a great company with a great history. It had a very good culture, but in the environment we were in, it was not likely to survive. It was necessary to protect shareholders and employees." On whether firms like Merrill Lynch survive and thrive inside the global universal banking model differently than when they were independent: "Merrill was already pretty broad in its businesses. It would have been better if it could stay independent. Right now it's contributing a significant portion of Bank of America's overall earnings, given the problems in BofA's other business, but I think it would have been better for the company if it remained independent." On how Goldman Sachs is doing coming out of the crisis and trying to restore its reputation: "I think they are doing very well. One of the things is they have gotten through the crisis in relatively good financial shape. If anything, there's less competition for them now. I actually think they are doing fine." On whether he feels any sense of loyalty to the firms he used to work for: "I worked at Goldman Sachs for 25 years. I basically grew up there. You can't help but feel loyalty there. The New York Stock Exchange was a great place to work. I enjoyed that job a lot. I got to be on TV more. That was a big turnaround. When I left, it was in much better shape and a global player. Merrill - I wasn't there that long, but it was a great company. I do feel an affinity to all of those places." On how far along CIT is in its transformation: "When I started at CIT, there was a tremendous amount to do. It's basically completed -- the repairing of the damage coming out of the bankruptcy. The last piece was the lifting of the written agreement by the Federal Reserve. We got that a week or so agoÖit is also a symbol of the fact that we are now a bank and bank holding company that's in good standing with all of our regulators and we are now really focused on growing our business going forward." On whether CIT is still in restructuring mode and whether the company will have to announce more layoffs: "We have been bringing our expense structure down. One of the things I had to do when I first started was to shrink the company. We had to get rid of the bad assets around the balance sheet and we refinanced $31 billion of debt. We are rationalizing some of our businesses. Our expenses are a little bit too high, we are working on bringing those down, but we are also working on growing assets." †On how big he'd like the CIT bank to be and how much of its funding should be deposit based:† † "Funding was absolutely one of the first challenges. Just to give an idea, on the day I started, our senior debt paid LIBOR plus 10 with a three percent floor. So you have a commercial finance company in this rate environment trying to make money with 13% debt. That's basically impossible. We have refinanced or repaid all $31 billion of debt that came out of the bankruptcy. The other thing we have been doing is putting almost all of our new U.S. assets in our bank. We have a Utah bank that is FDIC regulated. It has been growing very nicely. We put all of those U.S. assets in there and we now have almost a third of our overall funding coming of that bank." On whether he's been approached for a takeover: "We would not talk about that on the air or anywhere else. I get asked this question a lot. If you look at the environment, the big banks are awash in deposits and cannot generate attractive assets. We and all of our businesses are able to generate high-yielding, attractive assets. The logic of that is obvious, but we are doing well I ourselves." On whether he would have to do right by shareholders if presented with an opportunity such as what happened with Merrill Lynch: "I think I have a good track record of doing right by shareholders. I know who I work for." On the prospects for the universal banking model given the current regulatory environment: †"It's a very normal thing, whatever you have a crisis, that there's an overreaction to the crisis and an attempt to say, we'll we're going to make sure that this never happens again. If you look over many bubbles, this is the same thing that happened after the last bubble. The biggest issue right now for big global banks is the combination of higher capital standards, which is probably a good thing, but then excessive amounts of regulation in terms of their business. You don't really need to have both. If you have significantly higher capital standards, than a lot of the regulatory burden that comes out of Dodd Frank is an overreaction." On the market conditions and whether we're in store for another 1994: "It's hard to knowÖI think there's no question that rates will go up and they will go up over time. It's just a question of when and how violently. I'm less worried than sometimes the market seems to be about the Fed slowing down their purchases because I think they can slow down their purchases and still maintain their balance sheet and not adversely disrupt the market." On whether he's worried about the impact it will have across the banking sector: "No actually, such low rates actually makes it difficult for the banking sector because it's hard to generate assets with yield. If interest rates were generally higher, I think that would help the financial sector. It would help us. We are asset sensitive. Our assets would re-price faster than our liabilities, so a higher rate environment would actually help our business." Watch the interview below:†
Wikimedia CommonsA closely watched consumer confidence number that routinely moves markets upon release is accessed by an elite group of traders, for a fee, a full two seconds before its official release, according to a document obtained by CNBC. A contract signed by¬†Thomson Reuters, the news agency and data provider, and the University of Michigan, which produces the widely cited economic statistic, stipulates that the data will be posted on the web for the general public at 10 a.m. on the days it is released. Five minutes before that, at 9:55 a.m., the data is distributed on a conference call for Thomson Reuters' paying clients, who are given certain headline numbers. But the contract carves out an even more elite group of clients, who subscribe to the "ultra-low latency distribution platform," or high-speed data feed, offered by Thomson Reuters. Those most elite clients receive the information in a specialized format tailor-made for computer-driven algorithmic trading at 9:54:58.000, according to the terms of the contract. On occasion, they could get the data even earlier‚Äîthe contract allows for a plus or minus 500 milliseconds margin of error. In the ultra-fast world of high-speed computerized markets, 500 milliseconds is more than enough time to execute trades in stocks and futures that would be affected by the soon-to-be-public news. Two seconds, the amount promised to "low latency" customers, is an eternity. For exclusive access to the data, Thomson Reuters pays the University of Michigan $1 million per year, according to the contract, in addition to a "contingent fee" based on the revenue generated by Thomson Reuters. The contract reviewed by CNBC was signed in September of 2009. It expired a year later. Thomson Reuters and the University Michigan confirmed that the relationship still exists. In a statement, Thomson Reuters said, "Through an agreement with University of Michigan, Thomson Reuters is the exclusive distributor of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers to its clients through various subscription services as well as to the general public via a press release. Details of the tiered release of this data are provided openly to Thomson Reuters customers and the wider public and anyone wishing to trade on this data can pay for the service that best meets their data needs." Many market participants are not aware that some traders get a head start on market-moving data with plenty of time to execute trades before the general public receives the same information. And the existence of an elite group that receives early information is likely to attract criticism that it doesn't square with the principle that market-moving information should be released to all market participants equally. "I worry that there's both a fairness and a disclosure issue," said former Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Harvey Pitt. "If I'm paying a lot of money, I should know whether I have the best deal possible. If there was no disclosure of the tiered structure, that would be a serious problem." To demonstrate that it disclosed the existence of a two-second lead time, Thomson Reuters sent CNBC a link to a webpage of marketing material detailing the system. There, the firm cited a major market move on Aug. 12, 2011, in which U.S. stocks slipped after consumer sentiment data was released. "Thomson Reuters News Feed Direct customers benefited from the 2-second advance and the fastest delivery in the market," the site said. The firm explained that this disclosure can be found on the "Machine Readable News" product page of its website, under a drop-down menu for "suite components." Thomson Reuters declined to reveal how much it charges for access to each tier of data it sells. Thomson Reuters distributes a wide range of data on economic indicators to its customers. The consumer confidence number is a measure of household opinion about the state of the economy that has been conducted since the 1940s. Surveyors conduct telephone interviews to gauge consumer sentiment. It is looked to by market professionals as a guide to where the economy might be heading, or how well consumers are dealing with adverse economic events. Within milliseconds, the new data causes market reaction‚Äîa move that can come the instant Thomson Reuters transmits the data to its elite group of traders. On May 17, for example, trading volume exploded in the Spider ETF at exactly 9:54:57.975. More than 100,000 shares traded hands in the first ten millisecond of the burst of activity, reports the analysis firm Nanex, LLC. Within less than 100 milliseconds, the price of SPY jumped from $165.90 to more than $166.06. In the first one half second of the trading burst, Nanex calculates that more than $40 million changed hands, just in the Spider ETF. By 10 seconds into the event, more than $100 million had changed hands. It takes a human being between 300 and 400 milliseconds to blink an eye. Several economists contacted by CNBC said they were unaware that the data are released to the elite group two seconds before the 9:55 conference call. One called the release "disingenuous," another called it "unfair."¬† Thomson Reuters did not respond to a request for comment on those economists' remarks. But Pitt pointed out that private entities are usually free to distribute their own work product however they see fit, as long as they disclose what their arrangements are. "A non-governmental and non-corporate individual's generic data analysis can be market moving, but if so that is merely a reflection solely of the work product of that individual," Pitt said. "The insider trading laws can't‚Äîand shouldn't‚Äîbe read to deprive the progenitor of personal analyses of the potential market uses that person can make of the data." In marketing material on its website, Thomson Reuters touts the virtue to traders of its economic data. "Be The First To React," says the site, explaining that the service offers "Data Your Algorithms Can Interpret." The University of Michigan's arrangement with Thomson Reuters dates to 2007, said a university spokesman. "This is something that's been reviewed carefully," said university spokesman Rick Fitzgerald. "It's been in place for a number of years, and we think it complies with all the regulations." Fitzgerald said the total amount received by the university under the deal has been "very close" to a million dollars each year. Asked why a taxpayer-financed university should sell data to Wall Street before it releases it to the taxpayers, Fitzgerald said: "Most of our research funding comes from private sources." Richard Curtin, director of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers at the Survey Research Center of the University of Michigan, defended the arrangement. "This research project is privately financed," he said. "Without the support from Thomson Reuters, no data would be collected, the project would no longer exist and the public benefit would disappear." As for the university's role, former SEC chairman Pitt said, "I think public colleges should set a higher standard, but they need to get their money wherever they can, I suppose." Within the past week, there have been two incidents involving trading ahead of the official release of market-moving data. On June 3, Thomson Reuters inadvertently sent market-moving ISM manufacturing data early to its paying clients, many of whom immediately traded on the information before it was available to the wider market. The manufacturing data, which that day came in disappointingly low and sent traders scrambling to sell shares, was set to be released at precisely 10 a.m. by the Institute for Supply Management, a private entity that puts out the data each month. Nanex showed a spike in the trading volume of the ETF SPY 15 milliseconds before 10 a.m., and a corresponding move down in the price ahead of the official release time of the information as computer trading algorithms processed the data and executed trades. Thomson Reuters said the accidental release was due to a "minor clock synchronization issue." The firm said it would take steps to fix the problem. Separately, on Friday, Nanex spotted a burst of trading about a half second before release of the Department of Labor's highly scrutinized monthly jobs data, which often set the tone for market trading all day. It remains unclear what caused that spike in trading. There is no evidence that Thomson Reuters or the University of Michigan were involved with this early release of data. Asked about the event, a Department of Labor spokesman said officials there saw nothing unusual during the "lock-up" in which members of the media are given the number in advance and asked to hold it for a precise 8:30 a.m. release time. "I am not aware of any information slippage," said Department of Labor spokesman Carl Fillichio. "There was nothing evidentially unusual during [the] lock up." However, Fillichio did not discount the possibility of a mistake. "You should remember that even if there was human error on our part and even if the switch was hit milliseconds early, everyone in the lockup would have been affected, so it would have still been a level playing field," Fillichio said.
Flickr / wolfgangfotoA New York regulator is accusing major life insurers of tapping loopholes in individual states and countries to make themselves look bigger and richer, the New York Times' Mary Williams Walsh reports. Benjamin M. Lawsky, New York‚Äôs superintendent of financial services, said New York-based firms had inflated their balance sheets to the tune of $48 billion. Here's how the alleged scheme works, according to results of a study Lawsky commissioned: Insurance companies use shadow insurance to shift blocks of insurance policy claims to special entities ‚Äî often in states outside where the companies are based, or else offshore (e.g.,the Cayman Islands) ‚Äî in order to take advantage of looser reserve and regulatory requirements. Reserves are funds that insurers set aside to pay policyholder claims. In a typical shadow insurance transaction, an insurance company creates a ‚Äúcaptive‚Äùinsurance subsidiary, which is essentially a shell company owned by the insurer‚Äôs parent. The company then ‚Äúreinsures‚Äù a block of existing policy claims through the shell company ‚Äî and diverts the reserves that it had previously set aside to pay policyholders to other purposes, since the reserve and collateral requirements for the captive shell company are typically lower. Sometimes the parent company even effectively pays a commission to itself from the shell company when the transaction is complete. The main goal of the scheme, Lawsky said, is to inflate the status of capital reserves, something he compared¬†to what happened in 2008. Click here to read the full story on NYTimes.com &gt;
Former Qwest CEO Joseph Nacchio is currently serving a six-year sentence after being convicted of insider trading in April 2007 for selling $52 million of stock in the spring of 2001 as the telecommunications carrier appeared to be deteriorating. During the trial his defense team argued that Nacchio, 63, believed Qwest was about to win secret government contracts that would keep it in the black. Nacchio alleged that the government stopped offering the company lucrative contracts after Qwest refused to cooperate with a National Security Agency surveillance program in February 2001. That claim gains new relevance these days, amid leaks by whistleblower Edward Snowden that allege widespread domestic surveillance by the NSA. Back in 2006 Leslie Cauley of USA Today, citing multiple people with direct knowledge of the arrangement, reported that shortly after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks America's three largest telecoms signed contracts to provide the NSA with detailed call records from hundreds of millions of people across the country. Cauley noted that Qwest's refusal to participate "left the NSA with a hole in its database" since the company served local phone service to 14 million customers in 14 states. From USA Today (emphasis ours): The NSA, which needed Qwest's participation to completely cover the country, pushed back hard. ... ... the agency suggested that Qwest's foot-dragging might affect its ability to get future classified work with the government. Nacchio's legal concerns about the NSA program at the time mirror those of civil liberty groups today. Cauley, citing sources familiar with events, reported the NSA asserted that Qwest didn't need a court order ó or approval under Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (which oversees NSA snooping) ó to provide the data. "They told (Qwest) they didn't want to [run the proposal by the FISA court] because FISA might not agree with them," one NSA insider told USA Today. There is a record of the NSA running afoul of FISA: In July the FISA court ruled that the NSA violated the Fourth Amendment's restriction against unreasonable searches and seizures "on at least one occasion." Furthermore, Nacchio felt that it was unclear who would have access to Qwest customers' information and how that information might be used. Sources told Cauley that the NSA said government agencies including the FBI, CIA, and DEA might have access to its massive database. Nacchio entered prison on April 14, 2009 and is scheduled for release on September 21, 2013 †(Federal inmates are typically required to serve at least 80 percent of a sentence, which would be 3.5 years in this case.)†
Brad Barket/APNo need for the preamble here, we all know what this is about ‚Äî Kanye West's super candid, super cocky interview with the New York Times. Kanye's quotes from the story have, as likely was intended, both delighted and enraged fan and foe across the country. Kudos Kanye, you got what you wanted, but¬† just one tiny quibble on this end. These quotes right here: "Yeah, respect my trendsetting abilities. Once that happens, everyone wins. The world wins; fresh kids win; creatives win; the company wins... ‚ÄúI am undoubtedly, you know, Steve of Internet, downtown, fashion, culture. Period. By a long jump. I honestly feel that because Steve has passed, you know, it‚Äôs like when Biggie passed and Jay-Z was allowed to become Jay-Z.‚Äù Let's not even touch the Steve Jobs concept. It seems unseemly to pull him into this. The problem here is that Kanye West has never set the standard for downtown fashion, culture, or the kids that truly own it in his life. In fact, it's arguable that he's never set a trend in his life. wikimedia commonsWhat's actually happening here is that Kanye West is following downtown culture, and the kids are respectfully letting him have his say. To break this down, let's take it back to 2007, when Kanye released his 3rd album, Graduation. That was the year Kanye started wearing neon and putting on skinny jeans. That's really when a lot of people ‚Äî uptown, downtown, black and white did. The cover of his album reflected the palate of the moment ‚Äî bright colors designed by the work of Japanese artist Takashi Murakami. It was 2007 and 2008 when electronic music really started showing up in pop music, and a lot of things changed. But Kanye didn't lead that movement, he followed it behind the same downtown kids that embody the style he claims to innovate. Perhaps he was one of the first rappers to do this, but it definitely didn't come from him. Before Graduation hit the airwaves, indie band and true innovators LCD Soundsystem released their 2nd album, Sound of Silver. It had the sentiment, and its listeners had the skinny jeans. Even more to this point, French techno DJs Justice released their underground hit gone above, D.A.N.C.E in 2007, and it's neon technicolor dream of a video was a smash. YouTubeScreenshot of Justice's D.A.N.C.E videoKanye copped that. And that's fine, it was great stuff. As for the Murakami cover, the Japanese artist had been showing a major exhibit at L.A.'s Getty Museum in 2007, which was later taken to Brooklyn with great success in 2008.¬† The kids loved it, and so did Kanye. So there's that. A few other trends Kanye can claim to have started ‚Äî shutter sunglasses. Thanks for that, Kanye. Everyone fist pumping at Avicii concerts thanks you as well. Perhaps his fashion line? Lest we not forget, Kanye's first attempt at¬† Paris Spring Fashion Week in 2011 was largely panned. The NY Times said "yawn," actually, and given their track record at identifying what is cutting edge, that's pretty horrific. From the NY Times: At the after-party for his first runway show here on Saturday night, Kanye West, even before the reviews came out, made an obscenity-laced speech in which he complained about people treating his aspiration to be a serious fashion designer as a joke, and said he had taken out loans to hire the best models, designers and location. ‚ÄúI gave you everything that I had,‚Äù he said, one of his few printable remarks. If that is true, Mr. West faces bigger obstacles in life than credit-card debt. His show was described by those who attended as, at best, a disappointment, and yet the rapper could be found almost everywhere during Paris Fashion Week defending himself. The following season Fall Fashion Week 2012, Kanye didn't show at all. His glorious return the season after that was overshadowed by this disturbing news: Rolling Stone reported that Kanye would not allow critics at his fashion show at all. Not exactly the fearless attitude of a trendsetter, and not exactly the embodiment downtown energy that he claims to imbue which is, by nature, never tired, and never scared. Now, all that said, as a musician Kanye is more than solid. His songs are thoughtful, passionate and refreshing. He makes amazing beats for very talented lyricists (something we wouldn't call him either). However,¬† you won't find downtown scenesters with an eye for art¬† pre-ordering his next album on iTunes, waiting for it with bated breath. They're likely more appreciative of his latest single as a welcome reprieve from the onslaught of Justin Bieber and Miley Cyrus tunes while they're waiting in line at their local bodega. By and large, Kanye has done little more than appropriate the innovations of others into his own work and call it something completely new.¬† But it's not. He is not the master of all that is cool, he just writes good songs that everyone can groove to. This isn't meant to ream him, he's talented ‚Äî it's just meant to set the record straight. Thanks for the Workout Plan, though Kanye ‚Äî and this mixtape from Mick Boogie. That was awesome. For good measure, here's Justice's D.A.N.C.E video: 
anneh632 via FlickrIn the first quarter of 2013, 9.7 million or 19.8% of all residential properties with a mortgage were still in negative equity, according to CoreLogic's latest negative equity report. Homeowners are in negative equity when they owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth. ¬† This is down from 10.5 million or 21.7% of all residential properties at the end of Q4 2012. Higher home prices helped lift 850,000 mortgage borrowers out of negative equity. But a large part of the country is still deep underwater. Using CoreLogic data, we ranked the 12 states that had the most underwater mortgages as a percentage of all mortgages. The five states with the highest negative equity accounted for 32.8% of negative equity in the U.S. Note: Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is a measure used by financial institutions to gauge risk before approving a mortgage. The higher the LTV ratio, the higher the risk and the more expensive the loan. 
YouTube/movieclipsOn timing in investments and personal finance, as it relates to my home mortgage Did you see the front page of the¬†Wall Street Journal¬†today?¬† Yeah, that graph that showed 10-year bond yields up 0.5% in the past two months?¬† Oh boy that made me so happy this morning. I locked in my new 15-year mortgage rate at the end of April.¬† Yup, just at the low point in the graph. Then, I closed on my mortgage refinancing this week. Which means that today,¬†I am a Golden God¬†of mortgage refinancing timing. Timing is stupid As an investment rule, I don‚Äôt believe in timing. Or rather, I believe in the opposite of timing, which is that when it comes to investments and personal finance you‚Äôre supposed to keep doing the same boring, unsexy, basically correct thing¬†[1]¬†no matter where we are in the interest rate cycle, business cycle, stock market cycle, or Elliott Wave¬†[2]¬†cycle. However. I am also human and not immune to the need to react to external financial conditions and to believe myself clever and responsive to said external financial conditions. So whenever the stock market severely crashes, I feel the need ‚Äì to both honor my contrarian nature and as a totemic superstitious thumbing of my nose at the market ‚Äì to buy stocks.¬† This has produced mixed results ‚Äì as I‚Äôm always too early in catching a falling knife¬†[3]¬†‚Äì but it makes me feel powerful and clever and unbowed.¬† Take that, market! I am investor, hear me roar! I am telling the Ballrog:¬†You shall not pass! I mention all of this because as far as personal finance timing goes, I just made my best trade ever. ¬†This week I refinanced into a 15 year mortgage at 2.75% and I am feeling great.¬† In sum: I am a Golden God. In the last 50 years, mortgage rates have never been lower than the rate I just locked in. Of course, this same statement ‚Äì ‚Äúmortgage rates are at the lowest level we‚Äôve seen in a lifetime!‚Äù ‚Äì could be made at almost any point in the last 30 years.¬† I myself have predicted about a dozen of the last nonexistent interest-rate hikes. So my timing may not be as amazing as it feels.¬† But still, let me bask for a moment in what might be the only good timing trade of my investment life. Basking I am pleased I got this refinancing done ‚Äì It‚Äôs pretty arduous getting a mortgage approved by any underwriting process these days. I am pleased I got the lowest rate I could have imagined ‚Äì No way could I have predicted this rate even a few years ago. I am pleased I got a 15-year mortgage rather than a 30-year mortgage ‚Äì since it takes rock-bottom mortgage rates to an even rockier bottom level. The timing-junkie in me ‚Äì acknowledging the silliness of timing ‚Äì wants to have low-ticked the mortgage market.¬† The 0.5% climb in 10year bond rates and the uptick from 2.75% to 3% for 15-year mortgages in the past month has me feeling smug. [1]¬†To be most specific, ideally ensure a modest surplus every month and blindly put that surplus into an investment vehicle.¬† Also, make it a risky vehicle if you‚Äôre young and a less risky vehicle if you might need the money soon.¬† That‚Äôs the sum total of relevant investing advice, and I specifically eschew timing as a consideration. [2]¬†Speaking of stupid, if you‚Äôre involved in finance you know about the kind of technical trading analysis that goes by the name¬†Elliott Wave¬†or myriad other fashionable investment timing silliness. [3]¬†Specifically I bought shares in the Nasdaq Index on the most severely down day of the massive crash in tech stocks, Friday, April 14 2000.¬† This appeared to me to be the final leg down of tech stocks, which had dropped over 30% in just one month (check out the graph.)¬† It was a brilliant purchase until a few weeks later when the market went significantly lower, and would fall 70% from its peak in March 2000 to trough in September 2001.¬† I also bought shares in the S&amp;P Index during the 2008 crisis, on October 8 2008 (down 19% on the year) and again October 26, 2008 (down 35% on the year).¬† Again, momentarily brilliant purchases until that falling knife cut even lower all the way through March 2009.¬† The lesson: timing the market is a mug‚Äôs game.¬† But, it may be satisfying when understood as a psychological and superstitious trick.
When we came across Yahoo Finance contributor Adam Hatter's story¬†about his family's five-year triumph over their mortgage debt, we couldn't help but wince. On the one hand, Hatter and his wife's success is something to marvel at. They borrowed $157,000 with a 30-year fixed-rate loan in 2008 and managed to pay it off 25 years early on a "quite average" dual income. "The¬†sooner it was paid for, the sooner we would be free from the shackles of debt," wrote Hatter, a government analyst who lives in Charleston, W. Va. "The sooner we would have the ability to use our money for more than just monthly bills." They saved tens of thousands of dollars worth of interest in the process, but what is troubling is how far they went to do it. In order to double up on their mortgage payments each month, Hatter and his wife put the brakes on their retirement savings, save for their 5% employer contribution. And when they realized how much they'd need to sacrifice to double up on mortgage payments each month, they also stopped contributing to 529 college savings plans for their two young children.¬† Every homeowner would love to be unshackled from mortgage debt, but there are few homeowners out there who are likely in good enough financial shape to go for it. "People today are woefully under-saved for both emergencies and retirement," Greg McBride, mortgage expert for Bankrate.com, told Business Insider. "They need to be maximizing their financial responsibility by padding their emergency savings, utilizing tax favored retirement options and not pouring every spare nickle into their home, which is an illiquid asset." There's no telling how much that money would have grown over half a decade in an IRA or 529 account, but one thing is for certain: there's no way to get it back now.¬† "That extra money applied to the mortgage is effectively gone until they sell the house and whether you're selling or staying there, it's not a free house once you get the loan paid off," McBride said. "You still have property taxes, maintenance and upkeep, not to mention you've really compromised your financial security in the meantime."¬† Hatter family aside, in what case would it be wise to pay off a mortgage early? Ideally, you'd first be able to meet these criteria:¬† And if you don't? The smartest move the Hatters made was to refinance their mortgage as soon as they could, dropping their interest rate to a fixed 4.375%. That's one way to tackle huge interest paymets and cash in on today's low rates, which are slowly starting to creep back up. Personal finance expert Richard Barrington¬†supports the early mortgage pay-off approach, if homeowners have examined every option and decided they're fiscally fit enough to go for it.¬† Here are the simple questions he recommends asking before taking extreme measures to pay down your mortgage:¬† Are there prepayment penalties?¬†Actually, it‚Äôs best to ask this question before you sign up for a mortgage. If you can minimize prepayment penalties, it will give you more options down the road. Is your income solid?¬†This is essential for making sure you don‚Äôt run into a liquidity problem by putting too much into your mortgage too soon. Have interest rates fallen or risen?¬†If interest rates have risen (and assuming you have a fixed-rate mortgage), you might do better by investing at higher rates while continuing to pay a low rate on your mortgage. If rates have fallen, you face a choice of paying down the mortgage early or refinancing, which leads me to my final suggestion. At the end of the day, each case is different, and every family should strategize carefully for paying off any debt as large as a home loan.¬† "Look, it's not like [the Hatters] took out all that equity and went and spent the money ... but it's certainly not their optimal move," McBride said. "It may be 10, 20, 30 years for them to realize that, when their kids go to college and they haven't accumulated enough savings and they have to borrow student loans. And yeah, they don't have a mortgage, but they sure won't have as much saved in retirement as they would have liked."
flickr/Louish PixelThe reverberations emanating from rising U.S. Treasury yields over the past several weeks are shaking financial markets around the world. Almost every government bond market ñ across both developed and emerging economies ñ is experiencing rising yields as U.S. Treasuries get cheaper, yield more, and thus become more attractive to global investors. At the same time, fears that the Federal Reserve may begin to taper back monetary stimulus ñ which have been driving the rise in Treasury yields ñ are now seeping into equity markets as well, and stocks are selling off. In a note to clients this afternoon, Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson asks, "Which domino are you watching?" "There are simply too many (ugly) charts we could stick inside [of this note] and so we stopped short of doing so," says Wilkinson. "It is hard not to feel as though we are watching out for the lead domino to topple ñ the one that could set off a chain reaction." Here's Wilkinson's take: The pain continues across the Emerging Globe. Having fallen to a two-year low earlier in the week, Brazilís benchmark Ibov index is lower again today. Mexicoís stocks slid by 2.00% in the face of rising volatility in US stocks. The CBOE Vix index is fast-approaching last weekís peak and the highest since mid-April. And then there is the little matter of the yen, whose vacillations continue to trip-up US equity prices. As we noted late on Tuesday the Japanese unit was closing stronger than when it snapped the dollarís grip last week. And more problematic was a broadening of the yenís advance against the euro currency, British pound and the Aussie dollar. The dollar index just snapped to a two-month low midweek indicating a decidedly risk-off mood and one that hardly supports the earlier return for risk-appetite signaled by a move higher for equity prices. Finally, the S&amp;P 500 has slowly returned to beneath Fridayís low ñ the low supported by an above consensus payroll reading. Failure to hold that level could arguably cause stocks to have a stab at the fear-inspired lows of last week at 1598. There are so many dominoes just waiting to topple that weíre no longer sure what to watch. Wilkinson flags the unwind in the short-yen trade as a source of weakness in U.S. stock prices. Click here to read why the dollar-yen exchange rate has become so important &gt;
More weakness in the market: U.S. stocks are trading just off their lows of the day. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is at 1617, down 0.6%.†The Dow Jones Industrial Average is trading around 15,050, down 0.5%. European markets closed in the red almost across the board, with Italy down 1.6%. Spain is a notable exception ñ its stock market rose 0.4% today. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury is down 1 basis point to 2.17%. Meanwhile, gold is catching a bid this morning, trading at $1390 an ounce, up 1.0%. And after a number of sharp ups and downs this morning, WTI crude oil is headed lower, trading around $95.93 a barrel, up 0.6% on the day. The U.S. dollar is trading at •95.36 against the Japanese yen (down 0.7%) after hitting a low of •95.13. (If you're still not following the dollar-yen exchange rate, you should ñ it's arguably become one of the most important indicators in global financial markets.) The unwind in the short-yen trade finally seems to be catching up to Nikkei futures, which just took a dive as well (chart below). Thinkorswim
Bloomberg TV interviewed Hong Kong Chief Executive CY Leung today, and asked him the big question on everyone's lips ó what will Hong Kong do with NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden? Leung, effectively the "mayor" of Hong Kong, one of China's two semi-autonomous Special Administrative Regions, didn't have much in the way of answers. In fact, if there's one takeaway from this interview, it's "no comment." On whether Hong Kong will take any action against Edward Snowden: ìI cannot comment on individual cases Ö We do not comment on any cases of this nature.î On whether they will comply if the U.S. does issue a warrant for his arrest: ìI can only saw we follow our policies.î On what are those policies: ìI cannot discuss it. We do not comment on such cases.î On Hong Kong/China being one country, two systems: ìWe have a different set of laws in Hong Kong and a different judicial system. That is described in our constitution and Iím not commenting on any individual case.î On Snowden fleeing to Hong Kong because it is traditionally known to be a free-speech place: ìHong Kong enjoys freedoms in accordance with the law. But again, Iím not commenting on individual cases.î On cooperation with the United States: ìWe cooperate in all areas with the United States. Economy, financial services and so on. But I am not commenting on individual cases.î
Sony PicturesLast week, it was revealed that the nation's biggest telecom companies are sending the government records of every phone call made on their systems every day. These revelations have caused not just privacy fanatics, but most ordinary Americans, to freak out about privacy and worry that the country's data gathering and obsession with security has gone too far. So should you be freaked out that the government is collecting your telephone records? Actually, no, says Stewart Baker, the former top lawyer at the National Security Agency, in a column at Foreign Policy. Baker starts off by emphasizing the following points: Baker then offers the following example to explain why the NSA would want to build a database of call-record meta-data and how it might use that data for good ó to help stop terrorists. (Many people have assumed that the only reason the NSA would want this data is that it wants to spy on ordinary law-abiding Americans.) Baker's example is complicated. But it will give you a sense of what the NSA might legitimately be trying to do with this data, as well as the challenges the agency faces in doing the job that the country has asked it to do. [W]hy would the government collect all these records ... And, really, what's the justification for turning the data over to the government ...? Consider this entirely hypothetical example. Imagine that the United States is intercepting al Qaeda communications in Yemen. Its leader there calls his weapons expert and says, "Our agent in the U.S. needs technical assistance constructing a weapon for an imminent operation. I've told him to use a throwaway cell phone to call you tomorrow at 11 a.m. on your throwaway phone. When you answer, he'll give you nothing other than the number of a second phone. You will buy another phone in the bazaar and call him back on the second number at 2 p.m." Now, this is pretty good improvised tradecraft, and it would leave the government with no idea where or who the U.S.-based operative was or what phone numbers to monitor. It doesn't have probable cause to investigate any particular American. But it surely does have probable cause to investigate any American who makes a call to Yemen at 11 a.m., Sanaa time, hangs up after a few seconds, and then gets a call from a different Yemeni number three hours later. Finding that person, however, wouldn't be easy, because the government could only identify the suspect by his calling patterns, not by name. Then Baker explains why the NSA would want and need to build its own database of the call-record data, rather than making specific data requests of each telecom provider whenever circumstances warranted. So how would the NSA go about finding the one person in the United States whose calling pattern matched the terrorists' plan? Well, it could ask every carrier to develop the capability to store all calls and search them for patterns like this one. But that would be very expensive, and its effectiveness would really only be as good as the weakest, least cooperative carrier. And even then it wouldn't work without massive, real-time information sharing ó any reasonably intelligent U.S.-based terrorist would just buy his first throwaway phone from one carrier and his second phone from a different carrier. The only way to make the system work, and the only way to identify and monitor the one American who was plotting with al Qaeda's operatives in Yemen, would be to pool all the carriers' data on U.S. calls to and from Yemen and to search it all together ó and for the costs to be borne by all of us, not by the carriers. In short, the government would have to do it. In other words, Baker has provided a concrete example in which the NSA might use call-record data to foil a terrorist plot without invading the privacy of any law-abiding Americans. If Americans could be confident that this is the only way their call-data record would be used, more of them would likely be comfortable with the NSA collecting it. So, like many other revelations the country has had since the start of these leaks, this argues for more oversight and transparency.†
The old playbook that worked from January through mid-May isn't working anymore. Two reasons - first, U.S. stocks are now coping with rising interest rates and the bond back-up. No one knows whether or not that's done for now. The yield on the 10-year, at 2.29%, is sitting at 14 month highs. Can't be ignored. This means the yield plays at best can stabilize but should probably not be loaded up on. Secondly, we're starting to pay more attention to the overseas stuff. We ignored the fact that European stocks, relative to US stocks, had peaked last December. We also ignored the China decline, month after month. Not anymore. Look at this morning's action in Citigroup. It was everybody's favorite bank turnaround story, just as the XLF sector SPDR was starting to lead the market. Now we get chatter of¬†a massive currency-related loss¬†and that whole bank leadership heuristic gets thrown for a loop. The new drivers of fear in US stocks are emerging markets and Japan. Today's sell-off comes courtesy of an EM bond / currency rout overnight combined with a lack of new action from the Bank of Japan. What this means is that elevated volatility needs to factor into your decision-making. I'd say position-sizing should probably come down as well. Lastly, I'd imagine that getting accustomed to gap-up and gap-down opens would be a good idea as well. We hadn't seen a lot of those until the international stuff came back into focus, but if you remember this type of trading from years past, then you remember the frustration of markets that didn't move all day, only in the futures markets before the open. This is where we are, just so you know.
Over the past three years CreditKarma CEO Ken Lin has made a habit out of offering free credit advice on Reddit "Ask Me Anything" threads. Lin knows a thing or two about the subject matter. He's been a statistician by trade for more than a decade and runs a site dedicated to educating the masses on the lending industry. On his threads, Lin candidly answers and explains the ins and outs of his business and calculating a credit score. Here are the best responses from Lin's posts: Q: Why is the formula for calculating credit scores so secretive? Considering the profound effects that number has on your life, people should at least know how it works. A: There are multiple reasons. First, the creators and banks are worried that you will game the system if you know the formula. Next, the more cynical answer is that the credit scoring industry generates hundreds of millions of dollars per year in revenue. By keeping them proprietary, the creators can keep charging and claiming that their score is the best. Q: What are some tips/tricks to improve your score? A: There are many best practices to building credit that people don't do that they should. #1 is getting a no annual fee credit card. These things are free and they build credit. In many cases, they will even pay you to use them (cashback or miles). I suggest having 3 to 5 credit cards. Apply for them over 2 to 4 years. Never carry a balance. Never buy what you can't afford. If you do just this, your credit score will be in the good category in 2-3 years. Q: What do you feel is the primary misconception about credit scores that you'd like to clear up? A: The biggest misconception is that there is only one credit score.¬†¬†Each consumer has dozens of credit scores. You will never be able to see them all since many are not sold to consumers. This is further exacerbated by the fact that there are three bureaus which means that each score has three variants.It is up to the bank to decide which credit score they want to use based on the price and how well the score predicts risk.¬† Q: Is there any harm to having too many cards or too much available credit? A: Rarely. If you have 20+ cards, it might be too many. But here is a chart you might find interesting:¬†http://www.creditkarma.com/res/img/layout/article/infographic.jpg¬†Q: I've heard that checking your credit score (or report) can actually hurt your score. Is that true? A: Another common myth. Checking your own credit score does not hurt it. Applying for credit and having lenders check it does. Both are called credit inquiries. One is a hard (lenders) ¬†and the other a soft (you). That is probably the source of the confusion. Q: Don't the free reports from annualcreditreport.com lack the score itself? A: Correct. AnnualCreditReport is great. But you don't actually get a score. If you did, check your credit card statement because you got up-sold. Q: Is it true that I can only check my credit score once per year? A: You can check your free credit report once per year at annualcreditreport.com by law.
online.wsj.comPlucked from obscurity, 28-year-old Tracy Britt has become Warren Buffett's right hand woman. She may be five decades younger than her boss, but the Kansas-born, Harvard M.B.A. has climbed the ladder at Berkshire Hathaway in four years, from financial assistant to top confidant and chairman of some Berkshire offshoots. The Wall Street Journal reports: The firms in which she serves as chairman, including building-products company Johns Manville Corp. and paint manufacturer Benjamin Moore &amp; Co., total more than $4 billion in annual sales. In March, a few weeks after Berkshire and Brazilian investment firm 3G Capital said they would buy ketchup maker H.J. Heinz &amp; Co. for $23 billion, Mr. Buffett sent Ms. Britt to Brazil, according to people familiar with the matter. Britt's office is right next to Buffett's at Berkshire headquarters, and sources told the Journal that the 82-year-old magnate is grooming her for a senior position after he steps down. Ms. Britt is also one of the most influential women within Berkshire, which has three women directors on a 13-member board and five women CEOs out of 81 operating companies. Ms. Britt "takes care of all kinds of things that come up," Mr. Buffett told college students in Omaha last month. Don't forget the name Tracy Britt.
Hugh Jackman revealed that he missed his daughter's first play to appear at Wal-Mart's annual shareholder's meeting for free.† In a cringe-worthy moment highlighted by MSNBC's "All In with Chris Hayes," Jackman told the audience about the conflict:† "My daughter, Eva, is in her very first school play, which have we got any parents here? All right. Trust me. I'm thrilled to be here, but my daughter is not so thrilled that I'm here. She's like, Dad, can you ó I'm a bit nervous. Can you help me learn the lines? And you're going to be there, right, Dad? I'm like, not really," Jackman told the audience.† He then asked them to watch a video clip his wife sent of his daughter performing.† Celebrities including Jackman, Cruise, and Hudson appeared at the event in exchange for promotion of their most recent projects.† As America's largest retailer, Wal-Mart is a huge seller of CDs and DVDs.† Hayes suggested that Wal-Mart could use its power for a more noble cause.† "The reason he's there is because†Wal-Mart†is so powerful, it has relationships with all the studios, they're not paid for this," Hayes said. "They give them a wish list that, to me, the†power†to get Hugh Jackman†and†Tom cruise†is the†power†of this enterprise that if it wanted to could do a lot of other things like make sure Bangladeshi factory building codes work."†  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
YouTube/ScreenshotGoogle CEO Larry Page wins this round.The initial reports about the National Security Agency's Internet data-collection program, PRISM, said that the government was "tapping directly into the central servers" of Google, Facebook, and other massive Internet companies to gather information and spy on users. This was a shocking claim, and the companies immediately denied it. The denials led to privacy fanatics, conspiracy theorists, and some journalists accusing the companies of lying--or at least "parsing" their denials so carefully that the claim might still be true. The denials also, however, led to one of the publications that broke the story--the Washington Post--changing its story.† And now, for the first time, according to Amir Efrati of the Wall Street Journal, Google has explained exactly how it fulfills government data requests (all of which require court orders and attorney approval): 1. Google sends the government an electronic file via secure File Transfer Protocol (a standard way of sending stuff over the Internet.) OR 2. Google prints the data out on paper and sends it to the government in boxes.† Neither of those methods involve the government having "direct access" to Google's servers. The government has apparently asked Google whether it can install data-receiving equipment on Google's premises (another claim made by the National Security Agency document that was the source of the "direct access" claim) or install government software on Google's computers. Google has said "no." Yes, it is still conceivable that the government has illegally hacked into Google's systems and is stealing user data. But that's not what the National Security Agency presentation that was the source for the "direct access" report claimed. The NSA presentation strongly implied that companies like Google were participating in the PRISM program voluntarily. This new information should finally end the contention that the government has "direct access" to Google's servers or is "directly tapping into" Google's servers. Facebook, Yahoo, and other companies named in the original spying report have also flatly denied giving the government access to their servers. So unless you believe that all of these companies are still flat-out lying and/or that the government is illegally breaking into their systems, we can finally put this "direct access" claim to bed. (Whether the government is "intercepting" communications sent over Google, Facebook, and other systems by tapping into Internet gateways is another question. Based on some other reports and leaked data, it seems that the government might well be doing this. †But to be fair to the big companies that were just implicated in the initial spying reports, this "interception" does not appear to be happening in their servers.)
AP ImagesRichard "Dick" GrassoWe hear that there are "very early stage" talks about doing a movie on Fox Business Network senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino's 2007 book, "King Of The Club."¬† We reached out to Gasparino and he sent us the following response: "your lips to God's ears."¬† Gasparino's book is about the life and career of former NYSE CEO/Chairman Richard "Dick" Grasso, which is full of moments of ¬†celebration and controversy. ¬† Sources say that Grasso is scared that a movie could be made based on the book.¬† Gasparino, who was working correspondent for CNBC at the time, had great access to Grasso and folks from his inner circle when he was writing the book.¬†He¬†portrayed both the positives and the negatives from Grasso's career. ¬† Here's an excerpt from the New York Times' Harry Hurt III's review of the book:¬† ‚ÄúKing of the Club‚Äù documents Mr. Grasso‚Äôs early years as a working-class youth from Queens who originally aspired to become a New York City police officer, only to fail the eye exam. Although he had almost no college education, Mr. Grasso managed to get a job in 1968 as an entry-level listings clerk at the New York Stock Exchange. According to Mr. Gasparino, Mr. Grasso had a ‚Äúchip on his shoulder‚Äù because he was short in stature (5 feet 6 inches), and because he was a hot-headed striver of Italian descent in a financial ‚Äúclub‚Äù dominated by WASPs and Jews. But he tutored himself in the exchange‚Äôs history and its operations with an unquenchable passion. ‚ÄúFor all his foibles, his bad temper and ego, Grasso understood what made the stock exchange work better than anyone else in the world,‚Äù Mr. Gasparino writes. Following the September 11th terrorist attacks, Grasso was seen as a hero for reopening the stock exchange. ¬†¬† Just a couple years later, though, he became "the poster boy for overpaid chief executive," Gasparino wrote in "King Of The Club." It was Grasso's compensation package that led to his demise. ¬† Following a spate of recent big corporate scandals (WorldCom, Tyco and Enron), it was disclosed that Grasso had been awarded a deferred retirement compensation package worth about $139.5 million. A few weeks later, Grasso resigned after spending 36 years at the stock exchange. The same board that approved his compensation package pressured him to step down.¬† Then-New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer¬†prosecuted Grasso in 2004¬†over the compensation. ¬†The lawsuit was ultimately¬†dismissed in 2008. ¬† Sources say that Grasso is still worried about his image and that's why he wouldn't want a film to come out. ¬†¬†
s_bukley / Shutterstock.comBeauty is not subjective. Contrary to popular belief, men and women†generally agree on who is and who is not physically attractive, even across different cultures. What makes someone enjoyable to look at?† High cheekbones, fuller lips, big eyes, and a thin chin are associated with sexiness in women, whereas a big jaw and broad chin are preferred in men. Smooth skin, shiny hair, and facial symmetry are also key aspects of beauty. † According to various studies, these provide measures of health, good genes, intelligence, and success. More often than not, the world rewards beauty. Here's why it's better to be hot:† #1 Beautiful people are viewed as healthier. Facial symmetry, considered the beacon of beauty, can be perceived as a sign of health, even if it is not related to actual health. In an Australian study, researchers morphed photographs of young adults so that their faces were perfectly symmetrical. In general, the symmetric version of each face ó both male and female ó received higher health ratings than the normal image. Individuals with asymmetric faces were perceived as unhealthy. #2†Beautiful people are actually healthier.† Although the link between facial symmetry and real health is weak, there is some evidence that individuals with more distinct facial features, considered less attractive, are more susceptible to disease, parasites, and other illnesses. Specifically, in a study of 17-year-olds, researchers found that facial distinctiveness was linked to poor health in both men and women, either during childhood or adolescence. Facial averageness, on the other hand, was linked to good health. One theory is that distinctive facial traits are tied to chromosomal disorders. The preference for average faces may have evolved as a way of identifying a mate with good genes.† #3†It's easier for beautiful people to find mates.† Men seek attractive women as mates because good looks signal†youth, health, and reproductive fitness.† #4†Beautiful people are more intelligent.† University of New Mexico researchers found that general intelligence is positively linked to body symmetry, a characteristic that is indicative of attractive qualities like†health, social dominance, and fitness-related biological traits. † #5†Beautiful people are more persuasive.† Good-looking people can use their sex appeal to command attention and to get ahead, say in a job interview or when asking for a promotion. Attractive people are more persuasive, in part, because they also possess or develop key personality traits ó like intelligence and strong social skills ó that make them more effective communicators. Researchers also found that†compared to unattractive speakers, attractive speakers were much more fluent talkers. † #6†Companies with good-looking executives have higher sales. † In a study of nearly 300 Dutch advertising agencies, economists found that firms with better-looking executives had higher revenues. Overall productivity, and resulting sales, were greater in companies with more attractive managers, partly because firms with more attractive workers have the competitive advantage when client interactions are involved.† #7†Beautiful people have an advantage in politics.† Beautiful people have the upper-hand in politics, according to a study in Finland which found that both male and female political candidates who look better than their competitors are more successful. A better individual beauty score was associated with an increase of 20% in the number of votes for the average non-incumbent parliamentary candidate. Perceived competence and trustworthiness had less of an effect. The study authors suggests that voters favor good-looking candidates because they enjoy watching them and they fare better in social situations.† #8 Beautiful people are perceived as more likeable and trustworthy.† Beautiful people are typically treated better by others. In a study from Harvard University, researchers found that wearing makeup, shown to enhance a woman's attractiveness, boosted people's perceptions of that subject's competence, likability, attractiveness, and trustworthiness.
In the past month, the bond market has seen a big move lower. †Rates have rapidly moved higher. †And quite frankly, itís caused a lot of hissy fits. But letís put the cries of distress in context. †Here is the 10 year swap rate in the U.S. over the past few years: Daily chart of 10 year swap rate, Courtesy of Bloomberg The recent move higher has been big, and itís taken us to 1 year highs. †But weíre basically in the same spot as April 2012, and I donít recall the sky falling down back then. The ìdistressî in the rates market is much more a function of reset expectations rather than a major market shift. †In the context of the 1 year chart, the move looks massive. †In the context of the multiyear chart though, itís a rather standard move. †In fact, even with the move higher in rates in the past month, the 10 year swap rate is still below the 2.50 level that is my technical line in the sand, above which the alarm bells in my head might get a bit louder. In the meantime, Iíd be careful extrapolating from the recent move higher. †Long-term investment themes based simply on this rate move are simplistic, and likely to set up for disappointment if the rate market stabilizes. †Yesterdayís strong reversal higher in Treasuries (on significant volume) could be the start of such stabilization. This is how financial markets work. †They move and shake, but rarely break. †From my perch, all the hissy fits about the rates market are much ado about nothing. †
Shutterstock/Denys PrykhodovThe role of luck in getting wealthy is no longer just an academic issue: it's also a political one. If we assume that wealth comes from working hard, taking great personal risk and coming up with great ideas, then the wealthy don't necessarily "owe" society for their success. But if the rich are simply lucky, or if they get wealthy on the back of America's publicly funded infrastructure, they owe more of a debt in the form of taxes or philanthropy. The debate over luck or work, self or community, came into the spotlight last summer with a commencement speech at Princeton by author Michael Lewis. The speech was called "Don't Eat Fortune's Cookie." Success, he said, often comes from luck and happenstance‚Äîyet the successful often "rationalize" their success as stemming from talent or work or intelligence. "Recognize that if you have had success, you have also had luck‚Äîand with luck comes obligation," he wrote. "You owe a debt, and not just to your Gods. You owe a debt to the unlucky." President Barack Obama reignited the debate during the election campaign with the "you didn't build that" line. Many said it was taken out of context‚Äîhe was talking about roads and bridges and public schools‚Äîbut it still hit a nerve. And it fueled the battle over the wealthy paying their "fair share" in taxes. But what about the wealthy themselves? A study from Spectrem Group, the wealth research firm, shows that while some of the wealthy say luck played a role in their success, many say hard work, education and risk-taking played a much bigger role. (Read More: Top 1 Percent Control 39 Percent of World's Wealth) Among people worth $5 million or more, more than 98 percent cited hard work as a "wealth creation factor." More than 90 percent cited education, followed by "smart investing," "frugality" and then "taking risk." Slightly more than half of those surveyed cited "being at the right place at the right time" as a factor in their success‚Äîranking it far below hard work and education. Among business owners, however, the number of self-described "lucky wealthy" is much higher: 79 percent of them cited "being at the right place at the right time" as a factor in their success. Fully 68 percent of business owners cited "luck" as a factor. (Read More: We're Rich Again! We Just Can't Feel It) Among corporate executives, 64 percent cited "being at the right place and right time" as a factor in their success while half cited "luck." So are the wealthy downplaying luck or is wealth truly self-made? "One way to interpret the data is that it's a balance," said George Walper of Spectrem Group. "Some acknowledge that their success is partly based on luck. But some people don't. And maybe ego plays a role among the people who may understate the effects of luck." ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter
Earlier, we tweeted out our chart of the day: the sharp rise in real interest rates in the United States, which has sparked a rally in the dollar, selloff in several currencies, and a selloff in bond markets all around the world. The fact that real rates are what is driving the bond market sell-off is very telling,¬†which leads us to the most important tweet you will see this month, from Izabella Kaminska over at FT Alphaville: @TheStalwart And that means.... goodbye inflation. The most important tweet you will see this month RT"@izakaminska: @TheStalwart And that means.... goodbye inflation." The nominal interest rate ‚Äì the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond, say, which has been flying higher in recent weeks as bonds have sold off ‚Äì is the sum of real rates and inflation. Pseudonymous macro strategist Barnejek points out that although real rates are rising, inflation expectations are not, which means the sell-off in the bond market is not about concerns over rising inflation due to expansionary Federal Reserve policy. (That's one of the favorite criticisms of the Fed: all of the "easy money" stimulus from quantitative easing will eventually unleash massive inflation in the U.S. economy.) On the contrary, inflation remains very low ‚Äì below even the Federal Reserve's target. In other words, the Fed is failing to create inflation. @TheStalwart @izakaminska This sell off is due to increasing real yields and NOT inflation expectations. These are actually coming off. Thus, the rise in real rates suggests just the opposite: inflation really seems to be dead, now. The upward move in U.S. real rates marks a sharp reversal from the long downward trend they have taken over the past several years. If this trend continues, it will be a game-changer, and we're already seeing that play out in financial markets around the world.
The NSA has been collecting detailed call records from America's three largest telecommunications providers since shortly after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, officials with direct knowledge of the arrangement told¬†Leslie Cauley of USA Today. Until last week, in part because of official denials, most people had no idea that the U.S. government was collecting any domestic phone records. Then NSA¬†whistleblower Edward Snowden leaked¬†a¬†secret court order compelling Verizon to give the NSA information on all telephone calls in its systems. The document is the first concrete corroboration of claims that the NSA had requested call data from major telecom providers. The leak corroborates a 2006 report by Leslie Cauley of the¬†USA Today that AT&amp;T, BellSouth, and Verizon have all been handing over massive, detailed, domestic call records since shortly after 9/11. The NSA's goal with this program is "to create a database of every call ever made" within the nation's borders,¬†an unnamed official told USA Today. The program is aimed¬†at identifying and tracking suspected terrorists¬†for "social network analysis," one official said, which is used to study how terrorist networks contact each other and how they are tied together. USA Today's Cauley¬†noted that¬†usefulness of the NSA's domestic phone-call database as a counterterrorism tool is questionable¬†and may be illegal. Historically, a court order has been required by phone companies¬†before they would consider turning over a customer's calling data.¬† Cauley noted that¬†under section 222 of the Communications Act, first passed in 1934, telephone companies are prohibited from giving out information regarding whom a customer calls, how often, and what routes those calls take to reach their final destination. On Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed a lawsuit against the government in light of Snowden's Verizon leak. Officials subsequently argued that¬†Section 215 of the Patriot Act¬†justifies the collection of ‚Äúmetadata‚Äù about every phone call made or received by U.S. residents. The ACLU suit¬†counters that this type of dragnet¬†surveillance "is not authorized by Section 215 and violates the¬†First and Fourth Amendments," noting that¬†such information "gives the government a comprehensive record of our associations and public movements, revealing a wealth of detail about our familial, political, professional, religious, and intimate associations." Adding to the ACLU's concerns are indications that the NSA database of communications may have been used for¬†other purposes¬†besides counterterrorism. NSA Whistleblower William Binney ‚Äî one of the best mathematicians and code breakers in NSA history ‚Äî¬†contends¬†that the NSA began using the program he built (i.e. ThinThread)¬†to¬†identify, in real time, networks of associations between people. The aim, Binney says, is to use communications data ‚Äî including metadata from phone calls ‚Äî to¬†build profiles¬†of nearly all Americans¬†so that the government is "able to monitor what people are doing" and who they are doing it with. It should be noted that¬†as of 2008¬†FISA amendment, the government¬†has provided "retroactive¬†immunity to the telecom companies¬†that¬†assisted the Bush administration¬†in its warrantless wiretapping program." The three carriers cooperating with the NSA provide services including wireless and high-speed broadband Internet, and whistleblowers have asserted that the NSA has access to Internet traffic as well. In 2010 Dana Priest and William Arkin of¬†The Washington Post reported that "collection systems at the [NSA] intercept and store 1.7 billion emails, phone calls, and other types of communications" every day. NSA whistleblower Thomas Drake maintains that¬†the agency is using¬†Israeli-made NARUS hardware¬†to "seize and save¬†all personal electronic communications." Between 2002 and 2004 AT&amp;T engineer Mark ¬†Klein¬†discovered¬†a wiretapped room where he said the NSA¬†"vacuumed up Internet and phone-call data from ordinary Americans with the cooperation of AT&amp;T," emphasizing that "much of the data sent through AT&amp;T to the NSA was purely domestic." In 2007 a former Verizon consultant alleged that Verizon built a fiber optic cable to provide the government access ¬†to "all communications flowing through the carrier‚Äôs operations center." The NSA, the world's largest spy agency,¬†said in 2001 that it wanted to "live on the network" to deal with the volumes of data on the Internet. Today the agency is considered expert in the practice of "data mining," i.e. sifting through reams of information in search of patterns. CIA Chief Technology Officer¬†Ira "Gus" Hunt indirectly corroborated the whistleblower claims in March when he told a tech conference:¬†"Since you can't connect dots you don't have ...¬†we fundamentally try to collect everything and hang on to it forever." "It is really very nearly¬†within our grasp to be able to compute on all human generated information," Hunt said.
Thanks to to the tireless tweeting of Hamptons Handyman Joe Schwenk (aka HamptonsBorn), we know about a fairly serious confrontation that happened this morning between a hedge fund manager and his generators, a neighbor with a hatred for noise, lawyers, private security, and the cops. We imagine that the hedge fund manager, identified only as "Mr. C",¬† probably needs those "movie set" generators ‚Äî Bloomberg machines suck up a lot of power. It all started out early this morning: Things quickly escalated.... Twitter, @HamptonsBorn Things started to get tense... Twitter, @HamptonsBorn Naturally, young traders were confused (note: No slickbacks in this crowd)... Twitter, @HamptonsBorn And then... the true clash ‚Äî lawyers and private security versus the Hamptons police.... Twitter, @HamptonsBorn Twitter, @HamptonsBorn Twitter, @HamptonsBorn ¬† Couldn't have put it better ourselves, and of course, eagerly await the next showdown.
Things are starting to look up for retirement savers.¬† The average 401(k)s' balance in the U.S. rose by 10% in 2012 ¬†to $86,212, according to Vanguard's latest retirement report.  Not only are Americans saving more now that the worst of the recession has passed, but they've also benefited from the market rally and increasing contributions from employers.¬† The majority of account holders saw their accounts grow 67% over the five year period between 2007 and 2012. ¬†Here's how workers are improving their savings strategies:¬† They're wising up to crushing 401(k) fees.¬†A whopping 82% of plan participants now hold at least part of their investments in low-cost index funds, including target-date funds. They're letting go of control. In fact, when it comes to individual investors, many have stopped trying to actively manage their own accounts at all (smart move).¬†¬†More than one-third of workers have opted for a target-date fund, a balanced fund or a managed account advisory program. By Vanguard's estimates, this number will rise to 55% by 2017. They're opting for Roth 401(k) plans in lieu of traditional 401(k)s. More than half of those enrolled in at least one¬†Vanguard¬†target-date fund went the way of the Roth. All in all, workers have proven they're pretty solid savers. One in five are managing to tuck away 10% or more of their income into a 401(k) (the average is 10.5% nationwide). But just 11% maxed out their contributions, most of whom were high-earning, older males.¬†Only 15% of workers over the age of 50 managed to make "catch-up" contributions in 2012 to make up for losses during the recession.¬† They're taking out fewer loans against their savings. Dipping into your 401(k) is tantamount to time traveling into your future and robbing yourself blind. Luckily, there's been a 3% decline in new loans against 401(k)s in 2012. Still, nearly one in five had outstanding loans of about $9,000, on average. People are still investing in the market, just a little less than usual. The percentage of plan assets invested in equities, which was 73% in 2007, declined to 66%. Of course, we know what happened to 1% of savers who ditched the market altogether after the recession: They haven't bounced back nearly as quickly. But we still have some work to do. One-third of participants saved less than 4% on their own, and 7% of workers declined to enroll in any defined contribution plans at all in 2012.  ‚ÄúWhile we are seeing good news overall in the retirement planning habits of participants, many Americans are still not saving enough for the future," Young said. ‚ÄúSimply put, people need to save more and save more now.‚Äù¬†
Flickr/epSos .deAnd you thought¬†rate-fixing scandals¬†were so last summer? Bloomberg reports that traders at some of the world's largest banks have been manipulating foreign-exchange rates by pushing through trades before the 60-second windows when the FX benchmarks are set. When traders receive a large, market-moving order from a client, they have their own positions to consider. Not to worry though. Bloomberg reports how the scheme works: One trader with more than a decade of experience said that if he received an order at 3:30 p.m. to sell 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in exchange for Swiss francs at the 4 p.m. fix, he would have two objectives: to sell his own euros at the highest price and also to move the rate lower so that at 4 p.m. he could buy the currency from his client at a lower price. He would profit from the difference between the reference rate and the higher price at which he sold his own euros, he said. A move in the benchmark of 2 basis points, or 0.02 percent, would be worth 200,000 francs ($216,000), he said. The practice¬†‚Äî reportedly commonplace in the gently regulated, $4.7-trillion-a-day currency market¬†‚Äî has been going on for at least a decade, according to the report. Though, the currency market is so monstrous that it would be fairly difficult for one trader to really make waves. And while some may call this practice rigging, others might say it's shrewd hedging.
It's the most important chart in the world right now: real interest rates in the United States. Real interest rates are just nominal interest rates (the rate you see on a 10-year Treasury bond, for example) adjusted for inflation. So if interest rates are rising, and inflation is falling, that's going to cause real interest rates to spike. For the first time in years, real interest rates are rising rapidly in America, leading to strength in the U.S. dollar ñ which is causing currencies around the world to crumble (especially in Japan and in emerging markets). The reason rising real interest rates cause the dollar to jump is because investors prefer to have a currency in a market that pays more. As David Wessel†puts it in this morning's Wall Street Journal, "The tectonic plates of the world economy are shifting." Business Insider Currencies aren't the only thing taking a hit as U.S. real rates rise, though. Bond markets across both the developed and the emerging worlds are selling off as rising interest rates in the U.S. make American government debt a more attractive investment. And while the rise in real rates is likely a sign of good things to come, right now, it's causing jitters over the prospect of the removal of monetary stimulus from the market by the Federal Reserve. In the past few weeks, those jitters have caused a bout of weakness in stock markets from the U.S. to Europe, from Japan to emerging markets, and almost everywhere in between. All of this begs the question: are central bankers finally losing control of long-term interest rates, which for years following the global financial crisis of 2008 have been their most powerful policy instruments?
Getty Images / Andreas RentzAuthor Nassim Taleb went full Taleb in a Q&amp;A for the Financial Times Magazine's 'Inventory" section. He said he was happiest in Brooklyn, "where the rich farts are minimal," and that his greatest disappointment is his inability to "destroy the economics establishment, the press." We're not sure if he meant that the press is the economics establishment, or that he can't destroy either one. But there's still time either way. He added this about schooling: "University is a good place to drink, make friends and discuss books, nothing else." The weekly feature also asks participants what their coat of arms would look like. We can't republish it here, but check out the story to see Taleb's. Read the whole thing at FT.com &gt;
Kalos GolfFive continents, 22 days, and 12 rounds of golf. It's a golfer's dream vacation, and it'll only set you back¬†$74,450.¬† The trip, organized by the luxury golf company Kalos Golf, departs from Maui and ends in Sotogrande, Spain three weeks later, says Bloomberg. A decked out 757 jet will cart golfers from five-star hotel to five-star hotel across the globe. Like what you're hearing? Too bad. The October 2014 trip's 78 slots are already sold out and there's a 21-person waiting list.¬† We can certainly see why.
Here's an incredible stat from DataQuick: the rate of flipping activity in California hit an all-time high in†February and remains well above pre-recession levels. In May, Southern California's rate hit†5.9%, the Bay Area notched 4.1% and the state averaged 5.3%. The boom peak for all three was about 4.3%, reached in January 2005. The rate reflects the percentage of properties on the market that were previously sold within the past six months. Here's the chart: DataQuick DataQuick's Andrew LePage told us the spikes stem from aggressive investors who survived the crash mopping up on low, low prices: Investor purchases are at or near record levels ó there's just a lot more investment activity. What we didn't have back in the boom times was heavily discounted foreclosed properties...That's what these flippers have been feeding on.
9.7 million or 19.8% of all residential properties with a mortgage were still underwater in Q1 2013, according to CoreLogic's negative equity report. This is down from 10.5 million or 21.7% in Q4 2012. Homeowners are in negative equity when they owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth.¬† The value of all homes in negative equity fell by $50 billion to $580 billion at the end of the first quarter.¬† Rising home prices have helped moved more homes into positive equity. "We are still far below peak home price levels, but tight supplies in many areas coupled with continued demand for single family homes should help us close the gap," said Anand Nallathambi, CEO of CoreLogic in a press release.¬† Declining negative equity is important for the housing recovery, because homeowners in negative equity are more likely to default on their mortgages. The decline in distressed inventory was part of the reason home prices began to appreciate in 2012. At 45.4%, Nevada had the highest percent of mortgage homes in negative equity. And Nevada, along with Florida, Michigan, Arizona and Georgia accounts for 32.8% of negative equity in the U.S. Here's a look at negative equity share across the U.S.: CoreLogic
via WikimediaDonald Trump is irate. When he learned that China is gobbling up Iraq's oil ó to the tune of more than half its output ó he freaked out. "We spend $1.5 trillion, we lose thousands of lives, we destroy a country Ö but China is in there taking out all the oil, and weíre getting nothing ... " he said on Fox News. Alas, Trump is missing the point. American policy planners probably don't care if China sucks up all that oil. Here's why: 1. Even as Chinese oil companies lock up the majority of oil from Iraq,†four American development companies, including†Halliburton, are sucking up half the development dollars that will be spent over the next 10 years. 2. The reason Chinese firms are so successful in Iraq is that their companies aren't making much money on the deal. That's right, China is just in a hurry to get the energy in order to propel its massive growth. American firms are more worried about profit, and so have more trouble winning bids (and taking undue risk). 3. U.S. oil companies already develop and purchase oil in (arguably) less dangerous regions (though Exxon did win rights to the Qurna oil field, one of Iraq's largest). 4. Oil is a global commodity. So more oil produced is better for everyone globally. Plus, as Max Fisher of The Washington Post put it, "Chinese-led [demand] spikes" in price per barrel hurt everyone.  So In the eyes of America: Let China take the risk (that being, at this moment, a possible civil war in Iraq). 5. The U.S. is set to be the largest exporter of oil by the year 2020. Being the largest exporter of oil when China is the largest importer has strategic significance. Conversely, there's no reason to believe that China's oil contracts in Iraq will make the country more open to sanctions on Iran. "Chinaís efforts to gain new suppliers should not be viewed as attempts to replace older relationships. They are attempts to expand their access to new suppliers who can help them meet future needs," said Mark Cozad, a Rand Corporation expert in strategic intelligence, to Business Insider. "Itís highly unlikely that this will make China more amenable to sanctions against Iran.† Chinaís position on Iran is not based solely on its energy relationship. †Chinaís leadership would argue that its broader interest in Iran is [about] protecting national sovereignty and preventing a strong power from coercing a weaker one," said Cozad.
Steve Mack/GettyRapper Kanye West¬†told Jon Caramanica of The New York Times¬†in an extensive Q&amp;A¬†that he's going to be the next Steve Jobs and run a billion-dollar company. Here's how Kanye phrased his ambitions to The New York Times:¬† I think what Kanye West is going to mean is something similar to what Steve Jobs means. I am undoubtedly, you know, Steve of Internet, downtown, fashion, culture. Period. By a long jump. I honestly feel that because Steve has passed, you know, it‚Äôs like when Biggie passed and Jay-Z was allowed to become Jay-Z. I‚Äôve been connected to the most culturally important albums of the past four years, the most influential artists of the past ten years. You have like, Steve Jobs, Walt Disney, Henry Ford, Howard Hughes, Nicolas Ghesqui√®re, Anna Wintour, David Stern. I think that‚Äôs a responsibility that I have, to push possibilities, to show people: ‚ÄúThis is the level that things could be at.‚Äù So when you get something that has the name Kanye West on it, it‚Äôs supposed to be pushing the furthest possibilities. I will be the leader of a company that ends up being worth billions of dollars, because I got the answers. I understand culture. I am the nucleus. Incredible.¬† Read the full interview at the New York Times &gt;
The Justice Department is targeting banks across the country that give suspicious merchants access to the financial system, according¬†to a¬†report by Jessica Silver-Greenberg in the New York Times. Although banks are good about dismissing reported fraudulent charges, many do too little to stop these charges from occurring in the first place. After all, banks can make money on the fraudulent transactions too. An ongoing lawsuit, reported by the Times, allegedly reveals what this shady arrangement looks like. Zions Bank of Salt Lake City, is being sued by tens of thousands of seniors who say the bank knowingly allowed fraudulent merchants to take their money. The customers claim they were contacted by a health company asking to update their Medicare cards. They say they volunteered their bank information in the process and later found their accounts had been charged a few hundred bucks by the health company's payment center.¬†Although customers complained to Zions in droves, the bank allegedly did nothing to stop payments to the health company ‚Äî to the tune of $39 million¬†between 2007 and 2009. Meanwhile, Zions made money off the whole thing. According to the Times, Zions made money when it charged a third party for processing the transaction; when it charged a third party for processing the returns; and when it collected a $20 million in insufficient fund feeds that were triggered after the initial charges. Zions released this statement on the allegations:¬† ‚ÄúZions takes seriously the need to prevent the banking system being used for fraudulent purposes; however, it is our general policy not to comment on pending legal matters. There is another side to this story, other than that told by the plaintiff. Our side of the story will be told at the appropriate time through the legal system.‚Äù How do you protect yourself?¬† With inadequate regulation from the government, consumers need to protect themselves. First of all this means taking precautions to avoid getting scammed in the first place. Giving bank information over the phone, for instance, is never a good idea. Second, consumers should check their accounts closely for fraud and alert their bank after anything suspicious. Most credit cards come with zero fraud liability, which means you'll be off the hook for charges. If they don't, then you're only liable for up to $50 worth of fraudulent charges by law. ¬†Consumers must report illegal debit card activity within two days to enjoy the same benefit.¬†
REUTERS/Umit BektasTurkish police fire tear gas at protestersGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Support for Ukip has fallen by a third after its popularity rose following council elections last month, a new poll has revealed. Although Ukip has fallen by six points, the party still remains a force to be reckoned with on 12 per cent, three points above its previous highs until the sudden rise last month. The poll means the party, led by Nigel Farage, is level-pegging with the Liberal Democrats, whose popularity has increased by a single point from last month's level of 11 per cent. Labour is in front on 36 per cent, up two percentage points on the month, with the Conservatives up one percentage point on 29 per cent, according to a Guardian/ICM poll conducted in June. The combined score of other smaller parties is 10 per cent, which is made up of 8 per cent for the combined Scottish and Welsh nationalists and 2 per cent for the Greens. Both major parties are losing trust on the issue of handling the economic slump, although David Cameron and George Osborne maintain a nine-point lead over Ed Miliband and Ed Balls as the most trusted team for economic management, the Guardian reported. When voters were asked in December last year to put aside party preference and say who could manage the economy properly, 35 per cent preferred Cameron and Osborne and 24 per cent opted for Balls and Miliband. Now those respective figures are 28 per cent and 19 per cent, with a majority of 52 per cent either say "neither", "don't know" or refuse to answer. Labour has not polled well on economic competence since Gordon Brown lost power in 2010, but the party has fallen below 20 per cent on this score for the first time with ICM - which comes a week after Balls and Miliband made big speeches about the need to contain elements of public spending. The Tories fell even more sharply - at the start of last year, 46 per cent trusted Cameron and Osborne with the economy, falling to 35 per cent last December and has now fallen again to below 30 per cent for the first time. In terms of party unity, voters appear to have registered the months of Tory infighting at the end of last year, 62 per cent voters believed Cameron had the backing of his party, compared to 29 per cent who disagreed. Now only 44 per cent believe that while 45 per cent disagree. Miliband fares better, with 65 per cent voters believing he is backed by his party against 20 who disagree, a 45-point gap in his favour. when it comes to how voters see each party leader being 'good in a crisis', Cameron scored well on this count in December 2011 - 50 per cent said he was good in a crisis and only 40 per cent said the reverse. In December 2012, Cameron was still rated as good in a crisis by 48 per cent in December 2012, compared with 44 per cent who thought he was not. But in the latest poll, only 37 per cent of voters say his crisis-handling skills are good, while 52 per cent think they are not, meaning a fall of 15 percentage points. By contrast Miliband has always struggled on this test of leadership - by double-digit margins voters have always refused to believe he is good in a crisis and his position is not improving, the Guardian reported. Only 29 per cent of voters now think Cameron "understands people like me", as opposed to 65 per cent who disagree, with the prime minister's Eton background continuing to create a perceived gulf with ordinary people. Miliband has tended to do less badly on this issue, but by 46 per cent to 41 per cent voters also say he fails to understand them. 
ShutterstockLONDON (Reuters) - If currency turbulence in emerging markets escalates into full-scale investor flight, the Federal Reserve may have a fresh headache in deciding when to slow its dollar printing policy. Given all the obvious influences on Fed policy - domestic inflation, jobless youths, long-term unemployment, stuttering credit creation or banking stability - gyrations on markets from Turkey to South Africa or South Korea may seem tangential. But an enmeshing of the United States and the economies of the developing world since the turn of the century means the link between U.S. monetary policy and currency runs on the other side of the world could be tighter than many assume. Another financial shock now in emerging economies that use vast holdings of U.S. Treasury bonds as capital insurance buffers could complicate a Fed exit from quantitative easing. "As with so many previous emerging crises, although the Fed often triggers the withdrawal, it's then forced to turn more accommodative by default as a result of the fallout," said Simon Derrick, strategist at Bank of New York Mellon. "MA(f)D" To avert the sort of protracted and devastating investment freeze they suffered in the late 1990s, economies across Asia and around the globe have built up huge hard-cash buffers as protection against future 'sudden stops' in foreign financing. Over the past decade, emerging economies have absorbed trillions of dollars of western investment seeking higher growth and yields, while China's historic emergence into the world economy has helped fuel a commodities "supercycle". In buying up the incoming dollars, euros and other hard currency to prevent a rapid appreciation of their own local currencies, emerging central banks have amassed some $7.2 trillion in reserves. That mirrors the estimated $8 trillion of private capital flows to emerging markets since 2004. The International Monetary Fund estimates more than 60 percent of that total is held in greenbacks, putting dollar holdings at about $4.4 trillion. At least 80 percent of that - some $3.5 trillion - is banked in top-rated U.S. bonds, mostly Treasuries, IMF surveys suggest. On those broad calculations, China alone holds about $1.6 trillion of U.S. bonds, while the rest is spread far and wide across Asia to Russia, the Middle East and Latin America. This seemingly stable set-up was dubbed "Bretton Woods II" by Deutsche Bank economists 10 years ago, while former U.S. Treasury chief Larry Summers dubbed it "mutually assured financial destruction" a few years later. But aside from a relatively brief stress-related financial heart attack that boosted the U.S. dollar briefly in 2008/09, these buffers have not really been tested. If the sudden and steep emerging currency sell-off against the dollar - which on Fed indices has reversed their surge early this year in just three weeks - were to snowball, there is every chance these reserves will need to be sold to stabilize markets. Any rundown of currency reserves may also require the sale of Treasuries, potentially steepening the rise in long-term U.S. interest rates, boosting the dollar and compounding the shock. Could the Fed tolerate that? Back in the 1990s, then-Fed chief Alan Greenspan reversed a 1997 interest rate rise that some blamed for pushing emerging markets over the edge, cutting three times in 1998 as the crisis deepened - even though there was little material impact on the U.S. economy and the Wall St stock bubble continued inflating. Might his successor Ben Bernanke do likewise - or at least act to tamp down talk of slowing QE for fear of a growth-sapping surge in U.S. Treasury yields? There are several question marks over this sketch of events. Emerging economies may not be as fast to run down reserves without the fixed currency pegs of the 1990s, instead allowing more flexible exchange rate regimes to take the heat and enjoying a competitive boost from better terms of trade. Outgoing Russian central bank chief Sergei Ignatyev said only last week: "The key is that our exchange rate is almost floating and close to free float." That said, Russia, like Poland, was forced to run down between a fifth and a third of its entire reserves during the worst of the credit crisis in 2008/09. Others reckon the very existence of hefty reserve buffers in many emerging countries will be sufficient to forestall capital flight. Deutsche Bank's Markus Jaeger points out that China, Korea and Russia run small current account surpluses and have short-term debts of less than 50 percent of reserves. What's more, the Fed may feel the U.S. economy is strong enough to absorb some hit from sharply higher yields and push ahead regardless. But emerging market crises are notorious for taking on a life of their own - mostly due to investor fear of illiquidity and the ability to sell securities at fair prices. That forces many to pre-emptively protect themselves by exiting early. If that happens, the potential panic will likely require some response at home - or eventually in Washington. (Editing by Catherine Evans) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
LONDON, June 12 (Reuters) - The world is heading for a glut of refined products as new Asian and Middle East refineries increase oil processing in a move likely to force less advanced competitors in developed countries to close, the West's energy agency said on Wednesday. The International Energy Agency said in its monthly report it expected 9.5 million barrels per day (bpd) of new crude distillation capacity, representing more than a 10th of global demand, to come on stream in 20132018, substantially more than the forecast increase in crude production capacity and global demand growth. "While Europe's economic woes are taking a toll on demand, there are mounting signs that China's oil use, like its economy, may have shifted to a lower gear. Slower growth in demand than in runs could lead to product stock builds," the IEA said. The agency said changes would be already felt from the third quarter of 2013 as global refinery runs may rise by more than 2 million bpd on the back of increased processing by China, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. This spike in crude runs would exceed forecast product demand growth of 1.7 million bpd, the IEA said. It also added global crude supply could struggle to keep up with refining demand because of seasonal maintenance to North Sea production, Sudan's struggle to resume production, the annual hurricane season in the U.S. Gulf and risks to Middle Eastern output due to the Syrian civil war. Shorter-than-expected crude supply and large refining volumes would undermine refining margins. "While that would normally prompt refiners to drop their throughputs, market participants may not be equally receptive to such price signals. New refining capacity would likely be the last to cut back on runs if refining economics turned south," the IEA said. "On the other hand, older plants in mature markets, saddled with comparatively high costs, might feel the heat. That those plants should find it increasingly tough to compete is a widely anticipated outcome of the current downstream restructuring," the IEA added. IRAN EXPORTS SOAR IN MAY The agency made little change to its global demand and supply forecasts for this year saying demand would remain sluggish. Demand growth is expected to gain momentum through the year, rising from a low of 215,000 bpd year-on-year in the second quarter of 2013 to 1.1 million bpd or 1.2 percent year-on-year by the fourth quarter as the economy strengthens. Annual global oil consumption is forecast to expand by 785,000 bpd in 2013, to 90.6 million bpd, roughly unchanged since last month's report. "Relatively sluggish macroeconomic conditions are expected to keep a lid on growth in 2013, with absolute declines still projected across much of the OECD," the IEA said. Chinese oil demand is now forecast to grow by 3.8 percent, down from 3.9 percent previously. On the supply front, the IEA said OPEC crude oil supply rose in May by 135,000 bpd to 30.89 million bpd, a sevenmonth high, due to higher output from Saudi Arabia, Iran, the UAE and Kuwait and despite lower production from Iraq, Libya and Nigeria. It said OPEC would need to produce only 29.8 million bpd in the second half of 2013 to balance the market. Iranian output was largely unchanged in May at 2.68 million bpd, imports of Iranian oil saw a steep spike in May to 1.39 million bpd from 835,000 in April, the IEA said citing a rise in supplies to China to 715,000 bpd in May from 370,000 bpd in April. "The steep month-on-month change, however, largely reflects congestion at Chinese ports at end-April, with discharge from ships delayed until early May," it said. (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Christopher Johnson) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Here are some bullish insights from an unlikely source ‚Äì David Rosenberg: ‚ÄúFirst, sentiment has come down from recent lofty levels. ¬†That is encouraging. Second, earnings estimates have stopped going down. ¬†That is good news. Third, while the Fed will likely taper off, it will still be providing substantial liquidity to the marketplace. Fourth, as Kopin Tan explains in Barron‚Äôs, pension fund assets exposed to equities has come all the way down to 35%. ¬†And 68% of fund managers are behind their benchmarks year-to-date. Fifth, the economy seems to have endured the most intense part of the federal fiscal tightening phase in the first two quarters of the year. Now, I wouldn‚Äôt say that I‚Äôm a bull. ¬†That‚Äôs going too far. ¬†But I am saying that 45% exposure in the asset mix devoted to high-quality stocks is prudent ‚Äì which is exactly where we are in the aggregate.‚Äù So, there‚Äôs that‚Ä¶.
Flickr/Rob Oeschle (originally T. Enami)A fisherman floating on Lake Yamanaka during an early winter morning, in the shadow of Mount Fuji, circa 1898.It's a quiet morning, but the overall trend is stabilization. US futures are modestly higher, as are markets in Europe. In a reversal of recent patterns, we actually saw Japan erase most of its losses during the trading day, and then continue to gather steam in post-market futures trading. This all comes after a brutal day on Tuesday, which saw big losses around the world, especially in Europe and emerging markets. Economy-wise, today is expected to be slow.
