WiseGEEK Suggest something radical like Ben Bernanke has done a good job of being Fed Chair, and invariably someone will tell you that there's tons of inflation, if only you looked at the price of bread recently. There was an incident recently where conservative commenter Erick Erickson said there was a bunch of inflation, only to get smacked down by Paul Krugman, who rebutted him with actual facts. So why do people insist that there's so much inflation? Probably because they have no idea what it is. Scott Sumner made this point last autumn: Many people tell me that the ‚Äúaverage people‚Äù they talk to simply don‚Äôt believe inflation rates have been low over the past 4 years, despite the headline CPI rising at roughly a 1.2% rate since July 2008. ¬†There are three reasons for this cognitive fallacy: 1. ¬†Confusing rates and levels. 2. ¬†Confusing ‚Äòcost of living‚Äô and ‚Äòstandard of living.‚Äô 3. ¬†Assuming the term ‚Äòinflation‚Äô refers only to the rise in the price of things they don‚Äôt want to see get more expensive. Point number two seems like the most salient. Inflation is just a code word for people that means: it's hard to buy stuff. And actually that's been a pretty legitimate complaint over the last several years, given widespread unemployment, or fear of becoming unemployed if you have a job. And the fact of the matter is that the economy is still depressed. But it's also true that if you just go out and ask people, they'll say things are better than they have been in years. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index ‚Äî a survey that basically asks people how they're feeling about the economy ‚Äî is at a five-year high. Bloomberg Things aren't amazing by any stretch, but it's just not true that prices are spiraling and that people are falling behind. And the people who do feel as though they're falling behind are rapidly diminishing.
New Line Cinema via IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. SEC Told That Dodd-Frank Fiduciary Standard For Brokers Would Be Very Pricey (Investment News) As part of Dodd Frank, the SEC has the power to require anyone giving investment advice to meet the fiduciary standard that investment advisors are held up to. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) told the SEC that raising investment advice standards for brokers would be extremely expensive for individual firms.† Nine of SIFMA's member firms said it would cost about $5 million every year to "upgrade their compliance, supervision and training systems," according to Investment News.†SIFMA further added that companies would stomach the costs if they accounted for the brokerage business model. "The SIFMA letter was in response to an SEC request for information for a cost-benefit analysis the agency is conducting of a potential uniform fiduciary standard for retail investment advice," Investment News reported. The 'Grand Disconnect' Is Closing, And It's Now Time To Shift To Risk-Off Investment Themes (A Gary Shilling Insights) In his latest Insights, economist Gary Shilling writes that the the "Grand Disconnect' between robust security markets and subdued economic reality" is closing. This is because of recent shocks to investors in the form of recent Fed comments on the taper, and China's crack down on shadow banking. Shilling writes that he is shifting to risk off investment themes. In this scenario, Treasury bonds and Japanese stocks are attractive.† Also, the dollar vs. the yen, euro, and commodity currencies are a good bet. Meanwhile, developed country stocks, homebuilders, junk bonds, commodities, and emerging market stocks and bonds are unattractive. Understanding The Crowd Is The Key To Good Investing (The Reformed Broker) "When people ask me what my edge is, I tell them I have a very good sense of what the crowd is thinking and I think I've gotten pretty good at what they'll do about it next. I pay close attention to when there's an emotional or tonal shift to the rhetoric of the Pundit Class because I know that the masses gradually adopt these oft-repeated tropes and heuristics for their own and act accordingly "Keynes figured out that his job as the King's College endowment portfolio manager was not to guess at the future - but to guess at what other market participants would be guessing and to beat them to those assumptions. Before he realized that this was the way to invest, his track record was terrible - lots of trading, very little to show for it, the Crash of '29 nearly wiped him out of his own small fortune. But after this realization hit him, his confidence grew and his cockiness faded. His average holding times lengthened, his turnover decreased and his returns began to trounce the market." SAC Capital's Steven Cohen Could Avoid Criminal Charges (The Wall Street Journal) SAC Capital's Steven Cohen is unlikely to face criminal insider-trading charges according to the Wall Street Journal because U.S. prosecutors don't have enough evidence against him ahead of the July deadline.† There is a five year statute of limitations to file the charges tied to his trading activity with Mathew Martoma, according to the WSJ. Martoma's trial is set to begin November 4. If fresh evidence emerges before the deadline, prosecutors could still move against Cohen, but Martoma who has pleaded not guilty hasn't incriminated Cohen.
REUTERS/Nir EliasAmerica added 195,000¬† jobs in June, well ahead of the predicted 165,000, according to the new Bureau of Labor statistics jobs report. The auspicious figure means that¬†average U.S. job growth over last six months is now over 200,000. While the unemployment rate hovered at 7.6%, average hourly earnings rose by 10 cents over the month, and are up 2.2% over the year. Retailers, leisure and hospitality, health care, and professional and business services led the pack in job gains. The BLS broke down the numbers sector by sector in 22 charts.
REUTERS/Jason Reed It's clear who the big losers were today: It's the crowd that says "good news is bad news and bad news is good news" for the market. They argue that good economic news is bad, because good news accelerates the day the Fed tightens, and therefore stocks should dive. They've been making this argument pretty much since the day the rally began in early 2009, and basically they've always been wrong. The economy since the bottom has been characterized by steady, underwhelming improvement, and the only time the market has dived has been during periods when it looked like the economy might falter (most notably right after the 2011 debt ceiling brouhaha). Today we got a very strong jobs report, and yet stocks finished at their highs of the day (even as rates jumped and the dollar jumped) which pretty much drove the stake through the heart of this crowd. Amazingly, despite surging rates ‚Äî the yield on the 10-year bond has gone from 1.63% to 2.73% in about two months ‚Äî stocks are basically at all-time highs. Small caps are at all-time highs. So if the aforementioned crowd is the loser, then the winner is Bernanke. At every turn, he's been slammed by hawks of various feathers. In 2011 it was the inflation hawks who mocked him for saying that inflation was "transitory" and that the Fed needed to stay the course with easy policy. He was right. Inflation was transitory. Lately it's been the deflation hawks, talking about how Bernanke is making a wild mistake, hinting at a QE taper roadmap, and yet, risk assets like stocks have gotten through this period fine, and despite fears of disinflation there are signs of wage strength, signaling that once again, price weakness is likely to be "transitory." The economy is far from perfect. Unemployment is still too high. And a good argument could be made that the Fed ought to have been far more aggressive this entire time, starting in 2008. But the U.S. stands out around the world for having the strongest of the major economies (arguably the strongest economy period, as emerging markets crumble) and those who fret the loudest about inflation or deflation have generally been proven wrong. Bernanke wins again.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVGary Shilling had previously said that there was a "Grand Disconnect between robust security markets and subdued at best economic reality." This along with low interest rates had distorted markets and caused investors to chase yield without truly appreciating financial risk. But he always maintained that the 'Grand Disconnect' was unsustainable and a 'shock' could close this gap. In the latest†A. Gary Shilling's Insights he writes that recent Fed comments on the taper ó reducing the the $85 billion monthly bond buying program intended to keep long term interest rates low ó could just be that shock. What's more? Investors are facing other shocks too, like a financial crisis in China as its policymakers crack down on shadow banking. "A sufficient shock will shift investment strategy from 'risk-on' to 'risk-off'," he writes. In light of this Shilling has shifted to "risk off" investment themes. In this scenario, Treasury bonds and Japanese stocks are attractive.† Also, the dollar vs. the yen, euro, and commodity currencies are a good bet. Meanwhile, developed country stocks, homebuilders, junk bonds, commodities, and emerging market stocks and bonds are unattractive. "Also caught in the shift from 'risk-on' to 'risk-off' are closed-end bond funds where leverage and investor zeal magnified their performance earlier but recently have promoted grief. The average closed-end bond fund has fallen 10.7% in the past month compared to a 3.4% decline in open-end bond funds. Some 61% of the $276 billion in closed-end funds is in bond funds. The shift in investor attitudes pushed municipal closed-end funds from selling at a 2.1% premium to book value in January to a 6.2% discount recently while the 2% premium on junk closed-end bonds turned into a 5.9% discount... "Already, three members of the "risk-off" quartet are in place as stocks and commodities fall while the dollar strengthens. The fourth member, Treasurys, were hit by the Fed's announcements but may rally as falling stocks highlight their safe- haven appeal and overshadow fears of QE terminus." Shilling adds that his investment themes are always in transition.
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. President Barack Obama high-fives an employee of the Daimler Detroit Diesel plant following remarks and a tour in Redford, Michigan, December 10, 2012. It was jobs day in America, and America crushed expectations. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusBillionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen probably had a good Fourth of July.† The Wall Street Journal reports that Cohen, the founder of Stamford-based SAC Capital Advisors, won't be hit with any criminal insider trading charges, according to unnamed sources familiar.† Everyone knows that Cohen is the government's ultimate target in its massive crackdown on insider trading.† In the insider trading case against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Cohen has been identified as†"Portfolio Manager A."††While he has been implicated, he has not been charged with any wrongdoing. † What's more is Cohen has maintained that he's confident that†he acted appropriately. Meanwhile, Martoma has refused to cooperate with the government and their probe, according to the Journal's report. †The former SAC employee has also pleaded not guilty and is set to go to trial in November, the report said.† Under the statute of†limitations for insider trading, if the government were going to bring additional charges in this particular case†they would have to do so by mid-July, which is the five year anniversary of trades being questioned.†
REUTERS/Dean TremlOrlando Duque of Colombia dives from a 16 metre (53 feet) rock at Lana'i Lookout as some local hula girls look on in the lead up to the final round of the 2010 Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series in Oahu, Hawaii, September 8, 2010. Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin is bullish. He expects the S&amp;P 500 to rally to 1,750 by the end of the year. However, this is not to say that every stock in the market is a good buy right now. In his new US Monthly Chartbook, Kostin offers a list of the 40 stocks with the most downside relative to Goldman analysts' price targets. We pulled the 10 stocks that have at least 20% to lose.
UBSToday's bullish June jobs report smashed everyone's expectations, and left even the most skeptical economists feeling optimistic. But there were definitely plenty of interesting nuggets from the report worth addressing. For instance, UBS's Drew Matus noted that the increase in wages was interesting when you consider the fact that growth in low-wage jobs continues to outpace growth in high-wage jobs. This suggests tight labor market conditions, which could ignite wages and ultimately inflation. Here's Matus (emphasis added): The faster payroll earnings growth is despite a compositional shift in employment growth toward lower wage industries. Through March, employment growth was about as fast in high wage industries as in low wage industries. But since then, low-wage industry employment has gone up at a 3.1% annual rate and high-wage only at a 1.3% annual rate (see chart). That shift is probably positive for pulling the long-term unemployed back into employment. It's interesting, though, that average hourly earnings growth has actually accelerated even as hiring has shifted toward lower-wage industries and implies perhaps a bit more wage pressure and a bit less slack in the labor market than the Fed is anticipating. Our expected 7.0% unemployment rate for year end would put the unemployment rate at our estimate of the non-accelerating inflationary rate of unemployment, or NAIRU. This is the level of unemployment consistent with a lack of inflation pressures. As noted, earnings gains suggest some tightness in the labor market even at an unemployment rate of 7.6%. While one month‚Äôs data does not prove the point, it does remind us that, given the level of accommodation the Fed is providing, we should be mindful of anything that might suggest inflation pressures could be building. One key signpost we will watch is the Employment Cost Index (due out July 31), adjusted for the mix shift in employment. Economist David Rosenberg has written quite a bit about the areas of the economy where the labor supply may be tight.¬† As companies go after a shrinking pool of workers, wages will rise, putting a strain on profit margins, and potentially creating a problem for stocks.
whateversuitsme/statigr.am The New Abnormal is turning out to be quite an embarrassment for Obama's "manufacturing renaissance" agenda not to mention high paying, manufacturing jobs but at least it explains why Bernanke doesn't mind sending the USD surging when all other central banks are now talking their currencies down (especially if it means fresh S&amp;P records benefiting the 0.1%): after all, if you have nothing to export, who cares what the relative value of your currency is. There is good news however. Even as the¬†manufacturing jobs continue to collapse,¬†¬†posting their fourth consecutive monthly drop in June to 11.964 million jobs, minimum wage waiters and bartenders have never been happier.¬†In June Restaurant and Bar employees just hit a¬†new all time high of 10,339,800 workers, increasing by a whopping 51,700 in one month.¬† Zero Hedge Summarizing the "economy" of Bernanke and Obama:¬†in 2013 239,000 minimum wage restaurant and bar jobs have been created.¬†As for manufacturing jobs:13,000. New Abnormal indeed. Behold an economy dominated by waiters and bartenders.
Treasure may be hiding behind those cobwebs and the abandoned sofa in your attic‚Äîold stock and bond certificates. Even if you think the company that issued the certificate no longer exists, don‚Äôt put the documents in the trash pile quite yet. Some collectors‚Äîpaper lovers sometimes referred to as scripophiles‚Äîwill go ga-ga over defunct securities with certain rare qualities.¬† Treasure Hunting With a stroke of luck, you could hit the jackpot of a lifetime. In 1979, the certificate for a share in the Texas Pacific Land Trust purchased in the late 1800s was found to be worth almost $4 million.A¬†share in a bygone company may even retain legal value. For instance, the company may have simply changed its name or undergone a merger. The specific conditions of how the company was acquired also play a role,¬†Max Hensley, president of the International Bond and Share Society‚Äôs U.S. chapter told¬†The Wall Street Journal. A broker can help you find out if you‚Äôve found a winning ticket, and with the process of collecting the payout. For $39.95,¬†Scripophily.com¬†will do the legwork for you, and will refund your money if the search runs dry. The Do-It-Yourself Approach If you‚Äôre feeling intrepid, you can choose to conduct the investigation yourself. There are resources available for assessing the potential worth of old certificates. ¬† They include¬†the ‚ÄúFinancial Stock Guide Service‚Äù guidebook,¬†the treasurer of the company‚Äôs state of incorporation and¬†the Securities and Exchange Commission‚Äôs¬†Office of Investor Education and Advocacy. Just remember‚Äîbearer bonds or stocks can‚Äôt be cashed in by anyone. For registered securities, you need documentation that says you have the legal rights to the certificate. From there, get in touch with the bond‚Äôs trust company or the stock‚Äôs transfer agent, and watch your treasure-hunting dreams come true.
REUTERS/Tarmizy Harva A man mines for gold at Pidie district, Indonesia's Aceh province November 3, 2009. The villagers can collect up to 1.5 to 2 grams of gold and earn up to 275,000 rupiah ($28) a day. Gold futures are down a whopping 3% to $1,213 today. Prices plunged right after today's bullish jobs report. And gold-mining stocks are taking a huge beating. Here's a quick look at what gold-mining stocks are doing.
Bloomberg TelevisionDavid RosenbergIt's hard to complain about today's jobs report. Even the typically bearish economist David Rosenberg sounds particularly rosy. In today's Breakfast With Dave note, Rosenberg offers his "Ten Reasons To Love The U.S. Employment Report" (paraphrased): "On net, it was a solid report with mostly positive internals, not merely the headline increase, and confirms the view that the Fed will be tapering off by the fourth quarter (which it really must do anyway to prevent a passive easing policy)," said Rosenberg.

By and large, the White House and others' doomsday predictions about the effects of the forced spending cuts known as the sequester haven't panned out. The June jobs report†serves as another hole in that theory, as the month saw more robust job gains. First Trust points out†that since the sequester began going into effect in March, the economy has added an average of 183,000 jobs per month over the four-month period. That compares to just 132,000 over the same four-month period one year ago. The government did shed 5,000 jobs in June, and the federal government has seen employment decline by 65,000 over the past year. Private payrolls added 202,000 jobs.† Non-farm payrolls have added a robust number of jobs since rather tepid growth in March, after which both parties blamed each other for failing to resolve sequestration. But March's numbers were since revised from 88,000 to 142,000. Here's a chart looking at the March through June period's job growth in 2012 vs. 2013: Brett LoGiurato/Business Insider (Data: BLS)
ReutersChina's interbank rates have come down from their peaks in June. During that time, the People's Bank of China showed us that the government was willing to stomach short-term pain for long-term gains. There are six key lessons to take away from China's interbank liquidity squeeze, according to Standard Chartered's Stephen Green and Wei Li. This has shown Premier Li Keqiang's willingness to reform China's economy.
Today's bullish jobs report was not without its ugly details. While U.S. companies did add jobs in June, most of them were part-time. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' household survey, part-time jobs jumped by 360,000 to 28,059,000 while full-time jobs fell 240,000 to 115,998,000. Some economists have attributed this trend to the Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare.¬† Specifically, they blamed the employer mandate, which forced businesses employing 50 or more workers¬† to offer health insurance or pay a penalty of $2,000 per full-time worker. Generally, workers are considered to be full-time if they work over 30 hours per week. In their efforts to dodge this mandate, some companies are thought to have begun scaling back hours. But earlier this week, the Treasury Department issued a statement saying that the White House would delay until 2015 the enforcement of this requirement. UBS's Drew Matus speculated that this would likely be good news for hiring in the near-term. The Administration announcement of a one-year delay in the employer mandate component of the Affordable Care Act, or ‚ÄúObamacare‚Äù, could help boost payroll growth. Although the delay is only temporary, for those employers on the cusp of the 50 employee threshold this delay may prompt them to hire as they may be unwilling to continue to postpone hiring to avoid being subject to the mandate. Additionally, employers may delay plans to cut back employee hours to keep them from being classified as ‚Äúfull time‚Äù (the law considers employees who work 30 hours per week full-time). Again, this likely to be only temporary.¬† But it is a trend to keep an eye on in the near-term.
When people ask me what my edge is, I tell them I have a very good sense of what the crowd is thinking and I think I've gotten pretty good at what they'll do about it next. I pay close attention to when there's an emotional or tonal shift to the rhetoric of the Pundit Class because I know that the masses gradually adopt these oft-repeated tropes and heuristics for their own and act accordingly. Keynes figured out that his job as the King's College endowment portfolio manager was not to guess at the future - but to guess at what other market participants would be guessing and to beat them to those assumptions. Before he realized that this was the way to invest, his track record was terrible - lots of trading, very little to show for it, the Crash of '29 nearly wiped him out of his own small fortune. But¬†after¬†this realization hit him, his confidence grew and his cockiness faded. His average holding times lengthened, his turnover decreased and¬†his returns began to trounce the market. Keynes was now a master at¬†judging the judges¬†of the beauty pageant, and leaving the judges themselves to fret over their petty calculations of pulchritude. This is what I do. I do not say that this is easy or that I can do it effectively all the time, but I'd much rather work on this skill than any other. I'd prefer to develop a consistent ability to survey the surveyors than try to be the best forecaster of the earnings of one kind of company. The reality is that fundamental research to determine cash flows and earnings per share is a software function with minor tweaks colored by conversations with management, customers and suppliers. JP Morgan's got an army of guys doing this for a living with very high stakes and each year they put out theirBest Ideas¬†list and their¬†Stocks to Avoid¬†list. First Solar (FSLR) was on their¬†Stocks to Avoid¬†list and it hasoutperformed 71 of their 72 best ideas. I am certain the analyst's calculations were correct - but their conclusions could not have possibly been correct because they cannot forecast sentiment! Look at the consensus estimates for the Russell 1000 stocks that have more than ten sell-side analysts covering them - notable deviations from firm to firm are rare. The deviations are usually in the multiple these analysts think people will be willing to pay. This is guesswork about future sentiment, not math, and these Ivory Tower guessers are often disconnected from the vibe on the street. I find that technical analysis, while very helpful to my process, is equally crowded with brilliant practitioners - a million traders and analysts that will likely uncover the patterns they live for significantly earlier than I will. I pay attention to both technicals and fundamentals but my daily process involves much more than that. Because I have learned that I am uniquely positioned at a very particular crossroads and every day I try to use it to my advantage. When I look to the road headed east, I see my friends the economics bloggers and market columnists and other assorted professional commentators on the stock market. They are the makers of the memes, the repeaters of the rhetoric that color the way we think about trends and occurrences. They are the ones that turn news into NEWS and I get to watch that process in flagrante delicto.¬†They read and regard the chief strategists and the pundits so I don't have to. They synthesize the material and turn it into digestible content for the¬†proletariat. I am highly attuned to this process, none of the inner-workings of it escape me. I try to keep a straight face when I see it being taken at face value by the consumer. The western road leading the other way from the crossroads I inhabit is heavily traversed by my colleagues in the wealth management business and my friends from the trading world. They are blogging and tweeting and buying me a drink and sending me their newsletters and emails and all manner of feedback. I do my best to keep up with it and to quantify the sum total of the things they are excited and fearful about. It's not quite a tapestry, more of a patchwork quilt. But I can shut my eyes, run my hands over the seams and feel out the grain of the fabric, make out the patterns even in the dark. To the south, my clients and the prospective clients we talk to from the ranks of the high networth and ultra-high networth investor class. In many ways, these are the wisest people I talk with - they have correctly surmised that there is too much going on and they cannot seriously keep up with it while still running their own careers and lives and finding time for some leisure. They've figured out that life is short and success is only worthwhile if you allot yourself time to make the most of it. I'm incredibly fortunate to have access to them for¬†conversations¬†both serious and lighthearted. I am blessed to have this firehose of sentiment, this pipeline of insights about business and life and the mood of their fellow affluent investors. Heading due north, up the road, I am tramping on the dust of theories debunked and assumptions ground into the gravel. Our internal investing process and the data we employ to make decisions guides us toward success but it does not spare us from the harsh lessons we must learn and sometimes re-learn. Science advances one funeral at a time, we are told, and so too do we trudge over our own mistakes on this path. It is the only way forward - there is no shortcut around these small mistakes and errors, but they are not insurmountable. The trick is to not let them get that way. I read an article years ago about a pair of fund managers who keep a Wall of Shame in their office with the ticker symbols of investments gone wrong as a reminder to remain humble and not repeat old errors. I thought to myself that if only they had my emotional scars - they sure wouldn't need the fuckin' bulletin board. I like my crossroads. I've gotten good at holding it down. I'm on a continuing mission to keep it populated with smart people and informed opinion.¬†If I keep making quarter-turns with both eyes open, I can see what everyone's doing. My hope is that if I'm always working at this and maintaining my place at the center of this crossroad, my ability to anticipate the anticipations of others will only grow. This post originally appeared on April 27th 2013 Read Also: The purpose of this site ¬†(TRB) Allow me to enlighten you... ¬†(TRB) Escaping the Fear Factory (TRB) Investment Fads and Themes by Year, 1996-2012 (TRB) Tops, Bottoms and Middles (TRB) 33 Times, You Poor Dumb Bastards (TRB)
REUTERS/Rick WilkingHomebuilder stocks are taking a beating amid rising interest rates. The yield on the 30-year is up to 3.64%. Mortgage rates have also been rising. The 30-year fixed rate eased to 4.29% for the week ending July 3. Though this was down from a two-year high of 4.46% the previous week. Here's a quick look at how homebuilder stocks are performing today.
Gray hair is the ultimate banker/hedge fund hair do. ¬† We couldn't help but notice that a handful of folks in finance have developed some really, really nice silver strands over the years. ¬†They're what we would consider the "silver foxes" of finance. ¬† Check them out:¬† Scott Eells/Bloomberg via Getty Images Wikimedia Commons Photo: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg via Getty Images Screenshot via BloombergTV Michael Buholzer/REUTERS via CNBC Scott Franklin/Getty Images Oli Scarff/Getty Images  Reuters/ Carlo Allegri Instagram/ TheBrownstoneNY
REUTERS/Price ChambersGoldman Sachs Chief Economist Jan HatziusJan Hatzius and the economics team are encouraged by today's bullish jobs report. It was so good that they're now bumping up their forecast for when the Federal Reserve will begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds.† They now see it happening in September. In light of the better-than-expected labor market data over the past few months, we are bringing forward our call for the Fed tapering QE purchases from the December FOMC meeting to the September meeting. We expect that purchases may be reduced from the current rate of $85bn per month to $65bn per month, with most or all of the adjustment occurring through reduced Treasury purchases. We now expect purchases to continue through Q2 2014 (vs. our prior forecast of Q3 2014), in line with the guidance given by Chairman Bernanke at the last FOMC press conference. We are not changing our call for the date of the first fed funds rate increase, which remains in Q1 2016, at which point we forecast an unemployment rate of 6.0%. Fed officials are likely to work hard to dissuade the market from raising its short-term interest rate expectations. This may include changes in the FOMC statement around the conditions for the first hike in the funds rate, includingóif neededóa reduction in the 6.5% unemployment threshold.
The number of people working as part-time employees surged in June, something Republicans pounced on as a sign of the Affordable Care Act's effects on job creation.¬† The number of people working "involuntarily" as part-time workers jumped by 322,000 in June to 8.2 million, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.¬† "These individuals were working part time because their¬†hours had been cut back or because they were unable to find a full-time job," the BLS said in a statement.¬† There's some important context here: Year over year, the seasonally adjusted number of involuntary part-time workers is up only 16,000. The average workweek was unchanged at 34.5 hours. Here's a chart from the St. Louis Federal Reserve that shows the changes in employment levels for involuntary part-time workers: St. Louis FRED Nevertheless, Republicans tied it to the news this week that the Obama administration would delay the so-called employer mandate of the Affordable Care Act. That means there will be no penalties imposed¬†on companies with 50 or more full-time equivalent employees (working more than 30 hours a week) that fail to provide certain minimum-criteria health insurance to their workers. Today‚Äôs report is an encouraging sign for the working men and women who found a job last month, and those who are still looking. However, earlier this week the White House reminded us once again that its policies have held back the job growth that we should expect from an economic recovery. Obamacare has been predicted to be a drain on employment since before its passage and that outcome was confirmed by the Obama Administration‚Äôs delay of the employer mandate. The added costs and regulations to businesses across our nation mean less jobs and less economic growth. Delaying the inevitable for one year will bring no solace. We must have a permanent delay of Obamacare before we can realize our full job creating potential. Needless to say, this will be something to watch as implementation revs up over the next few months.
REUTERS/Keith BedfordStocks jumped after the jobs report, but have pared some of the gains. The June jobs report showed the economy added 195,000 new private sector jobs and the unemployment rate stayed at 7.6%. The June jobs report was the mother of all Goldilocks, because it didn't disappoint and it didn't show a huge improvement either which suggests the Fed won't speed up tapering.

Markets are making some big moves after this morning's awesome June jobs report. Of note is the tumbling bond market where the 10-year Treasury note yield surged to as high as 2.70%, from around 2.55% ahead of the report. This is the highest level since August 2011. Global financial markets have been jittery since June 19, which was when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said that the Fed could begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds. This was conditioned on improving economic data, including the unemployment rate gravitating toward the 7.2% to 7.3% range this year. With such a big buyer pulling out of that market, some feared that interest rates would surge, and perhaps hinder the economic recovery and slam stocks. However, others noted that the Fed would only do this because of strength returning to the economy.¬† So while interest rates might rise, this would be a sign of strength in the economy. "The beginning of a Fed tightening cycle is bullish far more often than not," argues Deutsche Bank's David Bianco. "It is only when tightening continues into a late cycle environment that it becomes risky. Contrary to popular belief, the party really starts when the Fed puts through its first hike. The punch bowl is removed when the curve inverts or inflation runs hot. Stock market dips on early hikes should usually be bought." Here's a look at 10-year note yield via MarketWatch.com. MarketWatch
Wang had left her fortune to a charitable foundation that was linked with her company, Chinachem. Chan claimed that they had been secret lovers and that Wang had left her $4 billion fortune to him. Te-Ping Chen of the Wall Street Journal reports that the court ruling yesterday came after days of court hearings, during which Chan ìoffered details of their trysts, including the use of pet names ëhubby pigí and ëhubbykinsí.î The feng shui consultant was sentenced to 12 years in prison today. Thereís more on the WSJ. Read more posts on Business Insider Australia ª
The U.S. economy added a whopping 195,000 jobs in June, crushing expectations for just 165,000 jobs.¬† It also turns out that it added 195,000 jobs in May, an upward revision from an earlier reading of 175,000. The unemployment rate remains unchanged at 7.6%. The jobs report was without question much better than expected. However, it continues to reflect a labor market that remains incredibly weak four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
Flickr / Galaxies and Hurricanes"Not-too-hot, not-too-cold." That's the famous line from the Goldilocks story, and it's what markets love to see from economic data. And it's exactly what we got today. 195,000 new jobs for the month of June was very nice, and nicely ahead of expectations of 165,000. And last month was revised up to 207,000 from 178,000. The dollar is strengthening, yields on bondsare rising, and gold is getting crushed, but importantly, stocks are higher too, so there isn't a fear that this is going to accelerate the Fed's tightening schedule. In other words, things are good, but they're not so crazy good that the Fed will be forced to quickly end the party with an early rate hike. In fact, because unemployment remained at 7.6% ‚Äî contrary to expectations of 7.5% ‚Äî and¬† because there was a rise of part time and undermployed workers, the Fed keeps ample breathing room, even though the pace of job creation is picking up. This is really the market sweet spot. For full details of today's report, see here.
After the strong jobs report, the dollar is up, and gold is getting shredded. Presumably this is the result of some combination of expectations of Fed tightening, and the long, slow death of the "fear trade." Kitco
Flickr/adactio It's a beat! 195K new private sector jobs was well ahead of the 165K new jobs that was expected. Yet the unemployment rate stayed at 7.6% vs. expectations that it would fall to 7.5%. Private payrolls added 202K new jobs. Last month saw a big upward revisions, to 207K jobs, from 178K. Meanwhile stocks are up (Dow up 188), the dollar is up, and gold is getting crushed. The full report can be downloaded here.
Flickr/Mary Kay GSkeptics love to make fun of how seriously the world takes the BLS's monthly jobs report. Sure, it's arguably the most important measure of economic health. However, it's also one of the more inaccurate stats we get. "The monthly nonfarm payroll figures are revised at least seven times," said Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna in a note to clients last month. "It happens twice in the two months immediately following the initial release and then once every year during the annual benchmark revision, which extends back five years. This means the final results often look very different from what was initially reported." Economists and traders are paying particularly close attention to today's June jobs report as it could have a material impact on the direction of monetary policy. But the June report is notorious for getting slammed by seasonality, which makes the seasonal adjustments almost unreliable. "Historically, June nonfarm payrolls have tended to be weak, possibly reflecting the difficulty in seasonally adjusting the data for the entry of students and the exiting of teachers ahead of the summer recess," said LaVorgna earlier this week. "In point of fact, the strongest reading we have seen in the initially reported change on June nonfarm payrolls going back to 2000 has been just +146k (June 2005)." Calculated Risk's Bill McBride points to the BLS's own words on the matter: [I]n the household survey, the large number of youth entering the labor force each June is likely to obscure any other changes that have taken place relative to May, making it difficult to determine if the level of economic activity has risen or declined. Similarly, in the establishment survey, payroll employment in education declines by about 20 percent at the end of the spring term and later rises with the start of the fall term, obscuring the underlying employment trends in the industry. Because seasonal employment changes at the end and beginning of the school year can be estimated, the statistics can be adjusted to make underlying employment patterns more discernible. So, we have an extremely important jobs report, that has a history of inaccuracy, on an extremely noisy month, on a day when we'll probably see low trading volumes as Americans recover from their 4th of July hangovers. Buckle up.
The Energy Information Administration offers this interesting historical chart showing how energy sources have evolved in the United States. Here's some commentary from the EIA: A typical American family from the time our country was founded used wood (a renewable energy source) as its primary energy source until the mid- to late-1800s. Early industrial growth was powered by water mills. Coal became dominant in the late 19th century before being overtaken by petroleum products in the middle of the last century, a time when natural gas usage also rose quickly. Since the mid 20th century, use of coal has again increased (mainly as a primary energy source for electric power generation), and a new form of energyónuclear electric poweróemerged. After a pause in the 1970s, the use of petroleum and natural gas resumed growth, and the overall pattern of energy use since the late 20th century has remained fairly stable. While the overall energy history of the United States is one of significant change as new forms of energy were developed, the three major fossil fuelsópetroleum, natural gas, and coal, which together provided 87% of total U.S. primary energy over the past decadeóhave dominated the U.S. fuel mix for well over 100 years. Recent increases in the domestic production of petroleum liquids and natural gas have prompted shifts between the uses of fossil fuels (largely from coal-fired to natural gas-fired power generation), but the predominance of these three energy sources is likely to continue into the future. EIA
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriIt's jobs day in America. And the stakes are much† higher than usual. At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the June employment situation report, aka the jobs report. The expectations: Nonfarm payrolls: +165k†† (May +175k) Private payrolls: +175k (May +178k) Unemployment rate: 7.5% (May 7.6%) While most people are hoping for good news out of the jobs report, economists and market experts seem to be in consensus that they want a "goldilocks" outcome.† In other words, they want a good report, but not one that's so good that it would encourage the Fed to pull the plug on any of its stimulus programs. What The Fed Said You see, at its June Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, the Fed told us it expected the unemployment rate to gravitate toward the 7.2% to 7.3% range this year and the 6.5% to 6.8% range in 2014. And with that forecast in mind, here's what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said that got economists and investors around the world all riled up: "If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year; and if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear." Bernanke's talking about tapering, or gradually reducing, the Fed's monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, which has boosted credit market liquidity and kept long-term interest rates low around the world. "[M]arkets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends, including a consequential rise in actual and expected nominal GDP growth," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. "With that, the focus will now shift firmly to the forthcoming June jobs report; and it will be even more intensive than usual." What The Economists Are Saying Here's what Wall Street's top economists are saying about Friday's report:
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Competitive eater Joey Chestnut holds his championship belt aloft as he arrives for the official weigh in for Nathan's Famous Fourth of July International Eating Contest in New York.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Gravity continues to be unkind to gold. Ahead of today's Non-Farm Payrolls report, which could confirm the Fed's path towards tapering bond purchases, gold continues to sag, giving up some of last week's rebound. Kitco
NASA/Tony Gray We still have an eternity between now and the 9:30 AM opening of US stock markets, because at 8:30 we get the jobs report, and that could change everything. But in the meantime, US futures are set to open sharply higher, perhaps to the tune of 1%. What's the reason for that? Yesterday, while most Americans were not paying attention to markets, the ECB and the Bank of England, both took moves towards easier policy in the form of new language about keeping rates low. Markets soared in Europe, and US futures got caught in the drag higher. Again, everything could change between now and the open, but for now, that's why futures are pointing to a sharply higher open. For more on what happened with the ECB and the BoE yesterday, see here.
Drip, drip, drip... It's not spectacularly fast or anything, but the decline of Bitcoin continues. A few days ago it was still over $100. This morning it has fallen below $75. From ClarkMoody.com http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
facebook.com/pages/Sunset-Drive-in-TheatreToday we get the US Non-Farm Payrolls report, AKA the jobs report. Expectations are for 165K new jobs, and for the unemployment rate to fall from 7.6% to 7.5%. Citi's Steven Englander looks at some possible ranges of numbers what we could get, and ponders what they might mean for markets: A big risk is the unemployment rate. Consensus is 7.5%, albeit with a chunk of forecasters at 7.6%. If Citiís forecast of 7.4% is hit, there will likely be significant pressures on fixed income markets. The Fed has not been explicit enough on what would make 6.5%† a threshold, rather than a trigger, so an indication that we are getting there faster than expected will put pressure on fixed income markets and support USD.†††† On the weak side the we think that payrolls below 140k or 150k may raise questions that tapering will not be so quick, and 7.7% (and to a lesser degree 7.6%) would suggest that labor force re-entry will be a significant factor keeping the unemployment rate from falling too fast. In that respect payrolls at 180k and UR at 7.7% would probably lead to some unwinding of tapering fears. For markets the worst case scenario would be if Citi's 7.4% unemployment rate target is hit, but that the job creation comes in on the weak side, in the range of 140K or below. Then you're looking at a situation where the unemployment rate is getting closer to the Fed's target thresholds, and yet you're still not seeing anything robust growth-wise.
It's back to the good old days in Japan. And by good old days, we mean the first several months of the year, when the Nikkei was gaining 1 or 2 percent every night. Last night the Nikkei tacked on 2%, as the Abenomics trade is rocking and rolling again. As you can see, the index went out literally the highs of the day. Nikkei.com Meanwhile, it's jobs day in America, and US futures are pointing to a higher open, as everything rallied yesterday thanks to easy language from both the BoE and the ECB.
Shutterstock/Denys PrykhodovThis summer as you go to beach houses and parties, there's a chance you'll find yourself networking with people with big bank accounts. In order to fit in, you'll need to look and act like you're a part of their social circle. In the book ìThe Millionaire's Handbook: How to Look and Act like a Millionaire, Even if You're Not,î Vicky Oliver shares the secrets of looking and acting like you're a millionaire ó even if you're not.
