Virtually no dead-cat bounce in Japan. After plunging 4% yesterday, stocks are up just 1% so far. Nikkei.com
Bloomberg TelevisionEveryone's talking about the "taper." This is the prospect that the Federal Reserve will reduce its current bond purchase program, which could potentially cause interest rates to rise. There's a popular idea out there that the stock market's rally in recent years has largely been driven by the Fed's loose monetary policies. But what if it were to tighten those policies? What if the Fed began to "taper" its bond purchases?¬† Would this be bad for stocks? "The beginning of a Fed tightening cycle is bullish far more often than not," argues Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a note to clients this week. "It is only when tightening continues into a late cycle environment that it becomes risky. Contrary to popular belief, the party really starts when the Fed puts through its first hike. The punch bowl is removed when the curve inverts or inflation runs hot. Stock market dips on early hikes should usually be bought." Bianco is reiterating thesis of his lengthy January 13 note titled "Don't Fear Interest Rate Normalization." He takes a close look at what the stock market did the last 15 times the Fed embarked began tightening its grip on monetary policy: The party is best in the early hours...Of the 15 tightening cycles since 1965, the S&amp;P 500 continued to advance without correction during the ‚Äúearly-cycle‚Äù portion of the hikes all but 3 times: 1971, 1977, and 1994. The exceptions in 1971 and 1977 were when the Fed hiked early post recession on high inflation. These two stands against inflation were far too weak and required a much stronger follow-up attack in 1982. The Fed briefly, but aggressively, hiked rates in the 1974 recession on runaway inflation. While we don‚Äôt consider this an early cycle hike (given inflation and that a new cycle never began) this crashed the stock market with back-to-back bear markets with a Feb to early March 10% rally in-between (1973-74 crash). In 1994, the Fed hiked in response to falling unemployment that was approaching an uncertain NAIRU estimate at the time near 6%. This proved to be too hawkish. This and follow on hikes came as a big surprise to investors at a time when carry trades were very crowded and forced disorderly unwinds. ....but don‚Äôt stay too lateOf the 15 tightening cycles, we consider 11 to have started in a late cycle period or continued into late cycle. The 4 that started and stayed in early cycle are: 1971, 1977, 1983, 1994. These 4 were soon after recessions, occurred with a positive curve, albeit inflation plagued the 1970s market, as discussed. The 11 tightening cycles that start late or continue into late cycle are: 1965, 1967, 1972, 1974, 1980, 1982, 1987, 1988, 1997, 1999, 2004. We mark off when these tightening cycles move into late cycle hikes based upon the yield curve in Figures 42-45. The early cycle portions of these hikes were safe, but the late cycle portions saw 3 corrections (1967, 1982, 1999) and 3 bear markets (1966, 1973-1974, 1987) and just 4 uninterrupted bull markets over the next 6 months (1980, 1988, 1997, 2004). The 1981- 82 bear market occurred mostly before the Jan 1982 rate hike. We counted the 1973-74 crash as 1 bear over 2 hike cycles. The best Fed engineered mid cycle soft landings were 1985 and 1995. Bianco's been behind some extremely controversial bullish calls lately. He recommended buying stocks into the sequester even as other bulls were saying to pull out. He's currently tactically bearish, and his year-end and 12-month targets for the S&amp;P 500 is a modest 1,625. But his bottom line is that Fed tightening won't break the stock market.
Banana RepublicA month ago, we asked you to vote for the best places for guys to shop.† The results are in, and we're ready to reveal where men like to get their apparel and accessories.† Nearly 1,000 Business Insider readers took the survey. Not surprisingly, 97% of the respondents were men, most of whom are city dwellers in their twenties. Preferences were split between department stores (35%), online retailers (34%), and independent retailers (30%), but it's clear that these guys have some strong opinions about the best places to shop.† We have winners for categories including suits, dress shirts, sunglasses, and more.† Thanks for voting!†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. ROSENBERG: There Is A Great Contrary Buy Signal For Gold (Gluskin &amp; Sheff) "It is headlines like this [The Curious Case For Gold At $1,000] that act as a great contrary buy signal. It is true that gold does not spin off any income stream and has failed out of favor with the recent rally in the U.S. dollar. But from my lens, this is becoming more and more of a troubled world, and hedges against something going wrong geopolitically is not exactly a bad idea. Call it insurance policy. Turkey. Egypt. Syria. North Korea. Jihadist murdering of a British soldier in London of all places... "ÖMy friend Nouriel Roubini is no fan of gold and said in the article that gold bugs are "a combination of paranoid investors and other with a fear-based political agendaÖ I have news for him, the world is not altogether that stable, then I would that having some exposure to hard assets that act as a store of value is not a bad idea at all. Some exposure ó not 100%. But it never hurts to have an insurance policy, understanding that the debate on gold, like equities and bonds, can at time get rather emotional." 5 Reasons You Can't Do Without Advisors (Above The Market) With passive investors outperforming active investors in the past five years, many have argued against active investment.†Bob Seawright at Above the Market has 10 key reasons investors need advisors and can't just rely on index funds. Here are five: 1. Investors need advisors to help them come up with manageable goals. 2. "Only a competent advisor is likely to be able to make sure the Investment Policy Statement [IPS] created does what it is supposed to do." 3. Research says that 75% of a "portfolio's variation in returns" comes from market movement and the other 25% is equally split between returns because of asset allocation and returns because of market timing. 4. Advisors can help investors work past behavioral biases. 5. "Tax efficiency still matters a lot and a good advisor providing the best approaches for dealing with taxes offers tremendous value." The Famous Shiller PE Ratio Is Predicting Positive Returns For The Stock Market (Credit Suisse) The Shiller PE Ratio also known as the Cyclically Adjusted PE Ratio (CAPE) is currently at 24. If this usually rises above the long-term average of 16, stocks are considered expensive. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite however argues that while current valuations are expensive they're "not necessarily a pre-cursor to falling markets." He adds that markets are usually vulnerable when the Shiller P/E is above 26. Credit Suisse The Hindenburg Omen That Wasn't (Charles Schwab) Everyone's been talking about the Hindenburg Omen recently. The bearish technical indicator surfaces when 2.2% of S&amp;P 500 stocks hit 52-week highs, and 2.2% hit 52-week lows, among a few other criteria. But Liz Ann Sonders at Charles Schwab writes that a clearer look at the Omen should calm investors.† "As Bespoke Investment Group pointed out, a closer look at the 'stocks' that made new lows on the NYSE shows that they aren't actually stocks! A third of the securities that made new lows on May 31 had the word "income" in them and a third had the word "municipal" in them as well. Nearly all of the new NYSE "stocks" making new lows were a mixture of closed-end fixed income securities, preferred stocks, or some other form of fixed income product listed on the NYSE. BIG looked at the new 52-week highs and lows on the S&amp;P 500Æ Index (which includes only stocks), and here we saw 6.2% of its stocks made new 52-week highs, while zero made new 52-week lows." Brian Belski Blasts Investors For Using 'Very Little Analysis, Process And Common Sense' (BMO Capital Markets) Despite the stock market rally this year, BMO Capital Markets' Brian Belski has stuck with his 1,575 year-end target. But he think investors aren't doing their due diligence. "Another month and another record level for the S&amp;P 500 Index. From our perspective, very little analysis, process and common sense is being applied by many investors when making investment decisions at current levels. In fact, we are getting the sense that too many investors are currently expecting higher stock prices tomorrow just because they were higher today. Consequently, our fundamental models (which are a key input to our market outlook) continue to show little improvement in the aggregate over the past several months."
How about Fannieís stock of late? The low-high for May saw a 660%% swing.† There were several days of +200Mn shares crossing hands. The stock fell off a cliff at $5.40 and 36-hours later it was back down to $1.75. Some guys made a killing, others lost their shirts. I think 99% of what happened to FNMA was due momentum chasers and day traders. Clearly the market is having a difficult time trying to figure out what Fannie is worth these days. The news services are also struggling. The normal sources have some big discrepancies. Bloomberg measures the market cap of FNMA at $12.9Bn (5.8Mn shares outstanding):  † Yahoo Finance agrees with Bloomberg: †  † CNBC and Reuters have a different number for the market cap. They think that FNMA is only worth about $2.6Bn, about 1/4 of what Bloomberg is saying: †   Google has yet a different number. It thinks FNMA is worth about $3.8Bn, based on 1.71Bn shares outstanding: †  In the March 2013 10-Q Fannie confirmed that the number of shares outstanding is 1.158Bn.  † So the market cap of FNMA (as of the close) is about $2.5BN. Bloomberg, Yahoo and Google have bad data. No wonder traders are so confused.  The deep thinkers in D.C. are also confused about the governmentís investment in the mortgage industry. Senator Bob Corker (R-Tn) thinks that Fannie and Freddie should be shut down and a brand new government owned mortgage entity should take over. Corker has a fancy new name for his mortgage lender,†Federal Mortgage Insurance Corp.  The problem with Corkerís plan is that the US already has a federally owned mortgage insurer. FHA (separate from Fan and Fred) has been booking new mortgages like crazy the last four years. FHA is under-capitalized, and will probably need a bailout in the not too distant future. Yesterday the FHA leaked an internal review that stressed tested the FHA business plan. That ìplanî looks like it could be another disaster for taxpayers: †  I think Corker is nuts to consider a new government owned mortgage lender. The government will screw it up just like they have with Fannie, Freddie and FHA. How many times do these guys have to get hit over the head before they realize that mortgage lending is risky stuff? I donít know what will happen with Fannie and Freddie. If you believe in the FHFA (the administrator for F/F) then you would have to conclude that F/F have no value at all. The flip side is that if left alone, F/F would be able to pay back all of the money borrowed from the Treasury PLUS a very big return to the taxpayers. This ìmiracleî could be accomplished in less than 36-months. GM/Chrysler, AIG and all of the TARP banks have done pretty much what F/F are capable of. They went into the crapper in 2009, the Feds bailed them out and after a few years all the money was paid back with a gain. Given that as a precedent, then a good case could be made to let F/F go down the same road. If F/F were allowed to payback the taxpayers, and then emerge as new private sector companies, the Preferred stock of the Agencies would be money good, and the common stock would be worth many multiples of the current price. Most investment opportunities have three possible outcomes. (1) A significant gain, (2) a complete loss , and (3) something in the middle. Thatís not the case with F/F. There is no ìmiddleî.† Either the the common/Pref could be a huge home run, or it is going to zero. No wonder the market is having a difficult time trying to figure out how to value the equity.
Oli Scarff/ Getty ImagesIMF Managing Director Christine LagardeThe International Monetary Fund is out with a report reviewing the Greek bailout program that it helped set up in 2010 and maintained through early 2012. The report is critical of the program set up by the IMF and the "troika" of creditors (the other two members being the European Union and the European Central Bank) for Greece. For starters, the IMF admits that the projections for the Greek economy that were supposed to result from the implementation of the program turned out to be too optimistic. From the report: However, optimism was not the only sin flagged by the IMF in its new report ‚Äì it also criticizes the actual structure of the bailout program: However, the IMF report is not an unqualified mea culpa. "Given the danger of contagion, the report judges the program to have been a¬†necessity, even though the Fund had misgivings about debt sustainability," it reads. In other words, despite the adverse effects the program had on the Greek economy, it still managed to keep the country in the euro and avoid financial market contagion to other eurozone economies. Read the whole report here &gt;
REUTERSStock markets around the world got rocked today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,960, -216.9 pts, -1.4%S&amp;P 500: 1,608, -22.4 pts, -1.3%NASDAQ: 3,401, -43.7 pts, -1.2% And now the top stories:
">GreyBlueSkies via FlickrLots of stock options have become valuable in the recent stock market rebound. When should you exercise and when should you sit tight? Systematic planning is required to answer that question. With the S&amp;P 500 price index up almost 145% from its 2009 low as of May 22 this year, many vested stock options are ìin the money,î or potentially worth exercising. So, many option holders now have to decide: Which of their options should they exercise and when? Our research has found that there is an optimal time to exercise each option that is in the money. The time depends on the optionís price and the ownerís accumulated wealth. An optionís price consists of two components: its intrinsic value and its time value. The intrinsic value of an in-the-money option is simply the difference between its exercise price and the current stock price. For example, an employee option with an exercise price of $10 on a stock selling for $12 has an intrinsic value of $2. Time value is more complex and can be calculated using various financial models. †But fundamentally, it captures the probability that the optionís intrinsic value will increase before expiration. Now, letís consider the hypothetical case of Megan Grant, a young executive, who received seven-year stock options from her company in February 2008 that permit her to buy shares of company stock at the then-current price of $40. After plummeting in the credit crunch of 2008 and early 2009, the stock has climbed up to $54; so each option has an intrinsic value of $14. As for the optionís time value, we calculate it at $4, which is 22% of its total value of $18 ($14 plus $4). Is it time for Megan to exercise her options? Sheís not sure, since she believes the stock can go much higher by the time the options expire in 2015. Also, she would like to avoid paying immediate taxes on the gain at ordinary-income rates.* But our financial modeling suggests that when the ratio of an optionís time value to its total value falls below 30%, itís not worth taking the risk that the stock might decline sharply. Since Megan is still building her ìcore capitalî (the amount sheíll need to secure her spending needs throughout her life), exercising the options and immediately diversifying out of the stock position would, in our view, be the better course. If Megan had already reached her core target and had surplus capital, she could have taken the extra risk of holding an option with a lower ratio of time value to total valueóas low as 10%, according to our planning tools. In any case, we think holding on until the last day before expiration is never optimal, since the risk of giving up potential option profit becomes too great. Indeed, we estimate that 40% of all options granted expire worthless. Thatís a high price to pay for wishing and hoping. In working with clients seeking to actively manage their employee options, we rank the awards in order of lowest to highest ratio of time value to total value. And while there are many factors to assess in each clientís situation, we often recommend considering exercising options whose ratios are below 30% and holding the rest for further appreciation potential. *The options discussed in this blog are non-qualified, so the profit upon exercise is taxed as ordinary income. Non-qualified options are more prevalent than Incentive Stock Options ( ISOs), which offer potential tax benefits from not selling the shares immediately upon exercise. The views expressed herein do not constitute†and should not be considered to be, legal or tax advice. The tax rules are complicated, and their impact on a particular individual may differ depending on the individualís specific circumstances. Please consult with your legal or tax advisor regarding your specific situation.† The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-manager teams. Kathleen M. Fisher is HeadóWealth Management Group and†Richard L.N. Weaver is a National Director specializing in advanced planning techniques for corporate executives†at Bernstein Global Wealth Management, a unit of AllianceBernstein L.P.
Anyone who thinks Europe has a prayer of greater fiscal unity should take a look at a chart showing where member countries stand on imposing tariffs. For the past few years, the EU has been running incentives to promote greater solar power use.¬†The knock-on effect was that China suddenly began pumping out solar panels like crazy to meet the demand. Recently, though, some EU countries with solar panel manufacturers of their own said the "bringing" had become ¬†"dumping." As a result, the EU approved provisional duties of 47% on Chinese solar panels yesterday. But there was a huge divide between the two camps: more than half the EU's 27 countries had concerns about the measure, according to Der Spiegel.¬† Per VoxEU's Simon J. Evenett,¬†Angela Merkel had said, ‚ÄúGermany will do all it can so that this won‚Äôt lead to import tariffs ‚Ä¶ That‚Äôs not something we believe in.‚Äù Meanwhile, France‚Äôs industry minister commented: ‚ÄúCountries that use protectionism, and China is one of them, should accept reciprocal rules.‚Äù Below is the aforementioned chart, from Evenett, explaining how this happened.¬†It¬†shows the history of member countries' votes on antidumping bills from 1991 to 2003. The pattern of countries that voted for and against may look familiar to you: VoxEU.org Yes, those were the PIGS, Europe's economic basketcases, who voted overwhelmingly in favor of tariffs.¬†It appears this breakdown has not changed in the intervening years.¬† This seems like a pretty basic question for a regional economy to answer: are you trying to lower the cost of finished goods, or intervene in the market to protect native businesses? There's no right answer of course: the U.S. imposed its own solar duties on China last year,¬†despite the same kinds of counter arguments¬†the Germans make: firms who purchase lots of solar panels are going to take a hit to their bottom line. But it's another sign that Europe will not soon grow closer together.
Remember the Great Rotation? The concept picked up a lot of steam in January, when investors piled historic amounts of money into equity funds, prompting calls that bond funds would soon see a big exodus of money as investors "rotated" their funds into equities. The outsized inflows witnessed in January moderated shortly thereafter. The whole time, though, money was still flowing into bond funds. So, not quite a Great Rotation. BofA strategists have been some of the biggest proponents of such a shift. In January, they even suggested that perhaps it had already arrived. Since then, it's been pretty quiet on the Great Rotation front. This week, though, BofA credit strategist Hans Mikkelsen discusses what he calls a "Mini Rotation" underway in the market:  Mini rotation out of bond funds The most recent accelerating daily outflows from high yield funds, and consecutive meaningful daily outflows from high grade funds, highlight the biggest risk this year ñ the rotation out of bond funds. Still, we doubt the increase in interest rates thus far is sufficient to sustain a more lasting rotation. However, should 10-year interest rates increase to 2.5% by 3Q or perhaps 4Q, we expect a meaningful rotation to take place out of high grade funds. Since Chairman Bernanke acknowledged almost two weeks ago that the Fed may start tapering sooner rather than later ñ depending on the data ñ we have seen continued outflows from long term high grade bond funds spreading to intermediate term funds as well. With fairly consistent inflows to short term high grade funds, that shows some rotation out of duration within high grade funds, even if we have only seen two days of meaningful aggregate outflows. Should payrolls on Friday surprise significantly to the upside and 10-year Treasury yields increase toward 2.4%, we expect more outflows and widening pressure on credit spreads. However, a disappointing or in line number could halt total return losses and lead to a rebound in flows and spread tightening. The chart below shows outflows from high grade and high yield corporate credit funds in recent days. EPFR, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
Statigram/mauaguirre02If it seems like all your friends are getting married this month, they probably are ó June is the most popular month for weddings. But dressing for summer weddings can be a challenge since not every type of suit is appropriate for every kind of wedding: You would never wear a tux to a beach wedding or a seersucker suit to a black tie affair. Toby Bateman, the Buying Director at online menswear retailer†MR PORTER, answered all of our summer wedding style questions. For more on how to dress for a summer wedding, you can also check out the†wedding style section at MR PORTER. From what to wear at the beach to deciding which tie is best, here is your definitive wedding style guide. MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($45-$985) "For a city wedding, I tend to keep my suit choice fairly sober,"†Bateman says. "One that works as a summer business uniform in dark blue or a mid-grey wool, that I then freshen up a bit with shoes and accessories." "The shirt should be classic in a crisp white or pale blue poplin and teamed with a smartly polished brown leather lace up shoe ñ oxford or derby, not a brogue." "Add a fresh colored plain or neatly patterned tie and a pocket square, neatly folded or with a flourish, to complete the look," he said. MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($85-$879)† "For the country, you can take this sensibility one step further ñ a pale grey or a pale blue suit would be totally acceptable,"†Bateman says. "If youíre likely to be standing on someoneís lawn drinking PIMMS, this is your chance to be a bit more liberal with the fabrication of the suit ñ cotton or linen works and is more softly structured than your business suit." "They suits can be worn with either a plain shirt or one with a small scale pattern such as a small gingham or floral print,"†Bateman goes on. "If you have gone for a patterned shirt then you might want to leave the pocket square at home or choose a subtle option to avoid too many patterns from clashing." "Shoes should be neutral but do not need to be as formal as the lace up worn for the city wedding, so a smart loafer works just as well." MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($80-$416) "Surely if someone is getting married on the beach, anything goes?"†Bateman jokes.†"Bring out the linen or opt for an unlined suit for a more casual and comfortable option."† "You can also mix the jacket and trousers, ditch the tie, or even adopt a sandal for a more laid-back look." MR PORTER Both items available through MR PORTER (Left: $1,025, Right: $595) "A single breasted jacket ñ one or two-button ñ is standard and typically the safest bet for weddings."†Bateman says.† "The double-breasted jacket is also fine, but the thing about this style is that the fit is a bit more difficult to pull off.† It should be tailored short in the body and fitted well around the waist, so I would only recommend it for those well-versed about style and fit." MR PORTER Ties available through MR PORTER ($140-$190) "Establish the dress code first ó a Windsor knot is best worn with a spread collar for more formal occasions,"†Bateman explains. "The four-in-hand [standard knot] is best for casual settings." "Bow-ties donít suit everyone and can sometime come off as cartoonish or a bit Pee Wee Herman, so I typically recommend them for a more formal wedding worn in black for a simple and sleek look."
REUTERS/Damir SagoljOne of the biggest emerging market stories in 2012 was Myanmar. Sanctions were†rolled back and outsiders finally had the opportunity to invest in the resource-rich nation. Jefferies' Sean Darby wrote that Myanmar will be the next major global trading hub. But ethnic clashes between Buddhists and Muslims, which has now spilled over to Malaysia, has cast a specter over the country in the minds of many investors.† While tensions between the two have existed for years, riots broke out following the rape and murder of a Buddhist woman, which locals said were perpetrated by Muslim men. Hundreds have died and over 140,000 people have be displaced since last year's riots. And the UN thinks Rohingya Muslims are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world. Certain human rights groups argue that Western countries should be more careful about lifting sanctions too soon. But for now it appears that no one is keen to reimpose or extend them. Mark Mobius"It is a problem that has simmered for a long time and will probably require harsh military measures to quell,"†Mark Mobius †Executive Chairman at Franklin Templeton Investments† wrote in an email interview. "To the extent that western nations understand the problem, there should not be any [reinstating] of sanctions." Mobius has previously said investors should be cautious but that there is "a lot of potential" in Myanmar. That being said, investors tend to be antsy about political uncertainty, especially when it concerns a country that has opened up so recently. A report from McKinsey titled 'Myanmar's Moment' argues that it's economy could quadruple by 2030 to $200 billion, but it could also disappoint. And one of the reasons it could, is the ongoing communal tension: "Much uncertainty remains. Investors are actively considering Myanmar, but many want reassurance that the government can resolve ethnic and communal violence, maintain its momentum towards political and economic reform, and ease constraints on doing business. "Those political and economic choices will determine the sustainability of change and the level of interest from investors and supportersóand therefore the success of Myanmarís economic transformation." Referring to the violence against Muslims in Meiktila earlier this year when 40 people were killed and thousands were displaced, Mobius says the spreading violence is cause of concern, especially because of Meiktila's central location. "Meiktila is in the center of the country and is strategic. That is why it is home to Myanmar Air Forceís central command and the Meiktila Air Force Base as well as the countryís main aerospace engineering university." But he doesn't expect the impact to be severe unless "the situation worsens." Business InsiderJim RogersCommodities guru Jim Rogers also continues to be optimistic on Myanmar. "We in the U.S. had numerous problems as we were rising toward becoming the greatest success of the 20th century: civil war, many Depressions in the 19th century, few human rights, little rule of law, collapse of 1907, etc, etc.," he said.† "Yet we went on to great success," he wrote in an email interview. "...I am very optimistic on Myanmar, but expect and welcome the various corrections which will come. There will be more."
Back on Monday, following the huge miss in the Manufacturing ISM, in collaboration with Nanex, we exposed yet another instance of blatant headline data frontrunning in "15 Milliseconds Of HFT Fame: Watch Today's Early Leak Of The ISM Print" where we showed aggressive trading amounting to tens of millions in notional contracts ahead of the 10am release of the key economic indicator. We assumed that just like every other lament about a market that is front-run by those "who have the means", manipulated (by the Fed of course - remember when that was just a conspiracy theory: good times) and simply broken, it would disappear in the ether forever. After all: why bring attention to facts when hopium is sufficient for the E-Trade baby to retire rich and famous before it has hit 2.¬† We were delighted to learn that CNBC's Eamon Javers picked up the torch and actually did some further investigating, which in turn led to an actual admission out of Reuters that it "inadvertently" sent out the data to "a select group of high frequency traders, many of whom immediately traded on the information before it was available to the wider market, CNBC has learned." Inadvertently? The humor just never stops. More from Javers: ISM, which puts out the data, told CNBC on Monday that it believed the data was not released early over its normal distribution method, PR Newswire. In a statement, ISM senior Associate Rose Marie Goupil said, "ISM's data was not released early today, nor is it ever released before 10:00 a.m. eastern time." But ISM also explained that in 2012, ISM entered into an exclusive agreement with Thomson Reuters to offer "a low latency economic data feed of the data." This super-high speed computerized service, ISM said, included just the data contained in the report and not its full text, which makes it easier for computer trading programs to process the data quickly. "This feed," ISM wrote, "offers subscriptions to low-latency programmatic traders worldwide who have the proper equipment and trading algorithms." Thomson Reuters is a news service that calls itself "the world's leading source of intelligent information for businesses and professionals." On Wednesday, Thomson Reuters released a statement to CNBC confirming that it had, in fact, released the data early. "We have identified that there was a minor clock synchronization issue Monday causing this data to be released 15 milliseconds early," the firm said in statement. "We are taking measures to minimize clock synchronization issues in order to ensure that release of the data is as close as possible to the official release time of 10am ET." Thomson Reuters said that the manufacturing data is just one of more than 1,300 economic indicators available on its high speed news feed direct service. The firm said it would not disclose how much it pays ISM for early access to the data or what it charges subscribers for its high-speed service. A source familiar with the situation characterized Monday's incident as a "minor, isolated, clock synchronization issue," and said Thomson Reuters is "taking measures to make sure that synchronization is completely up to speed in the future." Well, they apologized. Almost. And anyway, it is two days later now. So what difference does it make! And for those who wish to see the charts, here they are again: From Nanex: Note how SPY and the eMini traded within a millisecond for the Consumer Confidence release last week, but the eMini lagged SPY by about 7 milliseconds for the ISM Manufacturing release. The simultaneous trading on Consumer Confidence is probably because that number is released at the same time in both NYC and Chicago, whereas the ISM Manufacturing number is released in NYC, and then takes 5-7 milliseconds, due to the speed of light, to reach Chicago. Either the clock used to release the ISM number was 15 milliseconds fast, or someone (correctly) jumped the gun. 1. SPY trades color coded by exchange and NBBO. Chart shows 150 milliseconds of time.  ¬† 2. ES June 2013 Futures (eMini) trades and quote spread. Chart shows 150 milliseconds of time.  ¬† 3. SPY trades color coded by exchange and NBBO. Zoom-out of Chart 1. Chart shows 1 second of time.  ¬† 4. ES June 2013 Futures (eMini) trades and quote spread. Zoom-out of Chart 2. Chart shows 1 second of time. 
Getty Images/Ross KinnairdEric Gleacher on the golf course. Beleaguered advisory boutique firm Gleacher &amp; Co. shut down its investment banking business and hired a chief restructuring officer yesterday.¬† The firm said in a release ¬†that it had hired Christopher J. Kearns¬†of¬†Capstone Advisory Group to be the company's Chief Restructuring Officer and CEO.¬†¬†The bank also shut down its investment banking business effective immediately affecting 20 people.¬† Gleacher said that it's looking into several strategic options, including winding down the remaining operations or a possible merger or sale of the company.¬† Just days before this news came out, the bank had sacked its entire summer intern class two days before they were supposed to start. ¬† Gleacher was founded by legendary dealmaker and avid golfer Eric Gleacher. ¬†During the 1970s and 80s, he worked at Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley. ¬†While at Morgan¬†Stanley, he advised KKR in their leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco, the famous takeover that was chronicled in the book "Barbarians at the Gate". He founded Gleacher &amp; Co. in 1990. ¬†It was later sold to another firm, but he bought it back in 1999. ¬†He then sold the company to Broadpoint Securities in 2009.¬† Gleacher, 73, left his post as chairman of his namesake firm back in January of this year. ¬† "We will continue to grow our M&amp;A and capital raising capabilities in line with the vision we have described previously, a vision that Eric helped author. On behalf of the Company, I want to wish Eric the best in his future endeavors," Gleacher's CEO Thomas Hughes said in a statement at the time. ¬† Not so fast.¬† It has truly been a rough past two years for Gleacher &amp; Co.¬†They have exited businesses, fired hundreds of employees and posted a handful of earnings misses.¬†¬† Here's a timeline of the events: ¬† Since April 18, 2011, Gleacher's stock has tanked more than 63%.¬† "I just believe there are more equities and fixed income businesses who cannot reach critical mass and will fold. Margins are terrible and volumes are still shifting to automated venues," a former boutique investment banker, who will remain anonymous, commented.¬† Yahoo! Finance
ChinaFotoPress/Getty ImagesMarkets across Europe closed at their lowest levels of the day. The London FTSE 100 fell 2.1%, the French CAC 40 fell 1.9%, the German DAX lost 1.2%, the Spanish IBEX 35 †retreated 0.9% and the Italian FTSE MIB fell 1.0%. European markets are now trading at six-week lows. Meanwhile, in the United States, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 1.5% (off 230 points), and is now trading at 14,961. The S&amp;P 500 is down 1.4%, and the NASDAQ is 1.3% lower. All three are trading at their lowest levels of the day. The S&amp;P 500 is trading around 1617 this morning, 4.1% off its peak level of 1687 turned in on May 22. And the Japanese Nikkei 225, after falling a whopping 3.8% in the wake of a speech from the country's prime minister that failed to deliver, continues to head lower in after-hours futures trading. The Nikkei is now down 17% from its May 22 peak, only three percentage points away from a bear market. 10-year Treasury yields are down 5 basis points to 2.10%. French and German yields are down 2 and 3 basis points to 2.06% and 1.51%, respectively. Italian yields are up 4 basis points to 4.13%, and Spanish yields are up 2 basis points to 4.42%. Portuguese bond yields are up 9 basis points to 5.72%.
BITexas banker and self-taught mathematician D. Andrew Beal has increased the cash prize for proving a conjecture he discovered in 1993, the Associated Press reported. Held by the American Mathematical Society, the $1,000,000 cash prize goes to the first to prove the Beal Conjecture, an offshoot of the legendary Fermat's Last Theorem proof that was solved by Andrew Wiles in 1994. Here's the problem that can make you rich.¬† Fermat's Last Theorem went unsolved for hundreds of years. It said that no three positive integers a, b and c can satisfy¬† when integer¬†x is greater than two. While this may seem somewhat simple, and if you play around with it it becomes self-evident, it's a complete pain to prove.¬† Andy Beal had been working on Fermat's Last Theorem when he stumbled upon a different problem. At the time, he was using computers to look at similar equations with different exponents.¬† Beal's Conjecture is related. If a, b, c, x, y, and z are all positive integers and x, y, z are greater than two,¬† is only possible when a, b and c have a common prime factor.¬† Beal found during his computations that the only solutions to the equation were when a, b and c had a common factor ¬†‚Äî like how 8, 6 and 10 all have a common factor of 2 ‚Äî so he contacted folks in academia to confirm that the problem was new, then set up a prize with the AMS for the person who proves his conjecture.¬† So, if you find a proof or counterexample to Beal's Conjecture that gets approved by the AMS-appointed committee and gets into a journal, you get a million bucks.¬† Click here to see the terms of the prize &gt;
UPDATE:†The Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report is out. The key headlines: the Fed says growth was "modest to moderate" across most of the United States. Most areas saw slight to moderate gains in consumer spending. Hiring increased at a "measured pace" in several districts. Below is the full text of the release. Hiring increased at a measured pace in several Districts, with some contacts noting difficulty finding qualified workers. Wage pressures remained contained overall, although several Districts reported a modest or moderate rise for selected occupations. Districts reported level prices to mild price increases; some manufacturers raised prices and some increases for input prices were noted. ManufacturingThe manufacturing sector expanded in most Districts since the previous Beige Book. Activity increased in the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Manufacturing contacts in the New York District reported steady business activity. In the Philadelphia District, manufacturers reported that orders and shipments have fallen somewhat, and in the Richmond District, manufacturing activity softened since the previous report, although there were scattered reports of improvement. Most firms in the Boston District are reasonably optimistic about the outlook, and many contacts in the Cleveland District believe that business conditions will continue to improve slowly during the second half of the year. However, the near-term outlook has waned somewhat in the New York District. Continuing a theme from the previous report, strength in residential construction was a boon to manufacturers who supplied that industry. Firms in the Philadelphia District supplying the home-building sector reported strong orders, and the Cleveland District noted that suppliers to residential construction were among those seeing the strongest activity, while the Richmond, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts all reported increased demand for lumber or wood products. Growth in the auto industry was noted by the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts, although the Chicago District reported that the auto industry grew at a more moderate pace. Producers of inputs for the oil and gas industries saw growth in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Atlanta Districts. The food processing industry grew in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts. Electrical equipment saw increased activity in the Boston and San Francisco Districts but lower activity in the Philadelphia District. Demand for fabricated metals expanded in the Philadelphia District, while specialty metal manufacturers in the Chicago District reported small increases in new orders, noting that their customers had become more cautious. Fabricated metals producers in the Dallas District reported that demand remained steady for both private and public projects. The defense industry experienced weakening activity in the Cleveland District, and a producer of defense equipment in the Richmond District cited government sequestration and orders being canceled or delayed. Steel production was mixed. Steel producers in the Cleveland District reported that shipping volume was stable but remains below levels seen early in the first quarter, and both the Cleveland and Chicago Districts noted an increase in imports of steel. The St. Louis and San Francisco Districts reported an increase in demand for steel. Lower demand for primary metals was noted in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts. Consumer Spending and TourismMost Districts noted that consumer spending increased during the reporting period, ranging from slight to moderate gains. Retail activity in the Boston, Philadelphia, and Dallas Districts was characterized as modest or moderate, while the Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts reported slight growth. Retailers in the New York District reported that sales were tepid in April but picked up in May. Meanwhile, the Richmond District noted that sales were flat during the reporting period. The Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts reported that late winter weather slowed retail sales; the Chicago District noted that sales picked up once warmer weather arrived. Demand for home furnishings and furniture was strong or picked up in the Boston, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts; however, furniture sales slowed in the Chicago District. The Kansas City District reported that appliance purchases were particularly strong. Inventories were generally at desired levels in the New York and Chicago Districts. The outlook for retail spending was positive in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts, while more cautious expectations were noted in the Boston, Cleveland, and St. Louis Districts. Vehicle sales generally increased moderately across Districts. The New York, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts reported that sales remained strong or at high levels. Meanwhile, the Minneapolis District reported modest growth in auto sales, and contacts in the Kansas City District reported that sales declined. Used car sales increased in the Chicago and St. Louis Districts, while the Richmond District noted that the availability of used cars improved. Meanwhile, the New York, Cleveland, and San Francisco Districts reported a shortage of used cars or a decline in used car sales. Inventories increased in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts, while inventories were lean in the Philadelphia District. More respondents to a St. Louis District survey indicated that inventories were too high than too low. The Philadelphia, Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts noted that the outlook for future sales was generally positive. Tourism showed signs of strength in several Districts. The Boston District reported increased tourism revenues but noted that attendance at museums and attractions was down, perhaps due to weather affecting leisure travel plans. The New York District noted that tourism activity was mixed but fairly robust since the previous report. The Richmond District reported that unseasonably cool weather negatively affected some resorts. Leisure and international travel continued to experience healthy demand in the Atlanta District. Extended winter weather boosted skiing in parts of the Minneapolis District. The San Francisco District reported that travel and tourism activity in Hawaii was robust, while activity in southern California declined a bit. Hotel occupancy and room rates were higher in the Atlanta and Kansas City Districts. Advanced bookings and the overall outlook for summer travel were optimistic, but the San Francisco District noted some concern that the flow of international visitors could taper off in coming months due to potential weakness in the global economy. Nonfinancial ServicesNonfinancial services activity grew at a modest to moderate pace since the previous report. The Philadelphia District noted steady gains, while moderate growth was reported in the Minneapolis District. The San Francisco District saw flat demand for health care and legal services. The Boston District noted sluggish activity in information technology services, while the Kansas City District saw increased demand for high tech services. Information technology, distribution, business support, health care, engineering, and hospitality firms expanded in the St. Louis District. The Richmond District reported "renewed vigor," especially for technology and architectural firms. The Dallas District saw strong demand for accounting services and modest increases in legal services. Transportation activity increased. The Cleveland District noted strong activity, while both import and export traffic increased in the Richmond District. The Atlanta District reported increased movement of petroleum products and wood products but decreased shipments of grain products, metallic ores, military machinery, and transportation equipment. The Dallas District saw increased cargo and container volumes. The Kansas City District reported slower transportation activity due to poor weather conditions. Minneapolis District contacts expected small increases in freight traffic in the second half of the year. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate and construction activity increased at a moderate to strong pace in all Districts. Several Districts reported that higher demand and low inventory of homes available for sale are resulting in multiple offers on properties. Almost all Districts reported higher home sale prices. The Kansas City District reported concerns that appraisals were not keeping pace with price increases. Foreclosed properties available for sale have declined significantly in the San Francisco District. The rental market remains tight with noticeable increases in rental rates in the New York District. Residential construction increased across all of the reporting Districts. Several Districts noted increases in multifamily projects. The Minneapolis District reported that many markets saw huge percentage increases in building permits from a year ago. Builders are cutting back on discounting in the Cleveland District. The Richmond District noted that increased construction has pushed up the price of building lots, and the Atlanta District reported that the lack of available lots has constrained building activity. The Philadelphia District commented that builders are facing problems, as the long housing recession has disrupted the supply chain for materials and the pool of skilled workers. Commercial real estate and construction activity expanded at a modest to moderate pace in most Districts. The New York District reported that the Manhattan market is particularly robust. The Chicago District noted that an increase in demand for leasing was pushing up commercial rents, with strong demand from the health care sector. However, a market in the Boston District indicated no change in commercial rents or vacancy rates since the previous report. A market in the Richmond District had more hotels complete construction, and retail space was absorbed at a faster pace. Commercial construction continues to expand. The Philadelphia District said that most construction activity is related to ongoing demand for industrial warehouse space, higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure. The Atlanta District reported that most activity was coming from build-to-suit projects. The Dallas District noted an increase in office building construction. The Cleveland District said that many projects are in development, but new inquiries are weak. The San Francisco District noted that in some regions, construction of publicly funded commercial projects has slowed due to funding constraints from state and local governments. Banking and FinanceOverall bank lending increased modestly since the previous report. The Cleveland District noted that consumer demand for auto loans increased and that demand for residential loans shifted from refinancing to new purchases. The Chicago District indicated modest growth in business loan demand. The Dallas District reported robust growth in residential mortgages and auto lending with continued weakness in corporate transactions. The New York District saw an increase in demand for all types of loans except commercial and industrial loans, where demand was unchanged. San Francisco District banking contacts reported ample liquidity and competition among lenders for well-qualified business borrowers but limited credit availability for small businesses. The Philadelphia District noted slow loan growth, and the Atlanta District reported weak loan activity. Credit quality improved, on balance. The New York and Cleveland Districts reported widespread decreases in delinquency rates for business and consumer loans. Several Districts reported that credit standards have not changed much since the previous report. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions remained mixed across Districts, as weather patterns varied. Recent rains brought drought relief to the Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts but delayed or slowed plantings in the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Meanwhile, drought conditions worsened in the Dallas District, and contacts in the San Francisco District remained concerned that limited water availability in parts of the District could pass through to lower seasonal hiring and reduced agricultural output in coming months. Farm incomes increased in the Minneapolis District, while farm income growth softened in the Kansas City District. Well over 90 percent of the St. Louis District's winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better condition, but winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated further in the Kansas City District, with much of the crop in relatively poor condition. Forage crops were having a great spring in the Richmond District, and pastures and hayfields were in good condition. Overall activity in the energy sector was flat, and mining was down. The San Francisco District saw decreased natural gas drilling. The Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts noted that oil activity was flat and that natural gas activity was up. The Minneapolis District reported that the energy sector remained strong. The Dallas District said that drilling activity was up. Coal mining was down slightly in the Cleveland and St. Louis Districts, while coal mining in the Kansas City District was steady. Iron ore mining production was down in the Minneapolis District. Employment, Wages, and PricesHiring increased at a measured pace in several Districts, with some contacts noting difficulty finding qualified workers. Labor markets continued to improve in the New York District. The Boston District reported that with only a few exceptions, businesses were not hiring much beyond replacement, while labor markets in the Richmond District were uneven. Labor markets continued to improve slowly in the Chicago District. The St. Louis District reported that employment levels over the past three months have stayed the same or increased for a majority of contacts. Labor markets tightened in the Minneapolis District, particularly near the oil boom area in western North Dakota and eastern Montana, although some easing in the pace of growth was noted over the past six months. Labor markets were steady in the Dallas District. The New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts cited examples of contacts reporting difficulty finding qualified people to fill vacancies. The Richmond and Cleveland Districts noted that new hours of service regulations may exacerbate difficulty finding truck drivers. A number of Districts reported solid demand for workers in information technology, health care, and engineering. The Richmond and Atlanta Districts cited employment reductions due to cutbacks in government orders or staffing at government offices. Among staffing services firms, billable hours increased in the Philadelphia District but decreased in the Boston District. Meanwhile, staffing services were steady in the Dallas District and mixed in the Cleveland District. The outlook for hiring was generally positive in the Richmond and Minneapolis Districts. Wage pressures remained contained overall, though several Districts reported a modest or moderate rise for selected occupations. The Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts indicated that overall wage pressures were subdued. The Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts reported that wage pressures increased slightly, while reports were mixed in the Richmond District. The New York District noted that although qualified job candidates were said to be increasingly hard to find, most employers were holding the line on compensation. Exceptions included increased wages for home builders in the Philadelphia District, and legal and financial services in the Dallas District. Contacts in the Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts expressed concern over the effect of health care reform on labor costs. The Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts reported increased costs for health insurance. Districts reported level prices to mild price increases. The Boston District reported that aside from food, input prices were generally unchanged, although a few manufacturers have raised their own prices. Manufacturers in the Richmond District indicated that finished goods prices grew at a somewhat quicker pace. The Kansas City District reported that while finished goods prices remained fairly flat, manufacturers planned to raise finished good prices over the next few months to partially offset higher input costs. However, most firms in the Atlanta District continued to report having little pricing power, and the Chicago District noted that pass-through to downstream prices remained limited. The Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts reported higher construction materials prices. Meanwhile, the San Francisco District noted that prices for cement, logs, and lumber edged up, while prices for wood products, steel, and some metals declined. Gasoline prices spiked higher in the Minneapolis District, and several Districts noted that natural gas prices increased since the previous report. The Dallas District reported that most contacts expect price increases to remain modest for the remainder of the year. Return to top Retail and TourismRetailers are rebounding from the negative impact of harsh and prolonged winter weather earlier this year, but the late arrival of warmer spring weather has affected the sales of some seasonal items. Merchant contacts report April year-over-year comp-store sales ranging from a 0.5 percent decline to a 9 percent increase. Demand is strong for women's apparel, home furnishings, and furniture. Respondents say consumer sentiment seems a bit more positive, especially over the last month or so, yet overall expectations remain cautious. Contacts continue to predict low-single digit sales increases for 2013. Greater Boston tourism revenues are up after softer performance attributed to harsh winter weather earlier in the year. Through Q1 2013, hotel revenues are up 2 percent year-over-year, and occupancy rates are also up 2 percent. Restaurants revenues are 1.5 percent ahead of a year ago. Much of this increase is attributed to strong domestic and foreign business travel. Attendance at museums and attractions is down, perhaps due to weather affecting leisure travel plans. Boston-area tourism was reduced by the marathon bombings as some groups were forced to reschedule visits. Manufacturing and Related ServicesThree-quarters of contacted manufacturers report higher sales compared with the same period a year ago. Geographically, firms say that Europe remains weak and that both the U.S. and Asia are growing but slightly below expectations; by contrast, one contact called Europe a bright spot because it exceeded somewhat low expectations. An electrical equipment manufacturer reports low to middle single-digit growth across the board except for their products going into residential construction, which consistently rack up double-digit growth versus the year-earlier period. Several contacts, including the electrical equipment manufacturer and a supplier to the semiconductor industry report unusually volatile month-to-month readings. All of our contacts report little or no pricing pressure on the input side and several say they were able to make price increases stick on the sell side. A dairy firm says food prices are up because of drought conditions, but notes that recent rainfall may change that. Winter storms had some temporary effect on energy prices for some firms. Five of eight contacts are hiring, although only one is hiring in any significant way and their hiring is outside the U.S. Of the contacts not adding to headcounts, only one is laying off workers; this firm--a maker of parts for machinery--is planning to reduce headcount by 2 percent to 3 percent over the next six months on top of a similar reduction over the last six months. Six of eight respondents are increasing capital expenditures and one of the others says its expenditures are low only relative to some exceptional investments in 2012. One contact in the electrical equipment business says they have "too much cash" and are looking for investments. Firms cite mixed opportunities to acquire other companies, with one having a "full pipeline" of acquisitions and another saying there is nothing to buy. Three-quarters of contacts are reasonably optimistic about the outlook. Several who reported some softness in the winter said their customers were talking about demand growing in the second half. Software and Information Technology ServicesNew England software and information technology services contacts generally report continued sluggishness through May to date, with year-over-year revenue increases moderating further in the most recent quarter to the low or middle single digits. Two contacts attribute the slowdown to economic uncertainties in the U.S. and Europe, which they say have led many manufacturers to delay the execution of long-term license agreements. A healthcare contact, by contrast, attributes the dip to the ending of federal stimulus funding for electronic health records software. Only one contact, a provider of cloud-based payment and banking software, reports accelerated growth, with revenues in the first quarter up more than 15 percent relative to Q1 2012. Lackluster activity has led the majority of contacts to slow the pace at which they are hiring; many now plan to maintain their current headcounts through the end of the year. Selling prices and capital and technology spending are largely unchanged. Looking forward, software and IT firms in New England remain cautiously optimistic, with most expecting more robust growth in the second half of 2013.† Staffing ServicesFirst District staffing contacts report weaker-than-expected demand in recent weeks, with billable hours generally falling towards their year-earlier levels. The dip in activity reportedly reflects a leveling off in the IT sector and downticks in temporary and permanent hiring in the light industrial and manufacturing sectors. There is, however, renewed activity in the healthcare sector, with one contact reporting a substantial increase in demand for ambulatory nurses. In terms of labor supply, candidates with high-end skill sets, such as mechanical and electrical engineers and software developers, remain hard to find. Nevertheless, bill rates and pay rates have gone largely unchanged in 2013. Looking forward, staffing contacts are generally less upbeat than they were three months ago, with most expecting only modest growth through the end of 2013. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate leasing and sales activity held roughly steady or improved in recent weeks in the First District. A Hartford contact notes a modest increase in foot traffic for downtown and suburban office space but no significant changes in rents or vacancy rates since the last report, virtually no construction, and a flat industrial market. In Boston's inner-suburban corridor, office rents are up and vacancies down. In Boston proper, prime retail rents are up at least 5 percent over the quarter; office fundamentals continue to improve across the city, very slowly in the financial district and at a brisker pace in the Seaport/Innovation district. Leasing volume dipped slightly in downtown Providence and mostly improved in suburban Rhode Island, with rents about flat. Defense-industry tenants in southern Rhode Island are reducing their space needs in response to federal spending cuts, moves that are likely to put downward pressure on rents in the local submarket in coming months. In Portland, retail leasing activity picked up and apartment rents rose while the office leasing market was flat. Business confidence in southern Maine reportedly improved but no major expansions or hiring plans were announced. Values for prime downtown Boston properties--including office buildings and apartment buildings--continue to rise, leading to talk of overheating. Investors are purchasing empty retail space in Boston for the first time since the onset of the Great Recession. Continuing a recent trend, investors are increasingly purchasing prime, well-leased commercial properties in Hartford, Providence, and Portland, markets which are seen as value propositions in comparison with higher-priced Boston. So far in the cycle, however, new construction in these markets has been very limited. Commercial real estate loan demand rebounded at one regional lender as competition for such loans drove mortgage interest rates to new lows. Contacts are mostly optimistic that commercial leasing fundamentals will continue to improve at least slowly in the coming months. The outlook includes upside potential for absorption in Providence, Hartford, and Boston based on deals in progress and current employment trends. In Rhode Island, however, the upcoming gubernatorial election and state and local budget deficits--as well as the defense cutbacks noted above--present downside risks. In Connecticut, negative effects of sequestration on defense-industry tenants seem inevitable, but the commercial leasing implications are uncertain. Residential Real EstateThroughout much of the First District, the median sales price of single-family homes and condos rose year-over-year in March and April. Sales of single-family homes also increased from a year earlier in most of the region during April, after weaker sales results in March. According to contacts, demand for homes remains strong due to low interest rates, relatively low prices, and improving confidence among buyers. However, contacts continue to report that shrinking inventory levels are slowing sales and placing upward pressure on prices. In Massachusetts and the Greater Boston area, dwindling inventory levels have been a significant source of concern; contacts in the other states also express worry about falling inventory levels, but to a lesser extent. Several respondents note that much of the housing recovery has been centered around urban areas while rural areas have experienced more modest improvements. Within the Greater Boston area, realtors have observed an increasing frequency of multiple offers on properties. Contacts anticipate that single-family home and condo prices will continue to rise over the next several months, with inventory levels a significant factor determining the degree to which sales can grow. Overall, contacts say they feel optimistic about the trajectory of the housing market and believe the market will continue to recover as general economic conditions improve. Return to top Consumer SpendingRetailers report that sales were generally soft in April but strong in early May. One major retail chain reports that same-store sales were somewhat below plan in April--partly due to cool weather--but picked up in early May; another indicates that sales have been running somewhat ahead of plan in both months. Both retailers indicate that their New York City stores performed relatively strongly. Two malls in upstate New York report that business was sluggish in April, partly due to cool weather, but has been brisk in the first half of May; a number of new stores are scheduled to open in the weeks ahead. Inventories remain at desired levels, prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is reported. Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were robust in April and early May, running well ahead of comparable 2012 levels. On the other hand, sales of used automobiles softened further and are down from a year earlier; this is partly attributed to better deals on new vehicles. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain in good shape. Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report that business was steady at a strong level in April and picked up in early May; occupancy rates have been roughly on par with a year ago, with room rates up 2 to 4 percent. Bookings for Memorial Day weekend are described as very strong. Albany area hotels indicate a pickup in business in April, with occupancy and room rates rising for the first time since last summer. On the other hand, overall attendance at Broadway theaters remains tepid, running 10-20 percent below a year ago in April and the first three weeks of May; this mainly reflects a reduction in the number of shows running. Finally, consumer confidence in the region has been mixed: The Conference Board's April survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence surging to its highest level in more than a year; however, Siena College's survey of New York State residents shows consumer sentiment little changed in April, at its lowest level since then end of 2011. Construction and Real EstateResidential real estate markets in the District have strengthened further since the last report. New York City's home sales and rental markets have shown further signs of tightening--on both the sales and rental sides. Both apartment sales prices and transaction volume continue to run well ahead of a year ago in Manhattan and especially in prime areas of Brooklyn, reflecting a low inventory of available units. The rental market also remains tight: rents continue to rise at a roughly 6-7 percent annual rate in Manhattan and at a somewhat faster pace in Brooklyn; the Queens rental market is also seeing a pickup. Long Island, where the housing market had been generally flat until recently, has seen a recent sharp pickup in pending home sales and a drop in the inventory of homes for sale. Northern New Jersey continues to see modest, steady improvement in its housing market. With a relatively low inventory of new homes, prices are rising gradually; however, a sizable overhang of distressed properties is reported to be restraining price appreciation. A real estate contact in western New York reports increasingly strong market conditions: inventories have fallen, bidding wars have become increasingly common, and home prices have been rising. Commercial real estate markets across the District have also shown signs of improvement thus far in the second quarter. Manhattan's office market has been particularly robust: vacancy rates are little changed, despite a sizable block of new development coming onto the market; asking rents are up roughly 5 percent over the past year. Elsewhere in the region, office markets are mostly steady to stronger: vacancy rates fell in Long Island, northern New Jersey, Rochester and Albany and were little changed in the Long Island and Buffalo markets. One exception is the Westchester/Fairfield county market, where vacancy rates have risen to a ten-year high, and office rents have been declining. The market for industrial space has been steady to stronger: vacancy rates have declined modestly in the Long Island and Westchester/Fairfield markets and held relatively steady in northern New Jersey and across upstate New York. Other Business ActivityManufacturing contacts again report steady business activity in recent weeks, while their optimism about the near-term outlook has waned somewhat. In contrast, contacts in other sectors generally report some pickup in business activity and employment; they also express increased optimism about the business outlook, and a growing number of them plan to add workers and increase capital spending. Price pressures are mostly reported to be steady and moderate in the manufacturing sector but more widespread among service-sector businesses; still, relatively few service-sector contacts say they are increasing their selling prices. The labor market continues to improve gradually but steadily. A growing proportion of business contacts say they are adding workers, except in the manufacturing sector, where employment is reported to be little changed. Two major employment agencies report that hiring activity has been fairly robust, particularly for information technology workers. There is also reported to be fairly strong demand in fields such as auditing and compliance. Large financial firms, typically a major source of jobs in New York City, are reported to be hiring only sporadically. While the temp business remains strong, a growing number of firms are hiring full-time workers. Although qualified job candidates are said to be increasingly hard to find, most employers are still said to be holding the line on compensation, though some are becoming more negotiable. Financial DevelopmentsSmall- to medium-sized banks report an increase in demand for all types of loans except for commercial &amp; industrial loans, where demand was unchanged. Bankers report little change in demand for refinancing, on balance. Contacts report that credit standards are unchanged across all loan categories. Bankers continue to indicate narrowing in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--most notably in commercial mortgages. Interest rates on deposits continue to decline, on balance. Finally, bankers report fairly widespread decreases in delinquency rates for all loan categories. Return to top The overall outlook for growth has improved slightly since the last Beige Book to anticipate a continuation of the current moderate pace of growth. Despite lingering uncertainties, contacts expressed greater confidence in the underlying strength of the economy, especially as the housing market recovery begins to gain strength. Firms are more comfortable reinvesting where necessary; however, many continue to hold off on major expansion plans of capital and labor until the recovery gains more momentum. ManufacturingSince the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments have fallen somewhat. The makers of food products, lumber and wood products, paper products, and fabricated metals have reported gains since the last Beige Book. The makers of primary metals, electronic equipment, and instruments reported lower activity. Reports were mixed for makers of industrial machinery. Firms supplying the home-building sector reported strong orders and ongoing hiring to keep pace. Other contacts attributed growing demand to the oil and gas, auto-related, and aerospace sectors. Firms supplying other sectors reported flat or weakened demand. Employment levels were generally reported as flat to down. Across all sectors, Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business conditions will improve over the next six months. One contact from a housing-related manufacturer reported that orders from contractors were 22 percent ahead of last year; still, another stated that "firming in the housing market is key to a more favorable outlook" from his firm's dealers. Overall, firms have somewhat increased their expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers reported moderate growth overall. Since Easter sales shifted to March this year, April began with a continuation of modest growth; however, retailers reported strong sales for Mother's Day weekend. Restaurants were booked with moms and their families, which generated heavy traffic and sales for adjacent retailers. Volatile spring temperatures created challenges for apparel retailers as shoppers shifted their interest between winter and summer lines with the rise and fall of the thermometer. Promotional sales remained critical for producing the best results for many retailers. Auto dealers have continued to report a moderate pace of sales growth since the last Beige Book, with some weekly variability. Sales in the Philadelphia market were described as strong. Dealers continued to maintain lean inventories and have retained a positive outlook. However, hiring plans remain tentative and modest; expectations of rising health-care costs further constrain the willingness of dealers to expand their workforces. FinanceOverall, Third District financial firms have reported slight increases in total loan volume since the previous Beige Book. Banking contacts cited stronger demand for C&amp;I loans and real estate loans--commercial and residential. Credit card loan volumes were relatively unchanged, while reports of other consumer lending were mixed. A nascent housing recovery in many Third District markets has increased demand for new mortgages and the ratio of purchases to refinancings. A small amount of hiring has been prompted at banks and bank servicing companies by the moderate recovery, as well as by changing compliance regulations. Banking contacts reported little change in lending standards overall; however, a few banks reported some easing for commercial real estate loans. Most banks continued to report improving credit quality. Many banks cited strong competition within their local markets. Financial institutions remain generally optimistic about future growth. Real Estate and ConstructionFollowing a little softness, homebuilders throughout most of the Third District resumed a moderate growth of contracts signed for new construction. Contracts signed from January through May--"Five good months in a row!" one builder exclaimed--have generated significantly greater construction activity than last year for many builders, large and small. Significant cost pressures face builders as the long housing recession has disrupted the supply chain for materials and the pool of skilled workers. In addition, some builders have faced labor shortages due to higher wages offered for certain trades that are in demand for the Hurricane Sandy recovery. Residential brokers reported moderate activity during April and May for the Third District overall. Existing home sales that closed during the period varied geographically with strong growth reported in the Philadelphia market. Brokers were also pleased by even stronger growth of sales contracts pending, which was more widely reported throughout the District. The estimated months' supply of the existing inventory of homes continued to fall significantly. Brokers still expect that a shadow inventory of homes held by reluctant, if not underwater, owners will emerge as prices begin to rise once more. Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report little change in the modest pace of overall leasing activity and slight growth of construction. New office construction remains limited to an occasional build-to-suit client, while most construction activity is related to ongoing demand for industrial warehouse space, multifamily residential units, higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure. Contacts continue to report the presence of too many firms chasing too few projects, such that margins are squeezed thin on winning bids. Overall, contacts expect slow steady growth but remain optimistic, citing greater prospect activity and a greater willingness to make decisions. ServicesThird District service-sector firms are reporting a moderate pace of growth overall--a bit stronger than the last Beige Book. On the heels of a strong winter/spring season, resorts in the Poconos are entering their summer season with strong bookings and many sold-out weekends. Stronger cash flows are allowing properties to reinvest by refurbishing and adding new amenities. At least one major new resort is making plans to enter the market. Early bookings are also up along the shore in Delaware and New Jersey. In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, the state of New Jersey has launched a sizeable marketing campaign to remind people that most of the shoreline tourist area remains intact and ready for vacationers. In other sectors, staffing firms have reported strong increases in billable hours--an improvement since the prior Beige Book. Staffing contacts cited no wage pressures and expressed more positive outlooks for future growth. Other service-sector firms reported steady growth and credited the recovering housing markets with strengthening and expanding the base of consumer spending. Firms are hiring, although not aggressively. Overall, service-sector firms remain generally optimistic about future growth.† Prices and WagesOverall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms continued to report slight overall increases for prices paid and slight overall decreases in prices received. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Despite passing along some costs, homebuilders continued to face tight margins with lumber and skilled labor commanding high prices. Most real estate contacts reported stable, if not rising, prices for lower priced homes, and contacts in some markets noted stable prices for higher priced homes. Wage pressures remain constrained, according to most contacts other than homebuilders. Rising costs associated with medical insurance benefits remain a concern for many employers. Return to top Hiring picked up in the manufacturing and freight transport sectors. Reports by staffing-firm representatives on the number of job openings and placements, primarily in the service industries, were mixed. Wage pressures are contained. Input and finished goods prices were stable, apart from increases in construction materials and natural gas. ManufacturingReports from†District factories indicated that new orders and production were largely stable or increased during the past six weeks. Domestic sales were stronger than those to offshore customers, with declines in Europe being more acute than in China. Companies seeing the strongest activity were suppliers to the oil and gas, residential construction, and transportation industries. Defense contractors and suppliers to the coal industry experienced weakening activity. Compared to a year ago, production levels were mixed. Steel producers and service centers reported that shipping volumes were stable but remain below levels seen early in the first quarter. Several contacts expressed concern about the quantity of steel produced in China and Europe that is now being imported into the United States. Motor vehicle production at District plants rose at a robust pace during April on a month-over-month and year-over-year basis. Looking forward, many of our contacts believe that business conditions will continue to slowly improve during the second half of the year. Capacity utilization rates stood within their normal ranges. Several manufacturers noted that they have considerable excess capacity. For the most part, finished goods inventories are in-line with demand. Capital expenditures are on plan for the fiscal year. Outlays are primarily allocated for productivity enhancements and equipment replacement. Little capacity expansion is planned due to lingering uncertainty about future demand. Raw material and finished goods prices were flat or trended lower. Our respondents said that their ability to raise prices during 2013 is likely to be limited. We heard numerous reports from manufacturers who intend to increase payrolls at a modest to moderate pace during the next few months. Wage pressures are contained, while premiums for healthcare insurance spiked higher. Real EstateSales of new and existing single-family homes trended higher and they were above year-ago levels. Our contacts attributed this trend to low interest rates, favorable prices, and an improving labor market. One builder commented that young people are less inclined to buy a house than were their parents due to a perceived lack of value and a desire for mobility. He believes that this reluctance may put downward pressure on the housing industry for years to come. New home contracts were found mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multifamily housing remains strong. Builders expressed confidence that the turnaround in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months. However, they cited difficulty in obtaining financing and low inventory as barriers to more robust growth in their industry. List prices of new homes increased by as much as 10 percent in certain markets this year due primarily to rising construction costs. Builders have cut back on discounting. Nonresidential builders told us that while inquiries have weakened, there were still a large number of projects in the development phase. However, backlogs are lower than what most builders would like. The strongest activity was in multifamily housing, energy, and manufacturing. The office and large-footprint retail segments were relatively weak. Our contacts are cautious about near-term activity. While they expect some growth, especially in the second half of the year, many of their clients are not in a rush to move projects into the construction phase. A substantial rise in commercial and industrial leasing is seen as a positive indicator by builders. They believe that some of their clients may commit to new building in the upcoming months. There were many reports about large price increases for building materials, especially lumber (softwoods) and drywall. Residential builders felt the brunt of these increases. Little change in payrolls or wages was reported. Hiring for the prime construction season is expected to be limited. Subcontractors are having difficulty obtaining working capital and attracting skilled labor. Consumer SpendingMost retailers reported that April sales fell short of expectations. Some of our contacts cited colder-than-normal weather for holding down consumer spending. Others saw a pickup in purchases of large home goods such as furniture and exercise equipment. On a year-over-year basis, volume was up slightly. Going into summer, sales are projected to be modestly higher, when compared to the same time period last year. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. A food retailer commented that his customers remain sensitive to changes in gasoline prices, with any hike in gas prices negatively impacting his sales. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are allocated primarily for improvements to distribution systems and new store construction. No hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores. Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase during April compared to the same time period a year ago. Buyers preferred smaller, fuel-efficient cars, crossovers, and SUVs, and the number of customers opting to lease continued to trend higher. Large pickup trucks were big sellers in regions with significant shale gas activity. New vehicle inventories are rising, but a majority of dealers said that they are satisfied with their inventory positions. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects for the year, with a few projecting 5 percent growth over 2012. Used vehicle purchases declined in April on a month-over-month basis. Several dealers commented that it is difficult to find a quality used car. However, they believe that as lease rollovers start to come in this year, the availability of low mileage used cars will improve. Two of our contacts noted that financing activity in the subprime market is starting to pick up. Dealers want to hire a small number of sales and technical personnel, but they are having a difficult time finding qualified workers. BankingDemand for business credit has increased, but at a slower rate, since our last report. Although loan requests originated from many sectors, commercial real estate and industrial production stood out. A few bankers commented that insufficient collateral was the primary reason behind small business owners being denied credit. Consumer credit demand rose slightly, especially for auto loans. Installment loans are growing in popularity, whereas drawdowns on home equity lines of credit trended lower. Residential mortgage activity was stable. The shift in applications from refinancing to new purchase grew. Delinquency rates declined across consumer and commercial loan categories. No substantive changes were made to loan-application standards. Aggregate core deposits grew at a steady pace, with a movement from CDs to demand deposits still taking place. Customer preferences for online banking, rising use of ATMs, and shrinking net interest margins were factors cited by some of our contacts for cutting payrolls and reducing the number of branches. EnergyCoal production continued to trend down across the District, although lower production numbers are showing signs of stabilizing. One producer noted that demand from domestic utility companies is up slightly, while offshore demand is slowing or stagnant. Spot prices for steam-coal rose slightly, whereas metallurgical coal prices were flat. The number of drilling rigs across the District was little changed over the past six weeks but has fallen since the beginning of the year. Ohio and West Virginia issued shale gas drilling permits at a robust pace. Output from conventional and unconventional oil and natural gas wells was flat during the past couple of months. In the wet gas regions of Ohio and West Virginia, output should begin to increase later in the year as newly constructed gas processing units come on line. Well-head prices for natural gas are trending higher, but not to the point that would encourage aggressive drilling. Capital expenditures were at targeted levels, with little change expected. No change in production equipment and material prices was reported. Energy payrolls held steady. Labor costs were stable except for increases in health insurance premiums. Freight TransportationOur contacts described shipping volume as robust and higher than expected. Demand was particularly strong from motor vehicle and energy-related customers. Freight executives are optimistic about growth prospects for the remainder of the year. Diesel-fuel prices trended lower, and costs associated with equipment and maintenance items were stable. The biggest concern facing trucking companies at this time is the potential impact on operations (number of trucks and drivers, productivity, and pricing) due to the new hours of service (HOS) rules that go into effect on July 1. Capital spending is on plan for the fiscal year. Two of our contacts reported that they will be investing heavily in equipment that will service their energy customers. Another commented that his firm will order more trucks than originally budgeted to add capacity. Hiring is for replacement and capacity expansion. The industry is still experiencing a shortage of drivers and skilled mechanics. The former may worsen under the new HOS regulations. Return to top ManufacturingFifth District manufacturing activity softened since our last report, although there were scattered reports of improvement. A machinery producer said that his company was struggling to hit the break even mark again this month and that the volume of new orders was down considerably. Impacts of sequestration and tax changes were noted by several firms. A manufacturer of automobile convertible tops reported that the uncertainty of tax issues had slowed investment at his firm. Moreover, a producer of defense equipment cited government sequestration and orders being canceled or delayed as major concerns facing his company. In contrast, a lumber producer mentioned that, because of the improvement in the housing market, his company had earned a profit in the first four months of this year, and a flooring manufacturer also reported improving business. Price growth in raw materials slowed in recent weeks and finished goods prices grew at a somewhat quicker pace. PortsShipments increased at District ports, especially for container exports. Specialty chemicals were particularly strong, and one contact noted that pharmaceutical manufacturers were changing from air to ocean transport as rising fuel costs drive up air freight rates. Both auto exports and imports were robust. Furniture and flooring imports were up overall, and imports of auto parts remained solid. Port administrators commented that more manufacturers were evaluating plans for moving product through the ports as they plan to shift production to this country. Some port officials are considering how to better accommodate large container ships coming to the East Coast via the Suez Canal. Those ships have nearly double the container capacity of ships that could pass through the Panama Canal. However, one port contact expressed concern that the current truck driver shortage could slow container shipping. RetailRetail sales varied by category but were flat overall since our last report. Several contacts told us the unusually cool spring weather held down sales. Retailers commented that their labor costs were rising as a result of the healthcare legislation, leading them to change employees' hours. The manager at a discount chain store in the Tidewater region of Virginia noted that her store was "struggling" to make sales goals. In contrast, a central Virginia retail contact observed "less of a roller coaster" in retail sales than a year ago, noting stability and even strength in categories related to home building and home sales, such as furnishings and decorative accessories. Auto dealers reported that availability of used cars improved since our last report. Auto sales remained generally strong for both domestic and imports. Surveyed contacts indicated that retail price increases slowed in recent weeks. ServicesWe received reports of renewed vigor at non-retail services firms. Architectural and technology services were among the firms noting increased revenues. A financial services contact commented that his clients were "feeling good" as asset values rose and real estate improved, leading them to free up and move cash. Although healthcare organizations reported stable demand, executives in some areas remarked on financial pressure from the decline in their Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement under the Affordable Care Act. Prices at non-retail services firms edged up slightly faster. Reports from the tourism industry were mixed. Resorts in Virginia and North Carolina had good growth in bookings, and business was up for full-service conference space. However, unseasonably cool weather reduced weekend stays at a West Virginia resort and lessened weekend traffic on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. A contact in Washington, D.C. said visitor traffic remained consistent, but that some summer activities could be affected by reductions in security staffing under the federal budget cuts. Hoteliers anticipated a solid finish to the summer months, and most had raised rates slightly. FinanceReports on banking conditions varied since our last assessment. Demand increased for residential mortgages. Refinancing was strong in North Carolina, whereas lending in Virginia went primarily to new home purchases. Across the District, the limited increase in commercial mortgage activity was generally confined to refinancing existing loans from other institutions. Nevertheless, a bank official in North Carolina noted a pick up in demand from home builders, and said that his bank was reconsidering whether their credit standards were too tight given the improving economy. The demand for commercial and industrial loans was weak, according to lenders in South Carolina and West Virginia, due to customers' high cash balances and low confidence. However, bankers in North Carolina and Virginia saw an uptick in activity. Several lenders commented that competitors continued to offer very low rates that "made no sense" in an attempt to take away business. Real EstateResidential real estate activity strengthened in recent weeks. A contact in Hampton Roads, Virginia reported that contracts were up twenty-two percent over a year ago and that inventories were low. She added that buyers were looking for owner-occupied homes in good condition and noted that multiple offers were driving up prices. Similarly, a Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area described the market as "accelerating," noting that decreasing inventory had led to multiple offers and higher selling prices. A Richmond Realtor mentioned that new construction demand had increased, which had pushed up the prices of building lots. A homebuilder in South Carolina reported an increase in lot shortages. His company raised prices on single family homes this year to offset supplier price increases. Commercial real estate and construction markets tightened slightly in recent weeks. A commercial Realtor in Charleston, South Carolina said that activity had improved and that he expects nonresidential construction to increase significantly in the next twelve to eighteen months. He also stated that the region is on the precipice of strong growth but will be limited by infrastructure. A source in Richmond expected further improvement in commercial real estate activity during the next year, noting a rise in construction in the Richmond and Hampton Roads regions. According to a contact in West Virginia, more hotels have come online and retail space was absorbed at a faster pace. Leasing there has risen to pre-recession levels, according to one report. With vacancies declining and increased demand for space in many areas, commercial lessors have stopped granting concessions. There is strong demand in the Baltimore corridor for multi-family rentals and purchases, with occupancy rates at 95 percent. Another source said that the Washington, D.C. market was growing with a concentration in rentals, but that there was little speculative building. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesFluctuating temperatures coupled with heavy rainfall tempered plant growth and delayed spring plantings throughout the District. Despite wet conditions, forage crops were having a great spring, and pastures and hayfields were in good condition. Assessments of energy activity were mixed in this reporting period. The coal industry remained depressed and businesses that supplied the industry were negatively impacted. A source in West Virginia said that reduced coal production led to a decline in diesel fuel sales as more heavy equipment was idled. He indicated that natural gas had displaced coal in power plants due to the low price of natural gas and concerns regarding environmental regulatory changes. He noted that some of the decline in domestic coal demand was offset by increased thermal coal exports to Europe. Labor MarketsLabor activity was uneven, although contacts were upbeat about additional hiring in the months ahead. A manufacturer in North Carolina laid off employees because of fewer federal orders. However, an auto dealer in the Washington, D.C. area noted that he had to hire more sales people, and a flooring manufacturer said he added an additional large crew at one of his plants. A national trucking firm executive remarked that implementation of new federal restrictions on driver hours of service will exacerbate the shortage of drivers for long-haul trucking. Further, a temp agency in Maryland saw somewhat stronger demand for workers in most industries. Contacts in the tourism industry indicated that seasonal hiring was about on par with a year ago, and permanent jobs were plentiful in locations along the outer banks of North Carolina. Looking ahead, firms in several categories expected to increase hiring. For example, a lumber firm expected to hire more workers later this year, and a West Virginia manufacturer planned to add jobs early next year as a result of reshoring. According to our latest surveys, manufacturing employment edged down and average wage growth slowed. Retail employment declined, but wage increases were more prevalent. Hiring flattened at non-retail services providers, while average wages rose. †Return to top Most retailers noted an increase in sales activity since our previous report. The hospitality sector continued to be a bright spot for the District as occupancy and room rates and revenues remained solid. District real estate activity continued to strengthen from positive but uneven sales growth, rising home prices, and declining home inventories. Commercial real estate contacts have seen improvements in construction since the beginning of the year. Manufacturers cited growth in new orders and production. Bankers asserted that the demand for new loans remained weak. Hiring activity was positive, but muted. Prices continued to remain stable and most firms indicated having little pricing power. Consumer Spending and TourismDistrict retail contacts noted an improvement in consumer spending but were cautiously optimistic regarding their outlook. Reports indicated that consumers remained focused on deals and discounts but high-end luxury stores continued to perform well. Relatively stable gasoline prices along with improvements in the housing market were cited as contributing positively to consumer behavior. Automobile sales remained steady at high levels. Hospitality contacts reported that the sequestration has not significantly deterred travel bookings. Leisure and international travel continued to experience healthy demand, with several contacts reporting that activity exceeded expectations. Hotel occupancy, average daily rates, and revenue per room showed strong increases across the District from the same period last year. Contacts also noted uncertainty regarding the impact of gasoline prices on summer travel but their outlook remained positive, with expectations that activity would be robust through the end of the year. Real Estate and ConstructionSimilar to our last report, District brokers reported that existing home sales remained ahead of last year's level. Sales growth still remained the strongest among Florida contacts. Brokers continued to report that low home inventories were restraining sales. Homes were also noted as appraising below market price which was either slowing sales or in some cases halting sales altogether. Existing home prices continued to rise on a year-over-year basis and brokers indicated that price growth was a bit stronger than in our last report. The outlook for sales growth remained positive, with the majority of brokers anticipating sales gains over the next several months. District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction activity were stronger than in our last report and from a year ago. Buyer traffic continued to increase, as well. However, despite improved sales, access to financing and a shortage of developed lots continued to constrain construction activity. Most contacts reported that new home inventories were below the year earlier level and prices have risen slightly. Once again, the outlook for construction activity and new home sales remained positive with most anticipating levels to be slightly ahead on a year-over-year basis. District commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand continued to improve from earlier in the year. Construction activity rose modestly again. Activity remained dominated by build-to-suit projects. Commercial brokers reported that demand for space, particularly office and industrial, increased from earlier in the year while retail continued to lag. Brokers cautioned that most markets still favor tenants but that concessions had eased somewhat and increases in rental rates were noted in select submarkets. Apartment development continued to grow at a strong pace across the region and absorption remained positive. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts continued to be positive and further improvements were expected this year. Manufacturing and TransportationDistrict manufacturers continued to report expanding activity in April and May. Growth was driven by increases in new orders, production, and employment. Much of this expansion was attributed to the region's large auto and energy manufacturing presence. Nearly half of the region's purchasing managers expect production to be higher in the near term. District railway contacts reported increased intermodal traffic; however, total volume was flat to slightly down compared with a year ago. Movement of petroleum products was up significantly on a year-over-year basis, as were volumes of primary forest products, lumber and wood products, and metallurgical coal. Volumes of grain products, metallic ores, military machinery, and transportation equipment decreased notably. Orders for heavy duty trucks increased considerably from a year ago; however, this pickup in demand reflected equipment replacement rather than additions to overall trucking capacity. District ports reported solid growth in containerized traffic and general cargo, especially imported steel, export chemicals, and petrochemical products. Banking and FinanceOverall demand for new loans remained weak as banks faced significant pressure to improve net interest margins and increased competition from non-bank providers of capital, such as private equity groups. Bankers noted that businesses were taking on debt where necessary to maintain and refurbish equipment to meet current demand rather than making capital investment aimed at future growth. Employment and PricesDistrict payrolls grew at a mild pace since our last report. The bulk of jobs added were concentrated in Florida and Georgia. Hiring in professional and business services was especially strong in these states; in addition, employment in retail and real estate was notably strong in Florida. Hiring in leisure and hospitality services, particularly accommodation and food services, increased in Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Tennessee. Government employment decreased in every District state except for Georgia, where gains were meager. Most firms continued to experience fairly stable input costs. The Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations survey showed input cost expectations hovering around 2 percent in April and May, roughly unchanged since the beginning of the year. Though most firms continued to report having little pricing power, retailers indicated that profit margins continued to improve since the beginning of the year as they have been able to successfully contain costs. Natural Resources and AgricultureLow natural gas prices continued to provide cost savings for industrial contacts in the region. Refiners along the Gulf of Mexico completed the seasonal process of switching from winter to summer gasoline blends and were ramping up production to meet higher demand from the summer driving season. Although the total number of rigs operating in the Gulf was roughly constant over the reporting period, drilling activity continued to shift from gas to oil,in part as a response to the ongoing price disparity between the two natural resources. In line with historical seasonal patterns, inventories of crude oil in the region rose considerably, supported by rising national oil production and soft demand. Additional rains continued to improve drought conditions in Georgia and Florida. However, prolonged rainy periods and cool temperatures delayed planting of some crops. Since our last report, monthly prices paid to farmers for beef, broilers, corn for grain, and soybeans decreased while cotton prices increased slightly. Contacts continued to voice concern about citrus greening and its effect on Florida citrus crops while cotton producers reported China's large cotton stocks were becoming a growing risk factor for domestic cotton production. Agricultural producers also reported that they are turning more and more to technology and other capital investments to improve production and reduce the need for labor. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending increased slightly in April and May. The delayed arrival of warmer weather spurred sales of spring and summer items such as clothing, building materials, and lawn and garden items. In contrast, furniture and restaurant sales slowed. Promotional activity was heavy during the reporting period. Even absent from sales, contacts noted a more general tendency for customers to move to lower-priced items within shopping categories, especially in food and clothing. Several retail contacts also pointed to the expiration of the payroll tax credit and less spending out of tax refund checks as having a negative effect on their sales. Auto sales were moderately higher. New vehicle sales fell short relative to expectations, but used vehicle sales increased at a faster pace. Small, fuel efficient, crossover vehicles were the strongest sellers, while pick-up truck sales were a little soft. Business SpendingGrowth in business spending slowed in April and May. Inventory investment decreased. Retail contacts reported that inventories were at comfortable levels, and, because of low sales expectations, they did not anticipate any substantial stockbuilding over the remainder of the year. Manufacturers also noted closely monitoring inventories given recently weaker demand. Capital expenditures were limited. A number of contacts reported that elevated uncertainty was curtailing their capital spending, pointing to doubts about the durability of the recovery as well as concerns over national fiscal policy. Labor market conditions continued to improve slowly. Uncertainty over health care costs and the pending implementation of the Affordable Care Act caused some firms to delay hiring plans or increase usage of temporary workers. Demand for skilled workers, however, remained strong, with a recruiting firm noting an increase in client orders for healthcare, information technology, and engineering occupations. Contacts indicated that even in the mining industry, where activity has weakened substantially, firms continue to hire engineers at a rapid pace. Construction/real estateGrowth in construction and real estate activity picked up in April and May. Demand for residential construction grew steadily, as multifamily construction remained strong and conditions for single-family construction continued to improve. Activity in the residential real estate market increased, with home sales, prices, and residential rents rising. Contacts noted that the still large number of underwater mortgages, extended foreclosure processes, and low level of new construction meant that the inventory of existing homes on the market was tight and that this was restraining sales. Nonresidential construction increased at a modest pace. Contacts noted, however, increased activity in the manufacturing sector, particularly from the auto industry. Commercial real estate conditions continued to improve, although vacancy rates remained elevated. Contacts also reported an increase in demand for leasing was pushing up commercial rents, with demand from the healthcare sector noted as being particularly strong. ManufacturingThe decline in manufacturing production growth flattened out in April and May. Although the auto industry remained a source of strength, it too grew at a more moderate pace. An increase in imports of steel displaced domestic production; nonetheless, a steel industry contact reported that capacity utilization gradually increased over the reporting period. Specialty metal manufacturers reported small increases in new orders, noting that their customers had become more cautious, ordering only as necessary with very short lead times and reassessing supply chains in an effort to cut costs. Exports of heavy machinery were lower, due to weaker demand in Europe and Asia. Contacts in the heavy equipment industry reported that equipment dealers continue to reduce their inventories and that most mining companies have trimmed their orders due to cutbacks in mining investment. In contrast, demand for heavy trucks increased. Suppliers to the aerospace industry noted a pick-up in orders following resolution of the issues affecting the Boeing 787. Improvement in the housing sector also continued to benefit manufacturers of household products such as appliances and fixtures. Banking/financeCredit conditions eased some over the reporting period. Corporate borrowing costs declined and demand increased in corporate debt markets as investors continue to reach for higher yields. Banking contacts reported modest growth in business loan demand, with greater competition for high quality assets among larger banks leading to some downward pressure on pricing. Mortgage refinance activity, while still strong, began to slow, but contacts noted a slight increase in purchase applications. Several contacts also reported that the new rules regarding eligibility for GSE backed mortgages are likely to limit the number of people who qualify. With demand deposits growing and comfortable liquidity levels, banks are increasing their willingness to lend. Smaller banks, however, continue to lag behind larger ones, with many noting greater regulatory uncertainty in their traditional areas of lending as a key reason why. Contacts also noted that risk profiles remain slow to change, indicating that a lack of secondary loan market demand and low appraisals of commercial real estate values continue to constrain lending. Prices/costsCost pressures were steady in April and May. Commodity prices were generally somewhat lower, although some contacts noted increases in the prices paid for natural gas, lumber, drywall, copper, steel, and aluminum. Retailers again reported mostly modest increases in wholesale prices, with the exception of continued cost pressures for some food items originating from last year's drought. Overall, pass-through to downstream prices remained limited. Wage pressures were again moderate, although many contacts noted rising healthcare costs and uncertainty about future employee healthcare obligations associated with the Affordable Care Act. AgricultureHeavy precipitation in the District aided the recovery from last year's drought by replenishing subsoil moisture. The rain also dramatically slowed planting of corn; farmers almost caught up, often by working around the clock once fields had dried sufficiently. However, the emergence of corn plants significantly lagged that of a typical year. Soybean planting progressed at about its normal pace once the corn crop was in the ground. Flooding from the heavy rains also resulted in river closures, delaying deliveries of agricultural products and farm inputs, particularly fertilizer. Current corn and soybean prices rose, as stocks remained low. Late planting pushed back the availability of new supplies into September. However, price declines were anticipated for the new crop in the fall, as concerns over major yield losses abated. Milk and hog prices moved higher; cattle prices were flat. Return to top Consumer SpendingContacts reported that retail sales in the past three months were up, on average, relative to the same period last year. Forty percent of contacts noted moderate increases in sales, while 40 percent noted minor decreases and the rest saw no changes. Forty percent of retailers reported that sales levels met their expectations, and the rest reported that sales fell short of expectations. About sixty percent of retailers noted that their inventories were at desired levels, while the rest reported that their inventory levels were too high. The sales outlook over the next three months was slightly positive: 40 percent of retailers expect sales to increase over 2012 levels, and the remaining contacts expect sales to stay the same. The general outlook for the retail industry over the next three months was largely positive. Contacts noted increases in new store openings, but some expressed concern about the effects of the online sales tax bill on their sales. Reports from auto dealers about sales in the past three months were generally positive. Fifty-seven percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 29 percent saw decreases and the rest saw no changes. Fifty percent of car dealers reported an increase in used car sales relative to new car sales, and 17 percent reported the opposite. About 36 percent of respondents reported that their inventories were too high, while 14 percent reported that their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for the next three months was optimistic: 64 percent of car dealers expect sales to increase over 2012 levels, while 21 percent expect sales to decrease. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our last report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the District, while a smaller number of contacts reported plans to reduce employment. Firms in automobile, automobile parts, appliance, asphalt products, plastics packaging, chemical, steel, and furniture manufacturing plan to hire new workers and expand operations. In contrast, firms in medical devices, commercial printing, and beverage manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers. A recent survey of manufacturers showed increased new orders and capacity utilization for the majority of firms. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in information technology, financial, distribution, business support, healthcare, engineering, and hospitality services reported new hiring and expansion plans. In contrast, firms in retail and wireless communication services reported plans to reduce employment. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, April 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 16 percent in Louisville, 32 percent in Little Rock, 7 percent in Memphis, and 13 percent in St. Louis. April 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 20 percent in Louisville, 4 percent in Little Rock, 27 percent in Memphis and 20 percent in St. Louis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve moderately. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2012, the first quarter 2013 industrial vacancy rates declined in St. Louis and Memphis and increased in Little Rock and Louisville. During the same period, downtown office vacancy rates increased in Louisville, Little Rock, Memphis, and St. Louis, while suburban office vacancy rates declined in St. Louis and Little Rock and increased in Memphis. Contacts in central Arkansas noted large ongoing retail construction projects. Contacts in Louisville and Memphis reported build-to-suit construction plans for industrial space. Banking and FinanceA survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks found little change in overall lending activity during the first quarter of 2013. During this period, credit standards for commercial and industrial loans ranged from unchanged to eased somewhat, and the demand for such loans ranged from moderately stronger to moderately weaker. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans ranged from basically unchanged to eased somewhat, while demand ranged from mostly unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit standards for prime residential mortgage loans remained unchanged and demand ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards and demand for consumer loans remained mostly unchanged. Demand for auto loans ranged from moderately stronger to moderately weaker, while demand for other consumer loans was unchanged. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesBecause of persistent rains, District farmers are behind their average planting schedules. Planting progress for cotton, rice, and soybeans in Mississippi was approximately half the 5-year average. Across all other District states, soybean planting progress was approximately 15 percent slower than its 5-year average. As of mid-May, well over 90 percent of the District's winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better condition and close to 70 percent was rated as good or excellent. Year-to-date coal production across the District states (excluding eastern Kentucky) for April was 3.3 percent lower compared with the same period in 2012, while coal output for April 2013 was similar to April 2012. Prices, Wages, and EmploymentFifty-five percent of contacts indicated that prices charged to consumers over the past three months have stayed the same, while 34 percent indicated that prices have increased relative to the same period last year. In turn, 30 percent of contacts noted that wages over the past three months have stayed the same, while 66 percent noted that wages have increased. Meanwhile, 45 percent of contacts reported that employment levels have remained the same over the past three months, while 37 percent reported that employment levels have increased, compared with the same period last year. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending grew slightly due in part to a late spring. A Minneapolis area mall reported that recent traffic was level with a year ago, but sales for most tenants were up. A mall manager in Montana noted that apparel sales were slow, but jewelry sales were much higher than a year ago. A Minnesota-based retailer reported that the extended winter weather slowed spring sales of apparel and other items. A Minnesota auto dealer reported level sales over the past couple of months. A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana noted moderate growth in recent auto sales compared with a year earlier at dealerships in the state. Winter tourism finished very strong in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota as snowpack remained into May in some areas. A tourism official in northwestern Wisconsin noted that summer bookings at resorts were strong. Recent hotel occupancy in Billings, Mont., was down somewhat from 2012, but still at high levels compared with the prior few years. Construction and Real EstateDespite the inclement weather, commercial construction activity continued to increase since the last report. The value of April commercial permits in Billings increased 11 percent from last year, while hotel building rose to $11 million in April compared with zero in the first four months of 2012. In Sioux Falls, S.D., April permits were up 2 percent from a year ago. A Minnesota manufacturer plans to build an office building. However, in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, April nonresidential construction activity decreased from a year ago, according to a market research firm. Residential construction increased rapidly over past year. The value of April residential permits in Sioux Falls more than quadrupled from a year earlier. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, April residential permitted units more than doubled compared with April 2012. The value of April residential building permits in Billings was up 77 percent from last year, mostly due to multifamily building. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A real estate analytics firm noted that Minneapolis-St. Paul area industrial vacancy rates dropped in the first quarter and are forecast to fall throughout 2013. Residential real estate market activity increased at a solid pace. In the Sioux Falls area, April home sales were up 28 percent, inventory was down 19 percent and the median sale price increased 6 percent relative to a year earlier. Recent home sales were up 16 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 28 percent, and median sale prices rose 12 percent. Multifamily vacancy rates in Minneapolis-St. Paul dropped in the first quarter, but are forecast to rise for the remainder of 2013. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased at a moderate pace since the last report. Preliminary results of the Minneapolis Fed's annual survey of professional services companies (conducted in May) showed that over the past four quarters, sales revenue, space usage, productivity and profits grew, and these are expected to increase over the next year. Contacts from the trucking industry expect minimal growth in freight volumes during the second half of the year. ManufacturingManufacturing activity continued to expand moderately. An April survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas at a slightly faster pace than in recent months. A Minnesota tractor manufacturer announced a $43 million expansion plan, while a vehicle producer is investing $20 million to expand research and development at a North Dakota facility. Plans were announced for a $1 billion fertilizer plant in North Dakota. Energy and MiningThe energy sector remained strong, while mining activity slowed. Late-May oil and gas exploration activity increased in North Dakota and was flat in Montana compared with the last report. In North Dakota, a $400 million oil refinery will break ground this spring and a 120-car rail terminal is in the works to handle crude oil. Exports of coal from Montana's Powder River basin hit record levels even as domestic demand dwindled. Meanwhile, production at Minnesota iron ore mines through April was about 5 percent lower than for the same period in 2012. AgricultureWhile a late spring delayed planting, recent rains brought drought relief for District agricultural producers. According to the Minneapolis Fed's first-quarter (April) survey of agricultural credit conditions, nearly 90 percent of respondents said farm incomes increased or held steady over the previous three months, with similar results for farm household and farm capital spending. Expectations for the second quarter were more moderate. District corn, soybean and spring wheat planting progress was behind average for late May, but producers were catching up quickly after a delayed spring. Prices increased from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hay, eggs, chicken and dairy products; prices fell for hogs, turkey and dry beans, while cattle prices were flat. USDA forecasts call for substantially lower prices for corn and soybeans for the coming year, with slight reductions in wheat prices. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets tightened since the last report, particularly in the western part of the District. Labor markets remained very tight in and near the oil boom area in western North Dakota and eastern Montana, although some easing in the pace of growth was noted over the past six months. Contacts in manufacturing and agribusiness in eastern South Dakota expect to increase employment slightly over the next six months. Results from the aforementioned professional services survey show that respondents saw employment growth over the past 12 months and expect more growth in the next year. Meanwhile, employment levels declined in Minnesota during March and April, partially due to extended winter weather. A Minnesota employment services firm noted that temporary placements in light industrial companies were level during the second quarter after posting strong gains since early 2012. A paper mill in northern Minnesota recently announced 300 layoffs. Wage increases were generally modest. The professional services survey indicated that respondents on average expect wages and benefits to increase 2 percent over the next 12 months. Overall prices remained stable, with some exceptions noted. Lumber prices decreased since the last report after making strong gains since October 2012. Gold and silver prices also decreased since the last report. Average Minnesota gasoline prices spiked to $4.34 per gallon toward the end of May, about 85 cents per gallon higher than a month earlier, as major refineries that supply the Midwest closed for maintenance. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending rose slightly in late April and early May, with an increase in retail and tourism spending and a decline in automobile and restaurant sales. Contacts in all sectors expected consumer spending to improve substantially over the next three months. District retail sales grew at a slightly faster pace over the survey period, with appliance and seasonal bridal purchases particularly strong. Tourism activity also rose, and hotel occupancy rates moved sharply higher due to an increase in tourists and business travelers. Average daily room rates moved higher and were expected to rise slightly in the months ahead. Restaurant sales declined slightly since the last survey but were expected to improve over the next few months. Automobile dealers reported fewer sales, increased inventories and fewer incentives offered. However, the majority of dealers still expected faster sales growth in the coming months due to pent-up demand, low interest rates and increased consumer confidence. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityAfter contracting for seven months, District manufacturing activity increased modestly in May. Contacts reported a rise in production, shipments and new orders, though hiring activity and average employee work weeks continued to decrease. Manufacturing expectations were strong for the coming six months, led by optimism for increased shipments, new orders, production, and capital spending. High-tech service firms reported that sales activity and capital spending increased modestly in late April and early May, and were expected to grow over the next three months. Transportation activity slowed with some contacts reporting weather disruptions affecting the industry. Many transportation contacts reported that they planned to adjust cost structures and hiring practices to offset anticipated health care and fuel cost increases. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity remained strong, and commercial real estate improved modestly in late April and early May. Residential real estate sales continued to rise sharply. Prices trended upward and inventories are lower compared to the prior survey period. District contacts reported that low inventories have slowed sales and put upward pressure on prices in some areas. They also reported concerns that appraisals were not keeping pace with price increases. Contacts expected residential sales and prices to increase further, supported by low interest rates and a rise in consumer confidence. As a result of improved sales activity and higher traffic of potential buyers, many agencies hired additional real estate agents over the past month or expected to hire in coming months. Residential builders reported steady construction activity with expectations of moderate growth over the next three months.† Commercial real estate activity rose modestly during the past month. Construction activity strengthened and prices and sales inched up, while vacancy rates fell slightly. Contacts expected stronger activity in coming months, noting that several future projects are currently in planning stages. Optimism differed across District states, with commercial real estate construction in Oklahoma expected to be particularly strong, and construction in New Mexico and Missouri fairly soft. BankingIn the recent survey period, bankers generally reported slightly stronger loan demand, improving loan quality, and steady deposit levels. Respondents, on average, reported stable demand for residential real estate loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer installment loans, while demand for commercial and industrial loans increased modestly. All bankers reported steady or improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and they expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported average deposit levels remained stable. Bankers reported that the main factors driving positive expectations for future activity were continued economic improvements and increased consumer confidence. AgricultureFarm income growth softened since the last survey period, and farmland value gains moderated slightly. Farm income growth was limited by falling crop and livestock prices and by high production costs, particularly for fertilizer, seed and livestock feed and forage. Crop prices fell in early April with an announcement that grain supplies were higher than earlier estimates, although some District contacts expressed concerns about crop progress. Winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated further with much of the crop in relatively poor condition. The corn and soybean crops were behind schedule as unseasonably cold weather and late snows delayed spring planting in many areas. Demand for new farm loans remained weak, and contacts reported fewer requests for farm loan renewals and extensions. Farmland values continued to rise, but at a slightly slower pace than last year. EnergyEnergy activity was stable over the survey period, while expectations for future activity improved. Overall, drilling activity held steady for both oil and natural gas in late April and early May. District contacts reported that drilling in areas rich with natural gas liquids was particularly strong over the past month, and that they expected drilling activity for both oil and natural gas to pick up further in coming months. Wyoming coal production held steady in late April and early May, though demand has weakened over the past year with a shift toward coal alternatives for power generation due to low natural gas prices and environmental regulations. Ethanol production rebounded since the previous survey period due to lower corn prices and steadily improving profit margins. Wages and PricesWage pressures increased slightly but remained weak during the survey period, while prices rose for raw materials and most finished goods across industries. Labor shortages and wage pressures inched up, with strong demand for skilled workers including technicians, truck drivers, engineers and software developers. Many employers remained concerned about the impact of recent healthcare legislation on labor costs and how these costs might be passed onto consumers or impact profit margins. Retail prices increased moderately over the survey period, and retailers planned to raise prices at a similar pace over the next few months. Food costs continued to rise, and restaurant owners increasingly expected to raise menu prices in response. Similarly, raw material prices rose moderately for manufacturers. While finished goods prices remained fairly flat over the survey period, manufacturers planned to raise finished good prices over the next few months to partially offset higher input costs. Builders and construction supply firms continued to report higher prices for construction materials, particularly lumber. In some cases, construction supply costs rose faster than anticipated, which resulted in more frequent price adjustments and reduced margins. Transportation firms also noted an increase in input prices. Return to top PricesMost responding firms said prices were steady and they expect increases to remain modest for the remainder of the year. One exception is home prices, which have risen strongly due to pent-up demand and low inventories. While some contacts said prices for construction materials were up, others said increased competition had lowered prices. There were some reports that builders expect less price pass-through going forward. Transportation service industry contacts noted increased shipping rates earlier in the year, but expect price gains to ease with recent declines in the price of jet fuel. Automobile dealers said prices held steady. Cattle prices trended lower over the past six weeks while retail beef prices rose to a record-high due to strong demand. Oil prices fell slightly over the reporting period. A late winter brought natural gas inventories back into the seasonally normal range and pushed prices above $4. Gasoline and diesel prices declined since the last report. Labor MarketEmployment held steady at most responding firms. There were scattered reports of hiring from some transportation manufacturing and transportation services firms. Financial firms added employees to comply with regulatory stress testing and wealth management, and noted employment growth in Austin and the Eagle Ford Shale area. Several contacts reported difficulty finding qualified people to fill vacancies, particularly in staffing services, accounting, machinery manufacturing, IT and IT-related retail. A construction-related manufacturer noted truck drivers were in short supply. Wage pressures remained largely subdued, although increased compensation was reported in legal and financial services. ManufacturingReports on construction-related manufacturing were mixed, although firm outlooks remain mostly optimistic. Some lumber producers noted increased activity, while others said sales were less than expected. A cement producer noted strong growth in residential demand--especially in Houston--and a recent boost from commercial infrastructure construction in Dallas. Fabricated metals producers said demand remained steady for both private and public projects. Primary metals producers said demand had slowed slightly since the last reporting period, and outlooks were cautious. Contacts in the high-tech manufacturing industry reported that orders and shipments were flat to slightly improved since the last survey. Respondents who reported a slight improvement in orders said that growth was broadly based across sectors. Inventories were reported to be lean in general and at or near desired levels. Respondents expect demand to improve slightly in the second half of this year. Paper manufacturers said demand increased to normal levels after the decrease reported in the last report. Contacts are slightly more optimistic. Food producers said demand was about 15 percent higher than last year at this time. One contact noted the successful introduction of new products to schools and said sales in that market were up 30 percent. Inventories were at the right levels for contacts, customers and suppliers. Transportation manufacturing contacts said orders were steady to up. Outlooks were generally positive, although aviation contacts were more uncertain than in the last report. Petrochemical producers reported a slowdown in activity since the last report, mostly due to weakness in Europe. Still, contacts remain very optimistic in their outlooks. Refiners said operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period. Retail SalesRetail sales volumes increased over the reporting period and are up from a year ago. According to one national retailer, Texas continued to outperform the nation. Outlooks for the upcoming quarter and the rest of the year are positive. Automobile sales were steady over the reporting period, and demand remains above year-ago levels. Contacts are positive in their outlooks for the remainder of the year, although increasing costs were a concern. Nonfinancial ServicesStaffing services contacts said demand was flat over the past six weeks. Placements were strong in mortgage-related finance and residential construction jobs. One firm noted an increase in the number of jobs but a decline in workweeks as businesses redistribute hours to minimize the impact of health care reform. Since the last Beige Book, accounting demand was strong and firms noted a moderate increase in non-tax-related work over the reporting period, with advisory work leading the way. Legal firms reported modest demand growth, particularly for intellectual property litigation, real estate, wealth planning and health care work. Outlooks were mildly optimistic, with strength expected in real estate and corporate work. Transportation service firms said overall cargo and container volumes increased over the reporting period. Railroad contacts reported notable increases in motor vehicles, petroleum, lumber and wood and crushed stone volumes, while volumes for grain and metallic ores declined. Small parcel shipments picked up, with demand growth led by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were flat both domestically and internationally. Reports from airline contacts were mixed. Some said demand increased during the reporting period while others noted flat travel demand due to bad weather and reduced demand from the government sector. Outlooks were fairly strong for the near term, but contacts are less optimistic about demand in the longer-term due to sluggish economic growth and fiscal uncertainties. Construction and Real EstateThe Texas housing sector continued to improve over the past six weeks. Contacts said home sales remained strong with inventories still low, despite some reports that more homes were being listed. New home construction activity picked up pace since the last report, although some contacts mentioned higher prices may slow sales growth later in the year. Apartment construction remained at high levels and investment activity for multifamily projects continued to be strong, according to respondents. Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said leasing activity for office and industrial warehouse space continued at a steady pace. Contacts noted a pickup in building activity in the office sector. Financial ServicesFinancial institutions experienced modest growth in loan demand, with robust growth in residential mortgages and auto lending and weakness continuing in corporate transactions. Non-performing loans continue to improve and debtors are rapidly paying down mortgages and auto loans. Loan pricing remains very competitive. Deposits increased modestly and deposit rates remained mostly unchanged. Employment and compensation growth were flat for the most part. Mortgage lending is expected to remain robust. EnergyEnergy activity improved since the last report. The Texas rig count increased, and contacts noted strong global demand. Respondents expect further improvement in the second half of the year, especially due to anticipated increases in rig activity and production from the Gulf of Mexico. AgricultureDrought conditions continued to worsen slightly across most of the District over the reporting period, despite scattered rainfall. The Texas wheat crop suffered from dry weather and late freezes and production is expected to be significantly below average. Conditions for other crops are generally worse than at this same time last year but not quite as bad as in 2011. Return to top Prices and WagesPrice inflation was subdued for most final goods and services. Food industry contacts noted decreased prices of grain products but increased prices of some fruit and nut items. Contacts from retail grocery and restaurant chain establishments reported that overall food price inflation appears to have leveled off at a relatively modest pace.† Fees for legal services declined a bit. Several construction inputs, such as cement, logs, and lumber, edged up further. However, prices for other wood products, steel, and some metals declined. Contacts reported that wage gains were limited overall. Labor market slack continues to put downward pressure on wages and compensation for most sectors, occupations, and regions. However, various contacts indicated some upward wage pressure for skilled construction workers, software developers, and certain technical and managerial positions in high-tech manufacturing. Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales were fairly soft overall. Sales of various digital and technology products slowed. Among computer and electronic products, sales of personal computers remained weak relative to sales of mobile computing devices, including smart phones and tablets. Demand for some gaming and entertainment products grew slightly, as did demand for apparel. Traditional retail grocers reported flat sales, with intensifying competition from discount and online retailers. Suppliers of food and beverage products noted increased sales. Automobile sales remained at high levels, although a shortage of used vehicles has restrained the pace of activity in some parts of the District. Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Food service providers reported strong sales on net, with some discount chains faring particularly well. Robust activity in Hawaii supported the District's travel and tourism sector, although there is some concern that the flow of international visitors could taper off in coming months due to potential weakness in the global economy. Travel and tourist activity in Southern California has declined a bit. Demand for both health-care and legal services was flat. Compared with previous months, contacts dialed back their expectations for robust growth of various technology services such as cloud computing and data processing this year. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity rose on net in the reporting period of early April through late May. New orders for electronic components were up a bit, and contacts indicated that they expect demand for semiconductors to pick up over the next couple of quarters. Pharmaceutical producers reported that innovative product launches contributed to continued modest gains for some firms, although overall activity seemed to be on a slight downward trajectory. Wood product manufacturers stated that demand grew further, fueled by rebounding domestic residential construction activity. However, contacts noted potential headwinds such as limited labor availability and transportation capacity. Demand for steel products used primarily in transportation infrastructure and nonresidential construction projects continued to increase, and capacity utilization ticked up. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesAgricultural sales and production increased modestly. Demand for most crop and livestock products grew further. Grain production was robust, but contacts reported some variability in vegetable production. Some contacts remained concerned that limited water availability in parts of the District could pass through to lower seasonal hiring and reduced agricultural output in coming months. Reports indicated that industry demand for electricity and natural gas grew robustly, although demand from households grew more sluggishly. While natural gas inventories rose slightly, the number of natural gas drilling rigs has fallen significantly since last year, due in part to the sustained low relative price of natural gas. Demand for gasoline was up in most regions. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity expanded robustly, and commercial real estate activity trended up at a more moderate pace overall. Home sales climbed in many regions, and tight inventories coupled with healthy demand supported continued house price appreciation. Reports indicated that the number of foreclosed properties available for sale has continued to decline significantly. Construction of multifamily residential projects increased in many areas, driven by low vacancy rates and strong demand for rental properties. Commercial real estate leasing and development activity expanded in most major metropolitan areas. However, several contacts in less-urban areas reported persistently high vacancy rates for office properties. In some regions, construction of publicly funded commercial projects has slowed due to funding constraints from state and local governments. Financial InstitutionsFinancial institutions reported that loan demand improved slightly on balance. Increased demand for mortgage and automobile loans drove growth in overall loan demand. However, some contacts recognized softness in business loan demand, due to continuing caution among borrowers. Banking contacts highlighted ample liquidity and generally stiff competition among lenders for well-qualified business borrowers. However, contacts reported that credit availability for small businesses remains limited. Although in past months contacts had pointed to a buildup of privately held technology companies poised for public offerings, the actual pace remains slow for initial public offerings, new venture capital deals, and private equity financing in the District's Internet and digital media subsectors.
Economist Dean Baker is ready to call the May non-farm payrolls report that's due out on Friday: It's going to be terrible. 100,000 jobs on Friday. You heard it hear first -- that's what I e-mailed to a colleague last night before the weak ADP report. We emailed Dean to ask him why he's such a jobs bear. The main takeaway is that 2 percent GDP growth isn't enough to support the current pace of job growth, and so job growth is going to have to slow. Here's his full email: I don't expect much action on the goods side of the market -- we had essentially zero growth there last month and likely a small negative this month (shrinking manufacturing). I think last month's growth in personal and business services was an aberration, which means that there will be some mean reversion with low or even negative growth this month. Restaurant and retail employment growth were also unusually high, so I look to lower numbers there as well. There were no obvious aberrations on the low side last month, except the information sector had a very small loss -- that may revert upward, but it won't offset downward shifts elswehere. So I'd put 100,000 as my best guess.BTW, with GDP growth hovering around 2.0 percent, we really shouldn't expect much employment growth. It wasn't too long ago that we had productivity growth higher than this.
flickr/iwishmynamewasmarshaThe S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1613 this afternoon, down 1.1% on the day. It's been selling off since May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke failed to rule out tapering back of the central bank's monetary stimulus by Labor Day. The May 22 high was 1687, which means today's levels represent a 4.4% decline from the peak of the rally. And that has been one of the craziest things about this stock market rally that started in November: it really has yet to be interrupted. In fact, it's been the longest uninterrupted rally the market has seen since stocks bottomed in early 2009. If the S&amp;P 500 edges down another 0.6 percentage points from the 1687 high, it will mark the first 5% pullback since November.
Getty ImagesHave you ever done something that you werenít proud of? Or been in such a bad place that you didnít know how you were going to crawl your way out? I have. My name is Tahnya Kristina. I am a certified financial plannerô, and for a long time I kept a secret that almost cost me more than just the interest charges on my mounting debt. When I was 25, I graduated from Concordia University in Montreal, Canada. I had a full-time job working as a financial advisor at a bank and within just four years I found myself over $50,000 in debt. I couldnít talk about my debt with my co-workers and family because I was ashamed thatóespecially given my career choiceóI couldnít manage my money responsibly. When you are working with money and giving financial advice to clients, it is expected that the financial advisor has a better-than-average financial situation. No one wants to take financial advice from someone who canít even manage her own moneyóso I kept my debt a secret. I became a financial planner because I was fascinated by money. I spent four years of university and two years of additional financial training learning how to advise people to manage their money and achieve their financial dreams; unfortunately I was too naive to take my own advice. RELATED:†The Day I Decided to Become a Certified Financial Plannerô How I Got Into So Much Debt, So Fast Some people may say I accumulated so much debt in such a short period of time because I was young and didnít know any better; but the truth is, I did know better. I had a university degree, and every single day I saw the damage that using credit irresponsibly can do to a personís life, yet I still spent money uncontrollably. I know youíre wondering why. I wish that I could say that my $50,000 of debt was well spent, but that wouldnít be true. I started accumulating†student loan debt†while I was still in university; after I graduated and started working full time at the bank, I also started accumulating credit card debt for no other reason other than I wanted to go shopping. I thought that having a lot of credit made me credit worthy, and to a certain point it did, but it also added the temptation of wanting to spend money on anything and everything. I knew that the balances on my credit cards were increasing, but I wasnít worried. After all, I had a full-time job with a six-figure income. I knew I could afford to pay off my balancesóI just chose not to. Every paycheck something more important took priority, and I ended up spending my debt repayment money on other items. Accruing Bad Financial Habits I ate out at restaurants too often, because it was a way to spend time with co-workers outside of the office. I shopped too much with friends because it was a social activity, and because as a financial planner, we were expected to look a certain way. I went on too many vacations just because I wanted to be a part of the group. I bought new furniture for my downtown apartment because I liked sitting on my couch looking at my accomplishments. Then,†in June 2007, I bought a brand-new Honda Civic. I didnít actually need a car but I thought that a 27-year-old young professional should have one, so I went to the Honda dealership on my lunch hour and bought a new car. It may seem irresponsible (and it was) but when I wanted something, I had to have it. RELATED:†A CFPÆís Advice: Why Iíd Never Buy a New Car I was a recent graduate with a good job and a wallet full of credit cards to prove my independence, but, in the end, that freedom didnít make me responsible, it almost ruined my life. Realizing How Big of a Hole Iíd Dug After the market crash at the end of 2008, I was thankful to still have my stable job, but, needless to say, my income took a hit along with the market. My six-figure income quickly dropped by 30% because people stopped investing, and I stopped making commission. One day, at 28 years old, I woke up and realized that it was the first of the month, rent was due and I didnít have any money in my bank account because Iíd spent my entire paycheck making the minimum monthly payments on all of my credit cards. RELATED:†Top Debt Mistakes to Avoid As I sat down on my very expensive couch (that I couldnít afford but bought anyway), I realized that I didnít want to live like this anymore. I was so overwhelmed with emotion that I started crying. It was the only way to release my anger, sadness and disappointment in myself. Still in tears, and fearing Iíd be evicted by 5 p.m., I put on a suit and headed to workóI couldnít exactly afford to take a sick day, I reasoned. There, I spent the entire day advising people how to plan their budgets, save money and manage their credit responsibly. The irony of my reality gave me a headache like Iíd never had before. I knew that my debt was out of control. I was financially savvy enough to know that I was spending all of my money on minimum monthly payments, and it wasnít helping pay down my debt. In most cases, the minimum payments were less than the interest charges, so my balances kept rising even though I didnít have any more available credit. Deciding to Make a Change The day I actually sat down to calculate my debt I couldnít believe how bad the situation actually was. At 29 years old, I had $13,000 of student loan debt, $20,000 of credit card debt and $25,000 of debt with my car financing. I didnít know what to do, so I cried (again). In fact, I sat in my apartment for an entire weekend crying and feeling bad for myself because I knew I couldnít afford to pay off my debt. Itís hard to explain how I got in this deep without even knowing it. In my defense, all I can say is that all the education in the world canít combat the power of denial. In my case, it wasnít until that moment, sitting on my couch in gale-force tears, that I realized I had a problem. Intellectually, I knew that I had credit cards; I knew that the balances were increasing, but I never actually accepted the fact that I had a spending problem. RELATED:†I Paid Off $90,000 of Debt in Three Years I realize now that this was probably because if I accepted my debt, it meant Iíd have to start paying it off. Oh, the hypocrisy: I had no problem telling other people how to avoid this exact situation I found myself in, but I couldnít do it for my own finances. Maybe being a planner made it worse: I didnít want to accept the fact that I was one of those people who spent beyond their means. In order for me to get out of debt I had to make big changes, and now I knew it. Embarking on a New Financial Life The first thing I did was consult with a bankruptcy agency. After getting all the details about which assets I could keep and which debts would be included in the bankruptcy, I decided bankruptcy wasnít for me. First, it wouldnít solve my financial problems because not all debts (like my student loans, or my auto loan) would be included. And if I was going to have the stigma of a bankruptcy follow me around for years to come, I wanted it to wipe out†all†of my debt.†After 30 minutes of debt counseling from the surprisingly very likable bankruptcy agent, I made another decision: I got myself into debt, and I was going to get myself out of it because that was the responsible thing to do. Thatís when I started making changes in my life. With each change, my heart broke a little bit more because the lifestyle Iíd once enjoyed was crumbling before my eyesóand I had no one to blame but myself. Five days before it was going to be repossessed, I sold my car privately, and even made a little ($200) profit which helped me buy groceries that week and make an extra payment on one of my credit cards. Next, I found a second job†working in retail sales at a womenís clothing store. That gave me extra money to pay off my debt and a discount so I could still afford work clothes. I worked part-time, evenings and weekends, and my entire $400 biweekly paycheck went toward paying off debt. RELATED:†The Surprising Way That I Make Money on the Side Iíd never had a budget before because Iíd always just ìhad moneyî (or so I thought.) That changed, too. I cut my expenses by moving to a cheaper apartment and allocated the extra $200 of monthly savings to my debt repayment. I cancelled my home phone and opted for a very limited cell phone plan; with two jobs I didnít have a lot of time to talk on the phone. Finally, I changed my eating habits and only let myself eat out once a weekófor lunch. My reasoning: Lunch breaks are timed, so thereís no risk of spending excessively on drinks as I sat and chatted with friends. I only bought clothes from the store where I worked so that I could buy them with my 50% employee discount. Why I Donít Regret Being in Debt Now, five years later, I am 32 years old and, by the end of this year, I should be debt-free. I am thankful that I got into debt, and I am proud that I got out of it because it is a huge accomplishment. I no longer think about my debt as a defeat, but trust me when I say that I am taking precautions so I never get into that situation again. Today, other than the basic necessities of food, clothing and cleaning supplies, I rarely spend money. My old motto used to be, ìItís only money, so spend itî; my new motto is, ìIf I donít need it to keep clean, stay warm or be full, then I donít need it.î †I think twice before I spend any money, and before I purchase anything I weigh the cost versus the value. RELATED:†Need Financial Motivation? Try a ìPhrase to Saveî There is one vestige of my old life I held onto: My couch. After all, when you factor in the cost, the quality and the number of years I will own it, it actually turned out to be one of the only good investments I made.
The chart below plots the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield against the number of times the word "tapering" is used in news articles on a daily basis. "Tapering" is the big buzzword in the financial community right now. It refers to the prospect that the Federal Reserve will taper back its quantitative easing program sooner than expected, fears of which have sent yields surging in recent weeks. The chart makes it pretty clear that as yields have raced higher, "tapering" is all anyone is talking about. Similarly, when yields retreat, so does mention of the dreaded "taper." Yields have stabilized in recent days, so perhaps we've already seen "peak taper" for now. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
One of those insufferable TED talks was making the rounds last week. The gist of it was that 30 is not the new 20, and that grown women really ought to be getting their sh*t together in their 20s. Be proactive about your career. Don‚Äôt refuse to get a full-time job as an excuse to figure out who you are. Stop dating losers. All sound advice. But why does no one ever say that to men?Not the first part, obviously. Men are expected to have a sense of direction and ambition more or less from birth, so much so that most women will list ‚Äúambition‚Äù right under ‚Äúsense of humor‚Äù on a list of vague qualities they seek out in a romantic partner. No, the last part, the thing about dating ‚Äúlosers.‚Äù It‚Äôs a testament to just how useless TED talks are, because people have been telling women that their boyfriends are losers forever. Not once, though, have I ever heard someone tell a man, ‚ÄúDude, why are you dating her? She‚Äôs such a loser.‚ÄùThe more I think about why, the more depressing the can of worms becomes (and a can full of worms should be depressing enough on its own). It says something about society as a whole, in that men have never really valued drive and success as selection criteria and we‚Äôre all kind of OK with that. Mothers instruct their daughters to find a ‚Äúnice, successful boy,‚Äù but fathers high-five their sons when they bring home the prom queen. It‚Äôs also (sadly) kind of presumed that men will settle down as they age and choose higher quality women, as though it‚Äôs a concept we as men had the good sense to invent and that the womenfolk would never figure out were it not for our guidance. Additionally, despite tolerating men calling women all sorts of awful things for centuries, society, curiously enough, won‚Äôt stand for men referring to women as ‚Äúlosers‚Äù or ‚Äúuseless.‚Äù I‚Äôve just never heard it. Were someone to call a woman a ‚Äúloser‚Äù for being, say, a career grad student or some kind of lowbrow service professional, I feel it would be met with cries of ‚ÄúHey, at least she‚Äôs trying!‚Äù or ‚ÄúWho are you to judge?‚Äù Of course, the joke‚Äôs on them, because justifying someone‚Äôs career choice undermines that person‚Äôs freedom of choice, and chastising one group for judging another while encouraging the same thing among your own group is the very opposite of equality.Unfashionable as it may be, I‚Äôm going to go ahead and say that, in 2013, men need to stop dating losers. What exactly that means may be hard to define. When women deride a man as being a ‚Äúuseless loser,‚Äù what they really seem to be complaining about is someone who blindly, uncompromisingly places his own prerogatives above all else, often at the expense of others. The girl with the loser boyfriend who won‚Äôt get a job because it would ‚Äúcut into practice time with the band‚Äù is actually saying that if he would compromise a little, they could probably realize some goals that would benefit them both equally. The same thing holds true the other way around. While career/ambition is far from the only way in which being a loser can manifest itself, it‚Äôs definitely common, and prominent. Any woman now in her 20s and 30s was likely raised to believe that she can (and should) do well in school, get education, and then go forth into the world and make her mark. Barriers and pay gaps still exist, but most women are able to pursue any career they‚Äôd like. In fact, there are more women breadwinners than ever. Given that, if ambition is something that‚Äôs important to you, it would make sense that it would be something important to your partner as well. An earnings rift, or at least one caused by one less-ambitious partner, can and will wreck a relationship. Women know this, which is why they seek out men who at least have the potential for success. Men don‚Äôt seem to realize it until they‚Äôre supporting another person whose biggest life decision is where she wants to eat lunch that day. A woman who doesn‚Äôt really have anything going on is not worth your time. Modern life is too expensive for everyone‚Äôs ambitions not to matter. But it‚Äôs not just about careers. I think we‚Äôve all, at some point, been involved with a woman who was so wrapped up in some aspect of herself that it made her a loser in her own right, whether it‚Äôs her job or something else (and we men are just as guilty of this). Whenever you ask someone to tell you about themselves, and their answer begins with, ‚ÄúWell, I work for such and such,‚Äù you know you‚Äôre dealing with someone with not a lot to offer. Really, that goes for all people who defines themselves through a singular characteristic. Life doesn‚Äôt work that way. You can‚Äôt ‚Äúcheat‚Äù by pouring yourself into and perfecting one single aspect of it and then expecting everything else to fall in place. A woman who‚Äôs beautiful is nothing if she doesn‚Äôt also have goals. A hard-driving career woman is no good unless she has outside interests and knows how to create time for them. If it sounds like I‚Äôm saying men should try to find a woman who ‚Äúhas it all,‚Äù I am. Women are taking the same approach to us. If women can set a high bar for the men they date, there‚Äôs no reason we can‚Äôt, too. It‚Äôs time more men set standards for themselves that go beyond cup size or hair color. If your standards are ridiculous, that‚Äôs fine. You‚Äôll just take yourself out of the dating pool. But there‚Äôs no reason for men (or anyone) to date losers unwilling to alter their course in life to at least somewhat accommodate what‚Äôs supposed to be a loved one. She wants a man who went to a prestigious school? That‚Äôs fine, but she shouldn‚Äôt be surprised if the men she‚Äôs after expect the same thing. She wants a guy who makes a lot of money? Sure, and maybe she doesn‚Äôt need to make as much money as you, but maybe you expect her to at least have some clear goals. Life, as they say, is a two-way street.
Reuters/Savita KirloskarIndia has raised its import duty on gold to 8%, according to Reuters. This comes a day after the Reserve Bank of India extended its decision to curb gold imports by banks. The central bank said gold imports would be restricted to "the genuine needs of the exporters of gold jewelery." India's gold imports surged in May and we have previously reported that gold and oil imports are one of the driving factors behind India's current account deficit ó when the value of imports exceeds that of exports. And the current account deficit can hurt economic growth. This is because a large current account deficit (CAD) can impact foreign exchange rate and weaken the Indian rupee. If India has to pay more of its imports this would affect economic growth. What's more? As a weaker global economy has impacted exports, India has used hot money to finance this deficit, and that money can flow out very quickly in a risk off environment. CAD reached a record high of 6.7% of GDP in the last quarter and has been blamed for weakening the Indian rupee. Morgan Stanley All India Gems &amp; Jewellery Trade Federation's†Bachhraj Bamalwa says the tax increase is likely to boost gold smuggling, according to Bloomberg. Gold imports are expected to fall 15% - 20% this year, down from 860 tons last year.† India is the world's largest gold market and investors watch Indian demand for gold closely. India also raised import tax on platinum to 8%.
Credit SuisseAndrew GarthwaiteThe Shiller P/E ratio, or the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio, is one of the most popular yet most misused measures of stock market value. It's calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.¬† If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, the Shiller P/E is at 24. While this certainly looks expensive, it would be a mistake to assume that stocks are doomed to crash until the ratio rights itself. "We recognise that some investors are concerned that absolute valuations for US equities are at elevated levels," says Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite in a new note to clients. "This is the certainly the case on the Shiller P/E. However, we find current multiples have not necessarily been a pre-cursor of falling markets. We note that markets are typically most vulnerable when the Shiller P/E is above 26x (compared to 24x currently)." Garthwaite forecasts the S&amp;P 500 to head to 1,900 by the end of next year. Here's a chart from Garthwaite that we've seen before. It shows the average three annualized returns given each level of the Shiller P/E. Credit Suisse
There are lots of jobs in America if you know where to look. The fastest-growing industries ‚Äî according to a 2012 Bureau of Labor Statistics report ‚Äî include ones tied to the aging population, like home health care services and offices of health care practitioners.¬† High tech industries are also doing well, and there's even a steady comeback happening in construction. Between 2010 and 2020, the BLS projects an overall gain of 20.5 million jobs in America.
Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle laid down the latest word on hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones' controversial comments on Wall Street's lack of female traders, and they're the best we've heard yet. Why? Because Ruhle's call is a call to action ó she wants him to do more than talk about the lack of women trading on Wall Street, she wants him to do something about it. In case you missed it, a few weeks ago The Washington Post published a video of Jones giving a speech at his alma mater, UVA, and here's what he said: "As soon as that baby's lips touched that girl's bosom, forget it. Every single investment idea, every desire to understand what's going to make this go up or go down is going to be overwhelmed by the most beautiful experience which a man will never share about a connection between that mother and that baby." The blogosphere exploded with arguments for why this comment was sexist ó because (scientifically) men are just as predisposed to getting attached to kids as women, because (scientifically) women can be better traders ... and so forth. Ruhle, who rose through the ranks at Deutsche Bank herself, isn't even touching that. She acknowledges that, science or gaffe aside, PTJ's comments are those of an experienced hedge fund manager and likely true. Women leave The Street in droves after they have kids despite every corporate effort to recruit them. From Ruhle in The Huffington Post: Since leaving DB, I have participated in many conferences and swish events that other financial institutions have held for their women's groups. Those institutions too have very few senior women in their senior ranks, especially in trading. So where is the disconnect? Paul Tudor Jones' remarks were ugly and revealing...The most talented investors are animals solely focused on winning. In reality, no one on Wall Street cares about anything except performance. It isn't easy for women to navigate their way to the most coveted trading positions, especially with the lack of sponsorship, but when they do it's all about the numbers. Investing is pure....It shouldn't matter who delivers it. If that is true, why haven't more women reached the top? I challenge Mr. Jones to embrace his well-honed problem solving skills and help answer why so many resources are devoted to recruiting and retaining women when they may be destined for the pink ghetto. In short, she wants PTJ to do something about this issue. Wall Street shouldn't just be throwing resources at women because it has to, it should be building women up so the industry will rise with them. As Ruhle pointed out, women are the sole or primary breadwinner in 40% of households and they're graduating from college in droves, surely there are some awesome female traders out there. Or not, but they deserve the chance to find out. From Ruhle: So I begrudgingly thank Paul Tudor Jones for raising the very unattractive side of this issue. We don't like to hear it. Now I must raise an even thornier dilemma. What if he's right? Is it bias that leads to the current situation or reality? Are there hundreds of women who want to be macro traders that are being held back by the men or the establishment? Or do their skills really vanish the moment they have a child? The thing about Wall Street is that people are very focused on performance. If you can put up the numbers, it shouldn't matter if you wear a dress or a tie. So let's test Paul's hypothesis. Remove the bias and see if mothers can succeed. Ruhle's view is the only one we've heard that doesn't simply dismiss Jones' remarks as sexist without looking at the reality of their implications. He's not simply wrong, this is a complicated social problem, as Business Insider has argued, and there must be a solution. People's biases don't change over night, sometimes they need to be pushed by those who control the institutions we interact with every day. This wouldn't be the first time that people have needed to see change in front of them before changing their minds. So have at it, PTJ.
Illinois legislators recently passed comprehensive fracking regulations that should open the state up to extensive new shale oil and gas exploration. The state's shale rush is so new one is actually sure how much fossil fuel it's sitting on; one estimate puts gas reserves at between†1 and 8 trillion cubic feet.†The state comprises the majority of the New Albany play, which also stretches into Indiana, Kentucky and Tennessee. Here's the map: USGS Opposition to the fracking bill was not as intense as it is likely to be in California, for reasons we've recently discussed. Fracking was already going on in Illinois, so environmentalists chose to get on board rather than attempt to block the method outright. ìWeíre moving from essentially an unregulated situation where Illinois Department of Natural Resources had very little ability to structure what would happen in the state on fracking,î the National Resource Defense Council's Midwest director told WBEZ.† A story similar to Pennsylvania's experience with fracking seems likely to play out in the Prairie State. There will definitely be more money coming in to economically depressed parts of the state. But potential job creation figures vary widely, according to the Chicago Tribune's Julie Werneau.† The New Albany play also abuts a popular national forest, and overlaps lots of farmland that got destroyed by last year's drought. Fracking requires large volumes of water, and there's already concern about balancing needs. Gov. Pat Quinn is expected to sign the bill into law shortly.
BloombergBrian BelskiIt may be too early to tell, but it looks like stocks may finally be entering a correction phase after rising steadily since November. The S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1617 today, down 4.1% from the May 22 peak at 1687. In his latest monthly report, BMO Chief Investment Strategist Brian Belski passes along some insight from conversations with clients, helping to pin down the vibe in the marketplace (emphasis added): Another month and another record level for the S&amp;P 500 Index. From our perspective, very little analysis, process and common sense is being applied by many investors when making investment decisions at current levels. In fact, we are getting the sense that too many investors are currently expecting higher stock prices tomorrow just because they were higher today. Consequently, our fundamental models (which are a key input to our market outlook) continue to show little improvement in the aggregate over the past several months. The good news is that the earnings environment is improving, with the pace of growth now above historical norms. On the other hand, valuations continue to climb, and efficiency and liquidity measures, while still strong, are in a downward trend. In addition, many important economic data points have disappointed lately. Therefore, we remain skeptical about the marketís steep advancement and would expect some sort of pullback in the coming months unless the fundamental or economic backdrop improves very soon. Even though the S&amp;P 500 has already cleared 1600 and is trading this morning around 1617, Belski is sticking to the 1575 year-end target he set in December.
Business InsiderSometimes, the only time to talk business is first thing in the morning, that's why the "power breakfast" is a time-honored tradition on Wall Street. And there are specific places where people do it. The famous breakfast at the Loew's Regency Hotel is one of them. On Wednesday, Business Insider decided to check out another ‚Äî The Garden at the Four Seasons Hotel in midtown Manhattan. Wall Streeters have told us that it's one place where you can spot some big players and listen in on some serious conversations over eggs and bacon. If the pictures don't convince you of that, the price tag will.
Wikimedia CommonsPacioliAs a species, we tend to remember inventions as the things that changed history. Fire, agriculture, architecture, the printing press, electricity, all of these led to immense leaps forward for humanity. But what's more difficult to get a grasp on is the impact that concepts and ideas had on our progress.¬† For instance, a very simple idea ‚Äî that loans can be made, and periodically interest can accrue on those loans ‚Äî has been with us since we first began planting seeds in the ground. As communities became more advanced, so did the underlying idea. As government became more organized, so did the implementation of the idea.¬† That idea ‚Äî compound interest ‚Äî has had an instrumental impact on the development of civilization, and it's about time it had its due.¬†
The stock market sell-off continues today. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.9% (around 130 points), while the S&amp;P 500 and the NASDAQ are also both 0.9% lower. Yesterday, the market closed down on a Tuesday for the first time in 21 weeks. Markets are heading lower following the 10 AM release of April factory orders data (which grew only 1.0% versus the 1.5% consensus estimate) and ISM's services index (which rose to 53.7 versus the 53.5 consensus estimate. Meanwhile, Nikkei futures are still selling off in after-hours trading in Japan, and European markets are falling as well. Google Finance
Americans feel better than they have about the overall state of the U.S. economy at any point since 2006, according to a new NBC/Wall Street Journal poll†released on Wednesday. But they're not giving President Barack Obama much credit for the good news. According to the poll, 36 percent of Americans said that they were either "very satisfied" or "somewhat satisfied" with the state of the economy. That's the highest mark recorded on the question since 2006, when 43 percent said they were at least "somewhat satisfied." After starting out the Obama presidency with a dismal 10 percent satisfaction in the economy, Americans' confidence has grown incrementally over the past four-plus years.† Here's a chart showing the increase in satisfaction during Obama's time in office: Brett LoGiurato/Business Insider (Data: WSJ/NBC) But by the same token, Americans aren't giving Obama much credit for the uptick in confidence. Only 33 percent say that they are either "quite" or "extremely" confident that Obama has the "right set of goals and policies to improve the†economy." That's the second-lowest mark ever recorded in the NBC/WSJ poll, and down from 40 percent who said they were at least "quite confident" in Obama in December.† In another indication that the Obama administration may not be harping on improved economic news, the public views he stock market's recent string of all-time high marks as more a reflection of "corporations and the wealthy" doing better than an indication the the economy is doing well overall. The poll comes as May's non-farm payroll report is set to be released on Friday, which will provide further indication of whether economic growth is picking up pace.
PBS / Downton Abbey screencapIt's no secret that since 2008, most hedge funds have lagged the S&amp;P 500. Because of that, now the world's richest families are starting to wonder if hedge funds are really worth their incredibly expensive price tag. And they're starting to ask hedge fund managers some tough questions about it. Yesterday, Bloomberg hosted a conference called "The Hedge Funds Summit" for (you guessed it) hedge funds and the people that invest in them. Many of the attendees were from Family Offices ‚Äî investment houses where the fortunes of the world's wealthy are put to work. As you can imagine, hedge funds want a piece of that action. That's why a solid portion of the afternoon was spent discussing Family Offices, though hedge funds probably didn't like what these juicy potential clients had to say. "We're quite skeptical in general... of the hedge fund industry," said Andrew K. Tsai, Co-Founder and managing principal, Chalkstream Capital Group. Sixty-one percent of all hedge fund money is concentrated in the hands of the top 100 hedge funds, and Tsai went on to say that that concentration makes for some wacky correlations his office would stay rather away from. However, Tsai did say that his office is willing to seed smart hedge fund managers that have solid strategies for specific sectors. "We don't think of hedge funds as an asset class, we think of them as a way to get exposure to something," said John O'Hara, Senior Advisor and Managing Director, Rockefeller &amp; Co. And that's a word panelists used over and over again ‚Äî exposure. Family Offices consider hedge funds a tool in their arsenal ‚Äî one that should be applied at a certain scale completely dependent on risk. Usually, a Family Office's money comes from a long-only investment (like a family company), so they want to be able to hedge against that by getting exposure to say, the short side or the credit space. O'Hara, who manages money for the Rockefeller family, said specifically that his office is interested in gaining exposure to what he considers the great investing themes of the day ‚Äî the "silver tsunami" (aging Baby Boomers), North American energy Independence and more. So you need to have the right stuff if you're going to reel in these big fish, and even if you do they're not going to go easily. Time and time again these money managers said that they didn't care about past performance, they want hedge fund managers to show them a solid, well-informed strategy, or as Bob Rice, Managing Partner, Tangent Capital said ‚Äî "when are you going to lose money?" Family Offices want to have a frank discussion about a hedge fund's risks and limitations. Gone are the days when they were willing to plunk down the infamous 2% and 20% (or more) compensation scheme with only the promise that hedge fund wizards would work their magic over every quarter no matter what the circumstances. Rice, who is also the author of The Alternative Answer: The Nontraditional Investments That Drive the World's Best-Performing Portfolios, said bluntly that a lot of hedge fund managers aren't earning their keep. Family Offices aren't the only power house investors talking about this either. Rice said that he was speaking with New Jersey Pension Fund CIO Timothy M. Walsh and that Walsh said that he was fed up with the compensation scheme hedge funds were asking for. Essentially, Walsh asked Rice why he should pay a hedge fund 2% and 20% when his fund could go to an asset manager like Blackstone and get more bang for its buck. It's a dangerous question for all the lagging hedge funds out there.
Goldman Sachs recently advised clients to short gold. And since then, the price of the yellow metal has only been lower. In Goldman's new U.S. Monthly Chartbook, David Kostin charts the various investment strategies and styles that have and haven't been working this year. Even though gold is off of its lows, it continues to be the biggest loser this year. Goldman Sachs Even as financial stocks have been the best performing corner of the market, Kostin recommends it as an overweight position.
Overnight, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe introduced the "third arrow" of Abenomics: the structural reforms crucial to the stimulus program's ultimate success. Stocks did not respond well. The Japanese Nikkei fell a whopping 3.8% on Wednesday. After rallying a bit after the close, Nikkei futures are heading lower again in after-hours trading and are close to their lows following the May 22 closing high of 15,670. Right now, futures are trading at 13,000, down 17% from the peak and only three more percentage points away from officially entering a bear market. FINVIZ.com
As noted by Jamie McGeever, ISM's employment subindex for services has declined four months in a row, the worst string since Lehman. Here's the chart showing that, via Calculated Risk Calculated Risk
Flickr via USDAgovThe April reading of U.S. factory orders is out, and it's a miss. Orders climbed by just 1.0%, month-over-month in April, missing economists' forecasts for a 1.5% gain. To make things worse, the March growth number was revised down to -4.7% from -4.0%. "A 3.3% rise in the durables portion has already been reported," noted High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan.
missmeng via FlickrUPDATE: The ISM Services report is out. The headline index rose to 53.7 from 53.1 last month. Economists were expecting a smaller advance to 53.5. The new orders sub-component of the index rose to 56.0 from 54.5. However, the new export orders sub-component fell to 50.0 from 53.5, and the employment sub-component fell to 50.1 from 52.0. Any number above 50 indicates expansion, whereas numbers below 50 indicate contraction. Below is what survey respondents are saying: Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr / halfrainJapan is now the world's biggest solar market. From IHS: Japan‚Äôs solar installations surged by a stunning 270 percent (in gigawatts (GW)) in the first quarter of 2013, positioning the country to surpass Germany to become the world‚Äôs largest photovoltaics (PV) market in terms of revenue this year. Although Japan is forecast to install fewer GW than China (which is forecast to be the largest market in GW installation terms) in 2013, the high prices of PV systems in Japan will drive it to become the world‚Äôs largest market in revenue terms. This is all basically the result of Fukushima, after which Japanese authorities aggressively moved to promote solar. They adopted a feed-in tariff that rewarded utilities for transitioning power supplies toward solar.  Meanwhile, Europe is ramping down solar growth as it clears its market of low-cost Chinese products. Japan's share the photovoltaic market will rise to 24 percent in 2013, up from 14 percent in 2012 and just 9 percent in 2011.
Wikimedia CommonsAirlines will charge you for pretty much anything these days.  In an effort to find even more revenue, some European full-service carriers are taking fine dining to economy class. From Bloomberg: Air France (AF)¬†is tempting economy-class customers with paid-for meal upgrades featuring foie gras terrine, and Austrian Airlines has Wiener schnitzel and sushi among its 15-euro ($19.60) in-flight nourishments. AF's menu-upgraded duck confit with mushrooms and sauteed potatoes (with Opera cake for dessert) will run you 18 euros. "Ancillary sales" on everything from foie gras to overhead bin-space have skyrocketed to $36 billion since 2007, or 5 percent of what airlines earned last year, an expert told Bloomberg. For all the tired jokes about its taste, airline food used to come gratis. The industry has been forced to adapt now that low-cost airlines like Ryanair and EasyJet have successfully conditioned passengers to pay for everything.
Peter Kurdulija / FlickrIn the United States, futures point to an open 0.3% down from yesterday's close. In Europe, the sell-off is picking up a little more speed. The biggest loser is the FTSE 100 in London, currently down 1.4%. France is down 1.2%, Germany is down 0.8%, Italy is down 0.3%, and Spain is down 0.5%. U.K. 10-year government bond yields are down 1 basis point to 2.02%, French and German yields are down 2 basis points each to 2.06% and 1.52%, respectively. Italian and Spanish bond yields are rising ‚Äì Italian yields are up 3 basis points to 4.12%, and Spanish yields are up 2 basis points to 4.42%. The euro is flat against the dollar today.

Today's ADP numbers didn't look too great. But there are other signs, elsewhere, that the labor market is performing nicely. Gallup's Job Creation Index for May reached 22, the highest level since April 2008.¬† Here's the chart: Gallup The score reflects 37% of workers telling Gallup that their employer is hiring, and 15% saying their company is letting people go and reducing the size of its workforce. The percentage hiring is the most since August 2008. The percentage laying off or firing is¬†the lowest since March 2008. Job creation was strongest in the East and West, where scores improved to levels not seen since mid-2008. Gallup notes spring hiring patterns may have pushed the score higher.
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderThis is definitely a surprise. Unit Labor Costs fell a stunning 4.3% in Q1, according to the BLS: ¬†Unit labor costs in nonfarm businesses fell 4.3 percent in the first¬† quarter of 2013, the combined effect of a 3.8 percent decrease in hourly¬† compensation and the 0.5 percent increase in productivity. The decline in¬† hourly compensation is the largest in the series, which begins in 1947.¬† However, over the last four quarters hourly compensation increased 2.0¬† percent and unit labor costs rose 1.1 percent. This compares unfavorably to expectations of a 0.5% increase.

The ADP jobs report is out, and it's a miss. US companies added only 135,000 jobs in May, which was well below the 165,000 expected by economists. The April measure was also revised down to +113,000 from a prior reading of +119,000. "Notably, a gain of 5,000 jobs in the construction industry during May was offset by a decline of 6,000 lost jobs in the manufacturing industry," said ADP's Carlos Rodriguez. Here's a break down by company size: This is the first of the major May labor market indicators building up to this Friday's official jobs report published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "In the short term, the monthly ADP survey, which we get this morning, is the single best predictor of changes in payrolls," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. The "odds of a strong report on Friday have just gone down considerably," said economist Ian Shepherdson. Here's what LaVorgna and Shepherdson talking about (chart via ADP): ADP "Private payrolls rose 57K more than the ADP estimate last month; misses have averaged 42K since Moody‚Äôs became the compiler of the data," said High Frequency Economics Jim O'Sullivan addressing the relationship between the BLS and ADP reports. Here's a historical chart from ADP: ADP
Societe Generale Albert Edwards pointed us to this chart comparing home prices across the developed world. For comparability purposes, the OECD present home prices based on two ratios: price-to-rent and price-to-income.¬† Both measures are pretty intuitive. "But what is surprising to me about the UK is that house prices are still extremely overvalued despite the country having been at the epicentre of the global credit bust and remaining in the icy grip of private sector debt deleveraging," said Edwards as he criticized British leadership. "For it is also notable that in other countries which have also found themselves in the eye of the credit storm, such as Portugal, Ireland and most importantly the US, house prices are now unambiguously cheap." Business Insider
With the 10-year Treasury yield rising a half of a percentage point last month, investors are beginning to wonder when rising interest rates may start to negatively affect stock prices. Higher yields can slow borrowing and spending, weighing on economic and profit growth. Although unlikely, if this pace of rising yields were to continue over the next six months, they could exceed 5% by year-end, a level not seen since July of 2007. While higher rates are bad news for bond investors, the good news is that rising yields may mean rising stock prices at least for some time yet. Historically, it has been around a yield of 5% on the 10-year Treasury where yields cross the line and begin to become a negative for stocks and the hate part of the relationship begins. Historically, whenever the yield on the 10-year Treasury note was below 5%, stock prices and bond yields got along well and moved in the same direction, as measured by a 52-week rolling correlation above zero [Figure 1]. The opposite was true when yields were above 5%. Yields were above 5% during the period from the late 1960s through the end of the 1990s. Then, the correlation between stock prices and bond yields was below zero. In general, during that period as yields rose, stock prices fell. Figure 1: 5% Level Marks the Line in the Love-Hate Relationship Between Bond Yields and Stock Prices 10-Year Treasury Note Yield (left scale) and 52-Week Rolling Correlation Between Stock Prices and Bond Yields (right scale) †LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 06/03/13 Source: LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 06/03/13 Historical performance based on the S&amp;P 500 Index and the 10-year Treasury yield. Sidebar: Correlation is a classical statistical method for measuring how closely related two series of data are. A correlation of 1.00 means they move perfectly together, while -1.00 means they are perfect opposites of each other. The reason for the different relationship above and below 5%, and why rising yields are good news for stocks right now, has to do with economic growth and inflation. When yields are rising from a low level they reflect: Alternatively, when yields were rising above 5%, economic growth was accompanied by higher inflation, which threatened future growth and eroded the present value of future earnings, acting as a negative for stock prices. While rising interest rates may eventually pose a problem for stocks, the tipping point of 5% is still a very significant distance away. As economic data continue to reflect solid growth in the coming quarters, bonds yields and stock prices should continue their climbóthough the rapid pace seen last month may slow. Steeper Is Better Further examining the past 15-year period that the yield on the 10-year Treasury has been around 5% or below, and stocks rose along with bond yields for periods of 12 months or longer, stocks performed best when longer-term yields were rising faster that shorter-term bond yields, referred to as a steepening of the yield curve. Figure 2: Steeper Is Better During Periods of Rising Interest Rates, Performance of S&amp;P 500 Is Best When Yield Curve Steepens Period of Rising Rates Start-End Rise in 10-Year Treasury Yield Change in 10-Year Yield Change in Shape of Yield Curve S&amp;P 500 Index Price Change From To 10/5/98-1/20/00 4.16 6.79 2.63 Steeper +46.2% 6/13/03-6/14/04 3.11 4.87 1.76 No Change +13.8% 6/1/05-6/28/06 3.89 4.23 1.36 Flatter +3.6% 12/30/08-4/5/10 2.05 3.99 1.94 Steeper +33.3% 7/24/12-current 1.39 2.13 0.77 Steeper +21.9% Source: LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 06/03/13 Yield curve is a line that plots the interest rates, at a set point in time, of bonds having equal credit quality, but differing maturity dates. The most frequently reported yield curve compares the three-month, two-year, five-year and 30-year U.S. Treasury debt. This yield curve is used as a benchmark for other debt in the market, such as mortgage rates or bank lending rates. The curve is also used to predict changes in economic output and growth. Why does the shape of the yield curve matter? The yield curve has been a good predictor of economic growth in the past. When longer-term bonds are priced to yield less than shorter-maturity fixed-income securities, the yield curve is said to be ìinvertedî because it slopes downward. When longer-term yields are much higher than short-term yields, the curve is said to be ìsteep.î Over the past 40 years, an inverted yield curve has preceded every recession while a steep curve tends to precede periods of growth.†The yield curve is now steeper than normal and has steepened further since rates began to rise, suggesting continued growth. Of course, a potential negative of a rise in rates is that it could negatively impact the housing recovery. But it is worth noting that, according to data from the U.S. census bureau on housing starts, housing began to turn up in mid-2011 when the national average of the 30-year fixed mortgage rate broke below 4.5%. Fortunately, rates are still well below that level at 4.1%. But even if the pace of housing did slow, besides suggesting better growth, lower deflation risks and potential losses for alternatives to stocks such as bonds, there are other benefits of rising interest rates for the stock market: Federal Reserve Actions The rise in yields last month had less to do with the economic data than the clarification from the Federal Reserve (Fed) of its intention to stop or slow its bond-buying program later this year. Some may believe that this introduces a new element to interpreting the rise in interest rates that may make past comparisons where a rise was driven by better economic momentum irrelevant. However, it is important to remember that the yield on the 10-year Treasury fell (as did the stock market) following the end of the QE1 and QE2 (quantitative easing) bond-buying programs in 2010 and 2011, as economic growth weakened and ultimately prompted the Fed to reinstate stimulus.†A sustained rise in yields this year would likely require not just the end of the Fedís latest stimulus program, but also the return of self-sustaining economic momentum.†If realized, this would be a favorable backdrop for the stock market, as it has been in the past when the Fed was not as active. While they may not get along every day, bond yields and stock prices should stay well to the love side of their historically stormy love-hate relationship.
Turn on financial television or pick up a financially related magazine or newspaper and you will hear or read about what some stock analyst from some major Wall Street brokerage has to say about the markets or a particular company.†† For the average person, and for most financial advisors, this information as taken as "fact" and is used as basis for portfolio investment decisions.† But why wouldn't you?† After all Carl Gugasian of Dewey, Cheatham &amp; Howe just rated Bianchi Corp. a "Strong Buy." ††That rating is surely something that you can "take to the bank", right? Maybe not. For many years I have been counseling individuals to disregard mainstream analyst and Wall Street recommendations due to the inherent conflict of interest between the major brokerage firms and their "retail" clients.† For individuals it is important to understand the relationship between your financial advisor, their firm and you.†† When you hire a realtor to sell your house there is a clear understanding that the realtor will sell your house for a commission.† It is spelled out in advance in a contract and compensation is based on performance.†† However, when it comes to financial advisors at major Wall Street firms the relationship is not quite as clear.† Major brokerage firms are big business.† Really big business.†† As such they are driven by the needs of increasing corporate profitability on an annual basis regardless of market conditions.† This is where the conflict of interest arises.† For example, look at the annual EPS of JP Morgan from 1999 to present.† Despite two major bear markets, which led to investor losses of 50% each time, JP Morgan never had a year with negative earnings per share.† How is that possible?  When it comes to Wall Street profitability the most lucrative transactions are not coming from servicing "Mom and Pop" retail clients trying to work their way towards retirement.† Wall Street is not "invested" along with you but rather use you to make income.† This is why "buy and hold" investment strategies are so widely promoted.† As long as your dollars are invested the mutual funds and brokerage firms collect fees regardless of market conditions.† While "buy and hold" strategies are certainly in their best interest - it is not necessarily yours.† However, these fees are a byline to the really big money. In reality, Wall Street is focused on the multi-million, and billion, dollar investment banking transactions, such as public offerings, mergers, acquisitions and bond offerings which generate hundreds of millions to billions of dollars in fees for Wall Street each year.† However, in order for a firm to "win" that business from its major clients the Wall Street firms must cater to those clients.† In this regard, it is extremely difficult for the firm to gain investment banking business from a company that they have a "sell" rating on.† This is why "hold" is so widely used rather than "sell" as it does not disparage the end client.† To see how prevalent the use of the "hold" rating is I have compiled a chart of all the stocks that are ranked by major Wall Street firms and broken them down into the percentages that are ranked "Buy", "Hold" or "Sell."†† See the problem here.†  It is not surprising that there is just 7% of all stocks with a "sell" or "strong sell" rating.† It's just not good for business. However, the conflict doesn't end just at Wall Street's pocketbook.† Companies depend on their stock prices rising because it is a huge part of executive compensation packages.† Corporations apply pressure on Wall Street firms, and their analysts, to ensure positive research reports on their companies with the threat that they will take their business to another "friendlier" firm.† This is also why up to 40% of corporate earnings reports are "fudged" to produce better outcomes.† So, what about the retail investor?† If Wall Street is more concerned about big business why do they need the retail investor at all?† This is where the conflict of interest becomes more clear.† Wall Street needs someone to sell their products to.† When Wall Street wants to do a stock offering for a new company they have to sell that stock to someone in order to provide their client, a company, with the funds that they need.†† The Wall Street firm also makes a very nice commission from the transaction.† Generally, these publically offered shares are sold to the firm's biggest clients such as hedge funds, mutual funds and other institutional clients.† But where do those firms get their money?† From you.†† Whether it is the money you invested in your mutual funds, 401k plan, pension fund or insurance annuity - at the bottom of the money grabbing frenzy is you.† Much like a pyramid scheme - all the players above you are making their money...from you. In a recently released study by Lawrence Brown, Andrew Call, Michael Clement and Nathan Sharp it is clear that Wall Street analysts are clearly not that interested in you.† The study surveyed analysts from the major Wall Street firms to try and understand what went on behind closed doors when research reports were being put together.† In an interview with the researchers John Reeves and Llan Moscovitz wrote: "Countless studies have shown that the forecasts and stock recommendations of sell-side analysts are of questionable value to investors. As it turns out, Wall Street sell-side analysts aren't primarily interested in making accurate stock picks and earnings forecasts. Despite the attention lavished on their forecasts and recommendations, predictive accuracy just isn't their main job." The chart below is from the survey conducted by the researchers which shows the main factors that play into analysts compensation.† It is quite clear that what analysts are "paid" to do is quite different than what retail investors "think" they do.  "Sharp and Call told us that ordinary investors, who may be relying on analysts' stock recommendations to make decisions, need to know that accuracy in these areas is 'not a priority.' One analyst told the researchers: 'The part to me that's shocking about the industry is that I came into the industry thinking [success] would be based on how well my stock picks do. But a lot of it ends up being "What are your broker votes?"' A 'broker vote' is an internal process whereby clients of the sell-side analysts' firms assess the value of their research and decide which firms' services they wish to buy. This process is crucial to analysts because good broker votes results in revenue for their firm. One analyst noted that broker votes 'directly impact my compensation and directly impact the compensation of my firm.'" The question really becomes then "If the retail client is not the focus of the firm then who is?"† The survey table below clearly answers that question.  Not surprisingly you are at the bottom of the list.† The incestuous relationship between companies, institutional clients and Wall Street is the root cause of the ongoing problems within the financial system.† It is a closed loop that is portrayed to be a fair and functional system; however, in reality it has become a "money grab" that has corrupted not only the system but the regulatory agencies that are supposed to oversee it. †† The Rise Of Independence In the past few years there is a change that is occurring which is the rise of independence.† Independent, fee only, financial advisors, private investment analysts, research and ratings firms have begun to infiltrate the system.†† Over the last several years the independent RIA (registered investment advisor) channel is growing faster than overall industry as retail investors are "catching on" to Wall Street's game.† The "Occupy Wall Street" movement, while very misguided in its approach, was the first to ring the bell of the wealth gap between "Wall Street" and Main Street. As more and more "baby boomers" head into retirement the need for high quality, independent, registered investment advisors will continue to grow.† The need for firms that do organic research, analysis and make investment decisions free from "conflict," and in the client's best interest, will continue to be in high demand in the years to come as more "boomers" leave the workforce.† While the "Wall Street" game is not likely to change anytime soon; the trust of Wall Street is fading and fading fast.† The rise of algorithmic, program and high frequency trading, scandals, insider trading and "crony capitalism" with Washington is causing "retail investors" to turn away to seek other alternatives. Of course, two nasty bear markets certainly have not helped Wall Street.† Over the last several years the number of investment advisors has been steadily falling as individuals have taken back control of their own money.† While individuals believed that Wall Street was out to take care of them the real truth was markedly different.† Wall Street got rich while they got poorer.† Now, those same individuals are hiding in bonds to find some return along with safety.† The chart below shows the cumulative increase in bond funds versus stock funds as individuals seek safety over return.  Today, probably more than ever, the tide is shifting for retail investors.† Those that want to venture into the shark infested waters of Wall Street on their own can certainly find plenty of tools, data and research online.† Wall Street has the clear advantage in this game with billions of dollars invested in programs that can manipulate prices, front run trades and move markets to their benefit.† However, an independent advisor can help level the playing field between Wall Street and you.† Provided they have the right team, tools and data they can spend the time necessary to manage portfolios, monitor trends, adjust allocations and protect capital through risk management.† That expertise, combined with advances in technology, now allows individuals the freedom not to be locked into finding an advisor that lives down the street but to find the best fit for their personal goals and objectives.† Today, top quality advisors have clients worldwide and can manage portfolios, communicate and service those clients effectively through technology. The rise of independence is a good thing.† Hopefully, it will continue to take root and grow into a dominant force in the marketplace that can affect regulatory change in the future for a more fair, transparent and less conflicted financial market.† In the meantime, it is crucially important to start asking the right questions to figure out who is on your side.

Jeff Sandquist / Flickr, CCSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc is planning a major roll-out of an online grocery business that it has been quietly developing for years, targeting one of the largest retail sectors yet to be upended by e-commerce, according to two people familiar with the situation. While food is a low-margin business, Amazon could outperform similar online grocery services by delivering orders for higher-margin items like electronics at the same time. One of the people familiar with AmazonFresh's expansion plans said new warehouses will have refrigerated areas for food, but also space nearby to store up to one million general merchandise products, in some cases. The company has been testing AmazonFresh in its hometown of Seattle for at least five years, delivering fresh produce such as eggs, strawberries and meat with its own fleet of trucks. Amazon is now planning to expand its grocery business outside Seattle for the first time, starting with Los Angeles as early as this week and the San Francisco Bay Area later this year, according to the two people who were not authorized to speak publicly. If those new locations go well, the company may launch AmazonFresh in 20 other urban areas in 2014, including some outside the United States, said one of the people. Bill Bishop, a prominent supermarket analyst and consultant, said the company was targeting as many as 40 markets, without divulging how he knew of Amazon's plans. An Amazon spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday. Amazon is searching for new, large markets to enter as the company tries to maintain a growth rate that has fueled a 220 percent surge in its shares over the past five years. The grocery business in the United States, which generated $568 billion in retail sales last year, may be a ripe target. Amazon's expansion plans are a potential threat to grocery chains such as Kroger Co, Safeway Inc and Whole Foods Market, as well as general-merchandise retailers Wal-Mart Stores Inc and Target Corp, which also sell a lot of groceries. "Amazon has been testing this for years and now it's time for them to harvest what they've learned by expanding outside Seattle," said Bishop, chief architect at Brick Meets Click, a consulting firm focused on retail technology. "The fear is that grocery is a loss leader and Amazon will make a profit on sales of other products ordered online at the same time," he said. "That's an awesomely scary prospect for the grocery business." Kroger, Whole Foods, Supervalu and Safeway did not respond to requests for comment on Tuesday. Target declined to comment. ACproductsBad memories...A successful foray into groceries could also help underwrite the development of a broad-based delivery service employing Amazon trucks to deliver directly to homes, which could have implications for UPS, FedEx and other package delivery companies that currently ship Amazon goods. Still, groceries have proven to be one of the most difficult sectors for online retailers to crack. One of the most richly funded start-ups of the dot-com era, Webvan, was a spectacular failure as the cost of developing the warehouse and delivery infrastructure proved overwhelming. Roger Davidson, a former grocery executive at Wal-Mart and Supervalu, said Amazon will struggle to make money from AmazonFresh because fresh produce can easily go out of date in storage warehouses and get damaged during delivery - something known as "shrink" in the business. "Will it work? I would bet against it," Davidson said. "The reasons these businesses have failed in the past have not gone away." COMPETITION Still, Amazon is not alone in wanting to expand in the online grocery business. Wal-Mart is testing same-day and next-day delivery of online grocery and general merchandise orders in the San Francisco Bay Area and operates a grocery delivery business in Britain. "We are ready and able to expand grocery delivery in the U.S. as the market demands," Wal-Mart spokesman Dan Toporek said. FreshDirect delivers food to homes and offices in some parts of New York City and its trying to expand its service into the Bronx. Peapod, owned by international food giant Royal Ahold NV, says on its website that it is the largest Internet grocer in the United States, delivering more than 23 million orders across 24 markets. Davidson, who worked with Peapod for several years during stint at Ahold USA, said Peapod struggled to make money for most of its existence. But he believes it now turns a small profit due to supply chain efficiencies, population density in Chicago and its connection to brick and mortar stores on the east coast. Davidson favors a strategy he called "Click and Connect" which is being used by Harris Teeter, a food and pharmacy chain on the East Coast of the United States. Customers order food online and choose a time to pick up the produce from designated areas outside the company's stores. There is a $4.95 service fee for this. "Traditional grocery retailers will likely fight back against Amazon with Click and Connect," he added. It is not clear whether AmazonFresh in Seattle is profitable because Amazon does not disclose results from the business. Amazon Chief Executive Jeff Bezos was asked about the business during the company's annual shareholder meeting last month and he said that the team had "made progress on the economics over the last year." "They've been doing a lot of experiments and trying to get the right mixture of customer experience and economics," he added. COMBINED ORDERS If online orders also include higher-margin general merchandise such as digital cameras, then AmazonFresh has a chance at profitability, said Manfred Bluemel of Zeitgeist Research, who was head of market research worldwide at Amazon until late 2010. "Grocery is a frequency business. If Amazon can deliver to consumers' homes two or three times a week, they can up-sell other items," he said. Bluemel said AmazonFresh's expansion will likely focus on areas where Amazon already offers same-day delivery, or will do so soon. Amazon offers same-day delivery in several cities including New York, Washington D.C. and Chicago, and since last year the company has been building new distribution warehouses on the outskirts of the Los Angeles and San Francisco Bay areas. (Reporting by Alistair Barr; Additional reporting by Dhanya Skariachan and Lisa Baertlein; Editing by Jonathan Weber and Tim Dobbyn)
Reuters/Umit BektasGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Stephen LamDETROIT/AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Elon Musk, the chief executive of electric carmaker Tesla Motors Inc, criticized the traditional way of selling cars in the United States and indicated the model would hamper the 10-year-old U.S. automaker's growth prospects. Tesla is pushing to sell its Model S electric sedan directly to consumers rather than relying on a network of independent dealers. These efforts have met stiff resistance from dealer groups around the country. "The auto dealers association is definitely creating some problems for us, making it harder to get things done," Musk said during Tesla's annual meeting on Tuesday. The annual meeting comes after a string of positive news in the last month for Tesla, including its first-ever quarterly profit and a near-perfect score for the Model S from the influential Consumer Reports magazine. As a result, Tesla shares have nearly tripled this year. On Tuesday, Musk said the company's gross margins could approach those of sports-car maker Porsche AG "over time." Tesla is now beefing up its sales operations in anticipation of growing Model S sales. The company expects to have 50 stores by the end of the year, up from 34 during the first quarter. Musk has said that traditional dealers may not be the best advocate for electric cars because they rely largely on gas-powered vehicles for revenue. Musk said Tuesday that consumers were broadly supportive of direct-to-consumer sales. He told shareholders that the traditional dealer model has not worked for other auto start-ups, including Fisker Automotive and Coda Holdings, which filed for bankruptcy last month. "It didn't work for Fisker, didn't work for Coda. In the last 90 years, when did it work?" Musk said at the meeting in Mountain View, California that was also broadcast online. "We have to do this directly." David Hyatt, vice president of public affairs for the National Automobile Dealers Association, disputed Musk's comments, saying the troubles facing Fisker and Coda did not stem from their sales models. "Industry experts say Fisker failed because it rushed its product to market before engineering problems were resolved," Hyatt said in a statement. "Coda did not receive government loans and was under-capitalized. "Thank goodness there are independent dealers left to try to help the customer," he added. "Manufacturers and brands may come and go, but the dealers are there for the long term." Most U.S. states do not allow manufacturers to sell new cars directly to consumers. A pair of bills that would have allowed such sales in Texas failed to make it to a floor vote in the state legislature before its regular session ended on May 27. "Honestly, it was a hard bill to pass anyway and I knew that when I filed it," said Democratic Representative Eddie Rodriguez, who proposed the bill in the House. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Republican Senator Craig Estes. "It was very different than what the current system is. I knew it was going to be a challenge," Rodriguez said, adding "the dealers are a pretty strong lobby group." (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Carol Bishopric, Dan Grebler and Matt Driskill)
Here's the latest analyst to double down on bullishness, with stocks remaining near all-time highs. Paul Murphy at FT Alphaville flags the latest call from Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite, who predicts the S&amp;P will surge to 1900 in 2014 (it's currently at 1631). Some key points: Read the whole thing here &gt;
There's a new WSJ/NBC poll about Obama's approval, but fortunately buried within it, there are some good questions about how Americans see the economy. There's still not massive satisfaction, but clearly since the beginning of the year, there's been a big improvement in how people feel. For example, here's a question on whether people are satisfied with the state of the economy. Those saying they're "somewhat" or "very" satisfied with the economy total 36%, up from 27% at the start of the year. Those registering dissatisfaction are at 64%, down from 72%. WSJ Other poll questions show a similar story. There's been a big drop in the number of people who think the economic outlook will get worse (18% vs. 28% at the end of last year).
At least as of April, the European consumer had not stopped bleeding. In April 2013, compared with March 2013, the volume of retail trade fell by 0.5% in the euro area (EA17) and by 0.7% in the EU272, according to estimates from Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. In March retail trade decreased by 0.2% and 0.1% respectively. In April 20134, compared with April 2012, the retail sales index dropped by 1.1% in the euro area and by 0.6% in the EU27. Eurostat
YouTube / Margin Call TrailerThere's some good economic data on deck today that will help the market answer questions about the state of the economy, and possibly provide insight into what the Fed will do over the coming meetings. The biggest of the datapoints is going to be the ADP Jobs report for May, which serves as a proxy for the official Non-Farm Payrolls report, which will be coming out on Friday. Here are the three datapoints, via Calculated Risk: ï At 8:15 AM, the ADP Employment Report for May will be released. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 171,000 payroll jobs added in May.† ï At 10:00 AM, the ISM non-Manufacturing Index for May. The consensus is for a reading of 53.8, up from 53.1 in April. Note: Above 50 indicates expansion, below 50 contraction.† ï Also at 10:00 AM, the Manufacturers' Shipments, Inventories and Orders (Factory Orders) for April. The consensus is for a 1.4% increase in orders.
More green shoots. 2 days after a manufacturing report that was much better than expected, Spain's Services PMI report from Markit has also come in better than expected. The index went from 44.4 to 47.3, its best level in 23 months. This is still in contraction territory, so for now the economy is just getting less worse (not better) but the turnaround has to start somewhere. Markit
APTOKYO (AP) ó Prime Minister Shinzo Abe outlined Wednesday a sweeping blueprint for rejuvenating Japan's ailing economy with reforms meant to bring more women into the workforce, promote industrial innovation and coax cash-hoarding corporations into investing more. The strategies Abe sketched out in a speech form the third and most important plank in his "Abenomics" platform, which so far has focused on what he calls the first "two arrows" in his arsenal: loosening monetary policy and boosting public spending. He has promised structural reforms to underpin growth in the long run as Japan's population ages and shrinks. "Now is the time for Japan to be an engine for world economic recovery," Abe said. "Japanese business, what is being asked is that you speed up. Do not fear risk, be determined and use your capacity for action." Without an overhaul of Japan's bureaucracy and its agricultural, industrial and labor policies, economists say Abenomics is bound to provide only a temporary boost to growth while vastly increasing the country's public debt burden. All agree that reforms are needed to break Japan free of the deflationary malaise that has stymied growth since its bubble economy collapsed more than 20 years ago and sustain growth in the future. Investors appeared unimpressed: the benchmark Nikkei index, which had slipped 0.3 percent in the morning ahead of the speech, was down 1.1 percent just afterward. The Nikkei had gained over 70 percent since November on expectations that Abe's program would boost growth and corporate profits, but has lost nearly 20 percent in the past few weeks on growing uncertainty over how well the plans are working. Abe pledged Wednesday to raise Japanese incomes by 3 percent a year to protect consumers' purchasing power if the government meets its target of boosting inflation to 2 percent within two years. However, his speech was short on details of how to achieve that aim after more than two decades of economic stagnation. He also promised to raise Japan's per capita gross national income by more than 1.5 million yen ($14,970) in 10 years. It now is about $45,000 a year. So far the government has taken only piecemeal initiatives such as loosening controls on online sales of over-the-counter drugs. Abe intends to raise private investment in roads and to set up "strategic economic zones" where private companies will be allowed to operate public facilities such as airports. Abe has repeatedly stressed his desire to encourage more women to work by improving access to affordable child care and extending parental leave. He also has called for improved English language instruction and loosening of labor regulations that discourage job hopping. He did not discuss details of those plans in his speech. Abe had promised to present his reform proposals by mid-June, a month ahead of an election for the upper house of parliament that his Liberal Democratic Party is determined to win ó possibly assuring Abe another three years in office. But amid the recent volatility in financial markets and questions over his resolve to follow through with reforms, he has offered repeated previews of what he has in mind. "The structural reforms are as important as the first two arrows," Sri Mulanyi Indrawati, a managing director of the World Bank, told a recent conference in Tokyo. Abe has made reviving the economy his top priority since taking office nearly six months ago, so far with mixed results. The economy grew at a 3.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, while a weakening yen helped boost the repatriated profits of big Japanese corporations. But despite rising costs for imported energy and food, overall prices have remained flat, and despite massive purchases of government bonds meant to pump cash into the economy, the central bank remains far from achieving its 2 percent target for inflation. Though most economists have given Abe's initial efforts a thumbs-up, it is the longer-term reforms that will really count, they say. "One thing is certain about growth policy: there is no silver bullet or panacea," said Masazumi Wakatabe of Waseda University. "In particular, contrary to the popular view, industrial policy has rarely worked in Japan or in other countries." Defending Abenomics in a recent speech, economy minister Akira Amari said, "This time, strategy will be followed by action." "Instead of lowering the bar, this will be a growth strategy that will continue to evolve," Amari said. "The goal is to equip Japanese industry with the strengths it needs to compete." Many of the reform proposals aired so far, however, are incremental, technical changes, such as providing insurance for factories leasing equipment. Though Japan's plan to join the "Trans-Pacific Partnership," an Asian-Pacific regional trade pact, could provide some foreign pressure to modernize and open up protected farming and other areas, most changes would come years later, says Junji Nakagawa, an expert on the TPP at Tokyo University. Land and tax reforms to facilitate consolidation of small farms would help, but have proven politically daunting, and the pact will not have any immediate impact even on imports of rice, which are now subject to a nearly 800-percent tariff. "Maybe seven or five years from now, Japanese farmers may face real competition," Nakagawa said. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
It just keeps getting worse in Japan. After a brief respite, the Nikkei has plunged again. After being up earlier in the day, the market fell nearly 4% in late going. Nikkei.com This comes after new PM Shinzo Abe revealed a new "Third Arrow" of Abenomics, which focuses on increasing wages. There was evidently some frustration that more wasn't done. For more details on the new reforms announced by Shinzo Abe, see here &gt;
