This morning Bitcoin was at $490. Now $569. A 16% gain in a day? Not bad. Clarkmoody

On Friday, China announced that it was loosening its famously restrictive one-child policy. So who's liking that? Via Deirdre Wang Morris, there's a big rally going on in dairy/infant formula companies. @deeCNBC
The Chinese real estate boom continues. ForexLive And here's a city breakdown David Scutt
Kevin Jairaj-USA TODAYThe weekend is over and markets are lower.¬† Australia's ASX 200 is off -0.58%. The Nikkei is off -0.08%. Korea's Kospi is up 0.47%. U.S. futures were pointing slightly negative.¬† We have a pretty busy economic week ahead, starting with the latest home price data tomorrow. Click here to read our full weekly preview ¬ª
Readers know we were critical of Senator Paul when he threatened to put a senatorial ìholdî on Janet Yellenís nomination. Yahoo-Financeís Daily Ticker issued an invitation to me to debate with David Stockman on the Rand Paul response. Here is the link to an excerpt from that debate:†http://ph.news.yahoo.com/video/rand-paul-absurd-hold-yellens-152616134.html. A second part of that debate had to do with stock markets and bubbles. My argument is that we are not yet in a stock market bubble, a housing bubble, or any other sort of bubble. We may get there, but we are not there yet.†We are in a period of rising prices. David Stockman countered with the opposing argument and called for immediate action because of bubble conditions. Here is the link to that section of the debate:†http://screen.yahoo.com/daily-ticker/fed-policy-creating-bubbles-everywhere-220238684.html. My colleague and Cumberlandís Chief Monetary Economist, Robert Eisenbeis, has written about the evolution of Fed monetary policy and tapering and what it means in the short and long run. Bob and I and others in our firm discuss this issue frequently. In the national arena, there are those who wring their hands about quantitative easing (QE), offering gloomy predictions. For five years now, we have heard that monetary policy will result in a huge inflation. Look around. The inflation rate in goods and services is somewhere between 1% and 2% and is falling. Rampant inflation as the result of money printing, predicted by so many, has not happened yet. It is not likely to happen for a while. Falling inflation is likely to be intensified if commodity and energy prices also decline. Others have debated whether or not the Fedís tapering constitutes a tightening. The Fed and Janet Yellen maintain that tapering is not tightening, but that view is controversial.†Letís consider this metaphor:† A car is moving at 80 miles per hour with the driverís foot on the accelerator. The driverís foot is then lifted from the accelerator to slow the car to 60 miles per hour. During the carís deceleration from 80 mph to 60 mph, the engine is not providing any power. At some point the car reaches 60 mph, still slowing; the driver then puts a foot back on the accelerator to maintain speed at 60 mph.†The engine is now providing the power again (think of this as monetary stimulus) to maintain that new speed. At all times, the car is moving forward. The rate of movement changed, but the direction did not. Does the metaphor apply to monetary policy? That is much harder because the question cannot be answered in a vacuum, without other influences. Such influences might include foreign currency exchange rates or foreign central bank activities and how they interact with the US dollar and economy. What happens when the structure of the credit markets changes? Does that have an impact on the tapering versus tightening debate?† We think the answer to that question is yes. Before Lehman-AIG and at the onset of extraordinary monetary stimulus, the weighted duration of the Fedís assets was 2. The size of the balance sheet was approximately $900 billion. Today, the Fedís balance sheet is $4 trillion in size, and the weighted duration is 6. These durations are computed as estimates of a weighted duration and derived from an examination of the construction of the various Fed assets. We have gone from $900 billion with duration of 2, to $4 trillion with duration of 6. That is a massive change in market impact. The November, 2013, McKinsey discussion paper estimates that the Fedís special programs ìhave reduced ten-year Treasury yields by about 65 to 100 basis points.î† That is in addition to taking short-term interest rates to near zero. The longer-term rates were reduced because the Fed extracted the weighted duration from the market and put it on the central bankís balance sheet. The central bank funded that transaction by creating excess reserves in the banking system. Those excess reserves are presently costing the Fed a payment rate of 0.25% per year. The Fed takes the differential between that cost of 25 basis points and what it receives on the long duration it holds on its balance sheet and then hands the difference back to the US Treasury. Those remittances now take place on a regular and systematic basis. They approximate $100 billion per year. The Treasury takes the $100 billion and uses it to reduce the budget deficit. That is the circularity of the transaction as it exists today. What happens if the federal deficit shrinks? The US Treasury creates fewer new federal securities relative to the number created before this process started. A shrinking deficit means not originating as many new Treasury notes, bonds, and bills as were previously created. This is happening today.†As Stan Collender wrote, ìDeficit numbers, especially good ones, are just not that interesting.î†So we didnít hear much about it.†Fact: the deficit is now under 4% of GDP and falling. If the Fed holds its quantitative easing policy stable at $85 billion per month and the US Treasury creates less duration than it did previously because of the shrinking deficit, the Fedís extraction of new duration relative to GDP is going up. The Fed is presently absorbing roughly the entire new duration created by the US government in the issuance of Treasury securities. There is a similar and parallel activity going on in federal mortgage-backed securities.† What does this mean when the Fed begins to taper? We cannot be sure. If tapering means buying fewer than $85 billion per month in federally backed securities and it happens at the same time the federal government is producing fewer such securities, it is quite possible that tapering will not be tightening. Both the Fedís purchases and the creation of new Treasury securities are two sides of a shrinking deficit.†Both can be reduced in a fashion where stability and neutrality can be maintained. In our view, it is uncertain as to whether tapering results in any type of tightening. At the moment, we do not know the process for tapering, and we do not know the rate at which tapering will occur. We expect it to commence early next year and to be consistent with the criteria outlined in Janet Yellenís and Ben Bernankeís testimony and speeches. All of this means that asset prices in almost all categories ñ stocks, commodities that reflect monetary activity, art in auctions, real estate, and a host of other items ñ reflect an upward bias. The reason behind that upward bias is that the interest rate is maintained at a very low level. When interest rates are maintained at a very low level, the discounting mechanism to value assets works to raise the prices of those assets. That trend will continue worldwide in the major economies for several more years as all of them go through this process of central bank stimulus, plateauing, subsequent tapering, reaching a neutrality level, and then confronting in the out years how to permit the assets of the central bank to roll off and mature over time without shocking those economies. The last item will take place years from now.†We remain fully invested.
You've probably heard the line about how inflation has destroyed 90% of the dollar's value over the last several decades. It gets repeated ad nauseum by inflation truthers, gold bugs, Fed haters, and all of their fellow travelers. The problem is that it's almost entirely BS. Matt Busigin has put together a great chart showing the dollar's value since 1948. Matt Busigin It's true, that the purchase power of a dollar has fallen massively since 1959. BUT that changes dramatically as soon as you assume your theoretical saver is getting any interest at all. The orange line in the middle shows what's happened to your purchasing power if you've collected the most basic interest rate on your savings. And the top line, the light purple line, shows what's happened to your purchasing power if you've constantly collected the rate being paid by 3-month T-Bills. That top line shows that your purchasing power has gained. Including the rate of interest you get from savings is entirely fair, just as (as Matt points out), you can't calculate the return on stocks without dividends, or the return on bonds without interest payments. So yes, if someone had a bunch of cash in 1959 and literally put it in a shoebox, they'd have lost a lot of money over the last several decades. But for almost anyone in the real economy who's collecting anything on their cash, the myth of inflation destroying the dollar is just that: a myth. And of course, this chart doesn't include the real possibility that "savers" will also have money in stocks, bonds, and real estate, which means they will crush the effect of a depreciating dollar.
Over the past couple of decades, strong economic growth has consistently been spurred on by bubbles - the tech bubble in the 90s, the housing bubble more recently. In his speech at the IMF on November 8, Larry Summers brings up an important question: Is a bubble a prerequisite for economic growth? "I don't think it was thought fiscal policy was conspicuously austere in the period prior to 2007 and 2008," he said. "And I think it's hard to construct a counterfactual for the period -- 2003 to 2007 -- with no bubbles and reasonably rapid growth, since the bubbles are now seen as having been the cause of a significant fraction of the growth that there was." The idea that the only way for the economy to have robust growth is through a bubble is scary. If true, that means that anytime the economy is doing well, we should expect a crash soon after when the bubble pops.† Paul Krugman pointed out the fundamental problem in a smart blog post yesterday which riffed on Summers: [H]ow can you reconcile repeated bubbles with an economy showing no sign of inflationary pressures? Summersís answer is that we may be an economy that needs bubbles just to achieve something near full employment ñ that in the absence of bubbles the economy has a negative natural rate of interest.†And this hasnít just been true since the 2008 financial crisis; it has arguably been true, although perhaps with increasing severity, since the 1980s. ... [W]ith all that household borrowing, you might have expected the period 1985-2007 to be one of strong inflationary pressure, high interest rates, or both.†In fact, you see neither ñ this was the era of the Great Moderation, a time of low inflation and generally low interest rates.†Without all that increase in household debt, interest rates would presumably have to have been considerably lower ñ maybe negative.†In other words, you can argue that our economy has been trying to get into the liquidity trap for a number of years, and that it only avoided the trap for a while thanks to successive bubbles. As Krugman notes, inflation has been low for a number of years despite significantly increased debt for US households. Economic theory would normally predict that this would lead to higher inflation. More consumption leads to higher wages and prices. But that hasn't happened. Where has all of this excess money gone then? Summers and Krugman both hypothesize that the answer is bubbles. Since the housing bubble burst, the Fed has used monetary stimulus to attempt to push the economy back towards full employment. The problem with this is that when nominal interst rates fall to zero, the Fed has limited tools at its disposal. Right now, it's using quantitative easing to lower long-term rates and forward guidance to credibly convince the market that rates will stay low for an extended period of time. Both policies are meant to incentivize businesses to invest and spur on economic growth. Nevertheless, the recovery has still been weak and inflation low, indicating that Fed policy is still too tight. What Summers and Krugman are both questioning is whether this is a new phenomenon. If bubbles have been the driver of economic growth during the past 30 years, than it stands to reason that those bubbles kept investment artificially high. That leads to a higher natural rate of interest, masking the underlying problem of the zero lower bound. The best way to understand this is to use one of Krugman's favorite models: the IS-LM framework. This model predicts that the natural interest rate will occur at the equilibrium between desired savings and investment. Here's it in graph form (explanation below): Paul Krugman, New York Times This graph shows where the desired savings (LM curve) equals desired investment (IS curve). Under normal conditions, that equilibrium point brings about full employment. However, right now is not normal. The Great Recession caused a massive shift back in investment as demand plummeted and businesses hoarded crash. In fact, the IS curve shifted so far back that the equilibrium point would fall below zero if nominal rates could go negative: Paul Krugman, New York Times As Krugman shows in that graph, the LM curve flattens out at zero, because if it interest rates were to go below zero, people would simply horde cash. The Fed can't push the nominal interest rate below zero. That's the liquidity trap were currently in. Thus, the point we're currently at is not an equilibrium and has not returned us to full employment. Slowly, investment is returning as demand recovers, but progress has been slow since we're not at the equilibrium. The interest rates on the graph are short-term ones, which the Fed controls through the money supply. It also can have an effect on long-term rates. Since hitting the zero lower bound after the recession, the Fed has used indirect means such as purchasing Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities to drive down long-term rates as well and attempt to return to equilibrium. We're not there yet. The larger question though is whether that second graph is a recent development. If bubbles led to artificially high investment, then it's very possible that absent them, the natural rate of interest may have been negative the entire time. This jibes with the lack of inflation we've seen for the past few decades as well. If that's the case, the scary part is whether we can have robust economic growth without a bubble or does persistently bumping up against the zero lower bound prevent that? The good news is that we can break free of that bound. The Fed could allow for greater inflation, lowering real interest rates and bringing the economy back into equilibrium. Another method would be to move to a cashless society where people cannot hoard money and thus the Fed can cut nominal rates below zero. All of these tools are intended to break free of that bound. This would spur greater investment and bring back full employment. However, we aren't becoming a cashless society anytime soon and the Fed's institutional structure has limited how loose it can make its policy. That means that we could be stuck at zero, struggling to regain full employment. Krugman speculates that decreased labor force participation and slower population growth will only exacerbate this problem, leading to lower demand and thus reduced investment. If the Fed cannot get the desired rate of savings and investment to reach a natural equilibrium point, then Summers may be right. Bubbles may be necessary for robust economic growth. That's a scary possibility.
REUTERS/Pascal Rossignol On Nov. 1, agriculture giant Monsanto bought a 7-year-old firm called Climate Corporation for about $1 billion.¬† Founded by two former Google employees, Climate Corporation might be described as the expression of the "big data" movement in the farming sector.  It combines decades of weather data from the USDA and National Weather Service, as well as its own proprietary live monitoring systems and radars, to better help farmers predict what yields will look like. It also sells them weather insurance. Coincidentally, the New Yorker¬†published¬†Michael Specter's in-depth profile of the company a week after the purchase was announced. The whole piece is worth reading, but one line stuck out to us. You'll recall that last year the U.S. saw one of the worst droughts on record. Although scientists have actually yet to find direct evidence that last year's epic drought resulted from climate change,¬†the fact that in the span of two years America's breadbasket saw one of the worst-ever harvests¬†immediately followed by one of the best-ever¬†has hurt farmers' bottom lines. ¬†(Of course, it also likely helped boost Climate Corporation's value.) Here is what Climate Corporation founder Dave Friedberg said about how most farmers view climate change (emphasis ours): ¬†¬† "You don't need to talk about climate change per se ... Statistically, you are looking at a series of numbers. If it were a roulette wheel, you could say, 'It's coming up black more and more frequently.' Can I attribute that to black being overweighted by the croupier? Or to the pit boss, or the machine being broken? It doesn't matter. Some people will argue that ice ages have waxed and waned for tens of millennia and that this is part of a natural cycle. That doesn't change the fact that black is coming up more frequently and you will get less out of an acre of corn than you used to. The price for that land simply cannot be justified by the income it can generate."¬† In other words, it doesn't matter what's causing it, but something's definitely not right, and investing in protection from that uncertainty now seems a must. Climate Corporation now markets itself to ag sectors around the world, and Friedberg added that his data suggests some regions' farming industry will see damage that will dwarf the losses from the U.S. housing sector crash. Yikes.
Yet along the way, it seems that we've lost perspective of what constitutes a "successful" IPO in the first place. While Twitter has been hailed as a success, with its whopping 73% pop in its IPO, Facebook was viewed rather negatively, as the company struggled to even hold its IPO price in the open markets. The reality is that from the perspective of the companies themselves, arguably Facebook was the success and Twitter marks Wall Street at its worst. After all, think about it from the perspective of the company ó if you were selling a portion of your business to raise capital, you want to see your†portion of the sale occur at the best price possible, not at an lower price that limits the benefit for the company and maximizes the short-term profit for those lucky enough to get their hands on an "underpriced" IPO! The reality is that some price "pop" on the day of an IPO is healthy, inasmuch as it alleviates fears of IPO buyers and makes them more comfortable to take on the risky unknown that is IPO pre-commitment of share purchases. Nonetheless, the fact remains that expecting a pop as big as the one Twitter saw may be more notable for the amount of money Twitter left on the table ó money that the company won't be able to use towards justifying the market capitalization that has now been established. And from the individual investor's perspective, arguably buying IPO shares on the open market when they start trading ó the practical reality for most retail investors who don't have access to direct IPO shares ó represents the worst of both worlds, simultaneously paying the maximum price for the shares, and investing in a company that doesn't even get the full benefit of its own IPO value. So perhaps its time to stop celebrating the idiocy of the big IPO price pop, something that benefits neither the retail investor, nor the company they're buying! Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesThe inspiration for today's blog post was the recent Twitter IPO, which has generally been hailed a "success" because the price popped a whopping 73% from its offer price at $26 to its open on November 7th at $45.10 (before rising as high as $50.09 and closing at $44.90). By contrast, Facebook was generally viewed as a dismal IPO, with an initial offering priced at $38, which opened at $42.05 on the morning of May 18th, 2012, and closed at $38.23 at the end of the day, but only after what was rumored to be a significant amount of buying by the underwriters to defend the $38 price (and in the months that followed, Facebook declined as low as $17/share before rebounding all the way back above the original IPO price a few months ago). Yet while the stunning price pop of Twitter was almost reminiscent of the big price jumps witnessed in the era of the tech-booming 1990s, it's rather astonishing to recognize that from the perspective of the company itself, the reality is that the Facebook IPO was actually a success, while Twitter's IPO should arguably be viewed a dismal failure that cost the company dearly. To see why the Facebook IPO was a success for the company, and the Twitter IPO was a failure, it may be helpful to view the IPO in an analogous context more familiar to most: a piece of real estate. So let's imagine that you own a nice piece of undeveloped land, free and clear. This piece of real estate is located near a key part of town that will soon go through massive development, which is anticipated to make it significantly more valuable; while today the undeveloped land might only sell for $100,000, you figure that properly developed it could be worth $4,000,000 in a few years and $10,000,000 by the end of the decade! Unfortunately, though, properly developing the land with new zoning permits, committing to nearby infrastructure, and more, could cost $1,000,000, which you don't have, and the bank isn't exactly about to lend $1,000,000 against a piece of real estate that so far, is only a $100,000 piece of undeveloped land. Accordingly, you realize that if you really wants to make some money building up and developing the property, you needs a partner - someone who can bring cash capital to the table to fund the necessary improvements, in exchange for which you will give up a portion of the equity in the property. While the bank wasn't willing to lend as much as desired, you figure that by putting some equity value on the table, a more aggressive investor who sees the opportunity and potential would be willing to part with some hard-earned cash in exchange for an equity stake. You guesstimate that if you offer a 50% interest in the real estate in exchange for $1,000,000 of cash, you can get the money needed to develop, and the investor will still have plenty of upside with a 50% interest that could be worth 50% of $4,000,000 in a few years and 50% of $10,000,000 by the end of the decade. There's still a lot of risk to the deal ó more than the bank loan officer is willing to take ó but the promising potential is good enough to attract a wealthy speculator or few who's willing to bet on the future growth potential. Unfortunately, you don't know any such millionaires, so you engage a (real estate) broker to help facilitate the transaction. The broker goes out and after gauging interest, tells you that yes, indeed, there are several investors who would be interested in having a piece of this deal, and that he thinks he can get 10 investors to buy a $100,000 share each in exchange for 5% interests. In fact, rumors are that the city may make an announcement of the new development plans soon, so the broker indicates that the shares could probably be sold for $110,000 each! Absolutely thrilled, you tell the broker to go ahead and pull the trigger on the deal. The broker makes it happen. At this point, all seems good. You have put forth a "public offering" of 50% of your real estate development opportunity, and received $1.1M in cash for a 50% interest in your land that was previously worth very little. You now have the cash available to grow and develop your real estate project (in fact, $100,000 more than you had originally wanted!), which you can reinvest to make both yourself and the investors much richer in the long run (at least so you hopes if the development goes well!). And in the meantime, you realizes that since you still have your own 50% stake, that presumably means your share is now worth about $1.1M now, too (valuing the total project at about $2.2M)! A few days later, though, the broker gives you some additional "interesting" news. It turns out that a few of the investors have already sold their shares to subsequent investors, and that the going rate is now about $200,000 for each 5% stake. "Great news!" says the broker, "now your net worth isn't just $1.1M for your 50% stake, it's $2M! What a success!" While it's true that the post-offering trading at a higher price means your remaining shares will make you even wealthier than you had anticipated, the astute reader will realize that there's a problem here. Remember that your original goal was to raise $1,000,000 of cash to develop the property. If the reality is that those 5% shares could have been sold for $200,000 each instead of only $110,000 each, then you actually only needed to sell 25% of your ownership to raise the capital you needed, not 50%! In other words, you might be happy you're worth $2M, but if you really knew that the sales would go so well, you could have kept more. You†should†be worth $3M! Or alternatively, given that you had already committed to sell 50% of the real estate, if the broker had let you know that the shares were going to be selling for $200,000, you should have received $2,000,000 of cash back for the initial offering, not a "mere" $1.1M! This could have meant far more cash to do some additional development on the real estate, that might have even led to more growth potential. Or alternatively, maybe you could have just taken a little of the extra cash and paid off some of your other bills, or even allocated a bit of it to his other financial planning goals. If only you had "known" that the shares were going to sell for $200,000 each in the first place! A bit frustrated, then, you go back to the broker and ask, "Why is it that my investors are flipping their shares for 81% more than the price I sold them? If you're such a great broker, why didn't you price my shares at $190,000 in the first place?" "Ahh, I see your confusion," the broker responds. "I had to price the shares a little conservatively. After all, it's hard to know who's really going to come to the table to buy when the moment comes. As you may recall, you originally had said you wanted to sell the shares for $100,000, but I had an inkling that people might be willing to pay a little more, so that's why I priced them at $110,000 for you! Remember, that means I brought you an extra $100,000 of cash when I sold all of your offering for $1.1M instead of the original $1M you asked!" "Yeah, but couldn't you have priced the shares a little higher?" you say. "I appreciate you sold the shares for $110,000 instead of $100,000, but now they're trading at $200,000! Did the pricing really have to be†that†low?" "Well," the broker responds again, "I have to confess, some of the people who were interested in buying your shares aren't exactly long-term investors. You know, some people have money to invest, but they just have a shorter time horizon! But since you had a very specific time horizon to raise capital, I wanted to be certain your IPO went off without a hitch! So I wanted to price low enough to make sure that we'd have enough investors in total to clear out all of your shares, even if a few of them were just looking for a quick return." "Wait a sec," you retort now, "So you're saying you†basically†knew†and all but†promised†some of these investors that they would make money immediately off my shares, just to get them to participate? Who exactly were these 'lucky' individuals who got the sure-thing bet on the shares I was selling?" "I'd prefer not to give you the details on that," replied the broker somewhat more defensively. "Let's just say that they are some investors with whom I do a lot of deals, and their consistency helps to ensure everything goes smoothly. Yes, perhaps there were a few of my key clients in there who give me a lot of business in return. But you know, the unfortunate reality is that there's a lot of give-and-take in the investment business. Sometimes they give me a nice opportunity on something, and sometimes I have to give them a good deal to maintain the relationship." "But that makes no sense!" you say, increasingly frustrated. "If you knew they could flip my shares to someone else who would pay more, why didn't you just sell my IPO shares at a higher price in the first place to whoever was willing to pay more? If you knew†they†could get a higher price ó to induce them to participate ó why didn't you just give†me†the higher price!? Aren't I your client, too?" "Well," said the broker, "the truth is that a lot of the subsequent buyers are pretty short-term investors as well. We've found over time that if they don't think the shares are really 'hot', they don't necessarily buy them from my investors, and if my investors don't think they can re-sell the shares, they won't buy them either, and then you'll have no one to sell to! Solely relying on long-term investors is a risky business in today's market!" "I guess, but now this almost seems overhyped," responded the client. "I was only projecting this deal to be worth $4,000,000 in a couple of years after all the development. It seems like all those secondary buyers at $200,000 have no real chance to make any money for years now! Maybe I could have justified this price if I had all $2,000,000 of cash to work with to develop the real estate, but I'm just not certain it's feasible when I only got $1.1M. With this outcome, I feel like I got screwed, the investors who own the shares now are going to get screwed, and the only people who made money are you and your 'friends' who got to flip my IPO shares for an easy $900,000 profit!" Of course, in the real world IPOs are for companies in a wide range of businesses, not just real estate and undeveloped land, and I have glossed over some of the technical details and mechanics of how an IPO pricing really works (for a more detailed explanation of the Twitter IPO pricing, check out†this article). But the underlying principles remain the same; an IPO represents a situation where a company chooses to sell a portion of itself (its equity) to outside investors to raise capital for various business purposes. While the ultimate price of the shares determines the overall value of the company, and sets a price point for the remaining shares still held by the original owners, it doesn't change the fact that the difference between the IPO share price and the subsequent price of the shares in the secondary market represents economic value lost to the company and economic value the "final" investor does not enjoy either. It's value has been harvested by those investors and institutions who receive the opportunity to grab a share at IPO price and flip it immediately thereafter, at a price that makes them an immediate profit and poses far less chance of a return for the subsequent buyer anytime soon. Ironically then, while the Facebook IPO was highly criticized because its value declined after its IPO, and many subsequent buyers lost money, from the†company's†perspective the Facebook IPO was a fantastic success. They raised capital for their company by selling it for a fantastic price, putting a large amount of cash on their balance sheet to use to advance the goals of the company. AP Arguably ó if its subsequent share price performance in the months that followed is any judge ó Facebook actually got†more†than they should have for their IPO shares at the time, and the company has only just recently managed to regain its prior IPO value with subsequent growth. While that's produced colorful headlines regarding the net worth of Mark Zuckerberg and the remaining shares he owns, it doesn't change the fact that Facebook raised a whopping $18.4 billion of cash with its IPO, while doing the IPO at its nadir of about $17/share would have netted it only about $8.2 billion. Score one for Facebook. In the case of the Twitter IPO, the numbers were smaller. Twitter only raised about $1.8 billion in the first place, barely a tenth of the size of the Facebook IPO. Nonetheless, at a $45/share market price, the IPO "should have" raised about $3.1 billion of cash for the company. In other words, Twitter never saw that last $1.3 billion of value (or†as much as $1.6B†at Twitter's $50/share peak). Sure, the shares the founders†still†own have enjoyed that appreciation (if they can even sell them right now), but the company itself didn't get any benefit for it... they just left over $1 billion on the table. Nor do the investors who now own those Twitter IPO shares enjoy the benefit; those who bought on the public markets at the publicly traded price have to see the company appreciate†from here†to benefit, and without Twitter being able to use the extra $1.3B of cash to help itself and its current shareholders! Instead, the only people who benefit for the "missing" $1.3B are those who were lucky enough to get their hands on the IPO shares themselves directly in the offering ó a benefit that, sadly, the investment banks tend to steer disproportionately to institutional (and perhaps some other "key") clients, far more than the typical retail investor (which is justified as promoting market stability and to protect retail investors, though it's hard to see how if it just means retail investors buy the same shares anyway, but at a†higher†price, on the open market). To be fair, it's worth noting that†some†price pop is healthy for the IPO marketplace. The investors who take on those initial IPO shares can't always count on seeing the 70%+ pop they did from the Twitter IPO; in the case of Facebook, the initial price on the open market was barely more than 10% over the IPO, and barely held the IPO price point on the first day of trade below (and fell by about 20% within a week). If every IPO came out the way that Facebook's did, investors would be more fearful and less willing to take on those shares in the first place; if you expect the price to fall by 20% in a week, you don't pay $38/share in the first place, and companies like Facebook don't raise as much money as they did. In other words, the Facebook IPO may have fared so well for Facebook because the initial investors thought it would fare more like Twitter did, than how it actually performed. Nonetheless, the point remains that there's little to celebrate for Twitter in the fact that apparently they left as much as $1.3 billion on the table, from an IPO that only raised $1.8 billion in the first place (or alternatively, if they wanted to raise $1.8B, they needed to sell less than two-thirds of the actual number of shares they did). While it's doubtful that Twitter could have captured that entire spread for themselves with a higher starting price, it's hard to see why they should be happy leaving†that†much behind, either. Sure, ultimately it's Twitter that decides what price to set for its IPO, but they nonetheless are acting on the advice and guidance of their investment bankers, whose clients seem to have enjoyed a $1.3 billion rainfall by buying the IPO at $26/share, a value that Twitter itself will never see, nor will the retail investors who bought it on the open market at a price point close to $45. And frankly, if investors wanted to buy Twitter at $45/share, they should have been even†happier†to buy the company at $45 if it had another $1.3B of cash on its balance sheet! So the next time your client is interested in buying into an IPO, remind them that at best there should only ever be a slight price "pop" from the IPO shares to the market price, and that a big jump may be more of a sign that the company lost out than that investors had a big win (except, perhaps, the investors lucky enough to get their hands on some underpriced IPO shares). Of course, whether Facebook, Twitter, or the next IPO succeed in the long run, and whether their share prices are worthwhile for their value and growth potential, is a fair question for any investor to ask and consider. But just bear in mind that when you're trying to buy an IPO at the opening market price on the first trading day, you're the very, very last person in line to get a crack at tapping into that value, and the bigger the price jump, the less capital the company will be getting from its IPO to actually justify that value.
Mike Nudelman / Business Insider It's not just Occupy Wall Street protesters that are worried about wealth and income inequality. Now people like Bill Gross, manager¬†of the world's largest bond fund at Pimco, are warning that the problem is making the U.S. less productive, while star investors like Jim Chanos worry that people will have less incentive to participate in the economy if they have decided that "the game isn't fair," reports¬†¬†The Wall Street Journal's Justin Lahart. As noted by¬†Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Albert Edwards, "you don't have to be¬†a communist to conclude that high levels of inequality not only adversely affects long-term growth, but also increases the economy‚Äôs vulnerability to recession." Despite this growing consensus, wealth and income inequality in America is still getting worse by many measures.¬†To see what's really happening, we encourage everyone to view our new series of charts.
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins This weekend, Venezuela seized an electronics supplier¬†after they "illicitly" raised prices. This summer, Venezuelans began¬†procuring dollars en masse abroad and bringing them back home to take advantage of their government's currency controls by selling the greenbacks on the black market at a premium. It's just one of the many odd, unique things that have occurred in the Bolivarian Republic since Hugo Chavez was elected in 1998 and promptly flipped the country's regime from democratic to socialist. We've gone back and looked at 19 other instances where Venezuelan society appears to have wandered away from how most countries do things.
The historian Michael Beschloss tweeted this picture yesterday. He describes it as lower Manhattan viewed from the Statue of Liberty around 1901. Michael Beschloss Here's a recent picture from a similar perspective from North River New York Sailing: North River Sailing
Flickr/Meagan FisherIt's Sunday, and one of the things I notice every Sunday is that interest in the news is significantly higher than it is on Saturdays. Twitter feels more active on Sundays. Traffic to Business Insider is almost always meaningfully higher on Sundays than on Saturdays. And of course, traditional media has always used Sunday for big marquee products, whether they be the New York Times Magazine or Meet The Press. It seems that totally disconnecting for two days is too excruciating for a lot of people, so that by Sunday morning they're eager to start getting back into the swing of things. Why don't people want to disconnect more? Kit Juckes, an economist at SocGen, wrote a post on his personal blog yesterday on the blurring of work and leisure in modern life that may explain some of this. In his post he talks about spending his weekend writing and reading about ... economics (which is what he's paid to do during the week): We still go to 'work' for money, but quite a lot of people would do the same thing in their leisure time as they do at work. One of the tragedies of our society is that so many old people suffer from loneliness and that's one reason why people work. You go to work to get paid, but it becomes a centre of your social life. I've seen too many men retire and then age 5 years in a few months and slowly vegetate because they have no idea what to do with their time, to believe that a life of enforced 'leisure' is so appealing that it should be the dominant goal of my working life. I choose economics as a way to spend time, for work or in leisure. It would have been nice to have played golf this morning but frost having intervened, I've spent a couple of enjoyable hours reading. Was that work or leisure? The answer is that today, it's leisure because I'm not being paid. And that's a good thing because otherwise, I'd have to count all the hours I spend thinking about financial markets as 'work' and that would immediately make me less productive. Far from everyone has a job where they're truly stimulated, and get to be around people who provide them an invigorating level of social interaction. But for the people who do have that, two days is a long time to totally shut that out. After a day, it's time to start warming back up and getting into work mode. For many professionals it seems, Sunday is less a "day off" than it is to do similar things as you might do while "at work" but without the infrastructure and bureaucracy of being "on the job."
Flickr/Yasunobu HiraokaMany on Wall Street believe the American economy will finally pick up in 2014. BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett argues "escape velocity" is "tantalizingly close." Nonetheless, it hasn't happened yet, and the ultimate debate about the future of the U.S. economy is still this: can it? If recent trends in sub-par GDP and labor market growth reflect a structural decline in the economy's potential, the answer might be no. If we are still just working through the cyclical damage from the recession that gripped the U.S. six years ago, on the other hand ‚Äî and the persistent fiscal drag that has weighed on the economy in more recent years ‚Äî then perhaps the answer is yes. The government shutdown seemed to bring out a fair amount of pessimism toward the matter. Jonathan Laing wrote of a "stark reality that many politicians and their constituents are unaware of" in an October 28 Barron's article. "U.S. economic growth figures to slow dramatically over the next 20 years or so," said Laing, "generating far less money to achieve the Republican goal of a balanced budget or the Democratic aim of continued social spending." The discussion was taking a tilt toward the bearish side among investors as well. "We've noticed investor sentiment shift decisively through the course of the year," wrote Dario Perkins, director of global economics at Lombard Street Research, in an October 17 note.¬†"The economy‚Äôs recent sluggishness has made our clients more sceptical of our strong 2014 forecast." In an August report, JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli broke down the argument that the country's future isn't what it used to be by demonstrating that potential GDP growth ‚Äì a proxy for the long-run trend growth rate ‚Äì in the United States has fallen below 2%. "As recently as the late 1990s, potential growth in the U.S. was estimated to be around 3.5%; by our estimates that figure has recently fallen by half, to 1.75%," wrote Feroli. The JPMorgan economist explained how an aging society, a crackdown on immigration, decreased levels of innovation in information technology, and declining R&amp;D spending in both the private and public sectors were all dragging this figure lower. Of course, there likely are cyclical factors at work as well ‚Äî remnants of the damage caused by the recession. Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, points out that Federal Reserve officials believe the impairment in potential growth is only temporary. "The Chairman cited three factors behind the possible decline in potential GDP growth: One, a labor mismatch; two, a lack of business investment; and three, an inability of firms to find commercial applications for new technologies," wrote LaVorgna in a recent note to clients, citing a November 20, 2012 speech by Fed chairman Ben Bernanke. BLS, Haver Analytics & DB Global Markets ResearchLaVorgna warns that these impediments may be structural, however. "While intuitive, we are worried by the fact that much of the weakness in job growth has been in three areas of the economy‚Äîconstruction, finance and government‚Äîand this could be more structural than cyclical in nature," he writes. "This is evident in the nearby chart, which shows reasonably solid job gains outside of the sectors which boomed in the previous expansion. Regulatory and budgetary impediments will likely continue to weigh on job growth in the financial and government sectors; construction employment should improve, but only modestly." LSR's Perkins believes American growth potential will make a comeback nonetheless. For a variety of reasons related to the severity and duration of the recession, it is likely U.S.¬†potential output has slowed since 2008," he says. "But this doesn‚Äôt mean the economy is now doomed¬†to persistently sluggish activity." Perkins argues that "powerful cyclical forces have been depressing demand" as the private sector retrenched in the wake of the crisis: By 2012, these drags on private sector demand had started to fade. The recession in the housing market had ended, with construction activity and house prices beginning to recover. This started as a rental/apartment boom, but it was gradually becoming broader based. Meanwhile, the private-sector deleveraging process seemed to be nearing an end. Household debt had fallen sharply relative to income and, according to our analysis, was returning to sustainable levels. Debt servicing costs were also at historic lows, easing the desire to rebuild balance sheets. Finally, the banking sector was in better shape, with lower levels of leverage and improving profitability. This was feeding an economy-wide¬†improvement in credit availability. "Given these positive dynamics, clients often ask why the economy has not recovered more meaningfully over the past 12 months," says Perkins. "The simple answer is that public-sector retrenchment has taken over from private-sector retrenchment. In 2013, the government has implemented a structural budget tightening worth more than 3% of GDP ‚Äì the largest since at least the 1980s." OECD, Lombard Street ResearchPerkins believes the outlook for public-sector retrenchment is key. "By cutting government spending and raising taxes, this has depressed¬†overall activity and masked a significant improvement in underlying demand. This is¬†important because it means, if the fiscal drag fades in 2014, growth could pick up materially," argues Perkins. "Potential GDP isn‚Äôt a fixed concept. Just as the recession dragged¬†potential growth lower, sustained strong growth would eventually help to reverse this trend."¬†
REUTERS/Andrew InnerarityOne in every 978 U.S. homes received a foreclosure filing in October, according to the latest foreclosure data from RealtyTrac. Foreclosure filings were down 28% from a year ago, but up 2% from the previous month. At the state level, Florida, Nevada, Maryland, Ohio and Illinois posted the highest foreclosure rates. "The backlog of delayed judicial foreclosures¬† continues to make its way through the pipeline, with many of these properties¬† now being scheduled for the public auction after starting the foreclosure¬† process last year or earlier this year," said Daren Blomquist, vice president¬† at RealtyTrac. We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rate. Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate, i.e., one in every X homes received a foreclosure filing.
PandoHenry Blodget and Pando CEO Sarah LacyThe folks at technology site Pando were kind enough to ask me to be their guest at this month's PandoMonthly evening event. The format of these events is unusual: Food, booze, and a two-hour grilling of a single interview subject. It's a privilege to have people listen to anything you have to say, let alone two hours worth of what you have to say, so I'm grateful to the Pando team and to everyone who attended. Pando CEO Sarah Lacy asked me about pretty much everything, including: One Twitter viewer described the interview as "ferociously frank." †The folks at Pando saw a resemblance to†Louis CK (which may be the highest compliment I've ever received.)† If you've got two hours, you can watch the whole thing below. Or you can head over to Pando, where they've broken out lots of clips. 
Shutterstock.comToday we‚Äôre looking at a very specific topic: Pairing sports jackets with denim jeans. This is a simple, relaxed look that pairs the flattering shape of a suit jacket with the casual feel of denim. It‚Äôs also highly adaptable, dressing up or down depending on the other items work. With the right pieces, it‚Äôs hard to screw up a blue jeans/sports jacket combination. The trick is to get the jeans and the jacket right in the first place. Selecting The Right Jeans to Pair with Men‚Äôs Jackets The jeans you wear with a jacket need to look dressier (if there is such a thing!) than your basic worn out work jeans for this to be a good combination. ‚ÄúDress jeans‚Äù is something of a contradiction in terms, but people should be able to tell at a glance that you don‚Äôt wear these pants for working on your car or hiking in the woods. A good pair of jeans to wear with a sports jacket should have the following ‚Äúdressy‚Äù features: Other style details that aren‚Äôt mandatory but help you look ¬†more dressed-up include contrast stitching (where the seams are done in a color that stands out, such as orange or yellow on dark blue jeans), ‚Äúnatural‚Äù dyes with an uneven fade, and in some cases designer labels or trademarked stitch patterns. You want to stay away from fashion details that make the jeans look more worn, even if it‚Äôs a deliberate fashion statement: That‚Äôs not to say that some men don‚Äôt wear deliberately distressed jeans with jackets, but it‚Äôs a fashion-plate look ‚Äî affected and a little over-the-top. Don‚Äôt experiment with it if you‚Äôre just trying to look a little sharper. via Real Men Real Style What Jacket Styles to Pair with Men‚Äôs Jeans? The other half of the equation is your jacket. There‚Äôs a huge range out there to choose from, and no one ‚Äúright‚Äù style. But think about a couple important factors when you choose one: A jacket that you‚Äôre buying to wear with jeans is also a great place to play around with unusual decorations you don‚Äôt wear on your other jackets. Ever wanted to see how you look with leather elbow patches, or with big, square, accordion-style pockets? This is the place to try them out. via Real Men Real Style What to Wear with a Jacket and Jeans The beauty of the jeans/sports jacket combination is its versatility. With a lightly-patterned dress shirt and a sporty tie it‚Äôs dressy enough to attend casual business functions or a weekend church service in confidence. Opt for a dark T-shirt and a pair of skate shoes instead and you can fit in at a dance club. It really comes down to the image you want to project. A jacket/jeans outfit can be safely traditional or more fashion-forward. Don‚Äôt believe me? ¬†Here are three examples. Dinner &amp; A Drink¬† The basics: I love wearing this outfit every time I‚Äôm down in Austin judging at the venture lab investment competition there at UT (Hook‚Äôem!). ¬†It‚Äôs not too flashy, yet it lets me seamlessly move from interviewing start-up founders to going out to dinner at one of Texas‚Äô finest steak houses without missing a beat. Classic Casual The basics: This also happens to be a good outfit for a tweed cap, if you have one lying around, and it looks good under a light wool coat in cooler months. Wear the look anywhere from the kids‚Äô sports games in the fall to Easter brunch with the grandparents. It also makes a nice dressy update for men in dress-casual offices where khakis and a blue oxford shirt are the staple uniform. Relaxed Contemporary The basics: This will look better on younger men, in artistic crowds, and in urban and evening settings. You could theoretically use the same jeans and jackets as you do for the classic dress-casual outfit described above; you just change the style and color of the other items around to adjust the feel of the outfit. via Real Men Real Style How To Start Wearing A Sports Jacket &amp; ¬†Jeans?¬† Hopefully these examples make the point for you: a sports jacket and a well fitted pair of dark jeans can go anywhere you need them to. I personally sport this look and encourage men to think of it as a ‚Äúdefault‚Äù for day-to-day life. Now if you‚Äôve made it this far you might be wondering ‚Äì this is all good and all, but how do I get started? The answer is to practice. ¬† You already have a pair of jeans that you love the fit of. ¬†If they‚Äôre not dark &amp; solid consider buying a new pair ‚Äì they can be found for well under $50. Next focus on the jacket ‚Äì nail the fit, and whether its a designer or thrift store buy ‚Äì you‚Äôll look good assuming the style is classic &amp; timeless. Now wear it. Going out to the store? Meeting a friend for a drink? First date? Throw on a jacket. It looks good. Give it a try! Now check out our video on pairing a jacket with jeans: 
PandoHenry Blodget and Pando CEO Sarah LacyThe folks at technology site Pando were kind enough to ask me to be their guest at this month's PandoMonthly evening event. The format of these events is unusual: Food, booze, and a two-hour grilling of a single interview subject. It's a privilege to have people listen to anything you have to say, let alone two hours worth of what you have to say, so I'm grateful to the Pando team and to everyone who attended. Pando CEO Sarah Lacy asked me about pretty much everything, including: One Twitter viewer described the interview as "ferociously frank." †The folks at Pando saw a resemblance to†Louis CK (which may be the highest compliment I've ever received.)† If you've got two hours, you can watch the whole thing below. Or you can head over to Pando, where they've broken out lots of clips. 
PandoHenry Blodget and Pando CEO Sarah LacyThe folks at technology site Pando were kind enough to ask me to be their guest at this month's PandoMonthly evening event. The format of these events is unusual: Food, booze, and a two-hour grilling of a single interview subject. It's a privilege to have people listen to anything you have to say, let alone two hours worth of what you have to say, so I'm grateful to the Pando team and to everyone who attended. Pando CEO Sarah Lacy asked me about pretty much everything, including: One Twitter viewer described the interview as "ferociously frank." †The folks at Pando saw a resemblance to†Louis CK (which may be the highest compliment I've ever received.)† If you've got two hours, you can watch the whole thing below. Or you can head over to Pando, where they've broken out lots of clips. 
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Harvard University President Emeritus Larry Summers speaks during a panel discussion on financial crises at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Jacques Polak Annual Research Conference in Washington, Nov. 8, 2013. At the IMF Research Conference on Nov. 8, Larry Summers gave a succinct presentation that explained what may be the most pressing economic matter of our time. The speech is being widely praised (by Krugman and others) for being a brilliant and thorough elucidation of an issue that's underdiscussed. Over the past 50 years, the Federal Reserve has cut short-term interest rates during recessions to spur economic growth, but a new problem has arisen recently. The Fed cut the rate to zero, but we still have had a slow recovery. The problem is that the natural interest rate ‚Äî where investment and savings bring about full employment ‚Äî is now negative. However, the Fed cannot cut the nominal rate below zero because people will choose to hoard money instead of putting it in the bank. This is called the zero lower bound and has reduced the power of Fed policy. To offset that, the Fed has used unconventional programs such as quantitative easing (QE) to push long-term rates down to try to bring about greater investment. QE is the technical term for the Fed buying billions of dollars of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.¬† Even with that though, the natural interest rate is still stuck below zero. Cutting short-term interest rates is the Fed's greatest power to bring about full employment during recessions, but it has been hamstrung by the zero-lower bound. While this has caused a weaker recovery so far, the larger problem is that this is not a short-term issue. If another recession were to hit now or in the next couple of years, the Fed will have even less power to combat it since rates are already at zero. This is what Summers warned of in his speech at the IMF. "Imagine a situation where natural and equilibrium interest rates have fallen significantly below zero," Summers said. "Then conventional macroeconomic thinking leaves us in a very serious problem because we all seem to agree that whereas you can keep the federal funds rate at a low level forever, it's much harder to do extraordinary measures beyond that forever, but the underlying problem may be there forever." There are a couple of other ways we could attack this.  -- The Fed could allow for greater inflation, and thus incentivizing people to spend now if they're hoarding money.  -- We could also move to a cashless society where all money is electronic. This would make it impossible to hoard cash outside the bank, allowing the Fed to cut interest rates to below zero, spurring people to spend more. Both ideas would theoretically overcome the problem of the zero lower bound. Earlier this year, Summers was considered the favorite to become the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, but withdrew himself from contention after liberal Senate Democrats opposed his candidacy. President Obama instead nominated current Fed vice-chair Janet Yellen. But Summers' speech is a reminder to all liberals that he is a brilliant economist who grasps the long-term issues of monetary policy and would likely have made an exemplary Fed chair. "I think that [what the] world has underinternalized," he said, "is that it is not over until it is over, and that is surely not right now and cannot be judged relative to the extent of financial panic, and that we may well need in the years ahead to think about how we manage an economy in which the zero nominal interest rate is a chronic and systemic inhibitor of economic activities, holding our economies back below their potential." His full speech is worth a listen: 
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahUnited Arab Emirates' Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum takes a tour inside an Airbus A380 aircraft during the Dubai Airshow November 17, 2013. DUBAI¬†(Reuters) - It was a security consultant's nightmare and a moment to savor - royalty, airline bosses, planemakers and press hordes wedged into the same overcrowded room wanting to see the same thing: the color of money in the oil-rich and fast-growing Gulf. Gulf airlines dropped $100 billion in 15 minutes on the opening day of the¬†Dubai¬†Airshow, as they ordered hundreds of passenger jets to expand a common ambition to turn the region into a global aviation hub. After one mega-deal, as¬†Emirates¬†airline and¬†Qatar Airways¬†ordered 200 of Boeing's newly re-launched 777 jet, a quick decor change brought Airbus to the stage to sign a deal with¬†Emirates¬†for 50 of the world's largest jetliner, the¬†A380 superjumbo. "I don't have my calculator," Sheikh¬†Ahmed bin Saeed al Maktoum, chairman of¬†Dubai¬†airline groups¬†Emirates¬†and flydubai joked when asked to estimate the value of deals just unveiled. The rapid burst of dealmaking captured both the frenzy of business activity in the region and the ambition, shared by Gulf states, to diversify their economies away from energy wealth. But the carefully choreographed event also masked bitter competition between the region's airlines to attract passengers, amid weak margins and high fuel costs. Airlines jostled for position ahead of the show, each wanting to go first, people aware of the arrangements said. "The press conferences were changed several times as all of them wanted to be the first to announce," said one source familiar with the closed-door discussions. Missing from the main announcement, where Boeing launched its revamped 777 jet, was¬†Abu Dhabi's Etihad Airways, a rival of neighboring¬†Dubai's¬†Emirates¬†which had agreed to announce orders at the show only after behind-the-scenes talks. "We rarely announce plane orders at air shows but when we do, the world takes notice,"¬†Etihad¬†chief executive James Hogan declared after kicking off the show with his own 777 order. ECONOMIC WEAPON OF CHOICE The hub cities in the Gulf -¬†Dubai, Abu Dhabi and¬†Doha¬†- are spending billions on infrastructure to draw more travelers from former hubs in¬†Europe¬†and¬†Asia¬†to the¬†Middle East. While Western carriers are languishing amid weak margins and high fuel costs, airlines are economic weapon of choice in the Gulf to globalize its economy and diversify oil-based revenue. The deep-pocketed Gulf carriers are taking bigger roles in global aviation, with planemakers Airbus and Boeing depending increasingly on them for the success and sales of their planes. "The¬†Middle East¬†three (Emirates,¬†Etihad¬†and Qatar Air) have successfully expanded their global route networks over the past decade, in part through the economics of securing highly competitive deals for long haul aircraft - particularly at a time when airlines in other areas of the world faced many challenges to their businesses," said Peter Morris, chief economist at the¬†London-based consultancy Ascend. Emirates, the oldest of the Gulf carriers, uses¬†Dubai's hub airport status to fill its large fleet of A380 superjumbos that reach all the way to¬†Europe, the¬†United States¬†and¬†Australia. "I would say that the successful and profitable development of¬†Emirates¬†airline is perhaps the most significant factor of last 20 years that has put¬†Dubai¬†on the map for its economy, trade, tourism and growth," Morris said. Etihad, which completed its 10 years in service this month is catching up through equity partnerships in airlines around the world including Air¬†Berlin, Virgin¬†Australia,¬†Aer Lingus¬†and¬†India's Jet Airways. Qatar Airways¬†has chosen the more traditional route - it became part of the oneworld alliance of airlines in October after decades of resistance from its European rivals. While competing with each other, the new breed of Gulf airline faces criticism from carriers in the¬†United States and¬†Europe¬†which say such large plane orders could disrupt markets. U.S. airline pilots have said the huge growth is unfair, while some have called for curbs on the use of U.S. export credits to smooth the plane orders to foreign carriers. "We have to accept competition and never fear it," Sheikh Ahmed said. "People have the right to expand, grow their business and prepare for newcomers to the market." (Editing by Mark Potter)
Hello Turkey Toe/FlickrEditor's note: This post originally appeared on Quora, in response to the question, "Why are so many lawyers unhappy with their jobs?" It was posted anonymously and provides an extremely detailed account of the life of a corporate attorney. I'm a mid-level or perhaps senior associate at a large law firm. Let me describe the two types of days that I routinely experience and then mention why I actually think I'm unhappy ‚Äî as opposed to what you might think if you simply read TNR [The New Republic] or ATL [Above the Law]. Busy Day: 7:00am: Wake up, check Blackberry. See that 30 emails directed to me/my team on projects have come in since I put it down at 2:00am. Response to 10 of the 30, get four junior associates in motion on tasks for the day. Try to go to gym, but realize I can't make it because, while I was writing those 10 emails, I've had clients send me meeting planners for 8:30am and 10:00am calls. (For the initiated, clients rarely ask if I can make a call; sometimes I'm told to get on the line in five or ten minutes, sometimes I get random meeting planners. If matters conflict, somebody screams uncle, but it usually isn't me.) 7:30am: Hop on train (subway). Read more emails while on train and respond to another 4 or 5 so that responses will launch as soon as I come up from underground. 8:15am: Arrive at office. Start printing documents for 8:30am call b/c secretaries won't arrive for another hour.¬†  8:30am: Call gets moved to 9:00. Thank god I don't expect it to last more than an hour, or I'd already have a conflict. Use extra time to look over documents I expect I'll be discussing on 9:00 call. (But still no clue of its content because I tried emailing the client, but the client did not respond.) 9:00am: Jump on call. Fortunately, it's on what I expected. Client wants to do another call with the other side at 10:00am because he is heading to the beach with his kids at noon. I inform client I have another call at 10:00 and client asks me to push that call for him. I try to dodge by proposing 10:30 and promising to keep the other call to 30 minutes. All the while, 40 new emails come in while I am on the call. I get two more junior associates moving on projects, IM with another three and request additional experienced staffing for one project. 10:00am: Get on second call. Again have no idea what it will be about, but assume I can handle it because it is with an unsophisticated corporate client that we love because it lets us ring the meter. Junior comes to my office to listen to call. In-house lawyer bloviates about irrelevant points for 30 minutes and I field another 20 emails while on call and mark a document at my desk, occasionally paying attention to the call. The junior is in my office, but I never look at her because I'm just trying to get done what I need to get done to not fall further behind. 10:30am: I recap call with junior associate (largely because I missed key points while marking the document that is at my desk, and need her to tell me what happened). I then get on the 10:30am call with the 9:00am client and try to pay attention because the client is a business-side managing director. I check the news, anyway, however, in part because I know that nothing I do on the call will in any way impact my pay or my chance of promotion, so I don't really pay much attention. 11:00am: Call ends. I follow-up with benefits and IP on some points raised on the 10:30am call. They're not expecting my queries, but they can't do anything. I CC the client and the relevant partners so that the client knows I'm following up on his points and so that the benefits and IP associates have to meet my stated timeline or look bad. (Chances are, they won't respond anyway. We won't fire them for it, and we won't pay them any more if they do.) 11:30am: Take a few minutes to skim the news; get coffee.¬† Return to desk and begin marking documents drafted by juniors for one of my deals. Attempt to mark them without interruption, but answer the phone every 10 or 15 minutes and lose train of thought. 1:15pm: One of my callers asked me if I've seen emails that just came in and if I've reviewed the documents attached ‚Äî 250 pages, came in five minutes ago. I tell the client that, no, I have not yet reviewed the documents, but I will as soon as I can and generally try to determine whether the matter is urgent. When I realize that his deadline of this afternoon is false (like most deadlines), I find a way to push the work back.¬† (I have more work on my plate than I could complete if I stayed in the office 24x7 for two or three weeks, so it's always a matter of fighting whatever fire is burning strongest; never a matter of real project management.) 2:00pm: Begin catching up on emails; see that I missed two calls while reviewing documents and hope clients/partners are not mad at me for missing them. Call juniors to determine what I missed. 2:30pm: Urgent email from client. Don't believe that matter is urgent b/c every matter from this client is said to be urgent, but call client to check.¬†  2:45pm: Matter not urgent, so grab lunch in the caf. Eat lunch at desk while responding to emails. 3:00pm: Things are quiet, so catch up on document that has sat on my desk for more than a week.¬† The official deadline was last Friday, but we all know that deadline was false and I probably blow through 50+% of my deadlines. 3:30pm: The firedrills begin. Client says it wants to sign a set of documents today, none of which we've seen.¬† I call two juniors to get them to review parts and to get tax review.¬† I skim as fast as I can, isolating key points. 4:00pm: Three clients have already sent me voicemails on other projects, and I have two more meeting planners, both for calls at 4:30pm. I ignore all to close out document I'm reading for the 3:30pm client. 4:30pm: I jump on one of the calls and find out this client also wants documents signed tonight.¬† I IM some juniors and wonder how I can possibly get this done. 5:00pm: Partner drives by and drops a 200 page markup on my desk. He spend 30 minutes in my office trying to discuss it despite my telling him that other matters are in process and need to be closed out. 5:30pm: I've been hit with two more clients who want to sign documents today. I now have five projects that are trying to get done by today. I push things forward to the extent I can, do the least possible amount of work I am OK with on each project and push things out. I am on and off calls with each client for next three hours while turning the documents. 8:30pm: I'm now waiting for comments on three of the five matters. The other two have died: false alarms.¬† I catch up on emails. 9:00pm: Things get hot again and it's just like at 5:30pm, except that now it's harder to reach the clients but the deals still need to get done. This continues until 10:30pm. 10:30pm: Order dinner on seamless, catch up on emails not related to hot projects. 11:00pm: Documents begin to come back and junior associate dumps work on me from outside of my practice group. I try to tell him to shove it, but I can't because he has CC'd a powerful partner. I ignore the deals that I'm trying to close and deal with the junior associate's query. 11:15pm: Return to hot deals. Continue going back and forth (I'm still receiving 50-100 emails an hour on these projects) for next 2 hours. 1:15am: One deal done, the others can't be finished because one side's clients went home and all outstanding points are "business points" (i.e., they matter, so we can't touch them because we are just lawyers). Turn back to other work that build during the day. Because most of my juniors are gone, do whatever needs to be done that hasn't yet been done. 2:00am: Get markups from Asian office. Powerful partner CC'd, so turn documents myself, which include such wonderful 2:00am tasks as adding brackets to the trailers on signature pages. Finish in about 90 minutes, and call a car. 3:45am: Get in car, knowing that everything that I did not close last night will be open by 9:00am the next morning, likely with clients hounding me to get in touch with other side, update all dates and numbers, etc., from approx. 7:00am onwards. ***Not-Busy Day7:00am: Wake up, check Blackberry and see 20 emails. None need to be handled by me, so I ignore them. 7:15am: I go to the gym and aim to get into the office at 9:30am. 9:30am: I skim the news and ignore projects that have sat on my desk for weeks. I turn to them at 10:00am and work on them until 1:00pm. 1:00pm: I get lunch and say hi to my secretary. I eat lunch at my desk so that I can continue to plow through the backlog from busier days. 4:00pm: I get coffee b/c I am bored with the work and want to talk to somebody.¬† I bring coffee back to my desk, anyway, and continue to read and mark more documents. 8:30pm: I finish reading what I think ought to be read today (It's really my call; every deadline I have at this point is obviously false and I cannot possibly clear my plate.), and call it a day by having document services scan my markups. 8:45pm: I take the train home, a little happier because I talked to the folks in document services, at the coffee shop and the cashier in the cafeteria. Otherwise, I just spent the last 11.25 hours alone in my office proofreading and marking documents without any human interaction. ***How many people would like to work through either of these two types of days? When you add partners who scream at you (and do indeed throw objects when angry), associates who routinely backstab each other, fixed salaries and bonuses so that there is no link between pay and performance, or pay and value add, and partnership odds of roughly 1 in 25 to 1 in 50 ‚Äî as well as sometimes weeks on end in which you do not leave the office before midnight ‚Äî there are just a lot of things not to like about the practice of law. But, having been through all of this ‚Äî and quite a bit more ‚Äî I honestly think that what really makes lawyers unhappy ‚Äî much less happy than, say, bankers or consultants ‚Äî is some combination of the lack of ownership over anything, the inability to ever make any forward career progress, the social isolation, the complete lack of control over when any work comes or must be done, the nonstop false deadlines and the realization that the clients never read anything that you produce ... so that it all seems completely pointless ‚Äî which, perhaps surprisingly, is far worse than the hours, the backstabbing or the often inhumane partners and senior associates.[Note: I've slightly altered the facts in my replies because I want to preserve my anonymity.¬† Because I felt uncomfortable, and in no way want Quorans to think that I am exaggerating anything above or below, I felt compelled to add this disclosure.]
With the recent IPOs of Twitter and Facebook, two¬†of the largest social/entertainment media giants, one would imagine that investing in those companies¬†would pay big compared to the Walt Disney Co. However, the Walt Disney Co. outperformed them both¬†by comparison in its day, and did it with an interesting story to tell. Today, employees and venture capitalists reap most of the benefits before the company IPOs¬†on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or NASDAQ , but it wasn‚Äôt always this way. In the past, most¬†companies traded over-the counter for years before listing on the NYSE. Companies had to pay their¬†dues before they moved to the NYSE, and for this reason, a majority of their outperformance occurred¬†while they traded over-the-counter. In the past, anyone could invest in fledgling companies before they listed on the NYSE. Today,¬†this opportunity is rarely available to the average investor. This is illustrated by the outperformance of¬†other companies, such as Xerox, Dr. Pepper and Kentucky Fried Chicken. By the time these companies¬†moved onto the NYSE, a good portion of the advance in their stock price had already occurred. If you¬†ignore the performance of the stock when it traded over-the-counter, you miss a substantial portion of¬†the stock‚Äôs historic move, and without this information, you will never fully understand the returns that¬†were available to investors in the past. Walt Disney Productions incorporated in 1938. The company issued its 6% Cumulative¬†Convertible Preferred to the public in 1940; its common began trading OTC in 1946; and the company¬†listed on the NYSE on November 12, 1957. If you study the changes Walt Disney made to his¬†eponymous company before it listed on the NYSE, you can see how he primed the company to increase¬†in price and make sure the listing on the NYSE was successful. Walt Disney, his brother Raymond and¬†their wives owned over 25% of the stock. These shares were later put into the Disney Family Voting¬†Trust which held 46.8% of the common stock in 1959. Having such a large ownership of the shares, Walt¬†Disney had every incentive to drive the price up. The Preferred stock was issued at $25, but the company suffered large losses in 1941, caused by¬†the disappointing returns from Pinocchio and Fantasia which were not as successful as Snow White had¬†been. The company failed to meet its preferred dividend in July 1941. The company fell in arrears on¬†the dividend, but since the preferred was cumulative, there was always the chance the company would¬†make up the lost dividends, and they did. Disney restarted the regular dividend in July 1947, and caught¬†up on the $7.50 in arrears in 1948 and in 1949. You can see the impact of this on the preferred stock,¬†which had fallen in price to $3.50 by April 1942, rising to $32.50 by the beginning of 1946 to reflect the¬†expectation of the missed dividends being paid. This is also when the company‚Äôs common began trading¬†OTC. The preferred stock, whose chart is provided below, was redeemed on January 1, 1951 at $25 with¬†all dividends paid. Global Financial Data In the twelve years between 1946, when Disney common started trading OTC, and when it listed¬†on the NYSE on November 12, 1957, Walt Disney introduced numerous innovations that transformed¬†the company and increased its profits. Disney made animated films that had been delayed by the war,¬†such as Alice in Wonderland, Peter Pan and Cinderella. The company began making live action movies¬†with Treasure Island in 1950 and 20,000 Leagues under the Sea in Cinemascope in 1954. For TV, Disney¬†introduced the Disneyland TV show (later Walt Disney‚Äôs Wonderful World of Color) in 1954, and the¬†Mickey Mouse Club began production in 1955. Of course, Walt‚Äôs greatest innovation was Disneyland,¬†which opened on July 17, 1955 for which Walt Disney hosted a live TV preview with Ronald Reagan and¬†others. Note that all of these events occurred before Walt Disney Productions, as it was known then,¬†listed on the NYSE. In the year before the stock first traded on the NYSE, the company did a 2-for-1¬†stock split and paid its first dividend on the common stock. One difference between Disney in the 1950s and Facebook or Twitter in the 2010s is that¬†anyone could have bought the stock OTC before it listed on the NYSE. The stock wasn‚Äôt restricted to¬†employees and venture capitalists. Anyone who went to Disneyland in 1955, watched the Mickey¬†Mouse Club or the Disneyland TV show, or saw the movies Disney was releasing could have taken¬†advantage of the company‚Äôs growth. The chart below shows how Disney stock performed between 1946 until 1975. The stock traded¬†at 3 in 1949, moved up to 52 by July 1956 before splitting 2-for-1. The stock closed at $13.75 on¬†November 12, 1957 when it debuted on the NYSE, and moved up to $59.50 by April 1959. The stock¬†traded sideways until 1966 when it began another significant move as one of the ‚ÄúNifty Fifty‚Äù stocks of¬†the 1960s, hitting 244 by the beginning of 1973. Global FInancial Data The similarities between Walt Disney stock and Facebook or Twitter are striking in many ways.¬†All of the companies had a CEO, Disney, Zuckerberg or Costello who was the driving force behind the¬†company and benefitted immensely from the success of the stock. Each CEO provided innovations that¬†appealed to young people at first, but which could eventually reach a wider audience as well. Their¬†companies developed brand names which were easily recognizable, and they were able to take¬†advantage of the publicity that came their way. One important difference between Disney and Facebook or Twitter was in the accessibility of¬†the stock. Disney‚Äôs 6% Preferred was available OTC from 1940 to 1950 during which an investor could¬†have made a 10-fold profit. The common stock made a 10-fold move between 1949 and its debut on the¬†NYSE in 1957, then another 10-fold move by 1973 while it was a member of the Nifty Fifty in the 1960s.¬†Since 1973, Disney stock has moved up another 30-fold. On a total return basis, even ignoring the 10-fold move in the Disney 6% Preferred, $1 invested¬†in Walt Disney Productions common in 1948 would be worth over $48,000 today, assuming all dividends¬†had been reinvested. Even $1 invested in Disney on November 12, 1957 would be worth $5,000 today. Disney certainly has been one of the top performing stocks on the NYSE since it debuted there¬†in 1957; however, once you take into consideration the profits an investor could have made if they¬†had bought Disney Preferred OTC in 1941, and had switched to the Common Stock when the Preferred¬†was called, the returns increase 100-fold. Based upon Disney‚Äôs returns OTC and on the NYSE, Disney¬†probably has the ‚Äúhappiest‚Äù shareholders on Earth.
Flickr/CrystlUBS economist Maury Harris argues that the age of disinflation might finally be coming. Currently, the core PCE deflator, the Fedís presumed preferred measure of inflation, is running at just 1.2% y/y, well below the FOMCís 2% target. This low level of inflation provides Yellen with leeway to keep policy accommodative (a description that would fit policy even after a taper). However, it seems unlikely that inflation will remain this low much longer. The y/y percentage change in the core PCE deflator has decelerated by 52bps through September. That deceleration has been the result of sharp drops in medical goods, health care services and financial services inflation. Combined, these account for almost all the deceleration witnessed over the last year. However, these now seem to be showing signs of re-acceleration. From June to September, the 3-month annualized rate of change for medical goods inflation has jumped from -0.4% to +4.8%, health care services have risen from -0.5% to +1.3%, and financial services inflation has bounced from +0.2% to +2.6%. We expect core PCE inflation will end 2014 at 1.9%, almost on the FOMCís target. The pickup in health care inflation is particularly interesting to watch, since the slowing pace of health care inflation in recent years has been a huge story. If that effect starts to fade it will be an unfortunate sign that that issue isn't going away.
"Dogfight"This is an excerpt from "DOGFIGHT: How Apple and Google Went to War and Started a Revolution" by Fred Vogelstein, published in October 2013 by Sarah Crichton Books, an imprint of Farrar, Straus and Giroux, LLC. By 2010 Apple and Google were attacking each other on every possible front: in the courts, in the media, and in the marketplace. Android's surge in popularity was astonishing, and Andy Rubin, Eric Schmidt, and the rest of Google made no secret of their glee. It seemed that every chance they got during 2010 they would expound on how many monthly activations Android had racked up and how mobile devices were going to change the future of Google and the world. In an April 2010 interview with the New York Times, Rubin even predicted that Android¬†was going to rule the entire mobile universe. The year before he had been worried that Google would abandon Android and that he and his team would need to job hunt. Now he confidently proclaimed, "It is a numbers game. When you have multiple OEM's building multiple products in multiple product categories, it's just a matter of time" before Android overtakes other¬†smartphone platforms such as iPhone and BlackBerry. It was as if little else about Google mattered anymore. That wasn't really true, but it wasn't a huge exaggeration either. In 2010, Android started the year with 7 million users. By year-end it had grown to 67 million and was adding three hundred thousand new customers a day. Android itself wasn't making money yet, but it was heading there fast. More important, it was accelerating the revenue and profit growth of other Google applications such as search and YouTube, and it was getting more people to sign up for Google accounts and give Google their credit card information. The more people used Android, the more Google searches they did and the more ads they clicked on. Google still made most of its money from searches on laptops and desktops. But everyone at the top of the company knew desktop ads wouldn't be the dominant source of revenue forever. Soon, fewer and fewer people would be buying those devices, and more and more would be buying smartphones and other mobile gadgets with Internet access. The growth and profits for Google lurking in these numbers were eye-popping. Each mobile phone ad might sell for less than a desktop ad, but its potential audience ‚Äî and, therefore, total revenue potential ‚Äî were enormous. Consumers buy five times more cell phones every year than PCs ‚Äî 1.8 billion versus 400 million. Google had barely penetrated this market. Thanks to Android, Google's potential audience for its ads and applications had quintupled. It had all worked almost exactly the way Rubin had envisioned it would, too: manufacturers and carriers wanted to compete with the iPhone, and Rubin's success with the Droid had convinced them that Android was their best chance of doing that. Rubin took full advantage of the opportunity, pushing his engineers to deliver three major updates to the Android software in 2010 ‚Äî a relentless pace. By the end of 2010 Android didn't just have monster hits such as the Droid, but a handful of others such as HTC's Evo 4G and Samsung's Galaxy S. In all, by the end of 2010, nearly 200 Android phone models were available in 50 countries, and carriers and manufacturers worldwide were lining up to throw their multimillion-dollar marketing budgets behind them. An electronic poll of the audience at a Fortune magazine technology conference in July 2010 asked, "Who will have the dominant¬†smartphone in five years?" The verdict was clear: 57 percent picked Android; 37 percent picked iPhone. AP/Paul SakumaApple CEO Steve Jobs, left, and Google CEO Eric Schmidt, right, smile as they introduce the iPhone during Jobs' keynote address at MacWorld Conference & Expo in San Francisco, Tuesday, Jan. 9, 2007.By early 2011 Schmidt was marveling not only at how smartphones had changed technology, but how they had become one of the most important advancements in human civilization. In a speech he gave in Germany he said: We have a product that allows you to speak to your phone in English and have it come out in the native language of the person you are talking to. To me this is the stuff of science fiction. Imagine a near future where you never forget anything. computers, with your permission, remember everything ‚Äî where you've been, what you did, who you took pictures of. I used to love getting lost, wandering about without knowing where I was. You can't get lost anymore. You know your position to the foot, and by the way, so do your friends, with your permission. When you travel, you're never lonely. Your friends travel with you now. There is always someone to speak to or send a picture to. You're never bored. You're never out of ideas because all the world's information is at your fingertips. And this is not just for the elite. Historically, these kinds of technologies have been available only to the elites and not to the common man. If there was a trickle down, it would happen over a generation. This is a vision accessible to every person on the planet. We're going to be amazed at how smart and capable all those people are who did not have access to our standard of living, our universities, and our culture. When they come, they are going to teach us things. And they are coming. There are about a billion smartphones in the world, and in emerging markets the growth rate is much faster than it is anywhere else. I am very excited about this. The telecom industry had been desperately worried that Rubin planned to marginalize it the way Bill Gates had tried to marginalize PC makers with Microsoft Windows in the 1990s. But Rubin had insisted that was not his plan,and it appeared that he was keeping his word. Rubin allowed each carrier and manufacturer to add their own software and applications on top of Android to differentiate themselves from one another. And he gave to the carriers the 30 percent cut of app store revenues that Apple took for itself. For the hidebound cell phone business, Rubin's strategy was truly innovative. It was: Create as much competition among carriers and manufacturers as possible. By scrambling to compete with the iPhone they would also be competing with each other. Manufacturers previously made phones to please carriers more than consumers, because in the United States, at least, they depended upon carrier subsidies and marketing support to sell their phones. But it became clear that to compete with the iPhone, they would have to jettison these old ways. Verizon and Motorola learned that lesson with the Droid. What was essential now was to make phones that consumers wanted to buy. Carriers and manufacturers didn't talk much about this, but their actions spoke loudly. HTC bought a design firm,¬†One &amp; Co, to help it make cooler-looking phones. Samsung's design approach so closely resembled Apple's that it became the center of their ongoing patent lawsuit. And carriers listened to consumers when they complained. In the fall of 2010 Vodafone tried to foist a slew of its own apps onto customers of certain HTC Android smartphones. When consumers realized they couldn't remove them, the reaction was so virulent that within a week Vodafone had backtracked. It pushed out a software update that removed all the apps, restoring phones to their previous condition. joiWhen Rubin explains this to me in the conference room down the hall from his office, he talks like a man who has been thinking about this evolution for a long time. So the thing that disappeared in 2008 was the walled garden ‚Äî it completely disappeared. And it wasn't because of the iPhone. It was because of the Internet. It's because the killer application that consumers wanted was that they wanted to take the Internet with them. You'd be stupid to try to compete with the Internet. How could you? So¬†Android enabled both of them to take advantage of the Internet in a controlled way. Our pitch was ‚ÄòYou have costs. We understand what those costs are. You want to be differentiated and don't want to be commoditized. So we're going to give you this, this, this, and this ‚Äî the hook to solve that equation.' Translation: None of us can beat Apple on our own. But if we work together, each of us focusing on what we are truly good at, we can not only beat Apple but make all our businesses stronger and more profitable than they were before. The market forces Rubin channeled and the incentives he set up didn't always work perfectly. Despite his best efforts, carriers and manufacturers were slow to roll out Android software updates. One phone would have the latest version of Android, but another would have the previous version or even the version before that. This meant that not all apps in the Android app store worked on all phones, and it meant that consumers sometimes thought they were buying a phone with the latest and greatest Android software, only to find out that that wasn't the case. But the market pressure on the industry was a lot greater than it had been in the past. Rubin made sure that each year there was at least one phone model that carriers and manufacturers weren't allowed to customize with their own software, such as the HTC Nexus One and Samsung Nexus S in 2010. That way, if consumers didn't like HTC Sense, Samsung TouchWiz, or any of the other carrier and manufacturer customizations they used to distinguish themselves in the market, they always had alternatives. Most important, Android was good enough by 2010 to offer consumers something they had begun to crave: choice. Apple had completely controlled the high-end smartphone market for three years. But it made only one phone, with a fixed set of capabilities and customizations available with, in the United States, only one carrier, AT&amp;T. By 2010 a few Android phones were not only as cool-looking as the iPhone, but were better devices in some ways. They had replaceable batteries, upgradable memories, and more customizable software. Most Android phones had bigger screens than the iPhone. They all supported multitasking, which the iPhone did not. Any software developer with an idea could get his program listed in the Android app store without advance approval, unlike in Apple's store. Android phones were better for watching video because they had a video player that ran Adobe Flash. Apple had banned it as bad technology, but it had become the standard for video on the Internet.And in the United States, Android phones ran on both the T‚ÄëMobile and Verizon networks, which to many was a competitive advantage in itself. AT&amp;T had the iPhone, but it was so popular that the reliability of its network was suffering, with slow Internet speeds and higher-than-normal call drops. Rubin did what he could to make the Android pitch everywhere he went. In 2010, for the first time in his career, everyone wanted to listen to him. He was inundated with requests for media interviews, mobbed at conferences,and enjoyed access to the CEO of every cell phone maker and carrier in the world, all of whom wanted Rubin to help them hone their own messages. It was his good fortune that his competitors Apple and AT&amp;T seemed to do everything in their power to help him. Weeks before Jobs was to unveil the iPhone 4, gadget site Gizmodo spoiled the valuable surprise quotient Apple builds into every product launch. An Apple engineer, doing legitimate bug-testing outside Apple, had left the prototype in a Redwood City bar. Gizmodo got its hands on it and published pictures. Associated Press Then, after the new iPhone had been released in June, reviewers discovered the iPhone 4's new wraparound antenna had a dead spot. It forced Jobs to call a damage-control press conference. On top of all this was the growing customer dissatisfaction with the iPhone's U.S. network operator, AT&amp;T. AT&amp;T had been unable to handle the explosion of traffic the iPhone caused on its network, and by 2010 its customers had become furious and vocal about it. All three stories became international news in 2010 and fodder for late-night comedians. The stories gave Rubin and other members of the Android community almost unlimited opportunities to highlight the differences between the Apple way and the Android way. And they took full advantage of the openings. Intellectually, it's easy to understand why Jobs was so angry about the lost prototype. He felt Apple itself had been burglarized. When the prototype was found by other bar patrons, they first called Apple. But when they couldn't get Apple to respond immediately, they called a few media outlets. Gizmodo bought the prototype for $5,000, saying that it did not know whether it was real. Jobs cared because Gizmodo's photos would likely cost Apple millions in lost sales and marketing buzz. Few would buy the iPhone that was currently on sale now that they knew what the new one looked like and when it was likely going to be released. And Apple might get less coverage for the iPhone 4's actual unveiling since it was no longer a surprise. But Apple and Jobs had become so rich and powerful by then that instead of looking like the victims, they looked like bullies. The San Matteo sheriff's office opened a criminal investigation into whether Gizmodo had illegally received stolen property. They got a search warrant for the Gizmodo journalist's home and seized his computer equipment. Jobs looked as if he had orchestrated it all because he publicly supported the investigation. The Gizmodo journalist wasn't charged with a crime, and he got his computer equipment back. But journalists couldn't wait to ask Rubin about it all, and he happily obliged. When a New York Times reporter asked him what he would do if one of his Android prototypes had been found in a bar, he said, "I'd be happy if that happened and someone wrote about it. With openness comes less secrets." The lurking advertisement was clever: If owning an¬†iPhone makes you feel part of a totalitarian state, that's because the company that makes it is run by a despot. Try¬†Android. In June came "Antennagate," and with it, the question of whether the iPhone truly was the best designed and most beautiful phone in the world. Apple had figured out a way to put all the iPhone's antennas on the outside of the device ‚Äî three thin, shiny pieces of metal wrapping around the edge of the phone. It was supposed to improve the iPhone's cell reception. Jobs touted it hard when he announced the phone as the perfect example of complementary form and function. But reviewers discovered that if it was held a certain way ‚Äî especially by left-handed users ‚Äî a finger could easily cover a spot where two pieces of antenna met and degrade the signal. Jobs was ultimately forced to call a press conference to explain the problem, and to offer a fix ‚Äî a free case. But Jobs also couldn't resist pointing out that Android phones had similar problems, and the dig backfired. Members of the Android community collectively and publicly made fun of Jobs's well-known arrogance about the beauty of Apple products. "You know, I heard that the most popular voice message on iPhone 4 was ‚ÄòSorry I can't answer your call because I am holding my phone.' I don't think this is an issue with Droid X," said Sanjay Jha, Motorola's CEO, at a technology conference put on by Fortune magazine. He and other members of the Android community gleefully named the problem "the iPhone death grip." But the Android community had the most fun of all with "Connectiongate" ‚Äî the iPhone's reliability problems on AT&amp;T's wireless network. Carriers love to trash one another's networks, and consumers love to trash their carriers, but historically the real differences among wireless services have been marginal. With AT&amp;T and the iPhone, connection and call quality were enormous problems compared to reception for other carriers, and they seemed to get worse and worse through 2009 and early 2010. The difficulty was simple: Before the iPhone, no one had built a pocket computer that could not only surf the Internet but stream video. That meant AT&amp;T's projections for data traffic were way off the mark. The solution, on the other hand, was complex. It was going to take two or three years and nearly $50 billion for AT&amp;T to upgrade its network to handle all the new traffic. That isn't a satisfactory explanation to consumers locked into two-year contracts and paying at least $100 a month for service. Few could have handled it well, and AT&amp;T and Apple handled it less than well. Apple blamed all the problems on AT&amp;T even though the iPhone itself was the source of some connection problems. Apple refused to modify the way the iPhone consumed data even though that might have helped matters. Meanwhile, AT&amp;T ‚Äî at least initially ‚Äî responded defensively rather than proactively. By the end of 2009 Verizon was pummeling AT&amp;T with a series of "map" ads, claiming that AT&amp;T's spotty 3G network was to blame for poor service. AT&amp;T customers began posting news of dropped calls on the Twitter hashtag #ATTFAIL. AT&amp;T made this debacle worse by suing Verizon rather than parrying with their own advertisements. By 2010 many consumers in the United States were buying Android phones just so they didn't have to have AT&amp;T as a carrier. Jobs had been leaning on AT&amp;T executives to speed up its network upgrades since the iPhone had launched in 2007. But he had limited leverage until the start of 2011, when the exclusivity period with AT&amp;T expired and Verizon could also offer the iPhone. He'd considered dropping AT&amp;T and switching to Verizon more than half a dozen times, but concluded the move was too risky. It would have required redesigning the iPhone, because Verizon phones used bigger cell radios than AT&amp;T phones, and there was no additional room in the¬†iPhone case. Verizon cell radios were well known to be battery hogs. Lastly, it wasn't clear at the problem's peak in 2009 that Verizon would be able to handle the iPhone traffic any better. "There were plenty of conversations along the lines of ‚ÄòWhy are we sticking ourselves with this boat anchor,' " Bob Borchers said. "But every time we had that conversation, it always came down to the fact that the technology challenges were too high to warrant doing the work." Jobs did little to hide his fury at all these problems in 2010. He was so vocal that by the fall he was starting to sound defensive, petulant, and pedantic. By then he was not only trashing Android as bad for consumers but publicly questioning the veracity of Google's sales and activation numbers. It wasn't just that he felt Google had stabbed him in the back or that maybe he was embarrassed for having misjudged Android's appeal. He felt that if¬†Android wasn't stopped, the future of Apple itself was in peril, he told executives. One executive who heard Jobs talk about the issue described Jobs's feelings this way: "It was an existential threat. Apple's business depended on it selling its devices for a lot more than it cost to make them, and then using that money to develop new products. Android's approach was completely the opposite of this. Google was about growing the platform, without regard to the cost or profit on the devices. It made money off advertising, not hardware." In Jobs's opinion the two approaches could not coexist. Jobs had launched the iPhone in 2007 thinking he'd not only created a beautiful, revolutionary device, but that he was leveraging the dominant content platform in the world, iTunes. Because of the iPod ‚Äî which by 2007 had sold more than 100 million units ‚Äî virtually everyone with a computer managed and purchased their music through that software. There was little incentive to use any portable music player other than an iPod, with huge incentives for families to buy more than one. Apple had three different iPod models that came in a variety of colors and capacities. And Apple made sure it was a pain to use competing hardware or software. The only easy way to get music onto an iPod was through iTunes. The best music selection was in the iTunes store, if you didn't want to rip from your own CDs. And many non-Apple devices wouldn't connect to iTunes and wouldn't play all songs purchased through the store. The iPod-iTunes symbiosis was a powerful thing to behold. Like Microsoft Windows in the 1990s, it was self-reinforcing and in 2007 seemed to be an unassailable fortress. Apple effectively had a monopoly in music players ‚Äî in excess of 70 percent market share ‚Äî because of it. Everyone at Apple knew the dynamics of the global cell phone market were different from those driving music players. It was many times larger, and it was dominated by some of the biggest corporations in the world. But when iPhone sales took off, it was hard for Jobs and the rest of Apple not to wonder if history was repeating itself ‚Äî if the iPhone wouldn't quickly become just as dominant as the iPod. For years Apple had worried about every potential competitor in the marketplace ‚Äî RIM, Nokia, Walmart, Amazon, Dell, Microsoft, and various wireless carriers ‚Äî breaking the iPod's dominance. Instead, the reverse had happened. Every competitor made a run at Apple and failed. Meanwhile, the iPhone made Apple even more dominant. It had tied consumers to the¬†iPod by sucking all their music into iTunes. Now something similar was happening because of iPhone owners' love affair with the app store. Before long, many users had shelled out $50 to $100 in apps, meaning they would have to spend all that money again if they wanted the same applications on Android or another smartphone¬†platform. But by 2010 it was also clear that Rubin and Android were playing a much more sophisticated game than Apple's previous competitors. To them the hub wasn't the laptop or the desktop computer, but the millions of faceless machines running 24-7 in Google's giant network of server farms‚Äînow often referred to as the cloud. Connecting and syncing with a personal computer ‚Äî the way iTunes was set up ‚Äî was necessary when devices didn't have wireless capability or when wireless bandwidth was too slow to be useful. But in 2010 neither was true, prompting Rubin and the Android team to ask, Why tether users to one machine when the Wi-Fi and cellular chips insides martphones are fast enough to let them have access to their content on any machine? Android now wirelessly synced with virtually all mail, contact, and calendar servers ‚Äî whether stored at Google, Microsoft, or Yahoo, or at a worker's company. Music and movies could be downloaded from Amazon in addition to the iTunes store. Spotify and Pandora offered music subscription services for small monthly fees. Developers were scrambling to make sure that all of the programs inside the Apple app store could be found inside the Android app store too. As for all that content trapped inside iTunes, Google and the rest of the software industry were writing programs that made it easier and easier to get it out and uploaded to Google ‚Äî or anywhere. With many new ways to download and enjoy content on Android devices, the penalty for using a non-Apple device that wouldn't connect to iTunes was diminished. Freed from this control, users were choosing Android devices in droves, and Jobs was desperately worried this trend would accelerate, Apple executives at the time recalled. The monopoly power of iTunes as a content hub had begun to evaporate. It all exposed an often overlooked component of Jobs's genius: his basic worldview about technology had not changed since he started Apple in 1976 and built the Macintosh in 1984. While most high-tech executives struggled to adapt to a world that was in constant flux, Jobs had never faltered in his belief that consumers would gravitate to the best designed and most beautiful products. He continued to believe that he alone knew what this incredibly subjective thing was. And he continued to believe that the only way to ensure his vision's success was to control the entire user experience ‚Äî the software, the hardware, and the content users accessed. But¬†Android's rise was now calling all that into question.
Thanks in part to a Beltway gossip network that loves chattering about the Clintons and just can't wait until 2016, and thanks in part to a punditocracy that is perennially covering the same story, regardless of year (i.e. the next presidential election), the groundwork is already being laid for the moronic typecasting that always goes on at the outset of the Big Race. The ball got rolling this week with a massive feature in the New Republic. Written by Noam Scheiber, it's about the potential threat to presumptive 2016 favorite Hillary Clinton ("Congressional Republicans have spent months investigating [Hillary] like she already resides in the White House," writes Scheiber) posed by a would-be "populist" candidacy of Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren. Scheiber's basic point is that voters are really pissed about the economy and the behavior of big banks, and that Hillary, who along with her husband have been serial gobblers of Wall Street money and finance-industry water-carriers since before House of Pain released "Jump Around," may in 2016 have something to fear from Warren, a candidate who has built a career pointing out what total assholes the Clintons' chief financial backers are. Warren, Scheiber writes, is so far out of the political mainstream on the finance issue that she was once willing to submarine a Banking Committee hearing by violating longstanding Beltway decorum ‚Äì an unwritten rule in which members of Congress may "rant and rave at length, but generally abstain from humiliating appointees, especially from their own party." The reference here was to the YouTube-famous moment when Warren "humiliated" the heads of regulatory agencies like the OCC and the Fed by simply asking them about the last time they took on any of the world's biggest financial institutions (hint: none of them could remember). Scheiber went on to list a series of recent political developments suggesting a candidate with ties to Wall Street may face unexpected difficulty. He noted former Chase executive Bill Daley's resignation from the Illinois governor's race, the stillborn attempt to put the reptilian bank-whore Larry Summers in charge of the Fed, and Bill de Blasio's victory here in New York's mayoral race. All of these stories, Scheiber writes, highlight the way in which "Hillary Clinton's weaknesses so perfectly align with the passions of the moment." This piece instantly inspired a slew of pooh-poohing editorials, including a weirdly insulting and premature Slate rebuttal ("The media is dreaming of a contest that's just not there," an eye-rolling David Weigel scoffed) and a correspondingly dismissive blog yesterday in the New York Times by the Gray Lady's cardboard conservative, Ross Douthat. While the Times and Slate seemed to be on the opposite side of the New Republic, arguing that a potential Warren candidacy is nothing for the Clinton machine to worry about (unlike Obama, Warren won't have the black vote to save her, Weigel and Douthat cheerfully remind us!), in point of fact all three articles mostly communicate exactly the same messages. The authors really only disagree on the question of whether a "populist" candidacy can win in primary season. The shocker New Republic answer to that troubling question is "maybe yes," while the other writers deliver a more establishment-soothing "no." But the key is the language they all use to describe both politicians. It's three years out from Election Day, and already we're neck-deep in the kind of campaign-trail media shorthanding that often decides races before they even start. All three pieces describe Hillary as the frontrunner ‚Äì Scheiber calls her an "inevitable candidate," Douthat calls her the "presumptive frontrunner" and Weigel not only calls her the "likeliest winner" but says it's so true that "everyone's a little bored by that." All three call Warren an "insurgent," a word that has obvious and ridiculous connotations. Most annoyingly, all three use the term "populist" with varying degrees of derisiveness, describing public anger on the finance issue as "maniacal," based on "passions" and an impractical starting point for a candidate looking for an angle to capture a national election ‚Äì "I just don't see the opening," scoffs Douthat. Weigel went so far as to say that voters who are seeking a populist alternative for president should wake up from their impractical, "dreamy" aspirations and get over making a presidential race a "test kitchen for policy change." Put any political writer, myself included, on the stand, and we'll all confess: We have to do this stuff. In smaller and smaller editorial spaces and shorter and shorter TV and radio hits, we have to use shorthand to sell political stories. And selling is exactly what's going on. The presidential election, after all, is just an enormously lucrative reality show for the commercial media, and no reality show flies if you can't identify the characters and their roles in a 30-second commercial ‚Äì the hysterical pageant mom, the duck-call patriarch, the ambition-mad Kardashian mom raising her kids by text, in the recovery room after her latest neck tuck. It's the same here. Political writers over the decades have developed a whole specialized vocabulary to quickly contextualize politicians in sound-bite form. Ideological geography is just left-right, a single horizontal line apparently representing our whole universe of beliefs, but people buy it. Then, in a nod to sports coverage, we shorthand the political standings by talking about "presumptive frontrunners," "fringe candidates" and "insurgents." The latest linguistic fad is to describe a candidate as being prone to making "populist appeals," a concept nearly as nuts as that ostensible single horizontal line of all possible beliefs. Only in the Beltway do they have to come up with a special term to describe the inexplicable (to them)¬† phenomenon of a politician who advocates for his actual constituents, instead of just whoring along the usual career track like everyone else. In the past, all of this shortcutting and caricaturing always favored incumbents and establishment politicians. Historically, media audiences reacted more favorably to the candidate described as a round unthreatening blob of status quo, someone who was "nuanced" rather than "pointed," "warm" instead of "angry," someone who is a "pragmatist" or a "technocrat" or a "centrist" rather than an "insurgent" or, now, a "populist." Historically, readers were quite susceptible to the myriad labels that reporters stuck on politicians, telling audiences whether or not that candidate was a legitimate contender or not. And once you got tagged with the wrong label, it was usually fatal to a campaign ‚Äì just ask Ron Paul or Howard Dean. This time around, though, campaign reporters may be surprised to discover that this very typecasting language now mostly just pisses off your more alert and attentive media consumer, and could ultimately send the public running, 28 Days Later-style, to vote in a rage against whoever looks and sounds most like the media's favorite "legitimate contender." I have no idea if Warren will run, or if she'd win if she did. She has my vote, but that's beside the point. What's interesting right now is how consistently offensive the media's analysis of her "populist" approach has been. Washington leaders and the pundits they hang out with have been living for so long in a world where elected officials don't make decisions based upon what's right for the public that they now automatically assume that any politician who does is either up to something, or has some kind of deep-seated character flaw/mental defect. Even Scheiber, in that New Republic piece that was mostly favorable to Warren, a piece that ultimately conceded that Warren's Ombudsman-like approach to politics was no crowd-riling shtick, but the work of a politician who was merely "relentlessly, perhaps ruthlessly, maybe even a bit messianically, focused on advancing her policy agenda" ‚Äì even he couldn't help repeating his sources' Beltway mantra on this score. From his piece: The gripe that Warren is maniacally image-obsessed has dogged her for almost as long as she's been in Washington . . . Sorry to interrupt, but here's a translation: The genuinely image-obsessed pols who Scheiber's sources work for are jealous of the press attention the public lavishes on Warren, and have considered her a pain in the ass from the moment she arrived in Washington. Infuriatingly, those same pols would receive exactly the same levels of attention and public adulation if they could just find a way to do their jobs for even 24 consecutive hours without being shameless pig-sellouts. But that's just too big a mystery for these morons to solve ‚Äì so much better to whine, off the record, through one's press flacks, about what an image-obsessed "maniac" Elizabeth Warren is. And people wonder why Americans hate Washington. Anyway, Scheiber goes on: During her days running oversight on the bank bailout, Treasury aides became convinced that Warren's questions served little purpose other than to raise her profile, and that they had the effect of inciting a populist mob against policies that were unavoidable . . . Right. Because wondering aloud why the Treasury Department granted a special tax exemption to AIG worth $17 billion, money the executives of this bailed-out company that nearly destroyed the world economy got to swallow whole in totally undeserved profits, that was of no real relevance to the hundreds of millions of Americans who A) didn't get a special tax break increasing their after-tax nut by 900 percent and B) had already paid tens of billions of dollars in taxes to bail out this same company. No, Warren was just asking about the tax break to make herself look good, and to incite public anger against this "unavoidable" multi-billion-dollar handout to some of the world's biggest jackasses ‚Äì people like AIG CEO Robert Benmosche, the man who would later say that public criticism of bailouts was as bad as lynch mobs in the old south. Lastly: There is no doubt that Warren takes a special interest in her public profile. According to a former aide, one of Warren's greatest frustrations after arriving at the consumer agency was that the White House insisted on vetting all her media appearances . . . "She's engaged in videos, e-mails, everything," says an aide. "She plays an integral role in the content we send out." Still, the story of Warren's rise to prominence is much more complicated than one of unbridled narcissism. In fairness to Scheiber, he goes on to take issue with these characterizations of Warren, but this the kind of thing that comes with the "populist" tag: accusations of maniacal self-promotion, narcissism (not just narcissism, but unbridled narcissism!) and cynical manipulation. "Populism" is never portrayed as a byproduct of sincere public service. It's almost always attached to implications of some sort of weird psychological agenda. What's interesting is that you will often see political writers excuse candidates for indulging in populist rhetoric, provided that such rhetoric is clearly insincere. Douthat did this very thing in his piece: The Clintonian connections to the Democratic money class notwithstanding, I don't see Hillary having any trouble pivoting leftward a bit on financial issues if a challenger seemed to be getting any traction. (Her donors would forgive her such a pivot because, well, they would assume that it was just empty pandering ‚Äî in the same way that plenty of big donors managed to ignore Obama's NAFTA posturing in 2008 or Mitt Romney's China-bashing in 2012.) There was another part of Douthat's piece that is crazily typical of campaign coverage: Yes, Warren's anti-Wall Street performances have made her an online star, and yes, there's a lot of (justifiable, bipartisan) angst about the financial sector and the banks and "too big to fail" and all the rest. But the policy specifics on FinReg are much more complicated, and thus more easily-obfuscated, than the issue that helped give Obama his opening six years ago¬†‚Äî the "yes or no" question of whether a given Democratic politician voted to authorize the invasion of Iraq. This is a classic example of you might call a "Sure, she's right, but . . ." story. About a million of these hit the wires every day in election season. Nothing irritates political pundits more than politicians who think telling the public the truth is enough to win elections. Don't they know you have to win the "Candidate you most want to have a beer with?" contest first? That you've gotta clear the all-important "likeability" hurdle? Sure, Too Big To Fail is a disaster, and the world's biggest banks apparently have been engaged in a massive anticapitalist conspiracy to rig all prices in all markets, but Where's The Beef? (Beltway election addicts love asking "Where's the Beef?") Again, I like Elizabeth Warren, and I'd love to see her in the White House, but this isn't about that. It's just frustrating that we're three years out from the next election, and this nonsense is already starting. Do we have to play this game every time? Can't we ever let these elections happen without reporters telling us ahead of time who's supposed to win?
All CFA candidates know it. Others may not understand, but we do - the CFA exams are hardcore.¬† And study burnout is a reality in the CFA program. Burnout happens when you simply do not have a drive to continue doing this crap any longer. Nothing goes in, and you may feel panicked, overwhelmed and unable to meet the study demands needed to pass the CFA exams. You'll also lose the interest and drive that led you to start the CFA program in the first place. Study burnout reduces productivity and leaves you drained, hopeless, powerless, cynical and resentful.¬†Sounds like a bag of fun! Luckily, you can read on to know how to recognise the early signs of study burnout, how to address them, and prevent them from happening again. Signs &amp; Symptoms of CFA Exam Study Burnout¬† So when are you actually hitting a brick wall, and when are you simply being a little bit draggy in your feet? ‚Ä¢ Physical exhaustion - you feel tired and sleepy ‚Ä¢ Mental exhaustion - you constantly catch yourself 'zoning out', and you feel like your brain is unwilling to absorb any more information ‚Ä¢ No drive to push on ‚Ä¢ Performance actually starts to decline (mock exam scores, or getting increasingly confused and frustrated about certain concepts The earlier you are able to identify that you're experiencing burnout, the better, as you would be able to remedy the situation sooner and return to a more productive state. Addressing Study Burnout The cure to study burnout is simple, but difficult to undertake - simply take a break. It's difficult for me to muster up the courage to properly take a sizeable chunk of time off, so do trust yourself that you need some time off when you recognise burnout. Everyone has their own favourite break activities, but here are some that work very well for me: ‚Ä¢ Taking a power nap. Aim to nap for about 20 minutes, and sleep on a couch rather than a bed, otherwise it'll be too tempting to carry on! ‚Ä¢ Take a shower. This is incredibly effective for me. I constantly underestimate it, but taking a shower does wonders to rejuvenate myself both physically and mentally. It's like being reborn ‚Ä¢ Hit the gym, or take a walk, or jog. This is a good one especially if you are a regular gym rat, but have been cutting back on this to study. Remember that exercise always helps your study initiative, and in this case it will function as a natural study break as well. And a shower (hopefully)!¬† ‚Ä¢ Run a quick errand. Get the groceries. Make that call to the phone company that you've been putting off. Walk the dog. Prepare dinner. Not only will you get something else productive done, but you'll have inserted a properly-sized break into your studies. There are other solutions that work less well for me, but may very well perform for you: ‚Ä¢ Call or visit a friend (this sometimes gets too distracting for me) ‚Ä¢ Eat a snack (extremely ineffective for me - I just feel like eating more and I don't feel any more driven to study) ‚Ä¢ Surf the web (this requires extremely high levels of discipline to not get sucked into the vortex that is internet surfing) ‚Ä¢ Check your email (checking personal email is probably fine, but if I start checking work email I get even more stressed!) Preventing Future Burnout Even more importantly, it's key to understand what causes burnout and prevent it from happening too often. Here are the top tricks that worked the best for my own CFA prep: ‚Ä¢ Break your study notes into bite-sized chunks and focus on learning them modularly. Not only do you focus better because you're telling your brain to digest discrete bits of information (instead of one huge book), but you get a better sense of achievement as you can clearly chart your progress. ‚Ä¢ Scribble freely on your notes. Writing down notes helps focus the mind and prevents 'rewinding', i.e. zoning out and rereading the same pages over and over again. Use language and examples that are clear to YOU. Even if your way of understanding it is quirky or if others don't make sense of it, use it. Your notes are for you, and the clearer it is for you, the better you'll remember. ‚Ä¢ Be disciplined in your schedule. Make sure you start with a planned schedule and stick to it the best you can. The more you push back to the last minute, the more overwhelming it will be at the end. ‚Ä¢ Get adequate rest. This is tough especially if you're panicking about low scores, or frustrated about a particular concept, but it's important to get rest. Mental alertness comes with rest, and lack of sleep can lead to illness, making things worse. ‚Ä¢ Cycle your study environments. While we've listed our favourite places to study for the CFA exam, it's also important to know that your mind and body will instinctively tire of a particular environment. The way to counter this is to rotate between locations. Shift from your home to a cafe, and back, or swap your local library with your office. I try and do this once a week, but work out what frequency is best for your situation. ‚Ä¢ Pace yourself. Trying to do it all at once is too much. Your mind and body will inform you of this. So, take breaks. For example, if you study for 2 hours, take a 15-minute or so break. Get out of the room. Go for a walk. Eat something healthy. If you prefer to study for 4 hours take an hour off and eat something healthy. In either case, if you find that your break time is not enough, take an extra 5 or 10 minutes per break. ‚Ä¢ Eat well. Ensure that you're not cramming rubbish up your system - get proper nutrients that will help your mental focus. Here is a list of our favourite brain-boosting foods.¬†¬†
Bitcoin advocates say that one reason Bitcoin is talking off is burgeoning popularity in China. They argue that the anonymous digital currency is naturally going to be popular in a country with such a repressed and archaic financial system. So is it true? The site Fiatleak.com (via Sophie H who correctly calls it "hypnotic") has a really cool animated map showing Bitcoin transactions in real time. It shows both the currency denominated for the trade, as well as the country of the transaction. It's really addicting and you can watch it here, but in the time we've watched it, it becomes clear that China really is big into Bitcoin relative to the rest of the world. Below is a brief snapshot of what we saw in which the transactions were dominated by Chinese trading (at other times it's more even, with more US action). ¬† Fiatleak Check out live Bitcoin transactions here &gt;
Last week the ECB unexpectedly decided to cut interest rates. This week, the ECB hinted that it could engage in Quantitative Easing at some point in the future. This of course has the Germans spitting mad. The Telegraph's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard wrote about it this week: Today we have an FT oped pieceby IFO grizzly bear Hans Werner Sinn castigating the ECB for cutting rates at all last week. We have Bild Zeitung firing off tabloid anathemas over the destruction of German savings by an Italian-controlled ECB. We had the Bundesbank's Andreas Dombret saying this morning that the ECB's near zero rates are posing "risks for financial stability" in Germany. Meanwhile, here's the latest cover of a German business magazine Wirtschafts Woche. It pretty much speaks for itself. @Schuldensuehner
REUTERS/Jason ReedJanet Yellen, President Barack Obama's nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to testify at her U.S. Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing in Washington November 14, 2013.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The most revealing thing about Janet Yellen's widely praised Senate confirmation hearing performance last week might not have been what she said, but what she didn't say - and how she didn't say it. President Barack Obama's nominee to be the next chair of the Federal Reserve smiled and nodded her way through a two-hour hearing on Thursday without giving the Senate Banking Committee any real clues as to how she views near-term monetary policy choices. She made plain that she thought it important to maintain aggressive efforts to spur U.S. economic growth and hiring. But her comments went no further than last month's statement from the Fed's policy-setting committee. Senators asked her how long the central bank could keep buying bonds, and seemed satisfied with her mild observation that purchases could not go on forever. She provided no clues to whether she leans toward reducing them next month, or next year. Economists had not expected her to intentionally front-run decisions yet to be made by the Fed's policy-setting committee. For one thing, current Fed chief Ben Bernanke doesn't step down until January 31. Yellen is expected to comfortably secure confirmation by the full Senate to replace him. But successfully parrying questions before Congress without accidentally hinting on future policy was seen as an important first success for the 67-year-old former professor. "She understood how to give an answer that was at least somewhat responsive to the question, without betraying any new information. It was an impressive performance," said Stephen Oliner, a former senior Fed economist. A second thing she didn't say anything about was her view on strengthening the Fed's forward guidance on when it might eventually raise interest rates. Here she owes a big assist to the senators. No one asked about it even though speculation is rife that the Fed will soon decide to keep rates near zero at least until the jobless rate drops to 6.0 percent. Its current threshold is 6.5 percent. Still, Yellen's performance on other issues left little doubt that if she had been asked, she would have offered an even-handed discussion on the economic literature around the issue, with scant information on where she stood. That was how she dealt with the query from Virginia Senator Mark Warner on lowering the interest the Fed pays on the excess reserves it holds for banks, which some officials think would be a way to give the economy a bit more stimulus. Yellen explained the pros and cons, reminded lawmakers that reducing IOER, as it is called, could be problematic for the money market mutual fund industry, and left them none the wiser. Keeping calm under pressure is an important quality for a successful central banker. Fed watchers reckoned that it took Bernanke a year to really settle into the role, and recall the tell-tale quaver in his voice that betrayed the strain of being grilled by lawmakers. To be sure, Yellen got far kinder treatment than Bernanke often received. Perhaps that was because the Fed's Republican critics did not want to be seen baiting the first woman nominated to lead the central bank. Or perhaps they felt it would draw attention away from Obama's health care woes. But there was also interest in whether her reticence on shedding light on future policy might reflect a desire to avoid building expectations, which her colleagues at the Fed would subsequently have to either validate or ignore. In essence, will the Yellen Fed be more like the Bernanke Fed or the Fed under Alan Greenspan? Greenspan was much more likely to offer clues on where he wanted to lead policy. "Greenspan would give a little wink and nod and then the committee would have to go along after the fact," said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan in New York. "It is a probably good thing for the committee overall that she can sit in front of Congress and answer questions in a way that does not make the committee feel like their next move has to deliver on expectations set by what the chairman had already said." (Reporting by Alister Bull; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Chizu Nomiyama)
Screenshot via The Pruitt-Igoe MythA simple idea for eliminating poverty is garnering greater attention in recent weeks: automatically have the government give every adult a basic income. The Atlantic's Matt Bruenig and Elizabeth Stoker brought up the idea a few weeks ago when they contemplated cutting poverty in half and Annie Lowrey revisited it today in the New York Times. Real wages have been stagnant in America for decades now and income inequality has grown immensely.In the aftermath of the Great Recession, itís only gotten worse. The Census Bureau reported in September that the 15 percent of Americans (46.5 million) live below the poverty line. Government benefits like food stamps and TANF help lift some of them above the line, but millions still live below it. So here's what you need to know about it. How would it work? Itís exactly how it sounds. The government would mail every American over the age of 21 a check each month. Thatís it. Everyone is free to do what they like with it. How would it be funded? In 2012, there were 179 million Americans between the ages of 21 and 65 (when Social Security would kick in). The poverty line was $11,945. Thus, giving each working-age American a basic income equal to the poverty line would cost $2.14 trillion. For some comparison, U.S. GDP was almost $16 trillion in 2012 and the defense budget was $700 billion. But a minimum income would also allow us to eliminate every government benefit as well. Get rid of SNAP, TANF, housing vouchers, the Earned Income tax credit and many others. Get rid of them all. A 2012 Congressional Research Service report found that the federal government spends approximately $750 billion each year on benefits for low-income Americans and that rises to a clean trillion when you factor in state programs. Eliminate all of those and the net figure comes out to $1.2 trillion needed to pay for a universal basic income, still a hefty sum. That doesnít mean there arenít ways to pay for it. The CBO found that a carbon tax would bring in nearly $100 billion a year for instance. Revenue would also increase automatically since everyone would have a basic income on which to pay taxes. The government could also offer a basic income of $6,000 a year instead of up to the poverty line. Funding a basic income for all working-age adults would not be easy and would require a substantial increase in the size of government, but it's not impossible either. What are the benefits of a basic income? The clear one is that no American would live below the poverty line. The U.S. has been waging the War on Poverty for a generation now and still nearly 50 million Americans are below the line. This would end that war with a decisive victory. There are knock on effects as well. Americans would have greater leverage to demand higher wages and better working conditions from their employer thanks to the increased income security. Families could allow one parent to take time off to raise their kids. Eliminating the numerous different government welfare programs would also lead to efficiency gains as adults would simply receive their check in the mail and not have to waste time filling out paperwork at numerous different offices. What are the drawbacks of a basic income? Economists have long shuddered at the thought of a basic income, because it strongly disincentives work. However, a basic income is just that: basic. Most adults would continue to work to earn extra money. The employment effects would not be non-existent and there may be an increase in part-time work. As Lowrey points out, different studies have found the disincentive effects on work are not as strong as economists feared. Are there any real world examples? Perhaps in the near future. Switzerlandís citizens will soon vote on a referendum to give each working-age adult in Switzerland a basic income of $2,800 (2,500 francs) per month. Supporters of the initiative unloaded a dump truck of eight million coins, one for every Swiss citizen, after they successfully gained 125,000 signatures and triggered the referendum. Other countries have experimented with basic income in small areas, but none has done so throughout an entire country as Switzerland is considering. If the referendum passes, economists will certainly watch intently to see its effects. Does it have a chance in Congress? No. Congress can't even keep the government open or pass a budget, much less revamp our entire benefits program into a basic income. However, there is some bipartisan agreement in academic circles on the idea of a basic income. The American Enterprise Institute's Charles Murray has written a book on the subject and liberals have long dreamed of a guaranteed basic income. Nevertheless, it will not be coming to the U.S. anytime soon.
There it is. Per Clarkmoody.com, Bitcoin just hit $500. ClarkMoody
APSo Tim Geithner is finally cashing in. Less than a year after leaving his Treasury Secretary post, Tim Geithner has announced that he's joining private equity firm Warburg Pincus. As cash-ins go, it's not the most controversial. It would have been much more of an issue if he'd gone to a too big to fail investment bank. This is not going to be some figurehead part-time job. According to the firm he'll be working every day, reporting to the co-CEOs. So what's Tim Geithner going to do there? Almost certainly what he brings to the table will be his ability to fundraise. As Treasury Secretary he went all around the world, meeting the most powerful and rich people. All of them are theoretically investors in Warburg Pincus' PE funds now. Furthermore, part of Geithner's job as Treasury Secretary was to make the case for the US (explain why our debt was a good investment, etc.). So really this is the perfect job for him. While it's definitely "monetizing" his years of service to Obama, the fact that he's unlikely to be dealing much with regulatory matters means there will not be many conflict-of-interest situations. So again, as cash-ins go, this one actually takes advantage of his skills, and is relatively uncontroversial.
This continues to be a solid sign that the economy is doing okay. Per Cullen Roche, rail traffic growth has hit a 7-month high. Shipping of commodity products across the board are strong, indicating that the underlying pace of US economic activity remains steady. Pragmatic Capitalism
It's been a rough couple of weeks at Bloomberg. First, there was a story about how Bloomberg was muzzling its investigative operation in China, ostensibly to keep in the good graces of Chinese leadership. Now the New York Post reports that reporter Michael Forsythe has been put on unpaid leave at Bloomberg after being suspected of being the leaker. The FT confirmed Forsythe's suspension. Also in the same Post report, it hinted that a round of layoffs could be coming, possibly on the order of 50-100. Bloomberg TVBloomberg's Sara Eisen heading to CNBC.And in more public-facing news, this week Bloomberg TV lost star reporter Sara Eisen to CNBC. In the meantime, Bloomberg CEO Justin Smith has asked Bloomberg Businessweek editor Josh Tyrangiel to take a more active role at the network. The company had faced controversy earlier this year over a scandal involving reporters getting information via the terminal and customer accounts, a practice that the firm has vowed to reform.
