REUTERSHedge fund bigwig Carl Icahn (left) and comedy legend Mel Brooks, who would surely play Icahn in the filmMartin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" will hit theaters this fall, giving moviegoers a stylized glimpse into the corruption and opulence that can plague the finance world. The film, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, promises to be a classic. It wouldn't be the first great Wall Street movie. From "Trading Places" to "American Psycho," we can't get enough of Wall Street culture on the silver screen. But there are some "based-on-a-true-story" tales that have yet to become blockbusters. So here are the 10 true Wall Street sagas — and the corresponding must-cast actors — that should be movies.
REUTERSHedge fund bigwig Carl Icahn (left) and comedy legend Mel Brooks, who would surely play Icahn in the filmMartin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" will hit theaters this fall, giving moviegoers a stylized glimpse into the corruption and opulence that can plague the finance world. The film, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, promises to be a classic. It wouldn't be the first great Wall Street movie. From "Trading Places" to "American Psycho," we can't get enough of Wall Street culture on the silver screen. But there are some "based-on-a-true-story" tales that have yet to become blockbusters. So here are the 10 true Wall Street sagas — and the corresponding must-cast actors — that should be movies.
Overstock.com CEO Patrick Byrne took out a full-page ad in this morning's Wall Street Journal shredding billionaire Steven Cohen for his hedge fund's indictment by a Federal Grand Jury earlier this week. The firm, SAC Capital, has been charged with insider trading. Byrne's animosity didn't come out of nowhere — on a 20o5 conference call the CEO of Overstock.com said that "Sith Lords" were naked short-selling his stock and destroying the company. He later identified them to be SAC's Steve Cohen and Michael Milken. And indeed, last year a bunch of lawyers for major banks accidentally leaked emails describing how they allegedly short-sold the stock and leaked techniques to hedge fund clients. Now that you know where all the hate comes from, check out the ad below (via Instagram: ognjenglisic) "Congratulations on the indictment, Stevie, and remember: roll early, roll often. You friend Patrick M. Byrne, CEO of Overstock.com," it reads. Major schadenfreude.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Steve Cohen                                            Wall Street Journal                                            Overstock                                            Patrick Byrne                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						2																								All Comments						17									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        The CEO Of Overstock.com Took Out A Full Page Ad In The Wall Street Journal Mocking Steven Cohen    The CEO Of Overstock.com Took Out A Full Page Ad In The Wall Street Journal Mocking Steven Cohen        Schadenfreude.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookDetroit's bankruptcy filing last week and the decades of decline that preceded it have been a predictable political and historical Rorschach test. The right blames the city's demise on moral failures and weak character — the banana-republic-caliber corruption and fiscal fecklessness of its politicians, the greed of its unions, the spinelessness of automobile executives who gave into them. To the left -- more inclined to see history as the product of "great forces" than "great men" (or terrible ones) -- the Motor City was swamped by powerful tides: racism, sprawl, and unbridled capitalism. But what was distinctive about Detroit? Other cities struggled mightily to adapt to the decline of manufacturing. But only Detroit struggled mortally — at least in terms of municipal cash flow. Why do Detroit's troubles so vastly exceed not only those of Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Chicago, but Baltimore, Providence, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and Rochester? Here's a possible part of the answer, in the form of question. What exists in each of those cities, but can't be found in Detroit? One answer: a large, and usually quite wealthy, private research university. Where is Detroit's Johns Hopkins? Or, to limit the comparison to neighboring Rust Belt states, where is its Carnegie-Mellon, or Case Western Reserve? Why is there no, say, Henry Ford University in Detroit? And if there had been one, would it have made a difference? First, why focus the question on private universities? Of course, public universities matter to cities, and had the University of Michigan not decamped from Detroit to Ann Arbor in 1837, the region's entire history might well be different (better or worse is hard to say). But that move was part of a bigger pattern. As University of Kentucky historian of higher education John Thelin notes, most leading public universities were established in what were, at least at the time, rural areas. Cheaper land, the domination of state legislatures by rural interests, the initial agricultural focus of many such institutions, and anti-Catholic and anti-immigrant nativism all pushed public campuses out into the country. That left private (including Catholic) institutions positioned for a greater impact in urban areas. In the United States, private universities occupy a disproportionate share of the very top tier in wealth and prestige -- places that operate in education, research and health care on a scale that could substantially affect the economy of a city as large as Detroit. Yes, Detroit has public Wayne State and a smattering of mostly small and often Catholic private colleges. But while Wayne State does important work, and even a fair amount of research, its operating budget is $576 million. In Pittsburgh, Carnegie-Mellon and the quasi-private University of Pittsburgh are about $3 billion combined, in a city less than half Detroit's size. Private non-profit institutions enroll fewer than 15 percent of U.S. undergraduates, but they account for 27 of the 60 U.S. members of the Association of American Universities, the leading group of elite research institutions, whose members employ on average 11,400 people each. In 1950, about the time Detroit's population began falling, private institutions were 18 of the 32 AAU members. Today, the top 20 universities in the latest U.S. News &amp; World Report rankings are all private institutions, as are 15 of the 20 largest university endowments. That dominance is regretted by many, but it's no coincidence. Top private institutions are more varied in their missions, and more malleable and flexible to respond to new opportunities and change direction. The best of them are more entrepreneurial and less bureaucratic. Those and other reasons have simply made them, historically, more appealing places for very rich people to give enormous amounts of money (and unlike any public university I know of, at a certain price they'll even name the place after you). Of course, Detroit isn't the only major American city without a prominent private research university (Portland, Minneapolis-St. Paul and San Diego are all vibrant -- though the last two have large public research institutions). But it is arguably the most surprising. Detroit was once America's fourth-largest city, and not lacking in rich philanthropists. More to the point, a century ago, it was the Silicon Valley of its day, bustling with engineering talent, entrepreneurs, and venture capital. Imagine visiting Detroit in 1920 then journeying to the farmland of Palo Alto, CA, and finally the tobacco warehouses of Durham, NC. Which place would you have bet on to become a global research and education powerhouse? Yet among those three, only Detroit failed to do so. Frederick Rudolph's still-landmark history of American higher education, The American College &amp; University was published in 1962, when Detroit still had over 1.5 million people. The city's name does not appear in this book, nor in Thelin's 2004 successor volume A History of American Higher Education. I can't articulate a single, overarching theory for why this is so, but I can offer two ideas. The first involves a series of contingencies dating to the early 19th century, whose effect was to lessen the chance of such an institution being in place to later grow and thrive in Detroit. The second dates to Detroit's golden days in the early 20th century, and the economic culture from which its wealth emerged. The first theory addresses why there has been a relatively weak private college and university tradition across Michigan. The contrast with its neighbor to the south is revealing. The early 19th-century was a golden age of college-founding, and nowhere more so than in Ohio. In Rudolph's description, Ohio at this time was engaged in a kind of Weberian Olympics, with a melting pot of mostly Protestant sects competing to demonstrate their generosity and prosperity and, by extension, state of grace. The busiest included the Episcopalians (Kenyon), Baptists (Denison), Congregationalists (Oberlin and Western Reserve) and Methodists (Ohio Wesleyan, Mount Union and others). But the Catholics, Lutherans, United Bretheren and even Swedenborgians (Urbana) also got in on the action. While Ohio's private colleges and universities were in algae-like bloom, Michigan was still practically the frontier. The state was home to just a few thousand residents, mostly in Detroit. A comically Gallophobic 1891 book History of Higher Education in Michigan blames the state's halting progress toward education in the years before statehood on troglodyte and annoyingly procreative French farmers. In author Andrew McLaughlin's telling, at least, these left-behind settlers were incapable of appreciating democracy, commerce or basic - let alone higher - learning. Alas, little could be done except wait for a critical mass of industrious New England Puritan descendants to arrive from the east and impose their will. By then, public higher education in its modern sense was emerging. Two elements of the University of Michigan's move to Ann Arbor and opening in 1837 proved critical for Detroit. The first was not just that the university left Detroit but that it didn't go far -- just 35 miles. Second, the university became one of the best public universities in the world. In a recent ranking it was the only public institution in the top eight, and second in total research spending only to Hopkins. The combined effect of these two factors was a university in Ann Arbor casting its shadow over Detroit, lessening the chance a rival would flourish there. The current University of Michigan is in some ways the private powerhouse Detroit never had. The university does take its public mission seriously, and helps Detroit in many ways: It maintains a center in the city, has a semester-long program for students there, and helps quietly behind the scenes where it can (for instance, deploying grant writers to help the beleaguered city government of Detroit apply for funds from federal grant programs that might otherwise go uncollected). It also tries hard to recruit students who somehow make it through the city's embattled schools. But in practice, Michigan is a private university in all but name, the state's share of its general fund budget down below 17 percent. In its global ambitions, cost and dearth of low-income students, Michigan has more in common with Harvard or Hopkins than with Wayne State — and the benefits of its presence are focused in Ann Arbor, not Detroit. Still, it wasn't inevitable that 200 years later Michigan would today still have relatively few private colleges. Many states, like California, that missed the fertile college-founding period of the early 19th century eventually saw more private institutions spring up. Michigan saw some, but not many, and few around Detroit. The city's burgeoning automobile economy seemed to offer endless decently paying jobs that didn't require a degree. Those now-departed career tracks help explain why Michigan ranks 21st nationally in the proportion of adults 25 to 64 with a high school degree but 32nd in the proportion with a bachelor's. So between the economy and the good option the public university provided, Michigan — and especially Detroit — never developed a strong culture of private colleges and universities. In Ohio, by contrast, private colleges flourished and public higher education emerged relatively late (Ohio State wasn't founded until 1870). Today Michigan, with just under 10 million people, has 33 4-year private colleges (not counting affiliated campuses). Ohio, just slightly larger at 11.5 million people, has 60. Yet this narrative feels incomplete. First, private research universities can co-exist in proximity to prominent public ones (Duke and the University of North Carolina, Stanford and Berkeley). Yes, Michigan was settled later than other eastern states, and to be a top-tier private school, it helps to be old (if possible, to predate the republic). But a super-wealthy benefactor can rocket a new or unremarkable institution to the top. Think of William Marsh Rice and the family of Leland Stanford Jr., founding their now-top 20 namesake institutions in the late 19th century. Or take tobacco baron James Duke, who after Princeton refused to change its name, turned to struggling Trinity College in North Carolina, which happily accepted his $20 million (more than $265 million today) and became Duke University. So the question is, where was Detroit's Leland Stanford or James Duke? This brings us to my second theory. In the "great men" version, perhaps it was just Detroit's bad luck that Ford, its most famous industrialist, hated cities (he once said the only solution to the city "problem" was for people to leave them). He also hated elites. And Jews. Together those traits didn't add up to someone likely to spend his money on a large urban university (though Ford did take over and support Detroit's city hospital). A farm boy and largely an autodidact, Ford did believe in and support education. But his educational causes were vocational and extended beyond Michigan. (The contemporary Ford Foundation does have programs supporting higher education, but is generally associated with international issues. The $3.2 billion Kresge Foundation, based in the Detroit suburb of Troy, is active in both Detroit and higher education causes, but its higher education support is national in scope. There are handsome Kresge auditoriums and libraries on a number of campuses, including the University of Michigan, but there is no Kresge University.) But if not Ford, why not others? I asked Robert Fishman, a University of Michigan professor of architecture and urban and regional planning and a historian of the city, for his theory on why no great private university ever emerged in Detroit. He said it was something he'd often wondered. But he didn't think it was just coincidence. Detroit's business culture, Fishman told me, contained a deep suspicion of academia. He noted each of the Big Three ran their own tech schools and enormous in-house research operations, and all were distrustful of outsiders, preferring to promote from within. "Even GM, the most intelligent of the Big Three, went very far through their Tech Center to isolate their research from university research open to public examination and scrutiny," Fishman told me in an e-mail. "The Detroit auto people were just not interested in -- [they were] positively threatened by -- the openness and skepticism of academia." The culture could not have been more different from the revolving door between Stanford and Hewlett Packard, then Apple, and then Google. "This separation between the auto companies and the wider urban culture of Detroit was very damaging, and very different from, say, Silicon Valley later on," Fishman said. If that culture cost Detroit a great private university, the loss is considerable. That's not because Ford was necessarily wrong in his anti-elite approach. Today, close to half of the roughly $417 billion controlled by American universities in their endowments belongs to just the 20 richest institutions. Arguably, that concentration of wealth isn't healthy. But what if Detroit had enjoyed a piece of it? Just 12 percent of adults living in the city have a bachelor's degree. Such institutions do more for a city than graduate and employ educated workers. They also generate a kind of trade surplus — tuition checks (from the mostly wealthy students who regrettably predominate at such places), federal research grants, and health care dollars from surrounding regions (and, even more lucratively, wealthy foreigners). The city of Detroit's crushing health care costs might be more bearable if so many of those dollars didn't flow out of the city. Some do stay, through the large Henry Ford Health System's operations there. But many also head out to the suburbs to the systems suburban hospitals, and to the University of Michigan's massive medical system. Relatively few people, on balance, travel into Detroit for health care. Big private research universities have also become bold, if controversial, urban developers. In roughly the late 1980s, the private University of Pennsylvania, Yale, and Columbia all reached the same conclusion: without making their neighborhoods safer and more appealing, they could no longer attract the students and faculty they needed to be among the world's best. Their efforts often provoked opposition. But those neighborhoods did change. I was one of those scared-off prospective students who visited Penn in the early 1990s. Today, Penn's neighborhood is transformed, and the university's reputation has indeed grown. A big research university probably couldn't have turned the ship of many of Detroit's fundamental problems. It offers no obvious antidote to political corruption, nor to the apparent blessing that proved a cancer to Detroit: jobs that gave not just middle-class whites, but working-class whites and eventually their black counterparts, the means to move to the suburbs, eventually leaving only the black underclass in the city. But it might have offered some inoculation against economic monoculture, which both left and right can agree was central to Detroit's catastrophe. And it could have anchored neighborhoods, like Cleveland's University Circle, that provide urban islands of relative stability during rough times and then a base to build out from - exactly what Mayor Dave Bing is desperately trying to seed in Detroit. Had someone a century ago donated the equivalent of $1 billion today to start a "Stanford on the Great Lakes" in Detroit, the effect might have been profound.  Perhaps it's not too late. Such an effort today would likely be criticized as far from the best use of $1 billion for Detroit, and it would face considerable obstacles. But it would have one thing going for it. One of the challenges these days for universities like Penn and Columbia is expanding in the newly pricey neighborhoods they've gentrified. Affordable real estate would not be a problem for somebody starting a university in Detroit.
REUTERS / Fred GreavesTwo weeks of therapy will teach me to keep my feelings to myself.SAN DIEGO (Reuters) - Embattled San Diego Mayor Bob Filner on Friday defied calls to resign over a hail of sexual harassment allegations, but apologized to the women he offended and said he would take a two-week leave of absence to undergo intensive therapy. A day after the San Diego County Democratic Central Committee urged him to step down, the 70-year-old Democrat and former congressman said he would enter a counseling clinic on August 5, while keeping an eye on the affairs of California's second largest city. "The behavior I have engaged in over many years is wrong," Filner told a news conference. "My failure to respect women and the intimidating conduct I engaged in at times is inexcusable. It has undermined what I have spent my entire professional life working on - fighting for equality and justice for all people." Seven women have publicly accused Filner of groping and making other unwanted sexual advances toward them, including four who came forward in a group interview aired late Thursday on public television station KPBS. Among them were retired U.S. Navy Rear Admiral Veronica "Ronnie" Froman and Joyce Gattas, dean of the College of Professional Studies and Fine arts at San Diego State University. Their TV appearance came as the county Democratic Central Committee, a council of local party bosses and elected officials, voted 34-6 to approve a non-binding resolution demanding that Filner leave office. The committee said in a statement on Friday that it stood by its position that Filner should go. But some experts said the mayor seemed determined to try to hang on to his job at almost all costs. "He's not only hunkered down in the bunker, he's taken the hinges off the door and welded it shut," said Carl Luna, a political science professor at San Diego Mesa College. During his two-week leave, Filner said he would be in counseling at the clinic full-time but would be briefed on city activities every morning and evening until his planned return to regular duties on August 19. "I must become a better person, and my hope is that by becoming a better person, I put myself in a position to someday be forgiven," he added. He began his remarks by offering apologies to his staff and San Diego's citizens, adding, "Most of all, I apologize to the women that I have offended." RESIGNATION DEMANDS Filner spoke from his office at City Hall just 30 minutes after organizers of a recall effort held their own news conference to highlight their campaign and to present a letter to the mayor's office demanding his resignation by 5 p.m. Numerous prominent local Democrats already had called for Filner to step down. One of them, Todd Gloria, who is president of the City Council and would become interim mayor if Filner were to resign, said his latest move to address the issue did not go far enough. "Filner's announcement prolongs the pain when San Diegans are calling for an end to this civic nightmare," Gloria said in a Twitter message. During her weekly news conference in Washington on Thursday, U.S. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said Filner should seek private counseling and compared his behavior to the conduct of another ex-congressman engulfed in a sex scandal since he turned to mayoral politics - Democrat Anthony Weiner of New York. Weiner faces calls to withdraw from the New York City mayor's race after admitting he sent lewd online messages to women since he resigned from Capitol Hill over such behavior two years ago. "The conduct of some of these people that we are talking about here is reprehensible. It is so disrespectful of women. And what is really stunning about it is they don't even realize it. You know, they don't have a clue," she said. The clamor for Filner's ouster intensified after his former press secretary, Irene McCormack Jackson, filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against the mayor and the city on Monday, accusing him of unwanted physical contact and suggestive comments. Jackson's lawyer, Gloria Allred, dismissed Filner's "decision to seek therapy as a ploy to stay in power and to try to gain sympathy." "It is ridiculous to think that he needs therapy in order to understand that women deserve respect and should not be treated like pieces of meat." On Friday, the City Attorney's Office served Filner with a subpoena in the civil suit, demanding that he submit to a deposition on August 9, about 10 days before the mayor is due to finish his therapy. "Testifying under oath is part of due process. We expect Mayor Filner to attend absent a court order to the contrary," Assistant City Attorney Paul Cooper said. The City Attorney's Office has said that Filner has retained a private attorney to handle his legal matters stemming the scandal, and spokesman Michael Giorgino added on Friday, "We don't see a basis for the city paying for private therapy." Filner was elected mayor of the normally conservative-leaning city last year after a 20-year career in the U.S. House of Representatives. Republicans, for whom his current troubles pose a chance to seize back the city's top-elected post, have called for his resignation since allegations against him first surfaced on July 11, even before any of the alleged victims went public. "Two weeks of therapy will not end decades of bad behavior," Republican City Councilman Kevin Faulconer said. "He needs to resign and seek long-term treatment as a private citizen." (Additional reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Writing by Steve Gorman; Editing by Dina Kyriakidou and Andre Grenon)
Most banks hire the majority of their 1st year Analysts from the intern pool. They’ve proven themselves. They’re likely to accept the offer.  And it saves HR a s**tload of time and money. Don’t worry if you don’t make the cut.  You ‘ve been vetted and hired by Goldman f***ing Sachs.  Even if this is your last dance here,  there are plenty of Vineyard Vines wearing, New Canaan commuting,  Morgan Stanley name-dropping ‘rainmakers’ waiting to pick you up and dust you off.   Not making the cut at Goldman is like being traded by the Yankees. You’ll still probably make millions, but it’s just not the same. So here are 20 tips to help you with your journey:
If you're looking for signs of the adtech bubble popping, then we may have found a couple for you. Three high-profile adtech companies went public in the last year and a half — Mobile ad network Millennial Media, online-ad provider Marin Software and video-ad server Tremor Video — and all have seen their stocks largely rejected by investors, even while the broader market rises. Here's a summary of public adtech stocks, based on their IPOs (or historic highs) and their current prices: You could add Groupon into the mix too. It debuted at $26.90, and is now worth only $8.90. All these companies are chronically unprofitable. The Velti situation is most worrying — its revenues are down too and the company is in turnaround mode. So what is going on here? Ad Age suggests that Wall Street doesn't understand adtech. Three CEOs of the above companies say their top priorities are to explain to investors how their business models work. They have complicated tech operations, and sometimes the metrics are difficult to understand. Luma Partners CEO Terence Kawaja says the companies that have gone public aren't the cream of the crop. "Not the best of the companies in their categories are going out first," he said. And, of course, there's the "scale" problem. Generally, folks at tech startups regard scaling-up as their top priority, not revenue. Get the users or the audience first, and worry about how to monetize it later. It's a sign of Silicon Valley's financial immaturity. That lack of sophistication is now coming home to roost: Trendy startup founders may be disdainful of revenue models, but investors sure are not. Shareholders are telling CEOs that, basically, they're delusional if they think that metrics, scale and reach are more important that revenues and net income. The proof here is the one public adtech company that is the exception to the rule: Opera Software. Opera debuted at NKR 23.20, and is now trading nicely at 46.40. Why? Take a look at its financials: It's profitable.
A troubled currency is one in which users have lost confidence. When users no longer think a currency will retain its purchasing power, they attempt to dump it for a stable foreign currency (or commodities). As the demand for the troubled currency evaporates, its value vis-à-vis stable foreign currencies collapses, and prices for goods and services sold in the troubled currency soar. As this process develops, expectations about the currency’s ability to retain its purchasing power deteriorate, and a doom loop ensues. At the extreme, doom loops can culminate in hyperinflation – an inflation rate of over 50% per month. This, however, is rare. Indeed, there have only been 56 cases of hyperinflation. Troubled Currencies in History – The Indonesian Rupiah The Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s gave rise to several troubled currencies. The Indonesian rupiah was one currency that entered such a doom loop. On August 14, 1997, shortly after the collapse of the Thai baht, Indonesia floated the rupiah – on ill-conceived instructions from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).     Contrary to the IMF’s expectations, the rupiah did not float on a sea of tranquility. Its value plunged from 2,700 rupiahs per U.S. dollar at the time of the float to lows of nearly 16,000 rupiahs per U.S. dollar in 1998. Indonesia was caught up in the maelstrom of the Asian crisis. By late January 1998, President Suharto realized that the IMF medicine was not working and sought a second opinion. I was invited to offer that opinion and began to operate as Suharto’s Special Counselor. I proposed replacing Indonesia’s troubled rupiah with a stable rupiah anchored to an orthodox currency board system. On the day that news hit the street, the rupiah appreciated by 28% against the U.S. dollar (see the accompanying chart). IMF In a sense, the case of Indonesia was unique – the rupiah traded freely on the foreign exchange market, with a floating exchange rate. More often, severe currency problems arise under monetary systems that restrict the convertibility of their currency and/or employ a pegged official exchange rate that overvalues the currency. These circumstances typically give rise to a black market for foreign exchange, where the domestic currency is freely traded at a market-determined exchange rate.   What’s more, the Suharto government continued to publish economic data after the rupiah became a troubled currency. In many countries with troubled currencies, however, this is not the case. Indeed, regimes in countries undergoing severe inflation have a long history of hiding the true extent of their inflationary woes. Often, governments fabricate inflation statistics to hide their economic problems. In the extreme, countries simply stop reporting inflation data. Yes, official economic data from countries with troubled currencies often amount to nothing more than lying statistics and should be treated as such. How can this problem be overcome? At the heart of the solution is the exchange rate. If free-market exchange-rate data (usually black-market data) are available, a reliable estimate of an inflation rate can be determined. The principle of purchasing power parity (PPP), which links changes in exchange rates and changes in prices, allows for reliable inflation estimates during periods of elevated inflation. Indeed, PPP simply states that the exchange rate between two countries is equal to the ratio of their relative price levels. Accordingly, to calculate the inflation rate in countries with troubled currencies, a rather straightforward application of standard, time-tested economic theory is all that is required. Troubled Currencies Today For the past year, I have been collecting black market exchange-rate data from various countries – namely Iran, North Korea, Argentina, Venezuela, Egypt and Syria – and using them to calculate implied inflation rates. While I have published a number of articles and blogs containing information and data on countries with troubled currencies, I have come to realize that there exists no centralized location where black-market exchange-rate and inflation data can be found for such countries. To remedy this, I established the Troubled Currencies Project – a collaboration between the Cato Institute and the Johns Hopkins University. The Troubled Currencies Project hosts a website, regularly updated with the latest black-market exchange-rate and implied inflation rate data on countries with troubled currencies. What follows is a snapshot of the countries that the Troubled Currencies Project currently studies and a more detailed explanation of the circumstances surrounding each troubled currency. Iran The idea for the Troubled Currencies Project arose out of Iran’s inflation crisis in the fall of 2012. The Iranian rial’s exchange rate tells the tale of the effect that Western sanctions have had on Iran’s economy. When U.S. President Barack Obama signed the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act in July 2010, the official exchange rate for the rial to the U.S. dollar was very close to the black market rate. Since those new sanctions took effect, however, the official and black market rates have increasingly diverged (see the accompanying chart). Central Bank of Iran The sanctions began to bite especially hard in early September 2012, and the slide in the value of the rial began to accelerate. The slide was punctuated by two dramatic collapses in the demand for the Iranian currency – the first was in early September 2012, and the second occurred in mid-October 2012, when Iran’s inflation rate reached hyperinflation levels (greater than 50% per month). With each collapse, there was something akin to a ‘bank run’ on the rial – a sharp rise in the black market (read: free market) IRR/USD exchange rate. Since then, the rial has stabilized somewhat, but inflation remains elevated. Currently, Iran’s implied annual inflation rate sits at 74.2% (see the accompanying chart). Central Bank of Iran North Korea For years, North Korea’s currency, the won, has been officially pegged to the U.S. dollar. That said, exchange controls and a plethora of associated regulations and harsh penalties have rendered the won inconvertible. This, of course, has given rise to a healthy black market for foreign currency.  North Korea’s monetary dysfunction has been accompanied by severe inflation problems. In 2009, the North Korean government attempted to address the won’s problems by implementing a phony currency "reform" program, which it promptly bungled. The so-called reform was actually just a currency redenomination program, which arbitrarily lopped two zeros off every won note. North Koreans were given less than two weeks to exchange all of their won for new notes. And, the government set limits on the quantity of old won a family could exchange for new won. For those North Koreans who had saved a few too many won, the redenomination program was effectively a wealth tax program. It should come as little surprise that Pyongyang’s botched currency reform sparked a panic in North Korea’s primitive, underground markets for goods and services. With the currency reform, the demand for foreign currency accelerated, as more and more merchants in the underground markets required transactions to be conducted in hard currency. In consequence, the value of the won plummeted on the black market (see the accompanying chart). JHU So, what happened to the overall price level in North Korea in the wake of the currency reform? Well, black-market exchange rate data allow us to reach a reliable estimate of North Korea’s inflation rate. As the accompanying chart shows, the 2009 panic sparked an inflation surge in North Korea. Daily NK Argentina Argentina is once again wrestling with its long-time enemy, inflation. Now, it appears history may soon repeat itself, as Argentina teeters on the verge of another currency crisis. Capital controls and a deteriorating current account balance – coupled with a number of anti-business policies – have put the squeeze on the Argentine peso (see the accompanying chart). Bloomberg and DollarBlue   Currently, the peso’s black-market U.S. dollar exchange rate sits at 8.2 pesos per dollar, putting the peso’s value 34% below the official exchange rate. This yields an implied annual inflation rate of 24.8% (see the accompanying chart).  DollarBlueFor now, the effects of this elevated inflation rate have been officially hidden by Argentina’s massive price control regime. But these price controls are not sustainable in the long term. Indeed, these short-term “lying prices” only distort economic reality, ultimately leading to scarcity. Venezuela Venezuela has also relied on price controls in an attempt to suppress its inflation problems, with the same miserable results. Despite the country’s oil wealth, the massive Chavez-era social spending program continues to eat into the government’s primary balance, as well as dollar-denominated revenues of the state oil company, PDVSA. To fill this void, Venezuela’s central bank has been running the money pumps at full steam, eroding the value of the country’s currency, the bolivar (see the accompanying chart). Dolar Paralelo    This has brought about an inflation surge – in a country which was already no stranger to high inflation. Currently, the bolivar’s black-market U.S. dollar exchange rate sits at 34.42 bolivars per dollar, putting the bolivar’s value 80.6% below the official exchange rate. This yields an implied annual inflation rate of 249.3% (see the accompanying chart). Banco Central de Venezuela    Egypt Under the direction of President Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood, economic conditions in Egypt have gone from bad to worse. Price and capital controls have caused shortages and a substantial slide in the value of the Egyptian pound. In consequence, Egyptians have watched inflation destroy their standard of living. Additionally, controls have delivered shortages of foreign exchange and many goods, like gasoline. In the face of the Brotherhood’s wrongheaded economic policies, official inflation and price statistics took leave of reality, and the black market quickly became a source of material support that the Muslim Brotherhood’s government could not provide. Yes, as the accompanying charts illustrate, the story of a failing Egyptian economy is one of a troubled Egyptian pound – and of the inflation troubles that accompanied it. Indeed, as of July 1, 2013 (shortly before before Morsi’s ouster), Egypt’s implied annual inflation rate was 27.1%. That’s over three times higher than the last reported official annual inflation rate (see the accompanying charts). Ahram  Ahram Syria Finally, we turn to Syria, where civil war and economic sanctions have shattered the country’s economy. In an attempt to beat Western sanctions and halt the fall in the Syrian pound, the Assad regime – with the help of Iran, Russia, and China – has begun conducting all of its business in rials, rubles, and renminbi. This decision supplements other existing arrangements between Syria and its allies that are keeping the Syrian economy on life-support. These include transfers of $500 million per month in oil and an unlimited credit line with Tehran for food and oil-product imports. According to Kadri Jamil, Syria’s prime minister for the economy, this life support is necessary because Syria’s devastated economy is the target of an elaborate plot, hatched by the U.S. and Britain, to “sink the Syrian pound.” In a desperate, wrongheaded attempt to save its troubled currency, the Assad regime has imposed harsh penalties for currency trading on the black-market. This strategy proved wildly unsuccessful when it was utilized by Iran in October of 2012. Indeed, as was the case in Iran, attempts to suppress currency exchange have sparked a panic – a run on the Syrian pound. As of 10 July 2013, the value of the Syrian pound on the black market has hit an all time low, with the current black-market exchange rate now sitting at 265 SYP/USD (see the accompanying chart). Central Bank of Syria  The rout of the Syrian pound has been widely reported in the press.  But, Syria’s inflation problems that have accompanied the collapse of the pound have gone largely unreported.  That’s because, beyond the occasional bits of anecdotal evidence, there has been nothing to report by way of reliable economic data. To fill that void, I employ standard techniques to estimate Syrian’s current inflation – an implied annual inflation rate of 291.1% (see the accompanying chart). Federal Reserve Economic DatabaseAccordingly, Syria is now experiencing a monthly inflation rate of 68.0%. This means that Syria has exceeded the threshold for hyperinflation (an inflation rate of 50% per month).  Only time will tell if this run on the Syrian pound will continue. But, for the time being, we can be sure that the Syrian pound will remain a troubled currency. The Troubled Currencies Project A casual glance at the front page of any reputable newspaper will tell you that the current set of countries with troubled currencies are those that comprise many of the main “hot spots” of international conflict. Indeed, currency problems can often be a good leading indicator of other problems with a regime. For anyone involved in or monitoring international conflicts, reliable economic intelligence is absolutely essential. The data and charts contained in this column are now available on the Troubled Currencies Project page. The page also contains the following table, which I will update regularly with the latest black-market exchange-rate and implied-inflation-rate data.
But this malaise in cyclical shares is not limited to the US and varies considerably across global equity markets. Credit Suisse looks at the ratio of cyclical to defensive indices by country to determine which equity markets expect to see stronger growth in a particular country and which are likely to slow. Here is the result. Sober LookCredit Suisse Not surprisingly these ratios roughly mirror growth expectations for various countries relative to recent growth (not relative to each other). What's striking here is the dispersion. The markets seem to accept that Abenomics-based stimulus in Japan will pull the nation out of the deflationary spiral and generate growth, albeit a temporary one. Japan's construction companies for example will clearly benefit in the short term from all the extra cash. China however is on the other side of the spectrum (see post), pulling down the overall global growth expectations.
People in the markets are still talking about the taper, or the Federal Reserve's gradually reduction of its stimulative bond buying program. Many analysts attribute recent market volatility to talks of the taper. However, UBS's Maury Harris and his U.S. economics team thinks fears are overblown. Harris, who is considered by many the most accurate economist on Wall Street, continues to get slammed with questions about the taper. So he addressed it in one eloquent paragraph, which follows:: One of the most frequently expressed worries is whether the likely upcoming diminution and then termination of Fed securities purchases through its QE program will harm the economy. We are not so concerned. First, the Fed has clearly communicated that it is not going to be withdrawing its QE support of the economy unless a better-looking economy does not require such further support. Second, a QE type of monetary policy should work with long lags. Even when the Fed ceases to incrementally augment its balance sheet, US banks will remain flush with liquidity and excess reserves that already have been added to the banking system. Finally, rising mortgage rates as imminent QE tapering has become more likely should not much trim home mortgage demand. Typically, when rates rise there is a negative effect on housing demand as the more marginal, middle-income borrowers are disqualified. However, reflecting the absence of an active subprime mortgage lending market in recent years, such borrowers already have been excluded from the pool of potential homebuyers. Instead, recently rising mortgage rates and home prices should be motivating earlier postponed home demand as such potential buyers now desire to buy before rates and prices rise even further. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee meets next Tuesday and Wednesday. No one expects any tapering announcement then.
Investors should always prepare for the most extreme risk scenario because it will happen, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein told the Australian Institute of Company Directors at a breakfast briefing on Friday. Blankfein, who's been Goldman CEO since 2006, steered it through the fallout of the global financial crisis of 2007-2008. He said the experience had taught him to accept that the worst thing you can imagine will inevitably happen. "Most risk management is really just advanced contingency planning and disciplining yourself to realize that, given enough time, very low probability events not only can happen, but they absolutely will happen," said Blankfein. "The definition of infinity is that you wait long enough, everything happens." (Read more: Why Goldman Sachs earnings weren't all that: trader) Blankfein said in his view, the major problem during the financial crisis was that ordinary people were banking on the fact that the scenario they feared the most, the collapse of real estate prices, was not a possibility. "Once you think that something is improbable and everybody thinks it, people modify their behavior in a way that makes it more probable," said Blankfein. "Everyone thought it was so improbable that so many people would default on real estate, it actually created a greater probability that it would [happen] because more capital flowed into that sector." (Read more: Goldman Sachs: Keep Calm and Carry On Buying) Steering his firm through the volatility of the global financial crisis had given Blankfein a "thick skin" the CEO told the Australian Institute of Directors, but in retrospect he said the bank failed to "manage its relationship with wider society" in the best way possible. (Read more: Goldman Sachs: Treasury yields will hit 4%) "We did a better job navigating through the risks of the collapse of the prices of real estate...We probably did better on [that] than we did in managing our relationships with the wider society... to say it wasn't perfectly executed is an understatement," said Blankfein.  Goldman Sachs' reputation came under fire amidst the fallout from the global financial crisis. In 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud suit arguing that the bank built the financial equivalent of a time bomb that was set up to fail and sold it to unwitting investors, referring to the sale of a structured product, known as a collateralized debt obligation (CDO), blamed for contributing to the bursting of U.S. real estate bubble in 2008.
China is the world's second largest economy.  In many things, it's the biggest.  In other things, it's not. Some good. Some bad. From Deutsche Bank's House View report: Deutsche Bank
The major problem facing the economy is a lack of demand, and we see no catalyst that is going to change this in the period ahead.  As we pointed out last week, 1st quarter GDP grew by only 1.8% while the 2nd quarter so far looks as if it will come in at about 1% or even less as a result of lackluster consumer spending, barely increasing disposable income, sub-par employment, minimal wage gains and a savings rate that is already historically low. Non-farm payroll employment in June was still 2.1 million less than the number employed at the peak in early 2008, and a higher proportion of this total was in part-time and low paying jobs.  As a result, consumer disposable income in May was still 1.4% less than it was five years earlier.  Consumer spending since that time has increased only 4.7%, and we emphasize that this is a 5-year total, not an annualized rate.  And even to support that totally inadequate rate of spending, consumers had to reduce their savings rate from 8.3% to 3.2%. Since consumer spending accounts for about 70% of GDP, we see little chance that other sectors can make up for the shortfall created by the lack of demand.  In fact, the economy is likely to face additional headwinds as a result of the coming showdown in Washington over the fiscal 2014 Federal budget and another fight over the debt ceiling.  The result could be either a White House concession on spending leading to additional fiscal restraint or the debilitating threat of a government shutdown.  Although this has not yet gotten a lot of attention in the media, it will probably hit the headlines and dominate cable news after the congressional summer recess. In addition the market can no longer look forward to the soaring earnings increases that occurred from 2009 through 2012. First quarter S&amp;P 500 earnings were up 6.3% from a year earlier, and, with over half of the companies reporting, seems to be zeroing in on a second quarter rise of about 5%.  Revenues, however, seem to be showing a decrease of about 0.4% as profit margins have been stretched to an all-time high.  We note that, historically, profit margins are cyclical and that they are mean-reverting.  Over the last 60 years profit margins have swung between 2.4% and 8.1%, and therefore have much more downside than upside.  In sum, we see the market losing its two main pillars of support----earnings and QE.  The only way that QE gets extended further than the consensus predicts is for the economy and earnings to tank, an event we doubt investors will like.        
