REUTERS/Alexander F. YuanStaff iron a Chinese national flag while a U.S. national flag is placed in front of a traditional Chinese painting before a meeting between U.S. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Chinese State Councillor Yang Jiechi at Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing May 27, 2013. China's new leadership has been rolling out strict economic policy reforms and they have pushed efforts to rebalance its economy. Meanwhile, credit markets have been tightening, and China's central bank has offered little relief.† All of this comes as weak global growth has slowed demand for Chinese goods. And as a result of all of this, China is slowing. This is bad for news for the U.S. which counts China as its third biggest export market. A report from the US-China Business Council (USCBC) shows that U.S. exports to China grew 294% from 2003 - 2012. This compares with an 111% increase in U.S. exports to the rest of world for the same period. Exports to China have increased from†$16.2 billion in 2000, to $108.6 billion last year. We put together a list of the top 15 U.S. state exporters to China in the past decade. Crops, computer and electronics, chemicals, transportation equipment, and machinery (ex-electrical) were the five biggest exports.
The China slowdown is a well-known story, but even in light of that, it's clear that the numbers have the ability to surprise on the downside. Both imports and exports just missed expectations. As such, a shade of "risk off" is wafting across markets. The Australian dollar ‚Äî the currency of a key Chinese trading partner ‚Äî has dipped, and the Nikkei has just erased its gains. Nikkei.com
REUTERS/China DailyChinese exports fell 3.1% year-over-year (YoY) in June, missing expectations for a 3.7% rise. Meanwhile, imports fell 0.7% YoY, missing expectations for a 6% rise. Trade balance also came in shy of expectations, widening to $27.1 billion. This compares with a 1% rise in exports and 0.3% fall in imports in May. Export growth was expected to stay muted because of a weak global economic environment, and the government crackdown on speculative Forex inflows. Meanwhile, domestic demand is expected to have weighed on import data. "While trade data could be helped by the low base from a year ago, we believe the ongoing efforts by SAFE and General Customs to contain currency carry trade will likely weigh on reported growth rates," writes Morgan Stanley's Helen Qiao.
flickr/thedarkthingAttention-deficit and hyperactivity disorder drugs are becoming ever more common, both legally prescribed to kids†and illegally used†as a study or work aid.†Despite their popularity, however, drugs like Ritalin may not help in school at all,†according to a new study. Looking at nearly 4,000 students in Quebec over an average of 11 years, the NBER study found that students who took ADHD drugs actually performed worse than students with similar symptoms who did not take the drugs. Increasing drug use was associated with increased unhappiness, worse relationships with parents, increased anxiety and depression in girls, and worse educational attainment measures like grade advancement and math scores, according to†Princeton's†Janet Currie, the University of Toronto's Mark Stabile, and Cornell's Lauren E. Jones. These findings were somewhat surprising given the drugs' proven†benefits in improving attention, focus, and self-control. Still, they coincide with other studies on educational, as discussed in the Wall Street Journal, supporting the idea that benefits somehow do not translate to the classroom. This†raises the question of whether†the many side effects, including insomnia and increasing blood pressure,†are worth it. "The possibility that [medication] won't help them [in school] needs to be acknowledged and needs to be closely monitored," Currie tells the Journal. The NBER study focused on people who actually have ADHD and are having trouble in school ó the ones who should most benefit from using Ritalin.†There's even less evidence of cognitive benefits for people without the disorder who take ADHD medicine illegally.
(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve chairman should not testify in the lawsuit by American International Group Inc's former chief Maurice "Hank" Greenberg against the United States over the insurer's 2008 bailout, the U.S. Department of Justice said. In a Monday filing with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, the government said Greenberg's Starr International Co failed to show the "extraordinary circumstances" needed to justify a deposition of Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke in the multibillion-dollar lawsuit. The government said information about Bernanke's role in the bailout of AIG can be obtained elsewhere, such as minutes of the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors or interviews of other officials. It said this obviated any need for a deposition that Starr wants to hold on August 16, and added that high-ranking government officials like Bernanke in general cannot be deposed over the reasons that they took official actions. David Boies, a partner at Boies, Schiller &amp; Flexner representing Starr, said in an email: "We believe Mr. Bernanke has important testimony to give in this case." Last month, Court of Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler said Starr may pursue claims over the government's taking of a 79.9 percent stake in AIG in September 2008 and a separate 1-for-20 reverse stock split in June 2009. A trial could begin late next year. AIG's board decided in January not to join Starr's lawsuit after a public backlash, including from Congress. Starr once held a 12 percent stake in AIG, which had been the world's largest insurer by market value prior to the financial crisis and a $182.3 billion federal bailout. Greenberg, 88, led AIG for nearly four decades before his 2005 ouster. Starr is appealing another judge's dismissal of a related lawsuit against the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., U.S. Court of Federal Claims, No. 11-00779. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Phil Berlowitz) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions
1) Domestic economic strength remains very weak (growing at just 1.8% annually since 2000) 2) Four years into the current "recovery" the economy is already past the average length of most growth cycles.¬† Interest rates fall during down cycles.  3) Geopolitical unrest makes U.S. Treasuries an attractive "safe haven" for foreign capital flows. 4) Global economic weakness (China, Euro-zone and Japan) will likely drive buying of U.S. Treasuries. 5) Upcoming "debt ceiling" and budget debate in September likely to drive inflows into the safety of bonds as we saw in 2011. 6) If the Federal Reserve begins to extract liquidity by slowing bond purchases - financial markets are likely to come under selling pressure pushing money flows from equities into bonds. 7) Declining rates of inflation which are representative of economic weakness. 8) Ultra-low interest rate policies by the Fed continue to push investors to seek yield over cash.¬†¬† The recent rise in rates makes bond yields much more attractive. However, even if you disagree with the fundamental arguments, it is hard to argue against one of the most compelling reasons for buying bonds which has 35 years of history supporting it. ¬† I discussed this particular reason during a Fox Business interview recently stating that:¬† "Interest rates are now 4-standard deviations above their long term moving average." As shown in the chart below the driving force behind the long term decline in interest rates has been the ongoing slide in both economic activity and inflationary pressures.¬† Interest rates track the direction, and trend, of economic activity as does inflation.¬† Less demand in the economy leads to declines in prices (deflation) and interest rates.  There are two important things to take away from the chart above.¬† The first is that, as I have notated with blue arrows, is that each time interest rates have spiked it has led to a peak in economic activity.¬† You can already see that economic growth has peaked for the current economic cycle which has led to a subsequent decline in inflationary pressures.¬† Secondly, most of the commentary surrounding the reason that rates are on track to go higher is based on the the similar spike seen in 1994.¬† First, that spike in rates led to a sharp slowdown in economic activity and rates quickly fell.¬† Secondly, the economy was in the midst of a secular growth cycle due to the "Internet/financial boom" which currently does not exist today.¬† The next chart, however, is the "technical" reason as to why I think now is the time to start acquiring bonds.¬† Again, you can argue the fundamental story, depending on how you want to selectively build your economic "case", however, it is difficult to argue with 35 years of interest rate history.¬† The chart below shows the 10-year treasury rate on a weekly basis with bands set at 4-standard deviations above and below the 50-week moving average.¬† The green shaded area is the current downward trend that has remained intact post the interest rate spike in the late 70's. ¬† Street Talk Live What is important to notice is that there have only been a few times in history that rates have gotten to 4-standard deviations above the long-term moving average.¬† Every single time, as noted by the vertical red dashed lines, such extreme movements in rates has been a peak in rates for the intermediate term.¬† Most recently these extreme spikes were witnessed prior to the recession following the "technology bubble" in 2000 and the "housing bubble / financial crisis" in 2008. The blue shaded area at the bottom of the chart shows the current range of interest rates that are likely to occur given the context of the downtrend.¬†¬† The peak of that range is 3% on the 10-year treasury and the bottom of that downtrend would suggest rates on the 10-year during the next recession to fall below my current estimate of 1%. There are many reasons to own bonds in portfolios as they have a capital preservation function by returning principal at maturity, creating an income stream and lowering portfolio volatility.¬† However, there are three reasons to add bonds to portfolios currently: 1) As discussed recently investors tend to do the opposite of what they should investment wise by panic selling market bottoms and buying market tops.¬† Currently, unlike the stock market which remains extremely overbought on an intermediate term basis, bonds have had a substantial correction in price which now makes them technically very attractive in the short term for a trading opportunity. 2) The "quest for yield" isn't over as long as the Federal Reserve continues to keep "accommodative rate policies" in place that keep money market rates near zero.¬† With "baby boomers" rapidly heading into retirement, following two nasty bear markets that took away 50% of wealth, the allure of "safety" and "income" are the keys to their current psyche. 3) Money flows into U.S. Treasuries will likely increase as the slowdown in European, and Asian, economies seek safety and stability of the U.S.¬† As pointed out by Jeff Gundlach, manager of Doubleline Total Return Bond Fund, recently reiterated the same call stating:  "The liquidation cycle appears to have run its course with emerging market bonds, U.S. junk bonds, muni's and MBS‚Äîall of which substantially underperformed Treasuries during the rate rise‚Äînow recovering sharply," With the reality that the economy has likely peaked for this current economic cycle, deflationary pressures rising and the potential for less monetary interventions in the quarters ahead the catalysts for higher bond prices are tilted in investors favor currently.¬† As I stated previously: "Investors are panic selling what is likely an intermediate term bottom in bond prices and holding onto to equities in what is clearly one of the most overbought, valued and extended markets since 2000 or 2007. While the mainstream market analysis continues to tout 'buy and hold' strategies - statistical evidence clearly weighs in favor of a rather significant correction at some point in the not so distant future. While timing of such an event is difficult at best, given the extreme amounts of artificial intervention by Central Banks globally, the impact to investors portfolios devastate retirement plans." For all of these reasons I am bullish on the bond market through the end of this year. Furthermore, with market volatility rising, economic weakness creeping in and plenty of catalysts to send stocks lower - bonds will continue to hedge long only portfolios against meaningful market declines while providing an income stream. Will the "bond bull" market eventually come to an end? Yes, it will, eventually. However, the catalysts needed to create the type of economic growth required to drive interest rates substantially higher, as we saw previous to the 1980's, are simply not available currently. This will likely be the case for many years to come as the Fed, and the administration, come to the inevitable conclusion that we are now in a "liquidity trap" along with the bulk of developed countries. While there is certainly not a tremendous amount of downside left for interest rates to fall in the current environment - there is also not a tremendous amount of room for them to rise until they begin to negatively impact consumption, housing and investment. It is likely that we will remain trapped within the current trading range for quite a while longer as the economy continues to "muddle" along.
This Great Graphic was published on FT Alphaville, which in turn got them from Credit Suisse. ¬† The top chart tracks the flow of funds into three broad categories of mutual funds.¬† The dark red bar is the¬† flows into, and now out, of bond funds.¬† The dark blue bar are the flows into/out of US equity funds.¬† The light blue, (look closely) track the global equity funds.¬† Roughly $60 bln has left the fixed income funds, apparently the most on record.¬†¬†¬† This has been represented in the popular and business press, but the second chart puts it in a larger context of the stock of investments that have accumulated in various investment vehicles since the late 1990s. For example, the green line, which tracks flows into bond mutual funds, shows that the stock of such investment is near $3.5 trillion.¬† On the eve of the Lehman debacle, there was around $1.7 trillion under management by fixed income mutual funds. ¬†¬† There is no compelling reason to think that there is a mean reversion process at work and all the funds that flowed into the bond funds will now flow out. Marc Chandler In addition, the bond mutual funds capture mostly retail interest.¬† Institutional investors have also been selling fixed income¬† We noted that Japanese investors, for example, have been significant sellers of foreign bonds this year and¬† in May appear to have sold about $30 bln of US Treasury bonds and notes.¬† We also know that the Fed's custody holdings of Treasuries has fallen by about $26 bln from late May through early July.¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
REUTERS/Michael BuholzerFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich Thinks Gold Prices Will Fall For 4 Key Reasons (Advisor Perspectives) Gold prices are well off their $1900 peak. But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich does not think this is a good time to buy gold, because. He expects gold prices to fall further for 4 key reasons. 1. "Gold prices are facing the headwind of rising real (adjusted for inflation) interest rates for the first time in years." 2. A stronger dollar isn't good for gold prices. 3. The sentiment on gold has turned. 4. Indian demand for gold seems to be declining. "Indiaís money supply growth, a leading indicator for the countryís long-term inflation and a proxy for the countryís gold demand, hasnít grown lately. Meanwhile, the fraction of total gold output held by central banks around the world has continued to decrease over the last decade and a sharp reversal in this trend is unlikely."  3 Morgan Stanley Brokers Join BAML (The Wall Street Journal) Bank of America Merrill Lynch hired three brokers from Morgan Stanley with over $300 million in assets under management. The three brokers are Addison Sherman, Mary Ellen Tompkins and Angelo Mamone.  The Dollar Is Telling Us A Lot Of Companies Will Report Worse-Than-Expected Revenues (Goldman Sachs) Goldman Sachs expects a lot of companies to miss revenue expectations. "We expect another disappointing quarter for revenues. Weak macro data in the first part of 2Q and dollar strengthening increases the likelihood of sales misses. We expect the percentage of companies missing top-line estimates will be above the ten-year average of 20%, but less severe in magnitude than recent quarters." Goldman Sachs Thousands Of SEC-Registered Advisors Aren't Subjected To Surprise Exams (Investment News) A report from the Government Accountability Office said that 4,446 SEC-registered investors had control of $14 trillion in client assets as of April 1. Of these, 2,956 were not given surprise exams, according to the report cited by Investment News. "Advisers can be exempted from surprise inspections if they have custody of client assets only to deduct fees from client accounts or are ìoperationally independentî of the custodian," Investment News reported.
While the party continues over the June jobs report, the BLS released another important economic barometer today, the Job Openings and Labor Market Survey (JOLTS). This chart from the report plots the "Beveridge Curve," the job openings rate against the unemployment rate. "The position of the curve is determined by the efficiency of the labor market. For example, a¬†greater mismatch between available jobs and the unemployed in terms of skills or location would¬†cause the curve to shift outward, up and toward the right," the BLS writes. What we see is that during the most recent curve, the points moved lower and further to the right as job openings declined and the unemployment rate spiked during the hard times. But from 2010 until now, we've seen just the opposite. The points on the curve move up and to the left as job openings upstage unemployment.¬† BLS
A favorite recent saying among traders is, ‚ÄúThe U.S. is the best of a bad bunch.‚Äù ¬†The U.S. outperformance in 2013 vs. other global equity markets has been exceptional. ¬†So exceptional in fact that of 28 Country ETFs that the stellar team at Bespoke highlighted yesterday, only the U.S. and Japan were short-term overbought:   The SPX index has now rallied almost 100 points from its June 24th low, a spectacular rally in just 11 trading days. ¬†Meanwhile, most global equity markets have hardly recovered, with the exception of the other leader in 2013, Japan. ¬†It‚Äôd be one thing if the U.S. market was rebounding from a significant selloff. ¬†But in fact, it is now once again near all-time highs. Again, the argument goes, well the U.S. is the best of breed market. ¬†Europe, China, Asia ex-Japan, and other emerging markets are all struggling much more than the U.S. ¬†Naturally, the U.S. equity market is going to lead. ¬†But the real question is, how much of this U.S.-centric optimism is already priced in? In the current environment, most equity investment options globally have gotten cheaper in the past couple years, while the U.S. has gotten more expensive from a price/earnings ratio perspective. ¬†With that in mind, at some point, global investors must decide that the risk/reward is better elsewhere, simply since valuations have gotten so much cheaper vs. the U.S. ¬†To get a sense of how much cheaper, here is a table from Barry Ritholtz‚Äôs TBP blog last week showing the expensive nature of the U.S. vs. almost all global equity markets: ¬†  ¬†  The fundamental comparison is getting progressively worse for the U.S. as other global markets sell off. ¬†That‚Äôs part of the reason why it‚Äôs rare that you see one of the large developed markets move on its own when most other global markets are moving in lockstep. The U.S. is in a stronger economic position than most of the countries on that list. ¬†But does that justify a valuation at more than 2x many of the others? ¬†That‚Äôs the real question we should be asking, instead of simply whether the U.S. is the best of a bad bunch.
APWhen Eliot Spitzer stepped down as Governor, all of City Hall had a meltdown. It was 2008, and I was a college student interning at the Mayor's press office. I had to be there early, and I mean early ‚Äî 5:30 a.m., no excuses. Press briefings were created and run around City Hall for every single staffer before they got to work. It's dark and lonely down there in the Financial District that early, so I used to carry a mini Minor League baseball bat. It usually wasn't until 7:30 or 8:00 a.m. that people started filing into City Hall for work, and to be honest there was no sign that this Friday would be unlike any other Friday. That was, of course, 'til the end of my shift (around 9:30/10) when Governor Spitzer announced that he would be stepping down. I clearly remember someone bursting into our office and freaking out ‚Äî "is he trying to ruin the Democratic party?" I heard a staffer say. No obviously not, but it definitely had serious consequences for the Mayor's agenda in NYC, and of course, the two politicians were (are?) friends and neighbors. If you're not familiar with New York politics it's hard to understand the madhouse Spitzer had managed to navigate. The New York State Assembly was, and still is, firmly in the grip of Majority Leader Sheldon Silver, a Democrat. The Senate, on the other hand, always the wildcard of the two houses, was controlled by Republican Joe Bruno. It was Bruno who tussled with Spitzer the most. He was a former campaign staffer to Nelson Rockefeller, boxer, and state politician from the year 1976. Spitzer had launched three investigations against Bruno, and the pair were famous for their screaming matches. Here's a famous knock-down-drag-out they had documented in New York Magazine: Bruno says he just kept hitting back. ‚Äú‚Äâ‚ÄòYou know what your problem is? You‚Äôre a spoiled brat, an arrogant kid that never got over the fact that when you don‚Äôt get what you want you have a tantrum.‚Äô And you know what he does next? He runs out of his own office! I‚Äôm thinking, Jesus, where the hell is he going?‚Äù When Spitzer returned, the shouting continued. Then Spitzer left again. ‚ÄúNow I‚Äôm thinking, Jeez, there‚Äôs something wrong with this guy. He‚Äôs shouting, screaming until he‚Äôs purple. He‚Äôs 8 years old.‚Äù Spitzer returned for a final time. Bruno remembers his orders from Spitzer: ‚ÄúGet out of here!‚Äù Spitzer‚Äôs spokeswoman, Christine Anderson, says Bruno‚Äôs recollection is ‚Äútotally false, and with each retelling his story becomes more embellished.‚Äù With Spitzer giving the notoriously combative Bruno a run for his money in Albany, the Democrats believed 2008 was going to be their election year. The Republicans were finally looking vulnerable in the Senate, having lost four seats in four years. For City Hall that meant perhaps finally having an edge in the Upstate-Downstate rivalry that New York State is so infamous for. For Mayor Bloomberg to pass some measures he really wanted, like congestion pricing for motorists coming into the city, he needed state approval. Upstate (mostly Republican) politicians often butt-heads with Downstate politicians and their policies. Spitzer "The Steamroller" was seen as a guy who could make that easier. So when he went down, it was a massive loss. The proof of that was in the pudding. The Democrats went on to take the majority in the Senate in the 2008 election cycle, only to lose it in a matter of months when one freshman Democrat, Hiram Monserrate was charged with attacking his girlfriend with broken glass. Like I said, madhouse. Bruno, for the record, stepped down after Spitzer. He was later convicted of Federal corruption charges, though he never served time. On top of all of that the state's budget was running a massive deficit after the financial crisis, and Spitzer's blind lieutenant, David Paterson, had to deal with that as the Senate run amok, switching leadership left and right. Paterson was never expected to govern. If Spitzer wants to run for a wider office than Comptroller ‚Äî one that requires more than his own money ‚Äî he's going to have to mend a lot of fences in his own party, not just on the state level but on the city level. His ousting broke a lot of hearts.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at Bloomberg terminals on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, May 13, 2013.Stocks are now on a 4-day winning streak. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
The investing world recently watched in horror as the Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate (Shibor) went parabolic as the People's Bank of China stood by. Shibor is more or less the China's version of LIBOR, an interest rate banks charge to borrow from each other. And during the darkest days of the last recession, surging LIBOR rates preceded the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and the deepest periods of the financial crisis. Shibor isn't exactly like LIBOR. But it nevertheless is a proxy for financial stress. And it got the whole world talking about a potential credit crisis in China. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite just published a big slide deck with this chilling chart. "Private sector leverage is 17% above trend and on BIS analysis when its gets 10% above trends, there is a risk of a credit crisis," said Garthwaite. (The BIS paper Garthwaite refers to can be found here.) Credit Suisse
It's hard to come up with a catchy, one or maybe two line summary for a movie. Or one suggestive enough to draw audiences in.  We found 13 that pretty much nailed it. 1994 seems to have been a particularly great year for taglines. The movie captured the mood of a generation. The movie shows, the tagline, tells. Columbia Pictures Corporation/IMDB This movie made everyone think of sharks differently. It also made them think twice about going swimming in the sea, which is precisely why this tagline earned a spot on our list. We also loved the tagline for Jaws II, 'Just when you thought it was safe to get back in the water." Universal Pictures, Zanuck/Brown Productions via IMDB The movie is essentially about a man who constantly faces rejection and wants to do something about it. It's hard to forget Robert DeNiro as Travis Bickle looking at himself in the mirror asking, "you talkin to me?" This tagline encapsulates all of it. Columbia Pictures Corporation, Bill/Phillips The movie is still terrifying and the creepy tagline nails it. This might just be the best movie tagline ever. 20th Century Fox Productions You can' forget Dustin Hoffman as a bespectacled, middle-aged actress in heels. The tagline won't let you.  Columbia Pictures/IMDB By today's show biz standards, paying people to sound smart on a quiz show wouldn't be a blip on the radar. At the time it was a scandal. The tagline draws you in to the 133 minutes of brilliance that is Quiz Show.¬†  Hollywood Picture via Past Posters Let's be honest, all the taglines, for all the Naked Gun movies, are just as silly as the movies themselves. And that's why we love them. Here's a range from all three. 1. "If you see only one movie this year...you ought to get out more often." 2. "The Villain. Even Mother Teresa wanted him dead." 3. "A Mad Bomber Is On The Loose, And If Anyone Can Stop Him....So Can Frank! " Paramount Pictures/IMDB The tagline, a quote from the movie, sets you up perfectly for the quirky, vibrant, pastiche gem from Wong Kar-wai. I'll be honest, it helps that this is one of my all-time favorite movies. Jet Tone Production via eyeswideope It's spot on. And hilarious.  New Line Cinema via IMDB Not your typical movie about American soldiers. Instead, Joaquin Phoenix's Ray Elwood, bored out of his mind, becomes a black market schemer. This one is plain clever.¬†  FilmFour via impawards.com The tagline is so bad, it's good. The movie is just bad. 20th Century Fox/IMDB The Joker stole the show in this movie, and not just because it was one of Heath Ledger's last roles. His maniacal laugh and the words "why so serious?" are seared in your mind long after the movie's done. Warner Brothers/Impawards One of the best taglines in the past few years that is perfect for this slick, mind-bending thriller. This could have been the tagline of Minority Report. Warner Brothers/Imdb Post your favorites in the comments section below!
Hedge funds¬†are mentioned hundreds of times daily in the media and employ some of the most well-paid business professionals anywhere. It is not a cakewalk to land your first hedge fund job, because building a hedge fund career takes a lot of determination and networking stamina. Many hedge funds get up to 100 inquiries a week from students and experienced professionals searching for employment opportunities. How do you get noticed, swing an interview and land a hedge fund job? Whether you are looking for an entry-level position or a mid-career shift to work as a hedge fund manager, this 10-step plan will help you get off to a strong start.Step 1. Be Sure You Really Want to Work for a Hedge Fund The more sure you are about working for a hedge fund and not being an accountant or working at a¬†mutual fund,¬†ETF¬†or¬†private equity¬†fund, the easier it will be to navigate these 10 steps and land your first hedge fund job. If you really want to work for a hedge fund, it will show in your self-discipline, networking, knowledge of the industry, passion and, ultimately, your actions. You can change your mind later, but if you want to try to work in this industry go all in and learn as much as you can. Make the decision to change focus, commit to it for three to five years and see what comes of it.¬†Step 2. Become a Student of the Hedge Fund Industry If working for a hedge fund is your goal, then create daily habits that work toward that goal. Examples are subscribing to free hedge fund newsletters, reading two to three chapters in a book on hedge funds each day or joining a local hedge fund association or club. To get a feel for where you might fit within the industry you need to learn the basics:Who are the major players in the industry?What terms/definitions are important to know? Which strategies hedge fund managers commonly employ?Step 3. Use the Three-Circles Strategy Jim Collins wrote a best-selling book in 1995 called "Good To Great." In his research, he found that the companies that made the leap from being good companies to becoming truly great companies employed what he called the "three-circles strategy." When facing a tough decision or turning point in their businesses, leaders of these corporations would draw three circles. One included options they were passionate about, one included options that took advantage of their experience and one included only those ideas which could be highly profitable. They would then consider only options that fell within the intersection of these three circles. In other words, to be successful in the hedge fund industry and make wise decisions along the way, it might help to consider only positions where you would be passionate about your work, draw off of your education and natural strengths and have the potential to be highly profitable.Step 4. Identify Hedge Fund Career¬†Mentors Early on in your exploration within the world of hedge funds, you should try to identify a couple of potential mentors with whom you could begin to develop a relationship. It usually takes some time to develop¬†mentoring relationships, but many successful people are happy to help others out if they have the time to do so. To impress a mentor, you will need to show commitment, a pro-active learning attitude, patience, humility and a hunger for learning as much as you.Step 5. Complete One or More Internships¬† Once you have become more knowledgeable about hedge funds and identified a potential mentor, you should start looking for internships. Even if you are working full-time in another position, conducting research for a hedge fund for five to 10 hours a week can be enough to expose you to how that hedge fund creates trading ideas or operates as a business. Try to work on-site if possible, but don't pass up a great learning opportunity if the only way to gain a hedge fund internship is by working remotely.¬†While you want to learn as much as possible during these internships, put yourself in the hedge fund employer's shoes - they are very busy and working hard in a competitive environment. Pay close attention to details and don't ask too many questions early on, or you will end up monopolizing more of their time than you are worth to them. Try to learn through being within the environment and picking things up as you go. Most hedge fund¬†internships will require you to work on a wide variety of tasks, some which may seem mundane but are of great help to others in the firm.¬†Step 6. Develop Your Unique Value PropositionNow that you have read articles, books and newsletters on hedge funds, completed a few internships and are developing mentoring relationships, it is time to figure out where you fit into the industry.What type of job would you like?What type of responsibilities are you seeking?This is similar to the three-circles strategy, except now you need to take more definite action toward deciding what role you will fill within the hedge fund industry. For example, if you want to be an¬†emerging markets¬†analyst, write a few¬†white papers¬†on emerging market investment analysis, or specialize your knowledge in one area by really digging in deep, say by interviewing at 10 emerging market funds and reading five well-researched books on the subject. Don't be generic; be unique and find something you are passionate about. Define a niche and become very knowledgeable in that area compared to the average investment professional. Be careful not to let your knowledge go to your head - coming off as too proud or arrogant can definitely make it hard to get hired or promoted.Step 7. Hedge Fund Job Tips Each hedge fund is different, but across the industry there is a set of typical characteristics and skills that many hedge fund employers look for. Here are some of them:Quantitative experience and abilities - How much money did you personally bring in to the firm or make for the last firm you worked for?Education - Ivy league, MBA,¬†quant-focused Ph.D.Signs of being loyal, passionate and humbleSomething extra, such as PR expertise, asset gathering ability or an information advantageCFA,¬†CAIA¬†or Chartered Hedge Fund Associate (CHA) designationsHigh-quality names from your last few hedge fund jobs or large¬†wire house¬†experienceA stomach for a high commission/bonus compensation structureStep 8. Land the Unadvertised Hedge Fund Job¬† One way of finding unadvertised job openings is by¬†cold-calling¬†companies and firms from online Chamber of Commerce listings, industry directories or associations. In the hedge fund industry this could be done by networking through the¬†Hedge Fund Group¬†(HFG),¬†Hedge Fund Association¬†(HFA),¬†HedgeWorld Service Provider Directory¬†or your local CFA society. Informational interviews can be a great way to land positions offering great training, experience and pay, and will be more relevant for you than a generic advertising. If you approach a small or fast-growing firm and show a true passion, commitment and confidence in working for them, a position can often be molded around your skill set. As a result, your job has much more potential to be a great fit with your strengths and desires.A Specialized Approach Take this approach to searching for a position in the hedge fund industry: Meet with four prime brokerage firms, two administrators, and 20 hedge fund analysts and portfolio managers. Explain who you are, and ask if you can treat them to coffee to learn more about their business. If you learn enough about their business, they will in turn ask what you are looking for and how they might be able to help you achieve your goals. When the meeting ends, ask for the names of two or three additional individuals who might be able to meet with you and watch your network grow.Step 9. Consider Hedge Fund Service Provider Jobs While some service provider jobs may seem less glorious than working directly for a hedge fund, there are great career opportunities for someone who is very experienced with¬†prime brokerage, risk management or hedge fund administration. These types of positions expose you to a large number of individual hedge fund managers who might decide to hire you away at some point for your specialized expertise or relationships. Prime brokerage jobs in particular can be a training ground for¬†fund-of-funds¬†marketing jobs and¬†third-party marketing¬†careers.¬†Step 10. Apply to Hedge Fund Jobs If you have worked through the previous nine steps, you now hopefully have a rough idea of what type of hedge fund strategy or service provider group you may want to work for. There are very few recruiters who will work with someone who has less than three years of experience working directly within the hedge fund industry. Many professionals successfully use experience from other industries to segue into the world of hedge funds, but recruiters usually will not work with this type of a placement candidate. Your best bets for getting that elusive placement are:The informational interview method aboveConnecting with hedge fund¬†professionals who graduated from your schoolJoining the Hedge Fund Group (HFG)Earning your CFA, CAIA or CHA designationAttending hedge fund conferences to connect with professionalsIf you get a chance to apply directly to a hedge fund, make sure you make the short list by following up with a phone call and asking to meet a few days after submitting your resume.The Bottom Line Most hedge funds want individuals who are hungry, humble and smart. If you keep this in mind while moving through the 10-step plan above, you should have a great chance of getting your first hedge fund job and beginning a successful hedge fund career.            This story was originally published by&nbsp;Investopedia.
All around, it's bad news for CNBC. According to a memo leaked to ValueWalk, the channel is experiencing their worst ratings in the all-important 25-54 age group bracket since 1994. In total views, ratings agency Nielsen said that June was the worst month CNBC had had since September 2004 ó in key shows too. Here's the breakdown for ages across the board: YIKES! The one bright spot is the Fast Money Halftime Report on at noon. Word is, host Scott Wapner (of Icahn-Ackman feud referee fame) has been thanking his guests for an awesome 22% y/o/y jump in the show's viewership among 25-54 year-olds. Someone's gotta do the heavy lifting.
REUTERS/Damir Sagolj Fake U.S. dollar banknotes are burnt during a ceremony to honour deceased ancestors in the old quarter of Hanoi October 26, 2010.Q2 earnings season is underway. One metric that everyone will follow closely is revenue, which tells us everything we need to know about the state of demand for stuff. "A closer look at the revenues estimates shows that analysts are expecting relatively anemic growth of 2.3% this year and 4.3% next year," noted Ed Yardeni, a veteran stock market strategist. So what's behind these weak numbers? "During the past year, weak foreign demand and FX exposure hurt sales results," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin. "Weak macro data in the first part of 2Q and dollar strengthening increase the likelihood of sales misses." Kostin and his team ran the numbers, and it appears that revenue surprises are correlated with the strength of the U.S. dollar.¬† In other words, when the dollar strengthens, companies will announce revenue results below analysts' expectations. From Kostin: Over the past year, weak foreign demand and FX exposure harmed sales results. In three of the past four quarters, the percentage of firms exceeding revenue estimates by one standard deviation or more was half of the 10-year average, while the percentage of firms missing sales estimates was 50%-100% higher than average. Revenue beats and misses are correlated to dollar strengthening. The percentage of misses in recent quarters was disproportionate to currency movements, indicating weaker demand also influenced sales results. We expect another disappointing quarter for revenues. Weak macro data in the first part of 2Q and dollar strengthening increases the likelihood of sales misses. We expect the percentage of companies missing top-line estimates will be above the ten-year average of 20%, but less severe in magnitude than recent quarters. Goldman Sachs
Mod Note: this was originally posted on May 24th, but never made it to the homepage. You can now also see part 2 here Hello all. Inspired by another user's idea a few weeks ago, I've decided to keep notes of my internship in progress this summer and begin to release write-ups of each week as the summer goes on in an effort to give back to the community (and because I enjoy writing). If there is enough interest, I'll continue the series. ---------------------- Monday morning arrived in the blink of an eye. Instructions were received ahead of time from HR concerning the logistics of orientation day: what to bring, when to arrive, and how to dress. Several of us met in front of the dorm building bright and early, well ahead of our scheduled arrival times, and set out to meet our makers. Training week is a relatively straightforward beast and should be treated as such. There are some common pitfalls that you will witness. Your homework or preassigned training by HR may or may not be requested; either way, itís good to start your summer strong by coming in ready to go, fresh on common finance and accounting material, with all of your bases covered. Now is a good time to shoot your staffers and assigned mentors an e-mail to introduce yourself if you havenít already. The training itself is marginally useful, but it is important to remember that academic settings (even those coordinated by investment banks themselves!) are not entirely reflective of what youíll actually be doing once you hit the floor. You will get out of the material what you put in; sit in the first few rows, keep yourself energized, and focus on the instructor. Unfortunately, most of us are not wired to be able to sit through hours and hours of lecturing a day and absorb all of the information efficiently. As such, I will break down my training week agenda and emphasize what is especially important and what youíll be able to sleep through and live to tell the tale at the end of the summer with an offer in hand. Orientation is a no-brainer. You come in, meet the HR people coordinating the summer analyst program, put on a name tag with your group and/or school listed, go through any clearance procedures that need doing if your bank didn't have you do them in advance, sit down, receive free company stuff and your ID badge, meet the other interns, and listen to bankers deliver motivational and cautionary advice about the experience that lies ahead. Simple enough. The true essence of a no-brainer is laying back and discovering the no-brainers in your intern class. Below I have compiled the contents of my training week into a neat table for your information. I will break them down accordingly. Monday ---------- 8:30 AM ñ Check-in with HR and have breakfast 10:30 AM ñ IBD group head welcomes the intern class 11:30 AM ñ HR summer analyst program managers introduce themselves 12:00 PM ñ Lunch break 1:00 PM ñ Lectures concerning compliance, expectations, summer logistics 4:30 PM ñ Break out into summer groups and meet with intern sponsors 5:00 PM ñ Welcome reception Tuesday ---------- 8:00 AM ñ Macroeconomics 10:00 AM ñ Technology and IT resources 11:00 AM ñ Accounting and financial statement analysis 12:30 PM ñ Lunch 1:30 PM ñ Accounting and financial statement analysis continued 4:00 PM ñ Financial statement analysis application and examples 6:00 PM ñ Accounting and financial statement analysis homework assigned Wednesday ---------- 8:00 AM ñ Homework review 9:00 AM ñ Financial modeling 12:00 PM ñ Lunch break 1:00 PM ñ Investment banking analyst position 1:30 PM ñ Group positions, responsibilities, and hierarchy 2:00 PM ñ Introduction to valuation 4:00 PM ñ Trading comparables 6:00 PM ñ Modeling homework assigned Thursday ---------- 8:00 AM ñ Homework review 9:00 AM ñ DCF 12:00 PM ñ Lunch 1:00 PM ñ DCF continued 4:00 PM ñ Combined application of different valuation methods 6:00 PM ñ Valuation homework assigned Friday ---------- 8:00 AM ñ Homework review 9:00 AM ñ Equity research 10:00 AM ñ Research, presentation services, and IB resources 12:00 PM ñ Lunch 1:00 PM ñ Pitchbooks 4:00 PM ñ Closing In summary, training day is all about introductions and first impressions. Your HR program managers will be in attendance, and you should take a few seconds out of the multiple intersessions to shake their hands. Equally important is taking the time to meet the other interns around you. If you attend a non-target school, this is the opportunity to plug yourself into the clique of elite institutions and its future Wall Streeters. I've heard several bankersí accounts of how they still make it a point to meet up with their intern class colleagues to this day. Besides, you never know when youíre going to need a favor over the course of the next couple months; it usually helps to have some rapport built in advance. Make it a point to remember everyoneís name. Not because theyíre going to remember yours, but because it elevates you in their eyes when you recount theirs effortlessly at a later date, almost as if they now owe you something as they fumble around their mindsí innermost recesses for a remote clue as to your identity. For the rest of the day (yes, there's more) head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Wednesday afternoon after the company announced it was projection $575 million in Q2 revenues against $630 million estimates.† Today, Goldman Sachs, JMP Securities, Raymond James, and Canaccord Genuity each downgraded the stock to "Hold" or its equivalent, Barrons' Teresa Rivas says. She notes Cowen and Co. wrote the robotic surgery industry is facing huge cost pressures.
rehobothrealestate.comRetired mortgage banker Bill Blomquist and his wife Diane are selling their Delaware beach house for $7.5 million, the Wall Street Journal reports. Tucked away on three lots in Rehoboth Beach, the 8,400-square-foot home is built on land that the Blomquists bought in 1977 for $225,000.¬† The Blomquists, their three children, and 13 grandchildren have been using the sprawling beach home for years. With stunning views at 4,300 square feet of deck space, it certainly makes for a nice vacation. Plus it's quieter than the Hamptons. Bryce Lingo and Shaun Tull of Jack Lingo have the listing.
She noted that the global economic recovery was advancing at mainly three different speeds from an average 5.5% in emerging economies, to 2.0% in advanced countries like the US and Australia, to no growth in the dead-in-the-water economies of the euro zone. Lagarde said, ìWe therefore had a [global] growth forecast which was about 3.3%. But I am afraid when taking into account what we are currently seeing in the economies of the emerging countries in particular ... I am afraid that we are perhaps a little bit below.î  So why did S&amp;P 500 forward expected revenues rise to another record high at the end of June? Those expectations drive analystsí estimates for forward earnings, which is also at a record high. These 500 companies generate at least half of their sales overseas.  A closer look at the revenues estimates shows that analysts are expecting relatively anemic growth of 2.3% this year and 4.3% next year. Those estimates actually are weaker than the IMFís forecasts of nominal world GDP growth rates of 5%-6% this year and next year. Other global economic indicators confirm that record highs are being set, but at a relatively slow speed.†Today's Morning Briefing: Three Speeds.†(1) IMF chief sending smoke signals: Slower growth ahead. (2) Fast-growing emerging economies are slowing. (3) US is in second gear. (4) Europe is dead in the water. (5) Global economic indicators rising to record highs at slow pace. (6) S&amp;P 500 forward revenues and earnings at record highs again. (7) BRICs hit a wall. (8) Germany remains stalled. (9) US looking great by comparison. (10) Overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transports beating S&amp;P 500. (11) Trucking index cruises to new high. (12) Earnings season line-up. Dr. Ed's Blog

For years, the post-financial crisis economic recovery was a jobless one as Americans struggled to find work ‚Äî and as we point out after every non-farm payrolls announcement, the U.S. is still not where it needs to be.¬† Today, Capital Economics' Paul Dales declares that era over. We have officially entered the "job-full recovery" era. The main evidence: payrolls have been growing faster than GDP for the past nine months.¬† Dales says this is probably the result of a limit reached on productivity spending: A lot of this is due to the slowdown in productivity growth. Since businesses made the most obvious and largest efficiency gains during the recession, there is less scope for any further improvements now. That means productivity growth is likely to remain low. Any additional increases in demand therefore need to be accompanied by further increases in employment. Here's the chart showing what he means: Paul Dales/Capital Economics It also may be a reflection that GDP has come way down as a result of declining investment by government. Dales says a given drop in government spending affects employment less than it does in private industry ‚Äî the result, he posits, of things like unions and the fact that government is inherently less labor intensive. This of course has implications for the Fed and the end of QE: The upshot is that until the drag on growth from falls in government spending starts to fade toward the end of this year, the employment figures will probably continue to look better than the GDP data. Given that the Fed has said it is placing particular emphasis on the labour market, a continuation of weak GDP growth in the very near-term won‚Äôt prevent it from tapering QE3 from September.¬† An intriguing mix of trends for markets.
I recently discussed how traders were stampeding out of gold as a result of rising interest rates and the threat of evaporating monetary fluid that was lubricating markets. Hovering around $1,200 at the beginning of July, the gold price has completely disconnected from the precious metalís fundamentals, in my opinion. Prices have fallen too far out of fear, but the drivers for gold are still in place. My friend and highly respected analyst, Gregory Weldon, highlighted an important point about rising rates in the U.S. The coupon on the nationís $13.22 trillion debt averages 1.88 percent with an average maturity of 5.4 years. As interest rates rise, debt will be rolled over at a higher rate, making the burden even greater than it already is. This suggests a likely tipping point for Treasuries. Will the Federal Reserve suppress yields at that ìline in the sand?î In this environment, gold should remain attractive. However, as the West flees the precious metal, another set of gold buyers has come forward with the aim to preserve wealth. Take a look at the chart below which shows total gold production compared to the gold deliveries on the COMEX and the Shanghai Gold Exchange. In May, gold imports into the Asian giant rose to the second-highest level ever. While mining production is around 1,134 tons so far this year, gold delivery on the Shanghai Gold Exchange is 918 tons. This is strikingly in contrast to the gold delivery on the COMEX, which stands at only 103 tons year-to-date as of the end of May. In fact, this yearís demand is so significant that the physical gold delivered on the Shanghai Gold Exchange through May is almost all of the official gold reserves in China! As George Topping of Stifel Nicolaus puts it, ìAnnualizing 2013 year-to-date figures, Chinaís imports would be equivalent to 50 percent of [world] mine production.î China may be devouring even more of the supply in the future if the price of gold remains subdued. Iíve been talking with several gold company executives, who tell me they are seeing squeezed margins because of lower grade finds, as well as governments raising taxes or increasing royalty rates. The top priority for these miners today is cost control, focusing their efforts on viable projects that have all-in costs of less than $1,000 per ounce of gold. If spending is too expensive, exploration is cut and production is halted. This is an extremely conservative amount, as some gold mining projects in certain countries come in significantly higher. The CEO of Gold Fields recently indicated that the average all-in cost in Africa is $1,500! This is a similar phenomenon to the supply of natural gas recently. When there were huge discoveries in the commodity, companies immediately halted drilling. Thereís a notable difference in drilling gas versus mining gold, though: The natural gas cycle is shorter and measured in months, so there can be a relatively quick recovery in supply. When gold companies cut production, the restart cycle can take decades. To me, these supply and demand drivers point to a sustained higher gold price. † Want to receive more insights on gold, natural resources and emerging markets? Provide us with your email address and youíll receive a note every time Frank Holmes updates his blog. You can also follow U.S. Global on Twitter or Facebook. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. The following security mentioned was held by one or more of U.S. Global Investors Funds as of 3/31/13: Gold Fields.
Yesterday Reuters reported that Bill Ackman is calling on pension funds and endowments to commit $1 billion to two new funds that would take an activist stake in an unnamed American company. Today, FedEx stock is going absolutely gangbusters, up 6%ó so maybe this is the one people (h/t Street Insider). It certainly fits the Ackman profile. In the letter leaked to Reuters he wrote that the company was "simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow -generative and enjoys high barriers to entry." He also said that it "substantially lower multiple of earnings than its most comparable competitor." Ackman is known for his successful activist positions in Procter and Gamble and McDonald's and less than successful positions in Target and Herbalife. A representative from Pershing Square has said that Ackman is declining comment. And as investors have until July 17th to commit $1 million, that makes sense. From Reuters: "We are launching two new co-investment funds PS V, L.P. and PS V International," Ackman wrote in a three-page letter dated July 8 and seen by Reuters. "Because of confidentiality considerations, it is not prudent for us to share the target company name with all of our 500+ investors," he added. FYI ó July 17th is the date of CNBC's Delivering Alpha hedge fund conference, Ackman is not a speaker, however. For more on this head to Reuters, or check out the FedEx chart below. Yahoo Finance
Both Hollywood and¬†Wall Street¬†are larger-than-life places, so it's only natural that the two have come together on numerous occasions. Classic Wall Street films such as "Working Girl" (1988), "Trading Places" (1983) and "Wall Street" (1987) focus on the world of¬†New York's financial district and its workers. But how accurate are the characters and the roles they portray in these popular movies? Read on to find out.¬†The Alternative Asset Manager - Michael Douglas as Gordon Gecko in "Wall Street"¬†Alternative asset¬†manager is a catch-all phrase that refers to¬†hedge fund¬†managers,¬†private equity specialists and other nontraditional asset managers. Successful hedge fund and private equity managers sit at the very pinnacle of the Wall Street hierarchy.¬†Although alternative asset managers employ a variety of techniques to make money, they share the following two general characteristics:¬† As might be expected, the career path is difficult. Many candidates have graduate degrees and prior experience as¬†analysts,¬†traders¬†or¬†investment bankers. Once prospects have acquired the necessary expertise, they may be able to raise money to start their own funds. In prosperous times, it is relatively easy for individuals with strong backgrounds to raise large sums of money, but in times of tight credit this becomes a far more difficult proposition. For those who do manage to start their own funds, the failure rate is high.¬†In the movie "Wall Street,"Michael Douglas plays Gordon Gecko, a Wall Street titan whose activities fall under the umbrella of alternative asset management. Gecko's days are filled with meetings, phone calls and pressure-packed trades. Even when Gecko is not in the office, he still seems to be working, often on many things at once. This portrayal is pretty accurate; a typical high-level alternative asset manager has busy days filled with high-stakes decisions. Anyone interested in¬†such a career¬†must be able to handle pressure, be proficient at multitasking, be willing to work long hours and be able to thrive in a highly competitive environment.¬†The Stockbroker - Charlie Sheen as Bud Foxx in¬†"Wall Street" A¬†career as a successful stockbroker¬†is an exciting and rewarding one. The compensation can be excellent, the work is challenging and many brokers enjoy the satisfaction of helping their clients achieve their financial goals.In order to reach this point, however, stockbrokers must endure a period as a "rookie" broker. For most, this period is a difficult one, with relatively low pay, long hours and the frustrating ordeal of cold calling prospects for business. Successful brokers work hard, are driven to succeed, don't fear rejection and are passionate about the financial markets.¬† For the most part, Charlie Sheen's character in the movie "Wall Street" is a fairly typical young stockbroker. Bud Foxx is ambitious and hard working; he makes numerous phone calls during the day, gets hung up on frequently and tolerates rejection well. He also works late at night analyzing stocks and desperately wants to succeed in the business and become a "player." Foxx is so dedicated that he calls his idol, Gordon Gecko, for months on end in order to win his business. Foxx provides an excellent example of the hard work, perseverance and tenacity necessary to succeed as a Wall Street broker.¬† The Commodity Trader - Eddie Murphy as Billy Ray Valentine in "Trading Places""Trading Places" focuses on the exciting world of¬†commodity¬†traders and portrays it in a relatively accurate manner. Most notably, the film depicts the volatile nature of commodities markets, where a trader can be wiped out in a day. One famous real-world example is Brian Hunter from the Amaranth hedge fund. Hunter was a fantastically successful commodity trader until he lost $6 billion in the span of a couple weeks and forced his company into¬†liquidation.¬†Some of the best scenes in "Trading Places" are those that depict the action in the commodities trading¬†pits. These provide an excellent view of an exciting corner of Wall Street, but one that has steadily declined in importance. Since the advent of computers, more and more trading occurs electronically and by traders working at desks. The exciting visual and audio spectacle of the brightly colored floor traders screaming out orders has not disappeared from the landscape, but it is becoming rare.¬†Eddie Murphy's character this movie is a new commodity trader who makes a meteoric ascent from newcomer to toast of the town. The possibility of such a rapid rise is one of the great attractions of a¬†career as a Wall Street trader. However, while Murphy's character is a fairly good approximation of a newcomer to the trading world, the speed of his ascent is somewhat exaggerated. Rapid progress in a trading career is possible, but going from newcomer to head trader by Christmas is unrealistic. Nevertheless, for smart, ambitious employees, trading offers the possibility of more rapid advancement than almost any other career imaginable.¬†The Investment Banker - Melanie Griffith As Tess McGill In¬†"Working Girl"¬† Investment bankers have been featured in several movies, including "Working Girl," "American Psycho" (2000) and "Barbarians at the Gate" (1993). These movies faithfully portray several aspects of the investment banker's job, including long hours, frequent meetings and the pressure that comes from working in a business where a single deal can define a career. When Harrison Ford comments in "Working Girl" that "you're only as good as your last deal," he accurately sums up the investment banking business. Those who are interested in a career in investment banking should consider whether they are willing to put in the long hours, hard work, extensive travel and often tedious duties necessary to progress to the top of this field.¬†In "Working Girl," Melanie Griffith plays a secretary eager to¬†break into the ranks of investment banking. She is ultimately successful, but unfortunately, her character's success is more the exception than the norm. Although there is always the possibility that a talented, intelligent, hard-working individual can find a place in investment banking, the vast majority of senior employees have a certain career and educational background. This background almost always includes an undergraduate degree from a strong university; most mid-level and senior investment bankers also have a¬†Master of Business Administration¬†(MBA) or other graduate degree.¬†The most popular career path to investment banking includes working as an analyst at ani investment bank¬†for two or three years after college, attending graduate school and then returning to investment banking at positions of increasing responsibility. Compared to trading, a career in investment banking often takes somewhat longer to develop, although progress can still be very quick by traditional standards.¬†The Bottom LineHollywood¬†often sensationalizes the lives and careers of Wall Street workers, but many aspects of these portrayals are quite accurate, allowing viewers to gain valuable insight into what a Wall Street career might actually be like. The movies also include cautionary lessons that the unprincipled pursuit of wealth and power often results in a catastrophic fall. Movie watchers considering a career in finance should remember these lessons as they pursue a career that might place them in positions of great power and responsibility.
Business Insider is looking for an Editor to oversee our Strategy and Careers sections. Our coverage brings together insights and data on major issues for employers and employees alike. Some of these issues include: The ideal candidate has these characteristics: If this sounds like your dream job, send a brief email to me at¬†jliebman [at] businessinsider.com. No resumes accepted. Instead, provide a link to your LinkedIn profile, as well as 3 links to online writing clips you're most proud of.¬† In your email, please explain in one paragraph why you're the one for the job.¬†
LinkedIn As the host of Bloomberg Surveillance on Bloomberg TV and Radio, Tom Keene gets to talk to a lot of smart people on a daily basis. Naturally, a lot of interesting insights are borne out of these discussions, and a lot of times, there is no better way to visualize those insights than with a good chart. So, we asked Keene which charts he is watching closely right now.†Here's what he sent us. Bloomberg TV "The U.S. unemployment rate migrates to a better place. An extrapolation suggests late 2014 will bring us a 6.5% America. But is that good enough? Economists are trying to game the new NAIRU (an unemployment rate that jives with stable price change and better than good Red Sox middle relief.) "My interviews suggest a real mystery over where NAIRU should land. Crisis Over: Onward, in search of NAIRU." Bloomberg TV "Here is full-time jobs compared to the employed. There are fewer. Part-time jobs? There are more. 82 to 83% of employed seems a comfortable band of where we were comfortable. We are distant from that: by a near 3 million employed. Welcome to part-time America." Bloomberg TV "What is the equivalent to the Plaza Hotel in Beijing? After the Plaza Accord, this Accord and that Accord, we had The Rubin Dollar. Here is the Real T-W Dollar...descending. The Group Think suggests a strong dollar is inevitable. Sara Eisen, book the flight to Beijing now. Call it the Lew dollar." Bloomberg TV "Here is JPY-CNY showing a perennial weakening of the renminbi, then a nice range. Abenomics is all about Japan, or is it? China and others, see Seoul, have to adjust to Tokyo's adjustment. Yen-Yuan is Yuan stronger and at a critical point. Call it Beijingnomics." Bloomberg TV "Here is one representation of inflation-adjusted gold. Note the gentle slide of a depreciated $35 an ounce over to the left, the early-1980s gold-coins-in-the-bedroom-dresser spike and the latest reversal. I have placed a line at $900 an ounce because a) many gnomes suggest that is a critical price level and b) I don't have enough incoming e-mail and need now, I say now, love notes from gold buggish types who say in one form or another, 'Tom, we hate you.'" Bloomberg TV "Kenneth Rogoff told me years ago that the single question of America's future was investment. It is rumored that investment leads to jobs and jobs lead to political stability. Here is U.S. investment, semi-log, showing the percent change. Slope Matters. The slope has gone flat and indicates a $1 trillion plus shortfall in investment presuming it was and should be morning in America. At least for investment, this time is different." Bloomberg TV "Here is the inflation-adjusted DJIA priced to 2013 over on the right side of the chart. As an approximation, my 201(k) has recovered near 301(k) levels. I was 2% in equities in March 2009 and have deworsified myself into a 20% equity position only because Barry Ritholtz, Mario Gabelli, Liz Ann Sonders, Howard Ward, Abby Joseph Cohen, Tony Dwyer, Brian Belski, Tobias Levkovich and on and on gave me courage. Okay, all. If you're so smart, now what? Hey Michael! Do I sell JPM the day Jamie retires?" Bloomberg TV "Scarlet Fu is in charge of my trading account. Without telling her, I went way long AAPL on the sidewalk of their 5th avenue store at 4 am the day of the iPhone 5 launch. Larry Haverty thought I was a fool. Scarlet Fu thought I was a greater fool. I need the latest and greatest. I need to be current. We'll get back to $1000...someday. In the meantime, Scarlet is just killing me. 'Tom,†you're so bougie.'" Bloomberg TV "This is not funny. Inflation-adjusted hourly earnings were seriously inflation-adjusted decades ago. Then a period of spirit. We have returned to the depressed wage growth of another time except this time...with little inflation. The Surveillance Gulfstream awaits me. I am suitably bow-tied. For too many Americans a decade has passed them by. It is an anxious America."
We've been a bit taken aback by economist David Rosenberg's new found optimism. "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?" he said quoting economist John Maynard Keynes. The long-time bearish economist adopted a decidedly rosy tone in the wake of last Friday's strong jobs report. "We have the third act in full swing, which is the healing of the labour market," he said yesterday. In today's Breakfast With Dave note, Rosenberg declares the death of the painful deleveraging cycle. DELEVERAGING ... R.I.P. Well, one headwind is now behind us. The consumer deleveraging cycle. This by no means suggests we are entering into a whole new credit cycle. But at the margin, the inability to access loans that plagued the consumer for so long has dissipated rather substantially of late. And just as the labour market embarks on an improving trend and just as the fiscal squeeze enters into its final stage. The building blocks for the consumer to grab the torch are being put together with each and every passing data point of late. Don't fight it. Embrace it. He delves into yesterday's bullish consumer credit balance report from the Federal Reserve. The latest data point was the consumer credit data from the Fed for May ‚Äî rising $19.6 billion (the consensus was +12.5 billion) or at an 8.3% annual rate, in the fastest pace of borrowing since May 2012. The gains were broad based with revolving credit up at a 9.3% annual rate, the strongest advance since May last year, and nonrevolving credit was also up at a 7.9% annual rate, but we know that in recent years, this was more of a federally-assisted student loan story than a tale about the consumer sector again willing to tap the credit lines for spending purposes. In fact, stripping out the federal government, credit lines for spending purposes. In fact, stripping out the federal government, credit surged at an 8.9% annual rate and the YOY trend ticked up to +2.5%. At the banks, consumer credit is up 2.8% from year-ago levels. Consumer credit extended by savings institutions is up 6%. Credit unions have lent out funds to the consumer sector at a 10.2% pace over the past year (thanks to George Bailey!). And asset pools backed by consumer credit are also up 2.6%. Are these ripping credit numbers? Absolutely not. The new era is still one of prudence and frugality compared with the insanity and excesses of the last cycle. But deflationary deleveraging this ain't. Gluskin Sheff
REUTERS/Mike HutchingsUntil today, billionaire South African Tokyo Sexwale (prounced "seh-wa-le," unfortunately) was the country's housing minister. But Jacob Zuma's leadership shake-up saw Sexwale¬†‚Äî the major anti-apartheid crusader and diamond mogul considered to be a political challenger to the president¬†‚Äî removed from the cabinet. Sexwale has a crazy life story to go with that name (the "Tokyo" moniker derives from his childhood love of karate).¬† In the late 1970s, he was charged with terrorism and conspiracy and sent to Robben Island where he met fellow political prisoner Nelson Mandela, who had been sent there 12 years prior. Sexwale was released in 1990, and like something out a movie, he ended up marrying Judy¬†van Vuuren, the paralegal that represented him while he was in prison. When he came to power in 1994, Mandela named Sexwale premier of Gauteng province, the region home to both¬†Johannesburg and Pretoria. Sexwale would eventually leave politics for business, becoming a major oil and diamond mining magnate, though his name was floated as a possible successor to Mandela. That honor would go to Thabo Mbeki. In 2007, Sexwale reportedly planned to challenge Mbeki, but never did. Things would also turn sour for Sexwale's marriage, scandalizing South Africa with a bitter divorce in February.¬†It got ugly. Sexwale accused his wife of emailing out illegal hardcore pornography while she accused him of shielding his finances. Those finances are impressive. Sexwale made an absolute fortune from his company, which was once lauded by fellow diamond tycoon¬†Harry Oppenheimer. In 2009, Sexwale declared his wealth to be approximately $2 billion rand (nearly $200 million). The divorce also helped shine some light on all of Sexwale's toys¬†too: the requisite yacht, vineyards, Learjet, and even a $70 million island. In 2009, Zuma appointed Sexwale as¬†Minister of Human Settlements, but it was no secret that Sexwale still had presidential aspirations. Now out of power, those ambitions will have to wait. At least this is his new girlfriend.
Why are 15 year mortgages cheaper than 30 year mortgages? The answer has to do with the interest-rate curve.† Contrary to what some may believe, the economy does not have one interest rate, but rather an infinite number of market-based rates, and dozens of important benchmark rates that determine the cost of money to different groups of borrowers. Mortgage interest rates respond to market-based interest rates, which may be seen as an upward-sloping curve on a graph, showing a Y-axis of % interest rates and an X-axis of different loan ìtermsî that represent the cost of money for time periods from 1 day, to 3 months to 30 years. Generally, 15-year mortgage interest rates trade somewhat below 30-year rates, as lenders charge less to lend money for 15 years than 30 years. For that matter, generally 3, 5, and 7 year mortgage rates are lower than 15-year or 30-year rates, which is where the ëteaserí rates for adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) come from, before those interest rates float upwards at the end of a their 3, 5, and 7-year fixed period.† Mortgage borrowers historically refinanced after the fixed period, making it statistically reasonable ñ in pre-2008 crisis times ñ to charge lower rates for 3, 5, and 7-year interest rates.† The fact that ARMs got combined in a toxic manner with sub-prime lending temporarily gave ARMs a bad name, although I think theyíre great products, and I got a 5-year ARM in 2001 and a later a 3-year ARM in 2006. Please see related Mortgage posts: Part I ñ I refinanced my mortgage and today Iím a Golden God Part II ñ Should I pay my mortgage early? Part IV ñ What are Mortgage Points?† Are they good, bad or indifferent? Part V ñ Is mortgage debt ëgood debtí A dangerous drug?† Or Both? Part VI ñ What happens at the Wall Street level to my mortgage? - See more at: http://www.bankers-anonymous.com/blog/mortgages-part-iii-15-year-vs-30-year-mortgages/#sthash.Eerqfngj.dpuf
Completed foreclosures in the U.S. fell 27% to 52,000 in May, according to CoreLogic's latest report. They did, however, rise 3.5% month-over-month.¬† This number represents the number of homes lost to foreclosure. And there have been 4.4 million completed foreclosures since the financial crisis began.¬† Shadow inventory fell to under 2 million or 5.3 month supply in April. This is down 34% from its peak of 3 million in 2010, and down 18% from a year ago. The value of shadow inventory was $314 billion as of April, down from $386 billion the previous month. Meanwhile, 2.3 million mortgages or 5.6% of all mortgages were seriously delinquent.¬† This is where mortgage payments are delinquent for 90 days or more. This is the biggest driver of foreclosure inventory, and was at the lowest level since December 2008. "We continue to see a sharp drop in foreclosures around the country and with it a decrease in the size of the shadow inventory," Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic said in a press release. "Affordability, despite the rise in home prices over the past year, and consumer confidence are big contributors to these positive trends,‚Äù . ‚ÄúWe are particularly encouraged by the broad- based nature of the housing market recovery so far in 2013." Here are some details from the report: This chart shows the supply of shadow inventory: CoreLogic

Wikimedia CommonsBitcoin has lots of problems. But some say one in particular has received scant attention: "mining" the currency requires solving random equations that are ultimately pointless. This uses up a lot of computing power and energy, and it's all a total waste. Primecoin (as spotted by @guan) seeks to address this problem. The digital currency, whose home for now remains at coding site Github, would be "mined" instead by contributing to massive computing projects like Stanford's disease-cure software or SETI, the project to search for extraterrestrial life. Or, as its name suggests, tracking down long chains of †prime numbers. Here's how that would work, via Bitcoin magazine's Vitalik Bauterin: There are three specific types of chains that are of interest:†Cunningham chains†of the first kind, Cunningham chains of the second kind, and ìbi-twinî chains. The rule behind a Cunningham chain of the first kind is that each prime in the chain must be one less than twice the previous. The first Cunningham chain of length 5, for example, consists of the following six primes: 1531, 3061, 6121, 12241, 24481 In Cunningham chains of the second kind, each prime must be one more than twice the previous. Here, the first length-5 chain appears much sooner: 2, 5, 11, 23, 47 Finally, bi-twin chains are chains of pairs of twin primes, or primes that are 2 units apart from each other, with the average of each pair being twice the average of the previous pair. Each bi-twin chain must obviously have even length; the first chain six primes long is: 211049, 211051, 422099, 422101, 844199, 844201 Why is solving primes important? Bauterin explains: searching for primes leads to useful byproducts in other areas of number theory, provides an incentive for computational hardware development and leads to insights in the underlying workings of prime numbers themselves Primecoin would have a long way to catch up with Bitcoin, but things move fast in the crypto-currency world, so anything could happen.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithJanet Yellen, the Fed's vice chair and likely successor to Ben Bernanke, loves the JOLTS report¬†‚Äî the BLS' batch of labor market stats due out this morning. Historically, the "Job Openings and Labor Market Survey" has not been as market moving as, say, the BLS' employment situation report. But if Yellen ‚Äî¬†who has cited JOLTS as a source of economic intel¬†‚Äî ascends to the Fed throne, market watchers will keep a keen eye on the report. So here's where we're at ahead of this morning's report. Job openings are on the rise. Companies are putting more jobs on the market.  FRED But hires have flatlined.¬†Firms haven't been able to fill all of those new positions. FRED Layoffs have plunged. New openings, stagnant hires, but record low firings? What's going on? It could be "labor hoarding" ‚Äî¬†firms basically hanging on to the employees that made it through the rough patch. And this is actually a bigger problem than you might think. During the crisis, businesses cut labor costs as much as possible, but at a certain point they couldn't cut anymore. Firms "hoarded," maximizing the productivity of the labor that remained. It seems as though we may still be in that cycle, with meaningful hires yet to break through. FRED Quits are up.¬†Also a good sign, as quitting your job is a sign of market confidence. FRED
flickr / Steve SnodgrassThe International Monetary Fund is out with its latest quarterly outlook for global GDP growth, and it contains several downward revisions to the estimates published by the Fund in April. The IMF lowered its 2013 global GDP growth forecast to 3.1% from 3.3%. 2013 U.S. GDP growth estimates were revised down to 1.7% from 1.9%. The IMF expects euro area GDP to contract 0.6% in 2013, downgraded from the previous estimate of a 0.3% contraction. 2014 global growth forecasts were revised down to 3.8% from 4.0%, while 2014 U.S. growth was revised down to 2.7% from 3.0%, and euro area growth was revised down to 0.9% from 1.1%. Below is a summary from the report, titled "Growing Pains": Global growth is projected to remain subdued at slightly above 3 percent in 2013, the same as in 2012. This is less than forecast in the April 2013 World Economic Outlook (WEO), driven to a large extent by appreciably weaker¬†domestic demand and slower growth in several key emerging market economies, as well as by a more protracted¬†recession in the euro area. Downside risks to global growth prospects still dominate: while old risks remain, new¬†risks have emerged, including the possibility of a longer growth slowdown in emerging market economies,¬†especially given risks of lower potential growth, slowing credit, and possibly tighter financial conditions if the¬†anticipated unwinding of monetary policy stimulus in the United States leads to sustained capital flow reversals. Stronger global growth will require additional policy action. Specifically, major advanced economies should¬†maintain a supportive macroeconomic policy mix, combined with credible plans for reaching medium-term debt¬†sustainability and reforms to restore balance sheets and credit channels. Many emerging market and developing¬†economies face a trade-off between macroeconomic policies to support weak activity and those to contain capital outflows. Macroprudential and structural reforms can help make this trade-off less stark. The table below details changes to the IMF's forecasts. International Monetary Fund
The stock market is about to open at 9:30, but futures have been spiking since around 8:45. Right now, S&amp;P 500 futures are up 0.6% trading around 1646. Treasuries are rallying as well. Right now, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 1 basis point lower from yesterday's close at 2.63%. The chart below shows the jump in stock futures this morning. Thinkorswim

REUTERS/Peter AndrewsLast year was one for the ages for American oil production, as production grew a record 14%. 2013 has been a different story. In a new note, AllianceBernstein's Bob Brackett argues U.S. oil production is now at an inflection point: Halfway through the year, growth has ground to a halt: With EIA weekly production data through July 3rd, we are halfway through the year and production is up 282,000 KBOPD ¬†(thousand barrels of oil per day), or 564 KBOPD annualized. This number is below previous 800 KBOPD of growth (2012 v 2011) (Exhibit 9) and 1,000 KBOPD of growth (Dec-2012 v Dec-2011). Here are the charts: weekly production data ... Bob Brackett/Bernstein And rig count growth, which has also flattened: Bob Brackett/Bernstein What's driving the slowdown? Some of it is refinery maintenance. But Brackett has suggested¬†elsewhere that productivity and recovery rates may have peaked and production is becoming more expensive. Brackett concludes that crude prices have not yet responded to this supply freeze ‚Äî meaning they'll only continue to go up.¬†
Bank of America Merrill Lynch recently reiterated its call for a big climb-down in the electric car maker's share price citing unrealistic growth expectations.¬† Oracle is moving to NYSE.

REUTERS/StringerGood morning! Here's what you need to know:
Talk of who will be the next Fed chair is getting louder and louder. The favorite is Fed Vice-Chair Janet Yellen, but another name that's reportedly in the mix is economist Larry Summers, who has had a long career in the public spotlight in this administration, the Clinton administration, and as the President of Harvard. In Ben White's Morning Money newsletter, the argument for Larry Summers (made by a supporter) is that¬† he has the chops to deal with some kind of foreign economic crisis, should one arise. ‚ÄúWith Geithner gone, Bernanke leaving, [David] Lipton at IMF and [Michael] Froman at USTR, he‚Äôs the only veteran of the financial firefights around Mexico (‚Äò94), Asia (‚Äò97-‚Äò98), and the aftermath of 2008 who is ready to step up. While that world seems reasonably quiet right now, the White House doesn‚Äôt underestimate the risk of another ‚Äòevent‚Äô in the next 3 years that could undermine the recovery. ‚Ä¶ So, LHS is a battled tested veteran who knows his way around the international financial system like no one else. Hard to discount that. As for why now, I have no idea but the White house shouldn‚Äôt let this drift into fall. Any confirmation will be tough (even Bernanke‚Äôs reappointment was harder than it should have been) and you need to give the Senate time to chew it over.‚Äù Given the latest gyrations in emerging markets, as well as China, this is a pretty legitimate point to consider.
David Rosenberg, the long-time top economist at Merrill Lynch and current top strategist at Gluskin Sheff, has earned a reputation as being a perma-bear for his gloomy commentary on the markets. But since Friday's jobs report, Rosenberg's tone has turned decidedly bullish. Indeed, he has already published his "Ten Reasons To Love The U.S. Employment Report." In his latest Breakfast With Dave note, Rosenberg goes even further: JOBS DATA A GAME CHANGER First came the healing in the credit markets in 2009-2010. Then came the healing in the housing market from 2011 to now. And now we have the third act in full swing, which is the healing of the labour market. It's not merely the +195k in the headline payroll data for June and the upward revisions that really made it a +265k reading. It was the fact that the private sector added 202k net new jobs and that basically has been the norm now for the past five months. Considering the magnitude of this year's intense fiscal squeeze, only the most ardent pessimist would regard this anything than downright impressive. In the leveraged 2002-2007 cycle, the average monthly gain in private payrolls was 136k. In the tech boom 1992-2000 cycle, the average was 210k. So I'll leave it up to you to judge how the current pace of 200k should be treated in that context. The case for the Fed's above-consensus forecasts to be met this time around, especially as the budget cuts fade in 2014, looks pretty strong to me... Wow. That would fly as bullish for even the most bullish economists.
Last night, Chinese CPI came in hotter than expected. This is problematic, since the economy is weakening, and any extra inflation means less breathing room for the People's Bank of China to ease policy. Mamta Badkar walked through all of the data here. Anyway, one chart that stands out is the chart of the pork price inflation. With pork being such a crucial part of the Chinese diet, this is always a big red flag. You can see that the month-over-month change in pork prices was the biggest spike this year. Nomura Says Nomura: Rising inflation limits the room for policy easing and reinforces our view that credit and money growth will continue to drop in coming months. We expect CPI inflation to remain at around 2.7% in Q3, then climb to above 3% in Q4. This will limit the ability of the People<U+201F>s Bank of China to cut the benchmark deposit rate, which is at 3%. The rise in pork prices poses further upside risks to CPI inflation. We maintain our view that GDP growth will trend down in H2 to 7.3% and we assign a 30% chance to GDP growth falling below 7% in either Q3 or Q4
Just a quick heads up for your radar. Nomura's geopolitical guru flashes a light on Spain, where he has concerns about a corruption scandal, possible social unrest, and early elections. Storm clouds gathering‚Ä¶ In early February of this year, the Spanish newspaper El Pa√≠s carried allegations that the ruling Partido Popular (PP) had systematically been abusing party finance laws. We wrote as follows in our 5 February 2013 report ‚ÄòItaly and Spain: Still in tandem‚Äô: ‚ÄúSlush fund allegations first made in the Spanish newspaper El Pa√≠s, although strongly denied by Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy over the weekend, appear to have caused markets to ask whether the early-year rally in peripherals could be cut short as political tensions in Spain deepen. In consequence, 4 February saw the biggest one-day rise in the yield on the Spanish 10-year bond this year ‚Äì 23 basis points to 5.44% as investors appeared to look to price in the risk that tensions will deepen still further.‚Ä¶ We doubt that this story is likely to disappear quickly. Indeed, political tensions‚Ä¶ look like persisting and deepening. Furthermore, as Tobias Buck reports in the 4 February Financial Times: ‚Äò‚Ä¶the scandal has undermined the credibility of the Rajoy government at a time when public trust in key institutions of the state is already in steep decline‚Äô. Such sentiment is now being reflected in opinion polls with the government‚Äôs approval rating down almost six points since the story first broke to just 24%.‚Äù On 7 July, another newspaper, El Mundo, carried an interview in which former PP treasurer, Luis B√°rcenas, who was arrested and detained in late July in connection with the allegations, claimed that the party had systematically broken campaign finance laws for at least 20 years and threatened further revelations. Writing in the Financial Times on 8 July, Mr Buck commented that this ‚Äúmarked a potentially dramatic turn in the high profile scandal‚Äù (although we note that it is a ‚Äòturn‚Äô which has yet to cause any visible reaction in bond markets). That said, Mr B√°rcenas is quoted as saying that he is presently unwilling to release all the information he possesses, claiming that: ‚ÄúIn the current circumstances, the last thing that Spain needs is this government to fall‚Äù.
Well here we are. Almost back to all-time highs on the markets. As you can see in this chart from FinViz, it was just a couple weeks go that markets seemed to be correcting. FinViz At the time in mid-June, the story was that Bernanke had turned a tad hawkish, and was ignoring the weak inflation data, and that the "taper" was happening, and that perhaps the first rate hike would come before people had been thinking. And now suddenly the story has changed. In Europe (both at the BoE and the ECB) there are more moves to ease policy. Post-Bernanke, a series of Fed heads came out, and calmed markets a bit, making it clear that the taper did not signify that a rate hike would soon be coming. And we got the strong jobs report last Friday, bolstering the idea that it's okay if the Fed eases back just a tad. Two weeks ago the talk was about "monetary austerity" finally coming after years of ultra-cheap money. And now, from a conversation on Twitter: @Jesse_Livermore Funny how narratives change. Two weeks ago the story was about the final chapter of this great easing cycle.
There are signs that the UK economy is starting to pick up. But it's not totally smooth. The latest is some ugly production data. UK May manufacturing output down 0.8% (forecast +0.3%); -2.9% y/y biggest fall since January. Industrial output unchanged m/m; -2.3% y/y
(Reuters) - Nasdaq OMX Group Incsaid Tesla Motors Incwill replace Oracle Corpon the Nasdaq 100 stock index, reflecting the rising profile of the U.S. electric car maker. Oracle said in June that it was moving its stock listing to the New York Stock Exchange from the Nasdaq, in the largest-ever U.S. market transfer and a coup for NYSE Euronext. Tesla will become a component of the Nasdaq 100 Index and the Nasdaq 100 Equal Weighted Index prior to the market opening on July 15, the exchange said on its website. In contrast to several traditional automakers that have rolled out electric vehicles that failed to live up to expectations, Tesla has sold thousands of its luxury electric cars. Tesla shares have nearly tripled this year. Traditionally, Nasdaq had a lock on technology company listings, and NYSE on blue-chip stocks, but both have made gains into each others' respective territories in recent years. The Nasdaq 100 Index includes 100 of the largest domestic and international non-financial securities listed on the Nasdaq stock market based on market capitalization. Tesla has a current market capitalization of about $14.5 billion, according to Thomson Reuters data. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Stephen Coates) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Nothing special is going on today. It's just that markets are gaining all around the world. The global risk-on train continues. Japan more than erased yesterday's losses, with the Nikkei rallying 2.4%. In Europe, markets are up again. France is up 0.7%. Germany is up 1%. Italy is up 1%. US futures are currently doing fine, rising about 0.5%. As noted, there's nothing else special. The big fireworks come tomorrow when we get Bernanke's speech on the history of the Fed.
Foreign buyers jumped into the U.S. housing market after the bubble burst. Since then it was argued that foreign buyers would help rescue the U.S. housing market.† Now, the National Association of Realtors' (NAR's) latest report on international home buying activity, shows that this isn't the case. Citing their data Paul Diggle at Capital Economics writes: "The survey covers the 12 months ending in March 2013, during which time foreigners not permanently resident in the US bought $34.8bn of residential property in the country, accounting for 3.2% of all transactions. Thatís down from 4.4% in 2012 and a recent high of 4.6% in 2010.†† "Moreover, this decline isnít simply a function of greater activity in the market as a whole. The value of foreign transactions fell outright too, by 16% from $41.2bn in 2012. So why are foreign buyers proving peripheral to the housing recovery?" And why is this the case? Rising home prices, along with weakening currencies and a slowdown in many of their economies, has curbed major purchases on their part.† "Since the start of 2011, however, currency movements have compounded house price gains to make US housing look more expensive for buyers from most of these countries. Over that period, the dollar has strengthened by 3% against the Mexican peso, 4% against the British pound and the Canadian dollar, 5% against the euro and 23% against the Indian rupee.?" Diggle points out that China has been an exception with the renminbi rising 6% against the greenback since the start of 2011. And Chinese demand now accounts for 12% of foreign demand for U.S. homes, up from 5% in 2007. Going forward Diggle doesn't expect international demand to help the U.S. housing recovery in any significant way. He does however expect Chinese demand to persist, despite the slower pace of growth. For now Canada accounts for the largest share of foreign purchases, followed by China, Mexico, the UK, India, and Germany. This chart from Capital Economics shows share of international purchases by nationality: Capital Economics
