Lucas Kawa, Business InsiderActivist investor said on "Charlie Rose" on PBS that he's disappointed in the way that ex-friend Daniel Loeb handled the whole Herbalife situation. Back in December, Ackman publicly announced that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional supplements. Ackman is known for being a mostly long only investor. †The last public short he had was MBIA.† "We believe Herbalife is operating a pyramid scheme," he said in the interview, adding that he is shining a spotlight on the company so the regulatory community can investigate.† Shoftly after Ackman disclosed his short position, Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, snapped up an 8.2% stake in the company. He called Ackman's "pyramid scheme" accusation "preposterous." Ackman claimed in the interview last night that Third Point had a price target in the $70s and sold the position in a few weeks.† To be clear, Loeb actually gave the stock a price target of†$55 to $68 a share†in a letter to investors.† From that letter:† Applying a modest 10-12x earnings multiple suggests Herbalifeís shares are worth $55-$68, offering 40-70% upside from here and making the company a compelling long investment for Third Point. Given that the Company has historically traded more in the 12-14x range (and traded at 16-20x earnings through much of 2011 and early 2012), the opportunity for the Company to tell its side of the story†tomorrow†at its Analyst Day in New York, and the significant short interest, we believe shares could even trade well above our current price target. Sometime during the first quarter Loeb exited his Herbalife position for a nice profit.† Ackman admitted that it was a "good trade."† "I'm longer term," he explained. "I'm not a trader. What we do is take large concentrated positions." † Rose asked him if he respected Loeb. "He has a good track record," Ackman answered.† Continuing on, he added that was disappointed in the way Loeb handled it though by getting in and exiting shortly after. Loeb has recently been leaving a series of taunting messages on his Bloomberg terminal targeted at Ackman.† As for his rival, Carl Icahn, Ackman explained that Icahn is still angry at him from when he sued him years ago. † "He's used Herbalife as really a platform to 'get back at me.'" Since Ackman's short position was revealed, shares of Herbalife have surged more than 50%.† The stock is going up "simply because Carl Icahn and others have been promoting it," Ackman said.
It's been a fairly quiet start to Wednesday trading. Most notably, the Nikkei, which started out higher, has gone flat. Nikkei.com
Shareholders of Millennial Media jeered the mobile ad company's acquisition of Jumptap, a rival mobile ad company, today, as shares in MM fell 8% to $8.50 in post market trading. Investors appear to be reacting to the fact that Millennial is issuing 24.6 million new shares of stock to Jumptap holders, replacing all their equity in the latter company. That's a major dilution of MM ó it's 22.5% of the entire combined company. But the decline in the stock price ignores the debate between profits and scale. I've noted previously that Wall Street, which favors profits, has punished mobile and other adtech firms for not showing profits, despite their increasing size. These firms must demonstrate that with greater scale comes greater profitability ó otherwise what's the point? On that basis, the Millennial-Jumptap deal looks dysfunctional. Jumptap had revenues of $63 million in 2012 and lost $13 million. It joins with Millennial, which lost $5.4 million on revenues of $178 million in the same period. But the investor deck suggests that the combined company might be instantly profitable because it will realize up to $25 million in annual savings by 2015, according to MM CEO Paul Palmieri, by cutting duplicate jobs and functions. That, in fact, is the point: The bigger these operations get, the more efficient they can become. The deal could signal a much-needed wave of consolidation in the mobile ad business. There are dozens of these companies. They all do kinda the same thing. They don't all need to exist. Some of them simply need to be acquired or killed. And note what didn't happen in the transaction: Millennial spent zero cash. Its balance sheet still shows $122 million in cash, much of which it got from going public in the first place. In other words, Millennial has just increased the size of its business by greater than 50% at no cash cost whatsoever. Millennial MediaMM's Paul PalmieriFew other companies can say they've achieved the same thing. That's a reason to own MM, not sell it. This is a company that looks like it is actually creating the scale needed to generate meaningful profits in the long run. As for Jumptap, the deal finally gives the company the exit it has been looking for. An IPO has been expected since 2012. But the company's revenues as disclosed are far below the previously provided estimates of $75 million. The company also loses more money than Millennial, even though it is smaller. The value of the deal is $225 million. The company had taken $122 million in funding. Presumably, Jumptap holders' new Millennial stock functions as a premium on their old Jumptap stock. If so, Millennial has solved a lot of Jumptap CEO George Bell's problems with a single handshake.
REUTERS/Carlos Barria25-year-old Liu Tingting introduces herself during the recording of an episode of "Meet you on Saturday", a matchmaking television programme, at a local television station in Shanghai, July 28, 2013.Chinese economic data has been better than expected in July. During the month, industrial production rising 9.7% year over year, exceeding economists' forecasts.¬† But positive July figures have not fully allayed investor fears that the Chinese economy will continue to decelerate. In a note titled "The Great EM Unwind," Morgan Stanley's¬†Manoj Pradhan and Patryk Drozdzik lay out how some of 13 Emerging Market countries (EM) could lose and how some could win when China slows down. "We identify three channels through which China‚Äôs deleveraging is likely to affect the rest of EM: i) The trade of manufactured goods; ii) The trade of commodities; and iii) The impact of a slower Chinese economy on the terms of trade," they wrote. "In the pre-crisis decade, China‚Äôs re-export model and its strong domestic growth helped to improve EM current accounts," they added. "As China deleverages amid a weak export cycle, EM economies stand to export less to China and are therefore likely to see more current account deterioration (with some exceptions due to terms of trade effects)." From Brazil to Turkey, some emerging markets with large China exposure will be hit hard, while others stand to benefit. The analysts also discuss the impact of countries domestically scaling back debt as well as how they would be impacted by the U.S. unwinding quantitative easing.¬† We pulled the points that highlight the impact of China.
For the 5th time in the last 7 days, equity market internals have triggered an anxiety-implying Hindenburg Omen. Based on our data, this is the most concentrated cluster of new highs, new lows, advancing/declining based confusion on record. The last few occurrences have not ended well (though obviously not disastrously) but as the creator of the 'Omen' notes, the more occurrences that cluster, the stronger the signal. Zero Hedge We have seen clusters before... (but not on this scale)... Zero Hedge Full details of construction here.

AP Photo/Lefteris Pitarakis)FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Why I Won't Stop Talking About Passive Investing Despite Josh Brown's Protests (Bason Asset Management) This past weekend, Josh Brown argued that passive investors have made insulting comments about those that have a different opinion. James Osborne of Bason Asset Management argues that while Brown thinks passive investors should quiet down he refuses to.† While Osborne agrees with Brown's point about the need for active trading, he argues, "We still have thousands of actively managed mutual funds running a few trillion dollars, we have hedge funds and private equity firms and we have neighborhood brokers who think they can also be stock pickers.† And you know what?† We never will have a shortage. No one can reasonably expect that everyone, or even a majority of investors will be passively invested, for one simple reason that Iíll borrow from Josh: Weíre Human. We love to speculate, we love to look for a fight and take a risk.† But most of all, weíre greedy. "ÖBut for those investors who want to understand the data, who would prefer not to be led on and/or lied to about the next market-crushing mutual fund manager, who want to take the best route possible for them to reach their financial goals, Iíll keep talking about passive strategies." What Advisors Should Do If Female Clients Are In Abusive Relationships (The Wall Street Journal) Lisa R. Hatcher of Virginia-based Hatcher Byles Financial Planning says she has often come across women escaping abusive relationships in her practice.† The abuse can take be physical, verbal, emotional or financial form. In a new WSJ piece, Hatcher writes that there are a few things an advisor can do if they sense such abuse.† "First advisers should normalize the expectation that each spouse should have equal control over the finances. They should project the assumption that this is what married couples do: they should have joint accounts but they should also have individual accounts so that they both can build a good credit history." Hatcher also thinks advisors should "cultivate relationships with married clients both as a couple and individually." Hedge Funds Plowed Aggressively Into Gold Last Week (BofA Merrill Lynch) Following the slump in gold prices this year hedge funds began to trimming their positions to the lowest level in 2005 in recent weeks. But last week they flooded back into gold.† "Large speculators increased gold longs by ~74% to $6.6bn from $3.8bn notional," write BofA Merrill Lynch analysts MacNeil Curry, Jue Xiong, and Stephen Suttmeier in a note. "Positioning bounced back from the lowest levels since 2005 but remains in the contrarian buy zone. Despite the recent pullback from 1347, evidence says stay bullish for 1407, potentially 1450 before renewed basing." Edward Jones Goes Against Its Own Beliefs And Launches Proprietary Products (Investment News) Despite it's long-stated policy against selling proprietary products, Edward Jones launching just that in the form of affiliated mutual funds that will be used in its new RIA platform, Edward Jones Advisory Solutions, reports Investment News. The argument is that in not having proprietary products is in the best interest of clients.† "What they're doing is looking to build out a product line with a more predictable revenue stream and more control over the client relationship," Geoffrey Bobroff, a mutual fund industry consultant told Investment News. And some warn that that Jones is acting against its own beliefs and investors need to watch and see if this trend continues. Why Asking For Referrals At Client Meetings Are Often Ineffective (Advisor Perspectives) Often advisors are expected to ask clients for referrals after meetings even if they have been underperforming their benchmarks. One such advisor wrote to Beverly Flaxington a practice management consultant. Flaxington writes that this is why the strategy of asking for referrals at clients meetings doesn't work. "Client referrals should be treated like any other business strategy. You need to have a process and ongoing commitment to gaining referrals that isnít tied to market movements. You canít just ask at the end of a meeting and expect that will suffice," she writes in Advisor Perspectives. "If you have been ìsellingî on performance, you want to look at this too. You wonít always be ahead of your benchmark and you donít want to set expectations that all times are good times! Be sure your value-add and the offering you are giving clients is expanded far beyond just performance."
REUTERS/Henny Ray Abrams(Reuters) - Hedge fund billionaire¬†Carl Icahn¬†took a "large" position in¬†Apple Inc.¬†&lt;AAPL.O&gt; shares and told Reuters on Tuesday that he believes Apple should trade at $700 a share. In a telephone interview, Icahn said he believes "Apple has the ability to do a $150 billion buyback now by borrowing funds at 3 percent. "If Apple does this now and earnings increase at only 10 percent, the stock - even keeping the same multiple currently - should trade at $700 a share." Apple shares were at $489.57 on Tuesday. Apple has "huge borrowing power, little relative debt and trades at a low multiple," Icahn said. Earlier on Tuesday, Icahn stunned markets after he sent a tweet, saying: "We currently have a large position in APPLE. We believe the company to be extremely undervalued. Spoke to Tim Cook today. More to come." He also tweeted: "Had a nice conversation with Tim Cook today. Discussed my opinion that a larger buyback should be done now. We plan to speak again shortly." (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Andrew Hay and Ken Wills)
Bloomberg TVDavid Tepper's Appaloosa Management has filed its 13F with the SEC.¬† For the second quarter ended June 30, Citigroup remained one of Appaloosa's top holdings. ¬†During Q2, the fund held¬†9,601,639 shares in the bank compared with 8,519,547 shares in Q1.¬† During Q2, Tepper sold some of his Apple stake. He held 383,004 shares in Q2 compared with 540,000 in Q1. He added more to his Delta position during the second quarter. He held¬†10,290,884 shares in Q2 compared with 9,824,135 in Q1. ¬† The fund closed its positions in Two Harbors and MFA Financial, the filing shows.¬†New positions in the second quarter include Axiall Corp (1,877,715 shares)¬†and Powershares QQQ (5,750,000 shares).¬† Just a reminder, fund managers only have to disclose their long equity holdings in these filings.
Smallville WikiaCNN host Brian Stelter was kind enough to have me on his show, "Reliable Sources," over the weekend. In response to one question, I said that journalism has entered a "golden age."  Judging from the Twitter reaction, many of Brian's viewers agreed.¬† One viewer, however, a former print journalist, called this assertion "absurd." It's true that "golden age for journalism" is not usually the first thing that you hear when you go to conferences and listen to panels of middle-aged newspaper people talk about the state of the newspaper business. But I wasn't talking about the newspaper business. I was talking about journalism. And what I was suggesting is that ‚Äî far from the picture of unremitting gloom occasionally painted by newspaper folks ‚Äî journalism is now in better shape than it has ever been. Consider: I could go on. But you get the picture. The business of journalism is changing, certainly, especially at newspapers. You can't have change without loss. And loss is often painful and disruptive. But journalism itself is entering a new golden age. And, contrary to the assertions of some newspaper owners, even the journalism business is going to be okay. In fact, when some of today's upstart digital news organizations have matured, and the transformation of the newspaper business is complete, the journalism business is not just going to be okay. It's going to be excellent. All we have to do is get through this tumultuous transition period. In the meantime, journalism itself has never been in better shape.
Reuters/ Jack CusanoHedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, fired back at Starbucks Howard Schultz after ¬†the CEO ripped into the activist investor for leaking letters to JCPenney's board in the media.¬† According to Bloomberg News, he says that Schultz "doesn't understand JCPenney facts."¬† Those are comments that Ackman made to Charlie Rose, according to Bloomberg News. Ackman will be on Charlie Rose tonight at 11 p.m. ET on PBS.¬† Shultz recently told CNBC's Maria Bartiromo that Ackman had ruined the lives of thousands of JCPenney employees.¬† "Bill Ackman was the primary engineer and architect of recruiting Ron Johnson to the company and he and Ron Johnson co-authored the strategy that fractured the company and ruined the lives of thousands of JCPenney¬†employees and fractured shareholder value," Schultz said in the CNBC interview.¬† Last week, Ackman fired off two letters to JCPenney's board demanding that they replace interim CEO Mike Ullman within 30 to 45 days. ¬†He also sent a letter saying he had lost confidence in chairman Tom Engibous and asked that he resign, too.¬† Ackman, who remains JCPenney's top shareholder,¬†stepped down from the board this morning.¬† According to Bloomberg, Ackman called JCPenney a disappointment during his Charlie Rose interview.¬† He also said that he's disappointed in Dan Loeb's Herbalife trade. Weeks after Ackman publicly revealed that he's shorting more than $1 billion worth of Herbalife, Loeb, who used to be Ackman's friend, snapped up a sizeable long position. ¬†He exited that stake in the second quarter for a nice profit.¬† We'll be tuning in tonight to see Ackman's interview.¬†
One of the big stories in markets in 2013 so far has been the epic crash in the gold market. Gold reached its highest price of the year on January 17 ‚Äì at $1686 an ounce ‚Äì before falling 28.8% to a low of $1200 an ounce on June 27 (since then, it's bounced back a bit, and is now trading around $1320). One of the obvious side effects of such a crash in the gold price was the serious trimming of positions among hedge funds (a.k.a. "large speculators"), as evidenced by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's weekly Commitments of Traders report. After reducing bets on the shiny yellow metal to the lowest levels since 2005 in recent weeks and months, hedge funds plowed aggressively into gold last week. "Large speculators increased gold longs by ~74% to $6.6bn from $3.8bn notional," write BofA Merrill Lynch analysts MacNeil Curry, Jue Xiong, and Stephen Suttmeier in a note.¬†"Positioning bounced back from the lowest levels since 2005 but remains in the contrarian buy zone. Despite the recent pullback from 1347, evidence says stay bullish for 1407, potentially 1450 before renewed basing." BofA Merrill Lynch
REUTERSAn oxen didn't make it out of the Bering Land Bridge Natural Preserve.You may have noticed we haven't heard much talk about opening the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge recently. For decades, America debated whether to open up federally protected land that is said to contain lots and lots of oil (though exact estimates are plagued by uncertainty). What happened? "Saudi" America. Everyone ‚Äî including drillers ‚Äî has now shifted their focus to the lower-48 state's midsection, where oil and gas are now being pumped out like crazy thanks to the boom in shale production. As a result, Alaska is in big economic trouble. First, to put oil production shift in perspective, here's the output chart for shale country: EIA And now, Alaska: EIA Now consider this: 90% of Alaska's public budget comes from oil-related revenues; the state has no income or sales tax. According to Pew's Jim Malewitz, state coffers remain 19% below their pre-recession peak. Not surprisingly, given the chart immediately above, resource extraction employment growth in the state has stagnated, and remains below historical norms: FRED¬†So what to do? This spring, Gov. Sean Parnell approved a tax cut for oil companies that is expected to see the state forego hundreds of millions in revenue in exchange for the prospect for reigniting interest in drilling in Alaska.¬† The bill, a 35% flat-tax on all oil profits, became a priority after oil execs including Exxon counsel Dan Seckers complained that the previous regime, a progressive tax enacted by former Gov. Sarah Palin in a spasm of populism, created "a major disincentive" to investment, according to National Geographic's Joe Eaton. But Eaton says many credit the progressive scheme with buoying the state through the recession by creating a $17-billion rainy day fund. State Democrats say the flat tax is a huge give away with no promise that anything will actually come of it, Eaton reports. Alaska Dispatch's Pat Forgey says the measure will "guarantee budget deficits for years to come."¬†¬†There's already an initiative to repeal it.¬† In its recent earnings call, ConocoPhillips offered a fairly mild endorsement of the measure: We continue to analyze the impact to our business related to the recent¬†passage of Senate Bill 21, and we expect to pursue additional opportunities for investments over time. The picture is not entirely gloomy. The Department of Interior has ramped up leasing on Alaska's North Slope, but it's been slow going, as we saw with Shell's failure to off the ground. Plus, Alaska has enjoyed historically low unemployment rate, and it remains below the national average WikimediaA section of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, which is in danger of shutting down for lack of volume.But Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist at Calgary-based ITG Investment Research, told us by email that the worst may still be in store: the TransAlaska pipeline, the main artery for transporting Alaskan hydrocarbons, is in danger of being shut down as it gets squeezed by lower-48 infrastructure. [Alaska North Slope] production has been in decline since the early 1990s, to the point now that the TransAlaska Pipeline (which carries it to port) is at risk of not maintaining minimum throughput to remain operational. ... The principle market for ANS at present is the L48 west coast of the US, which has not as yet been deeply penetrated by incremental light tight oil production in the L48 because it isn‚Äôt well connected by either pipe or rail to the areas producing this crude. Additional rail receipt terminals are planned in PADD 5, but this is a slow process, particularly in California.¬† ... If L48 LTO and Canadian heavies manage to penetrate this market more seriously, this will put a dent in the price ANS is able to attract. This may not end well.

Wikimedia CommonsStocks spent most of the morning in the red and most of the afternoon in the green. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Yelp/Steph C. Finding a great barber can be an anxiety-inducing ordeal, especially in a big, expensive city like New York.¬†There's the cost to worry about, as well as the traumatic experience of a botched haircut. Luckily, the folks over at Yelp helped us put together a list of the best barber shops in Manhattan. Yelp reviewers deemed 3 Aces Barber Shop their top pick for a precise and affordable cut, but Yelp users had nothing but praise for all the shops that made the cut.
This stock chart shows the power of Twitter. Or perhaps just the power of a billionaire on Twitter. At 2:21 p.m. ET, legendary investor Carl Icahn Tweeted that he has a huge stake in Apple and then the stock ripped.¬† The 77-year-old investor added more than $17.26 billion to Apple's market cap this afternoon.¬† The stock was last trading around $494 a share with 908.5 million shares outstanding.¬†The stock was trading around $475 pre-Tweet.¬† Check out the chart:¬† Yahoo! Finance
¬† Everyone at some point has to wear a tie. And there are so many different ties and tie knots to choose from. Among the classics is the Windsor Half Knot - the classic triangular tie knot you see so often. It is the kind of tie knot that will serve you well in most situations. David Goldberg, Founder and CEO of Freshneck.com (a Netflix-like subscription service for ties, bow ties, and other accessories) took us to the showroom of Alenford, an online retailer of fine Italian-made shirts, to learn how to properly tie a Half-Windsor knot. Produced by Daniel Goodman
Mubadala Development Corporation, Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund, is in talks to buy up $1 billion worth of assets from former Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista's commodities and logistics empire, Bloomberg reports. Batista took a $2 billion loan from the fund back in March of 2012 in exchange for 5.63 percent preferred equity interest in EBX ó Batista's holding company. At that time, EBX, which houses six companies under its umbrella, was valued at $35.5 billion. Now it's unclear how much EBX is worth. What we do know is that Batista has a $1.85 billion stake in the assets Mubadala is looking at. Spokesmen for the fund have said they expect Batista to honor the remaining $1.5 billion of debt he owes them. This asset sale seems like a good start, as it comprises a significant chunk of Batista's empire. From Bloomberg: The negotiations are for stakes in oil producer OGX Petroleo &amp; Gas Participacoes SA, MMX Mineracao &amp; Metalicos SA and LLX Logistica SAís Acu port in Rio de Janeiro state, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions are private. Mubadala is seeking international or local companies as partners on the deal, the people said. Batistaís AUX gold business in Colombia is already being used as collateral for $1.5 billion he owes Mubadala after the fund converted a preferred equity investment in the former billionaireís holding company, EBX Group Co., into debt last month, one of the people said. That arrangement will probably stay in place should a transaction involving the other Batista holdings be completed, the person said. It's important to remember that Mubadala is just one of the creditors knocking at Batista's door. Even if Batista does manage to mollify Mubadala, he has other powerful entities to contend with. We wonder if he's answering his phone ...
Bad news: owing mostly to demographics trends and slowing technological innovation, America may be facing a long road of low growth ahead. In a new report, JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli explains why the country's future isn't what it used to be by demonstrating that potential GDP growth ‚Äì a proxy for the long-run trend growth rate ‚Äì in the United States has fallen below 2%. "As recently as the late 1990s, potential growth in the U.S. was estimated to be around 3.5%; by our estimates that figure has recently fallen by half, to 1.75%," says Feroli. Potential growth is a function of two variables: the growth of America's workforce, and growth in that group's productivity levels. BLS, JPMorganUnfortunately, the first variable ‚Äì labor force growth ‚Äì has slowed dramatically in the last decade. "According to the February 2013 CBO estimates, for example, potential growth of the labor supply has been irregularly slowing from 2.5% annual growth from 1974-1981 to only 0.8% from 2002-12 and is projected to slow further to only 0.6% over the next five years," says Feroli. "The slowdown in potential labor force growth has been accompanied by a similar slowdown in actual labor supply." A lot of that decline has to do with population growth. The JPMorgan report points out that at current levels under 1% per year, working-age population growth is at multi-decade lows. Dept. of Homeland Security, JPMorganPart of that decline in working-age population growth, in turn, has to do with a big slowdown in immigration to the United States (The other component of the decline in working-age population growth is demographics-driven, as the "baby boomer" cohort ages and exits the workforce.) "A key influence here has been an estimated slowdown in net migration, both legal and illegal," says Feroli. "Reduced net migration reflects heightened security concerns since the September 11 attacks, and the effect of soft labor markets." Immigration could pick up again when labor markets firm as the economy recovers and opportunities once again present themselves to those from other countries who wish to come make a living in the United States. Given the massive increase in resources dedicated to border patrol over the last decade, however, the JPMorgan report treats this as an unlikely possibility. "Since 1989 real, inflation-adjusted spending on border patrol increased 730%; since 2002 the number of border patrol personnel has more than doubled; and between 2005 and 2010 the number of miles of fenced southwestern border has quadrupled," says Feroli. "As we see little political appetite for relaxing enforcement of border security, we believe even with a more robust economy we are unlikely to see a return to the levels of illegal immigration that prevailed in the first half of the last decade." So, while working-age population growth stood at 0.92% in 2012, the Census Bureau estimates that average growth over the next five years will fall further to 0.74%, and by 2050 (based on best estimates for¬†birth rates, death rates, and net migration), 0.51%. JPMorgan, CBO, SSA, BLSThe other major input to the rate of growth of the American workforce ‚Äì aside from working-age population growth ‚Äì is changes in the labor force participation rate. After all, America's labor supply can be thought of as the size of the working-age population multiplied by the percentage of those participating in the labor force. So, changes in the labor force participation rate will feed directly into growth in the size of the workforce. Here, again, demographics are at play. The labor force participation rate is in secular decline, and as the "baby boomers" retire and exit the workforce, there will be downward pressure on the participation rate. There is a lot of debate about whether the labor force participation rate will rebound or continue to decline. "One simple method of forecasting labor force participation for purposes of estimating potential growth is simply to look at how the expected change in the demographic composition of the population (by age and gender) would affect participation rates holding everything else constant," says Feroli. "This exercise shows that the participation rate would be expected to decline gradually, reducing labor supply growth by about 0.25% per year over the next five years." The growth rate of the workforce is equal to the growth rate of the working-age population plus the change in the labor force participation rate. So, using the forecasts above, labor supply growth over the next five years is projected to be (0.74% ‚Äì 0.25% = 0.5%). "The CBO went through similar calculations in updating its estimate of potential growth last February and, not surprisingly, came up with an identical figure, with potential [labor force] growth slowing slightly to 0.5% per year in 2018-23," says Feroli. "This compares with an estimate of average potential labor force growth from 1950-2012 of 1.5% per year. " Now, we have an estimate for the first component of potential GDP growth. The second component of potential GDP growth is growth in labor productivity. JPMorgan, BLSLike labor force growth, labor productivity growth has also slowed sharply in recent years. Since 2010, it's increased at an annual rate of only 0.7%. Since 1945, labor productivity growth has averaged 2.25% a year, and between 1995 and 2005, 2.9%. The JPMorgan report attributes the post-2005 slowdown in labor productivity growth largely to declines in technological innovation. "The slowing in the pace of high-tech capital spending‚Äîwhich began before the last downturn and has persisted even as other types of capital spending have rebounded‚Äîis the principal reason we look for subdued productivity growth," says Feroli. Why is capital spending on IT equipment slowing? Prices of computers and software ‚Äì adjusted for quality ‚Äì are declining at the slowest rate in years. This implies that innovation in these sectors isn't as great as it used to be. Feroli offers an explanation of why this is the case: The pace of technological advance embodied in new equipment should be inversely related to the change in the price of this equipment. In other words, more rapid increases in the capability of computing equipment should imply more rapid declines in the price of a computer with a given, fixed capability.  It is important to keep in mind that the prices we are focusing on are quality-adjusted, or constant-quality, prices. The example most often given for what this means is a standard desktop computer. An average computer may retail for around $1,000 now, roughly similar to its sale price 10 or 15 years ago. However, the power of that computer has increased dramatically. While it may be difficult or impossible to buy a new computer today of the quality available 10 or 15 years ago, presumably the price would have declined sharply. In the 1990s, when capital spending on IT equipment was booming, the productivity of American workers was increasing. After all, workers were bestowed with increasing access to computing equipment, enabling them to do their jobs more efficiently. "Real spending on high-tech equipment and software has historically grown much more rapidly than overall real GDP during expansions, but the gap between the two has narrowed considerably in the past few years," says Feroli. "In the year ended 2Q13, real spending was up 5.9%. In the year ended 4Q07, as the economy was falling into recession, growth was 11.1%. And, of course, spending growth had been much stronger still through most of the 1990s." So, now that IT spending has slowed dramatically ‚Äì perhaps because the computing industry hasn't been innovating like it did in the past ‚Äì productivity growth is slowing as well. The JPMorgan report points to one other major factor aside from slowing IT spending growth that is weighing on productivity growth: spending on research and development (R&amp;D), both in the private and public sectors. "Spending on private research and development is the part of investment in intellectual property products most closely linked to productivity growth, and the trend in private spending on research and development has also slowed, from an average 4.7% per year in the 20 years through 4Q00 to 2.8% per year over the past 10 years and 2.4% over the past year," says Feroli. "The slowing in R&amp;D spending seen in recent years is one reason why productivity growth has been slow, and will continue to be slow. By our estimate, trend productivity growth in the nonfarm business sector could be around 1.5%." Putting together the slowdown in productivity growth and the slowdown in the growth of the workforce brings us to the ultimate conclusion. "There is reason to think labor productivity in the nonfarm business sector will be only about 1.5% per year and labor productivity in the overall economy including government only about 1.25%. This implies that potential growth ‚Äì growth of labor supply plus labor productivity ‚Äì is less than 1.75%."
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn just Tweeted his latest investment idea. We currently have a large position in APPLE. We believe the company to be extremely undervalued. Spoke to Tim Cook today. More to come. Had a nice conversation with Tim Cook today. Discussed my opinion that a larger buyback should be done now. We plan to speak again shortly. The stock was last trading up more than 3%.¬† The 77-year-old investor said that he would be using the social media site to make a major investment announcement.¬† To date, he has more than 28,000 followers and has only Tweeted twelve times. Last week, he told Fox Business Network's Liz Claman that his daughter Michelle actually Tweets on behalf of him.¬† The stock moved on his Tweet. Here's a chart of Apple's stock:¬† Yahoo! Finance
As if on cue, around the country individuals and companies have started filing lawsuits against JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs for allegedly delaying deliveries of aluminum stored in their metals warehouses, thus manipulating the price of the commodity. Lawsuits have been filed in Michigan, Florida and Louisiana. On top of that, The Commodities Futures Trading Commission has subpoenaed JPM, Goldman, and commodities trading firm Glencore for documents related to their warehouse businesses, Bloomberg reports. The thing is ‚Äî usually, when an issue is this obscure and hard to understand, it's easily swept under the rug. And so it could have been with a story that appeared in the New York Times last month, accusing Goldman Sachs of using its Detroit metals warehouses to hoard aluminum, driving up the price of the commodity for customers and consumers alike. To understand why you have to understand supply, demand, yield curves and a weird trading term ‚Äî "contago." But there are powerful people unwilling to let this issue go, including Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown, and beer maker MillerCoors. The company's global risk manager Tim Weiner, says that these activities have inflated aluminum costs by $3 billion over the last year. This isn't to say that Wall Street would take this lying down (have you met them?). In an attempt to preserve this lucrative business from further criticism, Goldman countered the New York Times with its own defense last month, saying that aluminum demand is weak, and that its Detroit-based warehouses control such a small portion of the market that it couldn't possibly be impacting price. The bank later promised to speed up deliveries of aluminum to customers. But that didn't stop the onslaught. It wasn't long after Goldman's defense that JP Morgan's Henry Bath¬† warehousing businesses (picked up from RBS during the financial crisis fire sale) was under scrutiny as well. So ‚Äî the question remains: What's in these lawsuits? We took a look at a complaint filed against Goldman and its warehouses, Metro International Trade Services, in Michigan. It's a class action suit filed by aluminum product manufacturer Superior Extrusion. The defendants also include the London Metals Exchange and "John Does 1-10". And here's what you need to know. According to the complaint, From 2010 to now Goldman has had a monopoly over London Metals Exchange warehouses in the Detroit area, controlling over 80% of the storage space. That constitutes "75% of the LME aluminum in storage in the United States. It is estimated to constitute more than 50% of the total aluminum in warehouse storage in the United States," the complaint continues. Superior Extrusion accuses Goldman of "extreme monopoly pricing power and abusive agreements in very unreasonable restraint of trade." Those agreements are described as ‚Äúget paid more to do less‚Äù inefficiency agreements. The LME, say the plaintiffs, have been more than complicit in this. Superior Extrusion alleges that the LME and Goldman have secondary agreements in which Goldman overbids other market participants to get aluminum to its warehouses. That, argue the plaintiffs, in turn makes costs go up significantly as Goldman is "offering incentives of up to $250 or more per ton to firms to store aluminum in LME Detroit Warehousing for long periods...." The plaintiffs go on to say that the LME's actions have an impact on American jobs and American workers (from the complaint): Far from dissociating itself from Goldman‚Äôs anticompetitive purchases and diversions agreements, the LME, per Chris Evans, peremptorily announced in New York during January 2013, that purchasers of aluminum should simply stop paying the high prices. In effect, the LME encouraged users to starve themselves of aluminum and lay off their workers. This classic monopolistic and anticompetitive encouragement, was unlawful because Ford, Novelis, Coca Cola and other users of aluminum do not have to further restrain trade and lay off their workers so that Defendants‚Äô unlawful agreements and abuses of their monopoly powers alleged herein, may continue. In short: The whole thing is a massive anti-trust conspiracy. The complaints in all these cases around the country will vary, but likely not by too much. These are all companies suing over the same grievances, hoping that one of them will stick on Wall Street. The banks, on the other side, will be playing whack-a-mole.
Almost every day since the the bull market began in March 2009, some stock market pundit has complained about low trading volumes. Some fear that low volume means sell-offs could turn sharp due to lack of liquidity. However, Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders points us to this interesting counterintuitive chart from the Bespoke Investment Group. "The chart breaks out performance the current bull market based on days when volume (using the SPY exchange-traded fund as a proxy) has been above and below its 50-day moving average," explained Sonders. "On a cumulative basis, the S&amp;P would be up nearly 300% if you were only invested on the days when volume was below average," she added. "That's nearly double the return of the entire bull market!¬† On the other hand, if you were only invested when volume was above average, you would actually be down 37%. Complain if you'd like, but gains are preferred over volume, no?" "Market bears seem never to be short reasons for gloom; but valuation and volume shouldn't be among them," she said. Charles Schwab, Business Insider
Energy-related commodities have been crushing rivals in the raw materials space lately, the EIA notes today, citing Goldman's commodity index. Here's the chart ‚Äî energy is up 8.1% since July 1, while non-energy is off -1.5%. EIA The EIA chalks up the divergence to the huge gains in WTI we saw in July. WTI comprises about a third of the energy component of Goldman's index, and the contract is up 5.2% since July 1. New infrastructure recently came online that eased the supply glut in Cushing, Okla, driving WTI prices up. Turmoil in Libya also pushed energy prices higher. Meanwhile,¬†wheat and corn are off -3.5% and -12.1% respectively over the same period, and slight gains in metals have not been enough to offset declines in the rest of the non-energy component. EIA says the divergence shows energy has decoupled from macro trends: This divergence suggests that the recent increases in crude oil and petroleum product prices are most likely not because of changes in expectations for future global economic growth, which would tend to increase all commodity prices. Instead, these increases can likely be attributed to¬†factors specific to petroleum markets, including recent geopolitical developments such as reduced production in Libya. The agency also notes that since May, WTI contracts have outnumbered those in London-traded Brent by 1.5 million.
REUTERS/ Danish SiddiquiIndia's deep economic challenges¬†‚Äî from declining consumer confidence to fizzling industrial output to a weakening rupee¬†‚Äî have caused the country's seen economic growth rate slow to its lowest pace in a decade. In a recent note to clients, Morgan Stanley analyst¬†Chetan Ahya argues that policy-makers need to introduce three major top-down changes to improve sentiment and productivity.
Over the last few years, investors benefited from paying close attention to the August Jackson Hole conference hosted by the Kansas City Fed. Central bankers, and Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke in particular, used the occasion to signal possible and important policy changes. Judging from information just circulated by the Wall Street Journal, this year‚Äôs gathering is unlikely to be a market mover. But this does not mean it should be ignored. At least two things immediately stand out when you look at the draft agenda for this August 22-24 event, especially when compared to prior ones: the lack of Fed speakers/panelists; and the participation of foreign central bankers. We knew that Mr. Bernanke was going to miss this year‚Äôs conference. We just learned that the role of his FOMC colleagues may be limited ‚Äì to chairing as opposed to presenting a speech or participating in a panel. Indeed, when it comes to the official sector, the latter two roles are allocated mainly to foreign central banks (and especially those from emerging economies). As a result, and given where today‚Äôs major monetary policy uncertainty lies, we should not expect market moving news out of this year‚Äôs Jackson Hole. Yet investors would be well advised to pay attention to some of the academic/policy discourse ‚Äì particularly pertaining to the transmission of unconventional monetary policy, global liquidity flows and cross-border effects, and the reconciliation of national and international policy objectives. This may well provide some clues on the many still-unresolved issues associated with prolonged reliance on experimental monetary policies. Remember, it is not as if central bankers have a really good handle on the impact of unconventional policies and the path ahead. They too are dealing with major reconciliation challenges, cyclical/secular inconsistencies, tricky policy pivots and therefore, to use Mr. Bernanke‚Äôs famous phrase, ‚Äúan unusually uncertain outlook.‚Äù
The Kirchner family is not used to losing. But this Sunday, during Argentina's mid-term elections, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and her Victory Party suffered their worst defeat since she and her late husband, Nestor, swept to power in 2003. To put it in perspective, since 2011 (when Cristina was re-elected after her husband's death saddened the nation) The Victory Party has lost 4 million votes, according to Clarin. Back then, Kirchnerism ó as the party's political ideology is known ó garnered 52% of the country's support. In just two years that number has dwindled to 30% (around 6.8 million votes) as opposition parties around the country have picked up steam, even in areas once considered Kirchner strongholds.  This time around, three out of every four votes went to opposition candidates of various stripes and the Victory Party lost 13 of 23 provinces. According to reports, the President has been laying low around the Capital. So why the defeat? It's not that hard to tell. In the last few years Argentina has suffered from serious inflation. Government estimates depart wildly from those of independant economists, who put the number somewhere around 20-25%. No one expects that to change either. Here's an excerpt from a Goldman Sachs note from last month: Inflation is likely to remain entrenched above 20% during 2013-2014, given inertial pressures, the continuation of very accommodative monetary conditions, a deteriorating fiscal stance, and accelerating ARS [Argentina peso] depreciation. The monetary stance remains very lax (negative real interest rates), and the central bank continued to accommodate inflation at a very high level. In all, we expect the authorities to continue to subordinate low and stable inflation to fiscal and growth imperatives (severe fiscal dominance). This strategy is likely to lead to further pressure on the ARS to depreciate. So it doesn't look like voters are going to get any happier.
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz John Paulson, founder and president of Paulson &amp; Co, has made a bid for iconic piano maker Steinway, according to sources that spoke with the New York Post.  Steinway did not name the bidder in its press release.  The $38 a share offer that is said to come from Paulson &amp; Co is higher than the $35 a share offer that was made by an affiliate of Kohlberg &amp; Company back in July. From the press release: "After careful consideration and consultation with its financial advisors and legal counsel, the Company‚Äôs board of directors, consisting of all disinterested directors, has determined that the offer constitutes a Superior Proposal, as defined in the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 30, 2013 (the ‚ÄúKohlberg Merger Agreement‚Äù) by and among the Company and affiliates of Kohlberg &amp; Company, L.L.C. (‚ÄúKohlberg‚Äù), pursuant to which Kohlberg agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of the Company‚Äôs common stock at a purchase price of $35.00 per share in cash.¬† "In accordance with the Kohlberg Merger Agreement, the Company provided notice to Kohlberg on August 11, 2013 of the board of directors‚Äô determination that the offer from the bidder constitutes a Superior Proposal, and that the Company is prepared to negotiate in good faith with Kohlberg, if Kohlberg so desires, to adjust the terms of the Kohlberg Merger Agreement such that the offer from the bidder no longer constitutes a Superior Proposal." Kohlberg can make adjustments to its offer, but the board of directors expects the company to terminate the Kohlberg merger agreement if the the new offer continues to be the superior proposal. The stock is down 3% today.
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozFormer JP Morgan trader Bruno Iksil†ó dubbed the London Whale for the colossal $6.2 billion trading loss last year†ó has been cooperating with the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's Office for months as regulators pry further into the bank, Bloomberg reports. Three sources told Bloomberg that Iksil will avoid facing charges if he cooperates and testifies. Update: The Wall Street Journal is also reporting†that prosecutors will not go after Iksil, who "has been cooperating with U.S. investigators as they examine circumstances surrounding the supersize trading bets." The deal came after Iksil provided investigators with evidence about internal communications, the Journal reported. Last week the New York Times reported that government authorities are planning to arrest two other former JP Morgan employees connected to the trading debacle: Javier Martin-Artajo, a manager who oversaw trading, and Julien Grout, another London trader. That means we could be seeing action in this case sooner than anyone imagined (From Bloomberg): Prosecutors may announce charges as early as this week against former London-based JPMorgan employees, accusing them of trying to mask losses on a complex derivatives portfolio, said another person who asked not to be named because the investigation isnít public. The episode has already sparked a Senate subcommittee hearing and prompted JPMorganís board to cut Chief Executive Officer†Jamie Dimonís pay in half. Prosecutors are also reportedly pursuing a reprimand and fine for the bank itself. Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
ConvergEx GroupCorrelations within the stock market have plunged in recent weeks, meaning individual stocks and sectors are no longer moving up and down in sync with each other like they have for years. Citi chief U.S. equity strategist Tobias Levkovich thinks this is concerning. "Investors look to be at risk given the collapse of intra-stock correlation from 66% at the end of June to just 18% at the month's end in July which suggests that investors might be overly focused on stock picking and have begun to ignore broader influences such as Fed policy, market valuation, European growth trends, economic surprise indices and the like," wrote Levkovich in a recent note. "Low levels [of correlation] suggest a degree of complacency that puts fund managers at risk for a correction." ConvergEx GroupHowever, it's not just correlations among stocks that have fallen dramatically in recent weeks. The stock market's correlations with various currencies, high yield debt, and precious metals have all fallen. ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas thinks this is a good sign. "Surprisingly, the last month of correlation data for a whole variety of asset classes and industry groups shows that perhaps the long wait for more normal capital markets is finally over," writes Colas in a note. "Weíve been tracking this data since the financial crisis, waiting for this moment." ConvergEx Group Colas offers a few highlights from the data: "Perhaps capital markets are actually preparing for the U.S. Federal Reserveís reduction in bond buying and starting to pick winners and losers on fundamentals," says Colas. "That is also profoundly good news for brokers, asset managers and other businesses which need incremental volumes to generate earnings growth. Active money managers mutual funds, for example have started to see inflows into their products." There's one caveat, though, says Colas: "It could all just be a fluke." "Weíve had plenty of head fakes of various types in the last five years which seemed to portend a return to more normal macroeconomic and market routines," Colas says. "While the data is very welcome, it would be wise to take it with a grain of salt until we see these trends hold."
Guys like Dan Loeb of Third Point used to amuse market participants with his communications to his target companies (remember YHOO†here), but he has tempered his process a bit of late, much to the financial press and onlookers dismay. † One thing that has always struck me is what and how these activists choose to go after. †Obviously one of the first prerequisites is finding unlocked value that has been overlooked or simply mismanaged by those charged with running the company as was the case for years prior to Loeb entering his YHOO position in 2011 pushing for board representation. † Looking at his entry to the stock in 2011, when it was left for dead, the change he affected on the management and board level, his ability to refocus management &amp; investors, and how his action resulted in a positive outcomeÖ.. the guy deserved to sell†two thirds of his stake†BACK to the company for more than 125% gain at multi-year highs. Bravo. Loebís YHOO trade was about as close as you will come to a work of art in this business, which is why when some of these activist situations go terribly wrong, as they have for another high profile investor Bill Ackman of Pershing Square this year they garner so much attention. †Ackman has been kicked around a bit for what seems to be a precarious short in HLF, with his thesis largely predicated on hope for some negative FTC action, while another high profile position gone awry is his nearly 18% holding in beleaguered retailer JCP that is approaching death-spiral territory. † I am not going to go into the merits of each, make no mistake about it, this guy does his work and he certainly puts his money where his mouth is, but the only problem of late is that his mouth might be writing checks his fund canít cash. It strikes me sometimes as odd the stories that activists are willing to fight for, and none more interesting than JCP by Ackman and Carl Icahnís ongoing (albeit petering off) battle for DELL. †When Ackman took his stake in JCP it was a very different company, possibly reflecting the fact that the value of his investment has nearly been cut in half since back in 2010. †And to be honest I have to assume the stock looked a lot more attractive when it was in the mid $20s then it does now in the low teens. † In the last 3 months JCP has burned about $1 billion is cash as the company has done an about face on the retail strategy that was an about face on the decades long prior strategy. †The companyís market cap has shrunk to $2.9 billion, cash sits at little less than $1 billion while their debt is nearing $4 billion all with the backdrop of ballooning losses and sales declines. †The best case scenario in the near term would just be stabilization, and a Loeb style ìwinî seems to be years off. Which leads me to BBRY, and why it may be perennially the ugly red headed step child of activist bait. Yesterday the company announced that they had once again hired bankers to ìexplore strategic alternatives, that could include a saleî. †This is a term that should be quite familiar to RIMM shareholders as it seemed that since the prior management lost their grip on the once monopoly of the smartphone market, that takeout might be their only way out. † The problem is now that almost every strategic buyer the world over has taken a look at BBRY and passed in the last 2 years, which leaves financial buyers, the sort that would take the company private. Much like JCP, and this is the only real comparison, BBRY earnings and sales have seen a dramatic decline of late, but the company is infinitely better capitalized with 50% of their market cap in cash and no debt. †For the better part of 2013, since Michael Dell announced his intention to take the computer company bearing his name private, I have wondered aloud what makes DELL so much more attractive to private equity that BBRY? †I suppose the third time will be a charm (third ìexplorationî †in so many years) as media reports have picked up numerous instances where Canadian pension funds would invest in a bid to take BBRY private. †I guess sometimes situations have to be so picked over, and so reviled before they have a prayer of happening. DISCLOSURE: †Hopefully No Red Heads were injured in the naming of this post. †
For the third trading session in a row, stocks are falling again. This morning's advance retail sales report caused a bit of selling in the futures at 8:30 AM ET, but the S&amp;P 500 really took a turn downward when exchanges opened at 9:30. Now, the index is down 0.4% from yesterday's close to 1682, trading near its lows of the day. If the market closes down again today, it will mark the sixth trading session in the last seven that stocks have fallen since the all-time high of 1709 on August 2. Treasuries are also taking a beating this morning. 5-year Treasury futures are down 0.3%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 8 basis points higher from yesterday's close at 2.70%. That's just 4 basis points below the highs reached at the culmination of the big sell-off in the Treasury market of the past few months on July 5, when the 10-year Treasury closed at 2.74%. The headline number in today's advance retail sales report missed expectations, showing 0.2% sales growth in July versus the 0.3% growth predicted by market economists, but sales excluding autos were better than expected, rising 0.5% last month versus estimates for a 0.4% rise. The chart below shows S&amp;P 500 futures this morning. Thinkorswim
Tesla Motors/Screenshot When I got home last night, I read every page of Elon Musk's 57-page plan for the Hyperloop. My conclusion: It's a great idea, and we should start working on it today. Why? Because most of the initial objections to the plan are lame. They could have been--and no doubt were--said for all major transportation systems.† To wit: In short, all of those objections are the same sort of objections that you hear any time you suggest doing anything. None of them are obviously a good reason not to start work on the Hyperloop. At the same time, there are many excellent reasons to start work immediately:
Screenshot via Sohu.comDu Zeyong, former union director in Liaocheng who was expelled from the Communist Party in January 2013A string of Chinese sex scandals erupted around the time of the country's leadership handover last year.¬† There was the sex tape of "frog/bug-eyed" Lei Zhengfu a party boss in Chongqing's Beibei District and an 18-year old. Compromising photos of Wu Hong, a local police official in Chongqing, and a woman in some state of undress surfaced soon after. And there was the video of Du Zeyong, former union director in Liaocheng who was expelled from the Communist Party in January 2013 after tapes emerged of him with his mistresses, the most infamous being the one in which he wearing a red thong. But then there was a lull. It was believed policymakers had allowed videos to leak out of Chongqing to get rid of supporters of former Chongqing party chief Bo Xilai.¬† Namrata Hasija at the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies (IPCS) explains: "Notably, in case of the two officials from Chongqing, Lei Zhengfu had close ties with the ex-police chief of the city, Wang Lijun, and is believed to have approached Wang after the developer had threatened to post the videos on the internet. Wang immediately cracked down on the developer and the girls, confiscating the videos. But with the fall of Wang after the Bo Xilai scandal, these videos were leaked to Zhu from the office of the police department in Chongqing. "‚Ä¶ So it can be easily argued that these are engineered attempts by the new leadership to serve a two-fold purpose: one, eliminating the supporters and benefactors of Bo Xilai and secondly, to showcase the new leadership as being solemn in its anti-corruption drive against corrupt government officials." YouTubeSince April however we've seen another steady trickle of cases. The most prominent one involves Liu Zhijun, the former Railways Minister, who was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve for bribery and abuse of power. This means he is unlikely be executed. Amid his corruption charges were reports that he also accepted bribes in the form of sexual acts. More recently Shanghai's disciplinary commission said that three judges will be expelled from the Party after they were accused¬† of hiring sex workers. Then, there was the report from China's state-owned Xinhua about businessmen throwing parties for high-ranking officials partaking in breast milk orgies. And of course, there is Xu Qiayo of Jiangsu who boasted about having over 140 mistresses, including a mother-daughter duo. "One guess would be the message wasn't getting through that people were supposed to behave better. So now, potentially, the propaganda folks are saying fine, we're going to let you be humiliated again," Bill Bishop, China expert and author of the excellent Sinocism newsletter told Business Insider. But one thing is clear ‚Äî these exposes were "sanctioned by the new leaders to send warnings to corrupt officials," according to Hasija. Of course the Communist Party's efforts to curb corruption is a logical explanation. Former Chinese president Hu Jintao warned that corruption "could prove fatal to the party, and even cause the collapse of the party and the fall of the state." Such a crackdown could be, in part, a way to assuage Chinese citizens about the excesses of the party. Bishop also points out that the practice of having mistresses is more socially acceptable in China, and that it is a matter of status for businessmen and officials to have a girlfriend or more that isn't their wife. "It's not this puritan streak, where people are offended by the fact that these guys are having sex." "The party in its public discussions about corruption has said, 'why is it that almost every corrupt official has mistresses?' That's part of an overall transaction where if you have a mistress you have to give her money, well where is that money going to come from? It's not going to come from your salary, so, you have to be corrupt yourself and stealing money, or some other person, say a businessman who wants a deal, is going to provide you with a mistress or mistresses in exchange for you doing things for them." But Bishop acknowledges that the recent ramp up in sex tapes has to do with a "proliferation of digital devices that allow for recording," and blogs like Weibo as well. We expect more sex scandals to emerge in 2013 for two key reasons. First, because policymakers are serious about being perceived as taking a hardline on corruption. Second, for netizens, their "belief in using social media in their fight against corruption has been strengthened," according to Hasija.
Flickr/andronicusmaxBusiness Insider is looking for an awesome paid intern to join our fast-growing Contributors team immediately. The ideal candidate, above all, is interested in editing, copy editing, packaging, story selection, and is a voracious consumer of news on the web, with a whole roster of interesting blogs and Twitter feeds they follow. Among other things, this intern's responsibilities would be to: Think of it as a crash course in digital journalism -- a great opportunity to learn about aggregation, editing, curation, and the ins and outs of navigating a CMS. And, as a bonus, you'd get to write a bit on the side. If interested, please send your resume and cover letter to jliebman@businessinsider.com. Please note that this internship is full-time (40 hours a week) out of our Manhattan headquarters.

REUTERS/Aly SongIn 2012, Chinese households in the top 5% of earners took home 23% of China's total household income. The lowest 5%, on the other hand, netted just 0.1% of the state's total income. Income inequality is just one of many issues facing China, with the nation's credit conditions ushering in a slowdown of an economy that has been unstoppable for three decades. In a new note to clients, Morgan Stanley's Richard Xu writes how China's tax structure puts the poor at a gross disadvantage. Chinaís tax structure partly contributes to the widening income gap as China relies more on indirect or transaction-based taxes, such as business tax, VAT, and consumption tax (around 50% of the tax base in China, versus less than 20% in many developed countries), this effectively imposes a higher tax rate on the lower-income population because of the larger share of their incomes that is spent on consumption. The situation is more pronounced if we consider taxes on land sales as transaction-based taxes. "On the spending side," Xu writes, "government spending may not be the best system to provide support for low-income groups. Because of 1) its greater focus on investments, 2) potential leakages, and 3) friction costs during transfers between central and local governments, vested interest groups could benefit more." Morgan Stanley
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Activist investor Bill Ackman stepped down from JCPenney's board today following a public feud with the retailer's board of directors.† CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin caught up with Ackman this morning following his resignation. "I elevated a bunch of issues that are critically important by making them public. We came to an agreement on Ron Tysoe," Ackman told Sorkin, adding,†"The board will now function more effectively without the noise."† Last week, he†fired off letters†to the board demanding that they find a new CEO to replace interim CEO Mike Ullman and that chairman Tom Engibous resign. It appears that part of his reasoning for sending the letters is that he was taking what he believed to be a Warren Buffett-style investing approach. †(He has compared his investment strategy to Buffett before.) Sorkin reports:† His basis in the company is $25 per share. So it is not clear that he has any ambition to sell these shares at a low price. One other thing, he quoted Warren Buffett. †Warren Buffett had a letter that he wrote in 1993. I just want to read you a bit of it. He is wrapping himself in sort of the Buffett flag a little bit in terms of his decision to go public which has been something that people, including myself, have been highly critical of. This is what Warren Buffett said. He said, "A director who sees something he doesn't like should attempt to persuade other directors of his views. If he is successful, the board will have the muscle to make the appropriate change. †Suppose though, that the unhappy director can't get other directors to agree with him. He should then feel free to make his views known to the absentee owners. Otherwise known as the public shareholders. Directors seldom do that of course. The temperament of many directors would in fact be incompatible with critical behavior of that sort. But I see nothing proper in such actions assuming the issues are serious. Naturally, the complaining director can expect a vigorous rebuttal from the unpersuaded directors. A prospect that should discourage the dissenter from pursuing trivial or non-fractional causes."† Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, is still JCPenney's top shareholder. He owns a nearly 18% stake in the retailer's stock. † He had†reportedly threatened to sell his stake†if the board didn't replace Ullman. †That doesn't seem to be the case, though. "If I wanted to sell, I could have sold all along during the quarterly window," Ackman told Sorkin.†
Flickr/Matteo PaciottiRetail sales climbed 0.2% month-over-month in July, slightly below expectations for a 0.3% rise. June's headline number was revised up to reflect a 0.6% rise. Retail sales ex-auto beat expectations rising 0.5% on the month, above expectations for a 0.4% rise. Last month's number was revised modestly to show a 0.1% rise. Ex-auto and gas, retail sales are were up 0.4% in line with expectations. Joseph Brusuelas, senior economist at Bloomberg points out that the control retail sales group stayed flat at 2.3% on the year. Control retail sales group, which feeds into calculation of GDP 3mo avg held steady at 2.3% down from 4.2% in Feb'13. #EcoBrief David Rosenberg has said the American consumer needs to grab the torch for the U.S. to move to the next stage of the recovery, without this he said the economy will stagnate. Here's a look at the monthly rise in retail sales: U.S. Census Bureau
With the stock market just below its all-time closing high, investors and traders want to know what's next. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco thinks the S&amp;P 500 is likely to slip to 1,675 by the end of this year before surging to 1,850 by the end of 2014. But in the near term, he's "uncertain." In his weekly note, Bianco offers his opinion on the "Next 5%+ S&amp;P price move." Usually it's Up or Down. Here's Bianco this week: Recent macro reports give bulls cover for August, but raise stakes for Sept-Oct.Lack of EPS growth at S&amp;P 500 non-financials in 2Q and over the past 2 years has been relegated to history as recent macro reports point to 2H acceleration. If these reports accurately presage global acceleration, especially in China, US investment spending and exports, then it presents upside risk to our 2013E and 2014E S&amp;P EPS and price targets. While we consider these early signs of acceleration less than definitive, particularly given remaining uncertainty related to the interaction of FX and commodity prices with tapering and rising yields, we switch our Next 5%+ S&amp;P price move to Uncertain from Down. This is not the first time Bianco has made his "Uncertain" call. But it's rare. Among other things, Bianco is concerned that complacency is a bit high in the markets. His preferred measure of this is the PE / VIX ratio. (PE is short for price-earnings, a measure of stock market value. The VIX is the CBOE volatility index, a measure of "fear" in the stock market.) Here's Bianco: The PE / VIX ratio: Market appears confident that it knows the futureValuations and confidence go hand-in-hand. Lots of cheap with lots of certainty is rare. Thus, markets most easily attract investors when not too cheap with uncertainty only a bit elevated. We think confidence as indicated by the options market seems a bit too high. A higher PE on justifiably higher growth expectations would be preferable to us than any further climb in the PE from investors simply being more confident in prevailing growth expectations. ... We use the ratio of S&amp;P 500 PE to quarterly average VIX as a gauge of market emotion. The ratio is currently 1.17 with S&amp;P 500 trailing PE of 15.9 and QTD avg. VIX of 13.7. We are still in ìrealistic and disciplinedî territory, but on the verge of reaching ìcomplacency.î The PE is normal but the VIX is lower than normal. If the PE/VIX ratio materially exceeds 1.2 it will enter the complacency range. This complacency signal may pertain more to the derivatives market than the equity market, more akin to the situation in 2007 than 1999. We think the market is still likely to climb over time, but probably in a more volatile fashion with a higher avg. VIX. In other words, a higher VIX would allow some further trailing PE expansion (on higher albeit less certain expected 2014 EPS) without the PE/VIX ratio exceeding 1.2 and signaling complacency. As you can see, Bianco's PE/VIX ratio peaked before some of the most memorable stock market sell-offs in history. Deutsche Bank
ShutterstockHere's an interesting situation. The market is acting really calm, not doing much of anything. But everyone's talking about the 'September Angst,' the confluence of big economic events that are coming up in just a few weeks. This is from JPMorgan's Early Look At The Market, put together by Adam Crisafulli: There is a ton of September angst ñ the press over the last few weeks (but really in the last 24 hours) has been full of articles warning of heightened market volatility in Sept due to the Fed (tapering), Washington (the debt ceiling battle), and Europe (Germanyís Sept 22 elections).† S&amp;P 500 Index Committee predicted a ìvery messyî Sept (http://goo.gl/YWU2BU) while strategists continue to warn investors of the potential for market disruptions (ìHow the S&amp;P will lose 90 pointsî http://goo.gl/y40jaF; ìstars aligned for serious US correctionî http://goo.gl/Pmg67e).† Politico (early Mon morning) spoke of impending doom in Sept in Washington and lamented the lack of interest on Wall St in the upcoming disaster (http://goo.gl/eTyLPg).† Even Europe, despite all the progress achieved, continues to worry a lot (a majority?) of people (ìSo you think Europe's debt crisis is finally over? Time to think againî http://goo.gl/YMpD2K). Make of it what you will. 
S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall, the unofficial historian of the S&amp;P500, says an imminent pull-back of the index is unlikely ‚Äî mostly because we already saw a sharp decline earlier this spring.¬† Between May 22 and June 24 of this year, the index dipped nearly 6% before coming back. And here's how often there have been double-dips in the same year, per Stovall: Since 1945, the S&amp;P 500 saw the start of a decline in excess of 5% during 33 of the 67 summers (the five-month period of May through September). However only four times ‚Äì 1967, 1986, 1999, and 2009 ‚Äì did the S&amp;P 500 begin a decline of 5% or more twice. So while there is no reason the S&amp;P 500 could not endure a fifth summer of back-to-back declines, the likelihood of avoiding a double dip are encouraging at more than 87%.¬† Seems like decent odds.
Wikimedia CommonsDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics about which traders are chatting about today. US Futures are tracking 30bp higher, following the DAX‚Äôs 60bp upside move on the back of stronger EU IP and a surging German ZEW survey (Interesting EU fins remain under pressure despite the sharp tightening of PIIGS yields).¬† Most of the Equity Euphoria is coming from Japan, as Machinery Orders fell less than expected, and BOJ minutes show expectations the Inflation target will be met ‚Äìfinally¬† reports Abe may trim the corporate tax rate propelled the Nikkei 2.6%.¬†¬† Global Tech stocks are among the leaders, with Samsung +4%, and HonHai (Foxconn) popping after stronger earnings, and Material stocks continue to jump globally.¬† We remain tuned to the slew of 13F filings over the next 24 hours as the disclosure window closes.The DXY continues to have a short-covering bid to it, especially as the Yen is hit on the dovish tone from the BOJ - Interesting the ‚Ç¨ not on stronger footing, as the head of Germany‚Äôs ZEW said recent data is supportive of Hawkish measures.¬† The US 10YY is breaking higher, highest in a week at 2.65%, all eyes on the ‚Äúwall‚Äù at 2.75%.¬† The stronger dollar should be a headwind for commodities, but seeing Housing Commodities like Lumber and Copper both jumping 1% - Silver adding 50bp, and Gold is finally taking a breather on the India Duty headlines.¬†¬† The Energy complex will see heavy trading today, as Headlines dominate on Mexico Overhauling it‚Äôs Industry ‚Äì but more short-term focus remains on Libya instability, where strike action has closed export terminals and crimped production, threatening 600,000bpd of supplies. As we have heavy focus today on Retail Sales, we saw weakness again in the sector yesterday on profit-taking, and overnight Li &amp; Fung Ltd., the world‚Äôs largest supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, reported first-half profit that missed analyst estimates amid sluggish demand from U.S. retail customers - Li &amp; Fung, whose customers include U.S. retailers WMT, TGT and KSS, reported a drop in net income last year as an increase in payroll taxes, higher fuel costs and federal spending cuts hurt consumer confidence in the U.S.
REUTERS/Susana VeraTwo scrap dealers sleep on a mattress at the entrance to a former Bankia-Caja Madrid bank branch in Madrid August 12, 2013. The sign reads, "retail space available".Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
After much publicized drama, JC Penney has announced that activist investor Bill Ackman has resigned from the board of directors. "During my time on the J. C. Penney Board of Directors, I have always advocated for what I believe to be in the best interests of the Company," said Ackman. "At this time, I believe that the addition of two new directors and my stepping down from the Board is the most constructive way forward for J. C. Penney and all other parties involved." Ackman, a well-known hedge fund manager, took a stake in the department store chain with the intention of turning around its sales. He recruited Ron Johnson, the retail guru behind the Apple stores. However, sales collapsed as Johnson rolled out his revamped sales strategy. Johnson was eventually ousted and replaced by former CEO Myron Ullman, who agreed to work as interim CEO as the board searches for a permanent replacement. The stock immediately jumped by 4% on the news. Here's the full statement via Yahoo Finance/ Reuters: Plano, Texas†(August 13, 2013)†-†J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (JCP)†("the Company") today announced a series of actions related to its Board of Directors. First, William A. Ackman of Pershing Square Capital Management has resigned from the Board effective Aug. 12, 2013. The Company also announced that Ronald W. Tysoe, a highly respected retail industry executive who spent 16 years as Vice Chairman at Federated Department Stores Inc. (now Macy`s, Inc.), has been elected to the Board also effective Aug. 12, 2013. In addition, the Board said that it intends to name another highly qualified new director in the near future. Thomas Engibous, Chairman of the Board of Directors, said, "The Company is extremely fortunate to have the benefit of Ron Tysoe`s judgment and experience at this important time. His deep knowledge of the retail industry and his financial expertise will be invaluable to us as we continue the work underway to return J. C. Penney to profitability and growth. I would like to thank Bill Ackman for his service on the Board over the past two years." Mr. Ackman said, "During my time on the J. C. Penney Board of Directors, I have always advocated for what I believe to be in the best interests of the Company - its stockholders, employees and others. At this time, I believe that the addition of two new directors and my stepping down from the Board is the most constructive way forward for J. C. Penney and all other parties involved." † Mr. Tysoe said, "J. C. Penney is one of America`s great companies, and I am very happy to be joining the Board of Directors. I look forward to working collaboratively with the rest of the Board and management to advance the turnaround currently underway." The Board today also reaffirmed its overwhelming support for Chief Executive Officer Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III and for Chairman Thomas Engibous, both of whom have been working tirelessly to position the Company for future success. This important work has included stabilizing the Company`s operations and financial position, restoring confidence among vendors, and taking steps to get customers back into stores. The Board expresses its deep appreciation for the efforts of the Company`s 116,000 associates, who continue to provide outstanding service to J. C. Penney`s customers during the back-to-school season. It is also grateful to the many vendors and other business partners, as well as stockholders, who have taken the opportunity during the past week to express their confidence in the Company`s leadership and its current path. † Ronald W. Tysoe has over 20 years of retail, finance and real estate investment industry experience. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of Federated Department Stores Inc. from 1988 to 2005, as Vice Chairman for Finance and Real Estate from 1990 to 2006, and as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 1997. Mr. Tysoe currently serves on the boards of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CM), Scripps Networks Interactive (SNI), Cintas Corporation (CTAS), and Taubman Centers, Inc. (TCO). He received his Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Law degrees from the University of British Columbia.
Our friends at FRED (the finest economic database online) recently added data for Japan's stock market index The Nikkei, so that you can chart it against economic data. One doesn't frequently see Nikkei charts going back this far (on public market websites, anyway), so that in itself is a treat. But it's also just remarkable to look at for the extraordinary peak it made in the early 1990s, and the fitful decline since then. The recent Abenomics surge stands out markedly. Will it be different this time? FRED
SpirosK via Flickr The latest GDP number out of Greece looks more promising than in the past (assuming it is to be trusted). The GDP contracted by only 0.2% (SA) from the previous quarter and 4.6% on a year-over-year basis. The Greek government wants to use this opportunity to obtain yet another bailout loan from the EU/IMF. In spite of this slowdown in GDP contraction and a somewhat better fiscal deficit, the Greek government is expected to run out of money by the end of next year. Barclays Research: - ... the programme could very likely run out of funds before the end of 2014 as lower-than-expected growth last year, extra costs for buybacks and the delays in implementing reforms have opened up a funding gap. In addition, at this stage, we don‚Äôt see how Greece could be in a position to return to market funding by the end of 2014, meaning that it will also need its bailout programme extending. Finally, long-term sustainability is still far from obvious and reaching the magical 120% debt-to-GDP ratio by 2020 will require substantial debt-relief measures. A rift is developing within the IMF over the fund's ongoing disbursements to Greece from funds that have already been committed (see story).¬†The IMF has been pressuring the EU for some time to provide Greece with some "debt relief/extension" - possibly including outright "haircuts" to public sector loans. That means the Eurozone nations will need to accept worse terms and possibly a write-down of some sort in order to make the bailout plan more "sustainable". The European Commission however is not ready to kick off the discussions on the topic - at least not until after the upcoming German elections in late September. And the idea of relaxing conditions for current funding as well as additional funding for Greece is generating some skepticism in Germany. What makes the potential modification of Greek debt particularly troubling is that it can not be viewed in isolation. If Greece receives some form of relaxation of terms, Portugal is right behind them. Portugal will need its loans extended at some point as well, since the nation is unlikely to enter the private markets any time soon. And treating Greece differently from Portugal is not going to be possible. Now the Eurozone may have a double bailout on their hands - something many of the partner nations are unlikely to accept.
Vimeo/Nuttakand SaleewanThe highly respected ZEW Economic Sentiment index soared past expectations, with the August reading coming in at 42.0, which is well above the 39.9 that had been expected. Here's the announcement: The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for Germany has increased by 5.7 points in August 2013. The indicator now stands at the 42.0 points-mark (historical average: 23.7 points). This is the highest mark since March 2013. First signs of an end to the recession in important Eurozone-countries may have contributed to the indicator‚Äôs rise. This is also reflected by the strong increase of economic expectations for the Eurozone. Furthermore, the economic optimism is supported by the robust domestic demand in Germany. The assessment of the current economic situation for Germany has also improved in August. The respective indicator has increased by 7.7 points to the 18.3 pointsmark. In August there was a strong rise of economic expectations for the Eurozone. The respective indicator has climbed by 11.2 points to a level of 44.0 points. The indicator for the current economic situation in the Eurozone has gained 0.6 points and now stands at the minus 74.1 points-mark.
US NavyIt's still not on people's radar much, but Washington insiders are paying a lot of attention to the coming budget/debt ceiling negotiations, which will begin in just a few weeks. Several folks seriously think that this time around the deal dynamics are actually WORSE than they were during previous tense rounds of negotiations, the most famous of which was the 2011 debt ceiling standoff. Yesterday at POLITICO, Ben White had a big piece on 'why Wall Street should worry.' In today's Morning Money newsletter, Ben White passes along one comment which really speaks to the different, more worrisome dynamics this time around. DEMS HOPING FOR SHUTDOWN SHOWDOWN? ñ From a top Dem consultant, reacting to yesterdayís story on risks Wall Street is ignoring in DC this fall: ìOne last risk factor for government dysfunction this fall is that POTUS and some Senate Dems are spoiling for the Repubs to do what comes naturally and push the ëshut downí envelope to the max. If you listen carefully, you'll hear Obama in effect baiting the GOP into an optically disastrous economic stance one year before the electionî This is the key difference which maybe people don't appreciate. There's a sense that Democrats mean it this time when they say they will not be negotiating. Not only is there perhaps an electoral benefit to letting the GOP do something stupid, but there's also a sense that existing sequestration cuts will be made "permanent" if there's no fight this time to reverse them. This time around it's not just the GOP looking for something, but Democrats have an agenda as well, and that makes a deal that much harder.
Yepoka Yeebo / Business InsiderA performance in Beijing's Drum Tower. Associate Professor Christopher Balding of the†HSBC School of Business at Peking University in Shenzhen†has just published a paper arguing there are huge flaws in Chinese inflation data, with major ramifications for the official GDP figures. The full paper is†here, and the post that follows†originally appeared on his personal site, and summarises some of the problems with the official data from China which, as Australiaís biggest trading partner, may have implications for forecasting domestic economic conditions.† It baffles me with everything that we know about Chinese economic and financial data that people, and even smart people who should know better, continue to believe the Communist Party Propaganda press releases put out by Beijing. The Reuters†team writes: ìThe slowdown in the rate of deflation was taken as further evidence of a possible stabilisation of the economy, with analysts looking to data later in the day on investment and industrial output for more signs of a bottoming out in activity.î When you simply make economic data up, of course the numbers are always going to look good. For about ten years, Chinese unemployment has bounced between 4.1-4.3%. Now even accepting that Chinese unemployment has remained quite low throughout this entire time period, which in itself a dubious proposition, we expect more random variation than that. Letís take another example from my recent†working paper†How Badly Flawed is Chinese Economic Data? The Opening Bid is $1 Trillion, on how the National Bureau of Statistics in China (NBSC) calculates consumer price inflation and how they should calculate consumer price inflation (CPI). CPI should be calculated based upon what the average consumer buys. To take a simple example, if Honda sells a million cars a year in the United States and their prices go up by 2% annually, that should count a lot more than the 10,000 Bentleys a year that go up in price by 5% annually. Despite having the highest scoring high school math students in the world, it is apparent that none of these technically proficient students work for the NBSC. Below is a table with the official raw data on price change in private housing with a break down by urban and rural residents where the previous year is equal to 100. This pricing data is used to build the Chinese CPI. NBSC Looking at the raw data from the NBSC, it is apparent there is some skewing of the total change to urban residents. When you calculate the total price change with the implied weighting between the urban and rural population, the NBSC is significantly overweighting the urban population. The NBSC between 2000 and 2011 gives an 80% weighting to the urban population with a 20% weighting to the rural population. In 10 out of the 12 years, if utilize a straight 80/20 urban rural, the implied total number is within 1 one thousandth of a percent of the official number. However, this 80/20 urban/rural weighting is not remotely representative of the Chinese population. In 2000, China was nearly two-thirds rural and 2010 reached a fifty-fifty urban rural split. In other words, the NBSC was mis-weighting the rural population by nearly 50 percentage points. This results in a not insignificant accumulated difference over time. The already bogus data price data gets reduced even more in the price basket by overweighting the population with the lower price increase: urban private housing residents. If we weight based upon the actual population weight rather than the Alice in Wonderland 80/20 urban/rural weighting, this raises the price of housing by approximately Ω of one percent annually of more than 5% cumulative difference. While this total does not drastically alter the final Chinese CPI number, it definitely adds to it. More importantly, it shows just how absolutely fraudulent the Chinese data is and how many layers the employ to manipulate the data. It is not just manipulating the price data, which they do, but also how to weight that data and who it applies to. Furthermore, you continue to add up all these little ways that the NBSC is fraudulently manipulating the data and you arrive at some pretty big numbers. As the saying goes, a trillion here and a trillion there, and pretty soon, you are talking some serious money. From Baldingís World, used with permission. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter 
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettAustralia is going to the polls on September 7 for Parliamentary elections, and the expectation is that the current Labour government lead by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd will go down for defeat. A coalition lead by conservative Tony Abbott is the narrow favorite, according to polls, as well as Nomura geopolitical guru Alistair Newton, who handicaps the race in a new note for clients put out today. It's not a slam dunk for Abbott, says Newton, but a general sense of Labour fatigue, plus some smart moves by Abbott will likely cause the party switch. One interesting nugget is observed by Newton: One further point of interest in the senate election is the new Wikileaks party founded by Julian Assange, which will field six candidates across three states in addition to Mr Assange himself (standing in Victoria). Under the prevailing voting system and especially following all the publicity around Edward Snowden, we would not be surprised if Mr Assange were to secure a seat, in which case he/his party may also end up having a hand in the balance of power in the senate.
You won‚Äôt believe this, but apparently QE doesn‚Äôt do much for the economy. ¬†At least according to the San Francisco Fed: ‚ÄúAsset purchase programs like QE2 appear to have, at best, moderate effects on economic growth and inflation. Research suggests that the key reason these effects are limited is that bond market segmentation is small. Moreover, the magnitude of LSAP effects depends greatly on expectations for interest rate policy, but those effects are weaker and more uncertain than conventional interest rate policy. This suggests that communication about the beginning of federal funds rate increases will have stronger effects than guidance about the end of asset purchases.‚Äù Some of us wrote pieces like this years ago. ¬†At least some Fed researchers are coming around to this view. ¬† Better late than never, right? ¬†Sadly, I doubt this paper will change much with regards to the thinking on QE.
Wikimedia Commons, The Conductor It's quiet, but markets are in the green all around the world. The big winner was Japan, which nicely reversed its Monday losses, gaining 2.6%. A strong machine-tools orders number helped offset Monday's weak GDP report. Europe is up across the board, with Germany rising by 0.76%, Italy up 0.5%, and France rising 0.17%. And US futures are higher as well. Later today in the US we get retail sales data for the US.
