How unusual: The Nikkei isn't surging. The hottest stock market in the world is taking a breather, falling over 1%. Nikkei The yen strengthened today, which is a drag on the market. Futures are just a tad red this evening.
CNBC host Larry Kudlow is a throwback to an '80s-style supply-side conservative, who has maintained that any interference in the free market is damaging, the dollar should be strong, and inflation is the primary evil against which the Fed should be on guard. Throughout the economic crisis, he's criticized the lax policies of Bernanke. In late November he wrote for The National Review, "Gold Slams Bernanke," worrying that a sagging dollar would lead to inflation, against which Bernanke had no good defense. Mr. Bernanke just doesn‚Äôt get that inflation-sensitive market-price indicators ‚Äî like rising gold, oil, and commodity indexes, and the falling dollar exchange rate ‚Äî are trying to signal higher future inflation. Instead of listening to markets, he is determined to fight them. This is a losing battle. Instead of a market-price rule (anchored by gold) we have some sort of Bernanke fine-tuning rule. It‚Äôs not working. Just last September he slammed the futility of QE3 in a piece for Investors Business Daily: Bernanke's QE3 is an unlimited Fed effort to buy mortgage bonds with new cash. The plan ‚Äî which starts immediately ‚Äî envisions $40 billion of bond purchases and money-creation per month, coming to $480 billion over the next year. And there are no limits to these purchases. These operations are open-ended. This could last for years ‚Äî maybe in perpetuity ‚Äî until job creation shoots way up and unemployment comes way down. Nothing like this has ever been used by our nation's central bank. The Fed's balance sheet, which has ballooned from around $800 billion to $2.5 trillion under Bernanke, will go to $3 trillion, or $4 trillion, or who knows how high? But here's the rub: More money doesn't necessarily mean more growth. More Fed money won't increase after-tax rewards for risk, entrepreneurship, business hiring, and hard work. Keeping more of what you earn after-tax is the true spark of economic growth. Not the Fed. These anti-Fed views have generally been very much in line with the Tea Party-infused GOP, which has been very skeptical towards Bernanke and aggressive monetary policy. But following the election of 2012, and the improvement in the economy, the fever is breaking a bit, and a new strain of thinking on monetary policy is infecting the mainstream right. And today in The National Review, Kudlow makes a stunning admission: Ben Bernanke might have been right all along. Kudlow's piece draws on the hot school of "Market Monetarists" who draw on the work of Milton Friedman to endorse the idea that the best Fed policy is one that pursues a Nominal GDP target. This idea, that the Fed should pursue a stable Nominal GDP path has fans on Wall Street (Goldman's Jan Hatzius is one), in academia (Scott Sumner, David Beckworth, Michael Woodford), at the Federal Reserve (Janet Yellen, the likely next Fed chair has all-but endorsed it), and various corners of the media (Ramesh Ponnuru, Ryan Avent, and Matt O'Brien). Kudlow isn't totally sold on it yet, and he's still worried about gold prices and King Dollar, but he writes: ... if I have this story right, the market monetarists want the central bank to enforce a nominal GDP growth rule, which will avoid both deflation and inflation, and thus give fiscal incentives breathing room for a more rapid job-creating expansion. I don‚Äôt agree with Bernanke‚Äôs unemployment target or his criticism of lower government spending. But I confess that he may have the monetary-stability story more right than I originally thought. If gold remains soft, and King Dollar steady, perhaps the former Princeton professor deserves a little more credit. He may have gotten that story right. In all seriousness, this is very cool. People don't change their mind nearly enough, especially in the realm where politics meets economics. A big share of the credit here for this shift definitely goes to Jim Pethokoukis, who has been using his perch at AEI to school conservatives about monetary policy, and to debunk the idea that Bernanke is some crazy reckless dove who is not worried about inflation at all. In fact, Pethokoukis is holding an event tomorrow at AEI, featuring Ryan Avent, David Beckworth, and Scott Sumner on revamping the Fed and the idea of market monetarism. You'll be able to watch it live online at noon, and hopefully get a glimpse of new monetary ideas on the right that aren't all about hard money.
Bloomberg TelevisionGabriel Sterne, ExotixA few weeks ago, we asked 60 of our favorite analysts and economists for the "charts that worried them most." To put it into context, this was when everyone thought there were basically little or no tail risks to worry about anymore ‚Äì Europe had been squared away by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi's promise to do "whatever it takes to save the euro," U.S. economic outlooks were improving, and fears of a "hard landing" in the Chinese economy were steadily fading. Needless to say, against that backdrop, we got some pretty interesting submissions. One of them was from Gabriel Sterne, an economist at the frontier markets brokerage firm Exotix. Sterne submitted a chart that wasn't being talked about too much at the time. Cypriot deposits. Here's what Sterne told us: Pea-size Cyprus (GDP around ‚Ç¨18bn) is causing European princesses sleepless nights. Relative to GDP, it could yet be the most expensive bank bailout of all time, most of which caused by operations in Greece. International policymakers ‚Äì with all the nimbleness of oil-tankers and far more leaky ‚Äì are discussing depositor haircuts. If and when they decide to implement, there would be few deposits left in the most afflicted bank (Laiki). In the meantime, that 8-month European distressed asset rally is in jeopardy. Prescient. Below is the chart. Business Insider
Drought conditions are expected to ease in America's heartland, according to NOAA's spring-summer climate outlook. Rain should return to the region thanks to the return of normal precipitation cycles. There was also no dry signal in the agency's Climate Prediction Center's monthly outlook through June. From the report: Although the drought will likely not be eliminated during the next three months, some improvement across this region is expected. Adequate precipitation during May and June and a lack of early summer heat waves are critical for any improvement to occur. Meanwhile, the southern U.S. could be in for even more intense dry conditions than last year. Here's the forecast map: NOAA
Lululemon recently recalled 17 percent of its yoga pants for being too sheer.† The recall quickly turned into a crisis. Customers were outraged, the company's shares plunged, and the retailer got into a public spat with its supplier.† Products are recalled all the time, from peanut butter to cars to apparel. So why was Lululemon's recall a full-on fiasco? First, Lululemon's strategy relies on very tight inventories. The stores only stock a few of every item. This creates the illusion of scarcity, and allows the retailer to sell 95 percent of its merchandise at full price, according to CEO Christine Day. When inventories are tight to begin with, recalling a large percentage of yoga pants results in a shortage. That means that customers could possibly walk in expecting to shell out $98 for yoga pants, and walk out empty handed.† That leads us to the second problem: Lululemon's increasing competition.† The company made a name for itself by providing the best yoga gear on the market. But since then, deep-pocketed competitors like Nike and Gap have gotten in the game, threatening Lululemon's dominance.† If customers can't get yoga pants at Lululemon, they're likely to go somewhere else instead, which gives other retailers a chance to gain market share.† This is also Lululemon's fourth quality-control problem in the past year. Past issues included bleeding dyes and too-bright fabric.† While Lululemon is working to pinpoint the problem, it hasn't fixed it yet, and analysts fear there could be more.† Still, one recall isn't make-or-break for Lululemon. We'll see the real results of the blunder in three months when Lululemon reports earnings.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Here's What Will Happen To Dividends Over The Next 10 Years (Advisor Perspectives) Bill Smead of Smead Capital Management writes that his firm is making four key positive assumptions about the U.S. economy that others aren't. These he says are 1. The Chinese economic slowdown will hurt commodity prices and bolster the U.S. economy. 2. Echo-boomers will start to buy homes and have children. 3. Housing is most affordable it has been in his lifetime. 4. These three should lead to much better economic and earnings growth than other developed countries.¬† "If our companies grow earnings at 8% (because of their qualitative superiority) and the payout ratio on them rises to 50%, our dividend the eleventh year would be 8.4% of today‚Äôs cost basis. At a range of a 2% to 6% dividend yield on our portfolio, you‚Äôd get a range of 40% to 400% appreciation over the next ten years. Include the dividend payments along the way and we believe we can approach long-term common stock investing with a great deal of confidence." Financial Advisors Are Losing Out To Direct Providers (The Wall Street Journal) Investors are abandoning traditional financial advisors, and are managing their money through "direct providers", according to Cerulli Associates.¬† Scott Smith of Cerulli told The Wall Street Journal that direct providers haven't had their reputation tarnished by the financial crisis and lawsuits that followed. He also pointed out that "compared to advisory firms, direct firms are more advanced in their client portals as well as online and mobile client access." "Direct clients are able to complete the majority of their requests and transactions online or over the phone themselves, which provides an advantage in maintaining a greater number of clients."  Gold Will Fall To $1,375 By The End Of The Year (Societe Generale) Societe Generale thinks gold is going to fall to $1,375 per ounce by the end of this year. That's down 15 percent from its spot price. They think the decline will be driven by 1. A strengthening U.S. dollar 2. Higher real interest rates 3. Outflows from precious metals exchange traded products (ETPs) 4. Hedge funds reducing their net long positions. Societe Generale Raj Rajaratnam's Younger Brother Is Charged With Insider Trading (Business Insider) Galleon founder Raj Rajaratnam's younger brother, Rajarengan Rajaratnam, has been charged with insider trading. Rajarengan is said to have pocketed $1.2 million in profits. George Venizelos, the FBI's assistant director-in-charge said "Rajarengan's career arc has descended to the same place his brother's did less than four years ago: defendant." Rajaratnam is currently serving an 11-year sentence for securities fraud and insider trading. Rajarengan is currently living Brazil. 5 Investment Themes For 2013 (Alliance Bernstein) Stock markets have had a good start to the year but the slower pace of economic growth is expected to limit earnings growth. In this environment, Alliance Bernstein has five key investing themes.¬† 1. Emerging market health care 2. European bank deleveraging - "we foresee a continuing reduction of risk-weighted assets (RWA) ‚Ä¶this may prompt banks to de-emphasize their commercial books of business in favor of holding sovereign debt, which has a lower regulatory risk rating." 3. Pricing power - "companies that are capable of pushing up prices should have an advantage in an environment of sluggish economic growth". 4. Cheap high-beta stocks. 5. Dividend growth.
Robert Johnson ó Business InsiderNorth America's oil and gas production boom will allow the continent to become a net energy exporter by 2025, according to the U.S. edition of Exxon's annual forecast. But this assumes expanded production in Canada's controversial oil sands. Many argue that their development is environmentally hazardous. From Exxon's report.† After decades of relatively flat production, output of oil and other liquid fuels in North America is projected to rise by about 40 percent from 2010 to 2040, as declines in conventional crude oil are more than offset by rising production of resources that until recently could not be†produced economically. The biggest contribution will come from Canadaís oil sands, where production is expected to triple over the Outlook period, reaching about 4.5 million barrels a day by 2040. By 2040, North America could be exporting about 15 percent of its natural gas production and about 5 percent of its oil production. Here's the chart breaking down North America and the U.S.'s likely import scenario in the coming decades. Exxon The U.S. itself will actually end up remaining a net energy importer through 2040, Exxon says, mostly because it uses so much. Overall U.S. energy consumption is expected to gradually plateau and then decline by about 5 percent from 2010 to 2040.
Wikimedia CommonsA Brooklyn couple claims their Hamptons house was wrecked by the producers of an internet reality show that features boozy parties with girls in "various stages of undress" called "pArty of 5," the New York Daily News reported citing a complaint. Stuart and Susan Silverman are suing Joshua Blackman, Vice Energy LLC, Philip Dade, and Vice Productions in Long Island Federal Court claiming they did $20,000 in damage to their summer home,†according to Courthouse News. From Courthouse News:† The Silvermans say the parties did $20,000 in damage to the house, silverware was stolen, and "a very expensive couch has to be replaced because, despite the Silvermans' best efforts to clean it, there were sperm stains that could not be removed." After multiple calls from irate neighbors, "which continued even after Blackman assured the Silvermans that the "parties were small and that everything was under control," the Silvermans drove out on the afternoon of June 23 and found "about 50 cars in the road, security guards checking IDs" and "at least 100 persons all over their yard." Last summer's tenant, Joshua Blackman, is a partner for Houston-based commodities brokerage firm Vice Energy, according to his LinkedIn profile.†Vice Energy says on its website that it's a NYMEX and ICE listed commodities broker.††† We couldn't find FINRA records for him.†
YoutubeNike just reported earnings, and shares are surging. The footwear and apparel maker reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.73 versus analysts' expectations of $0.67 per share. Revenue from continuing operations came in at $6.19 billion, a bit less than the $6.23 billion expected. Global futures orders, stripping out currency effects, were up 7 percent in the quarter. Analysts expected orders to rise only 4.7 percent. Shares are up more than 6 percent in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the release. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; ------------------------------------------------- BEAVERTON, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- NIKE, Inc. (NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2013 third quarter ended February 28, 2013. For continuing operations, strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands propelled double-digit revenue growth on a currency neutral basis, and diluted earnings per share grew faster than revenue due to gross margin expansion, a lower tax rate and a lower average share count. "Our team delivered strong results in Q3. We did it with a relentless flow of innovation into our key categories," said Mark Parker, President and CEO of NIKE, Inc. "Given the diversity of our portfolio, we're able to capture big opportunities that drive sustainable, profitable growth. At the same time we continue to invest in new ways to enhance athletic performance, build strong consumer communities, and improve how we design and manufacture our products. That‚Äôs how we increase our potential and drive shareholder value."* Third Quarter Continuing Operations Income Statement Review February 28, 2013 Balance Sheet Review for Continuing Operations Share Repurchases During the third quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 4.9 million shares for approximately $253 million as part of the four-year, $8 billion program approved by the Board of Directors in September 2012. As of the end of the third quarter, a total of 11.1 million shares were repurchased under this program at a cost of approximately $548 million. Futures Orders As of the end of the quarter, worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from March through July 2013 totaled $9.9 billion, 6 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 7 percent.* Discontinued Operations The Company continually evaluates its existing portfolio of businesses to ensure resources are invested in those businesses that are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and represent the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May¬†31, 2012, the Company announced its intention to divest of the Umbro and Cole Haan businesses, allowing the Company to focus resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. As previously announced, the Company completed the sale of certain assets of the Umbro brand during the second quarter ended November 30, 2012 and recorded a loss on the sale of these assets of $107 million, net of tax, that was included in the net loss from discontinued operations for the second fiscal quarter of 2013. On February 1, 2013, the Company completed the sale of Cole Haan to Apax Partners for an agreed upon purchase price of $570 million and received at closing $561 million, net of $9 million of purchase price adjustments. For the third quarter ended February 28, 2013, the Company recorded a gain on sale of $231 million, net of tax, representing the sales price less the asset value of Cole Haan and other miscellaneous charges. For the third quarter of 2013, the Company‚Äôs net income from discontinued operations was $204 million, which includes the gain recorded for the sale of Cole Haan, net of tax, less net operating losses and divesture transaction costs for Cole Haan and Umbro during the period. Under the Cole Haan sale agreement, the Company will provide certain transition services to Cole Haan and will license NIKE proprietary technologies for a transition period. The continuing cash flows related to these items are not expected to be significant to Cole Haan and the Company will have no significant continuing involvement with Cole Haan beyond the transition services.
The house of convicted fraudster Hassan Nemazee just sold for $18 million, reports The Real Deal. It was on sale for $19.5 million.  Namazee, Iranian-American investment banker, plead guilty to a $292 million bank fraud and used the cash to finance his lavish lifestyle including this luxury duplex at 770 Park Avenue.† According to the Real Estalker, the traditionally-decorated palace includes three exposures, 28 windows, and two terraces. It was originally listed at $28 million in March 2011. Michael Kaplan also contributed to the reporting of this story.
AP ImagesBank of Cyprus employees sit outside of Greece's Finance Ministry.Stocks fell after fresh jitters out of Cyprus. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,421, -90.2 pts, -0.6 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,545, -12.9 pts, -0.8 percentNASDAQ: 3,222, -31.5 pts, -0.9 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Philly FedThe U.S. economy was on a tear as it surged with the housing bubble.† And it quickly collapsed when the bubble burst and the financial system spiraled into a credit crisis. Now we are witnessing the economy has stage a remarkable comeback. Over the past three months, 41 of the 50 states showed increasing activity, according to the Philly Fed's coincident index of employment, unemployment, manufacturing hours and wages. Each month, the Philly Fed produces these awesome maps on which red shows economic decline while blue or green show gain. The maps start in 2005 when the economy was booming.
Rosneft just overcame Exxon Mobile to become the biggest oil company in the world, and the $55 billion deal was done between friends. It had to be, because as Bloomberg reports, the dealmakers didn't even sign a guarantee of payment. Here's what went down: A group of Russia's richest men Mikhail Fridman, German Khan, Viktor Vekselberg and Len Blavatnik, owned oil company TNK-BP along with Britain's BP. For months, they've been talking to Rosneft, Russia's state oil company, about a sale. Today they did the deal and sold the company lock stock and barrel. BP got a 20% stake in Rosneft, and everyone got about $40 billion in cash, according to Reuters. The billionaires themselves, collectively under the group Alfa-Access-Renova, got $27.73 billion of that payout. The Chairman of Rosneft and Deputy Prime Minister Igor Senchin (also known to the Russian press as "the scariest person on earth" or Darth Vader) is now the chairman of the biggest oil company on earth. And scary though he may be, the oligarchs obviously think he's trustworthy, as they didn't make Snechin sign a guarantee of payment. Here's what Viktor Vekselberg (who is expected to personally net $7 billion off the deal) said about that in January (from Bloomberg): ìWe signed an agreement, any guarantee letters are needless,î the Renova Group chairman told reporters in Moscow today. ìWe deal with such a respected company as Rosneft, and with its respected managers. We trust them.î Heart-warming.
The unseasonably chilly weather in the eastern U.S. has sent natural gas prices on a tear. However, the U.S. natgas prices are nowhere near as high as prices in Europe. And it's all attributable to the American energy boom. "North America is experiencing an energy revolution thanks to the technological advances that are opening up vast supplies of shale gas," write the analysts at Societe Generale.¬† "The abundance of cheap, relatively clean energy is a positive supply shock that can increase production and reduce costs. The payoff for consumers, manufacturers and exporters should persist for years to come." SocGen uses U.K. natgas prices as a proxy for what Europe has to pay. It seems U.S. consumers of natgas have little to complain about. Bloomberg, SG Cross Asset Research / Economics
Rajarengan Rajaratnam, the younger brother of disgraced Galleon chief Raj Rajaratnam, who was convicted of insider trading in 2011, has been charged with insider trading, the FBI Tweeted.† Here are the Tweets (start at the bottom)† Twitter Rajarengan, who worked at Galleon, was heard in a bunch of incriminating wiretapped conversations with Raj, according to the report. †He was also named as an unindicted co-conspirator. † Raj is currently serving 11 years in prison.†
YouTubeBillionaires probably don't have too many cares in the world. But raising well-grounded children is one of them, it seems. In 2011, Bernie Ecclestone, the Formula One magnate, spoke to the Guardian about his socialite daughter, Tamara: "Yes, for sure, she goes and buys loads of shoes and bloody clothes. Unnecessary. Completely unnecessary. I suppose it's because Ö one wonders ... and this is not in her defence ñ how many other girls her age would do the same if they could?" Nowhere is the density of super-wealthy offspring greater than in Russia. Many oligarchs keep a tight lid on the lives of their children, but, occasionally, the public gain an insight. This week, for example, it was reported that Arkadiy Abramovich, the 19-year-old son of Roman Abramovich, had bought a stake in an oilfield in Siberia for $46m. Arkadiy, who is currently working as an intern at the London office of a Russian investment bank, acquired the oilfield in a complex deal via a shell company of which he owns 45%. That a 19-year-old even knows what a shell company is, let alone controls one, tells you something about the life of a billionaire's child In true "like father, like son" style, not only has Arkadiy developed a taste for his father's investments in Russian oil fields, but in 2010 he was linked to an unsuccessful attempt to take over the Danish football club FC Copenhagen. It doesn't seem to be wildly speculative to suggest that Arkadiy might one day pick up the reins at his father's beloved Chelsea FC. Ekaterina Rybolovleva, the 23-year-old daughter of fertiliser billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev, has a similar taste for multi-million-dollar purchases. Last year, she bought New York's most expensive apartment for $88m ñ to live in while she completes her university studies in the US. Ekaterina's representative ñ yes, she has a spokesperson ñ confirmed to the press that she had acquired an apartment at 15 Central Park West. Press reports said the property boasted "10 rooms including four bedrooms, a wraparound terrace of more than 2,000 square feet, four bedrooms and two wood burning fireplaces". But it later emerged that the apartment had become the subject of a legal tussle as part of a bitter divorce between her father and his estranged wife. Kira Plastinina, the 20-year-old daughter of Russian dairy magnate Sergei Plastinin, is also a busy student. While attending a university in Dallas, she also finds time to be an international fashion designer. Her retail chain filed for bankruptcy in the US in 2009 ñ when she was aged just 16 ñ but she now owns clothing stores in Russia. When she launched her label in 2007, her father reportedly paid $2m for Paris Hilton to attend the party in Moscow. But not all oligarchs hand their wealth to their heirs. Anastasia Potanina, the daughter of metals-and-media billionaire Vladmir Potanin and a former aquabiking world champion, said in 2010 that she supported his decision to give away all his fortune to charity. And earlier this year, oil billionaire Vagit Alekperov announced that he had placed strict conditions on how his son Yusuf, who works as an oil technologist in Siberia, would be able to manage his company once his father had died. "My son won't have the right to split and sell [the company]," he said. "Let him choose his fate for himself."  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
The figure was revealed after a judge ordered the terms of the settlement unsealed Wednesday. The AP reports Stephanie and Chris Hallowich also agreed¬†there was no medical evidence that drilling harmed their health or their children's health, and that they'd received royalty payments from Range.¬† The Post-Gazette and the Washington Observer-Reporter had filed suit to have the settlement opened, although Reed Ward only obtained a summary of it. ¬† In a 2010 National Geographic story by Marianne Lavelle, the¬†Hallowiches said they'd "[suffered] burning eyes, sore throats and other symptoms when gas was released several times" after drilling equipment malfunctioned. Range's wells also disturbed their property, Lavelle reported:¬† ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs ruined our lives. That‚Äôs what it comes down to,‚Äù ¬†Chris Hallowich told Lavelle. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs ruined our plans that we had for the kids. It‚Äôs ruined what we thought was our perfect ten acres.‚Äù The family initiated a case against Range Resources, MarkWest Energy Partners and Williams Gas/Laurel Mountain Midstream Partners on May 27, 2010, according to the Post-Gazette.¬†The dispute was settled by the parties in July 2011. ¬† Range has 30 days to appeal the judge's decision to unseal the settlement.¬†But the company issued a statement yesterday saying they "do not have concerns" and "greatly respect" the decision, according to Reed Ward.
Ralph Orlowski/Getty ImagesThe Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers is currently holding a conference call on what to do next with regard to the Cyprus bank bailout situation, which is quickly spiraling out of control. Bloomberg's¬†Rebecca Christie, Sandrine Rastello, and Boris Groendahl cite unnamed European officials in saying that the Eurogroup is "reviving demands they jettisoned last week as¬†too extreme" in order to move forward. The Bloomberg reporters say that under the new plan, uninsured depositors ‚Äì those with account balances in excess of 100,000 euros ‚Äì will get slammed: Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl and the Bank of Cyprus Plc would be¬†split to create a so-called bad bank, one of the officials said.¬†Insured deposits -- below the European Union ceiling of 100,000¬†euros ($129,000) -- would go into a so-called good bank and not¬†sustain any losses, while uninsured deposits would go into the¬†bad bank and be frozen until assets could be sold, said the four¬†officials. Losses to unsecured creditors, including uninsured¬†depositors, could reach 40 percent under the plan, which has¬†support from the International Monetary Fund and the European¬†Central Bank. The proposal, a version of which was rejected last¬†week, is considered a better option than taxing insured deposits¬†or allowing Cypriot banks to collapse in a disorderly fashion if¬†they lose access to ECB aid, the officials said. According to another Bloomberg report, Cyprus Popular only has a few hours of liquidity left.
Homini :) on FlickrEarlier this week, we noted how Twitter was way ahead of the sell-side on analysis of the Cyprus bailout deal when the news broke over the weekend. One emerging markets analyst we spoke to told us that the sell-side was caught relatively off-guard by the whole affair. Why, though? It's simple. According to the analyst, Cyprus has fallen through the cracks in research coverage on Wall Street ever since the country joined the euro in 2008. Emerging markets desks don't really care about Cyprus anymore because it's part of the euro. Euro zone desks don't really care about Cyprus because it's such a tiny country ‚Äì and, up to now, it's been relatively insignificant in the euro crisis drama that has unfolded in recent years. So, last weekend, when the news broke, there was a bit of a mad scramble on the sell-side to figure out what was going on, and not everyone was necessarily able to come up with a good answer.
Over the last 20-years, gold has shown zero correlation with stocks and bonds, and had therefore become a favorite in terms of diversifying the portfolio, according to Societe Generale. But SocGen analysts Alain Bokobza and Roland Kaloyan think "The Gold Rush Is Over". Gold is well off it's 52-week high of $1,802. And the analysts expects gold to fall 15 percent from its spot price to $1,375 per ounce by year end. This is more bearish than the consensus view which is 30 percent above SocGen's, with a forecast of $1,750 per ounce. In a report published earlier this year, the analysts wrote that they expect gold prices to fall for four key reasons.  1. Stronger U.S. dollar - Gold prices have shown a 75 percent correlation with the USD trade-weighted index. And SocGen analysts expect the dollar to strengthen by the end of the year on stronger housing data, job data, and recent talk about winding down QE even though there is no specific date yet.¬† 2. Higher real interest rates - "There are many ‚Äúempty‚Äù bubbles in the top left area of the chart but that other areas are full of ‚Äúblue‚Äù bubbles (i.e. rising Gold prices). So during periods of negative real rates OR US Dollar weakening, Gold prices have systematically increased." Societe Generale ¬† 3. Outflows from precious metal Exchange traded products (ETP) - In recent months gold inflows began to decelerate and in January we saw outflows. Societe Generale 4. Hedge funds are reducing their net long positions - "Even if hedge fund managers remain net long on Gold, they have significantly reduced their positions since last summer."
AP ImagesCyprus Popular Bank has "enough liquidity to cover the next few hours," reports Bloomberg citing an unnamed government official. Reuters' Luke Baker reports that the bank has announced a 260 euro limit on ATM withdrawals. Cyprus' banks have been closed since Saturday's announcement that a bank bailout out deal could include levies on depositors. In the mean time, Cypriot citizens have been lining up at ATMs to withdraw as much cash as they can. Cypriot leaders are scrambling to figure out a way to raise way to raise money to buoy its troubled financial system.¬† But every new iteration has been falling apart.
Getty ImagesPrince Alwaleed and his wife, Princesss AmeerahVanity Fair's William D. Cohan is out with a big new profile of Saudi prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, the royal who Business Insider called a "dwarf-throwing billionaire" last year. The story takes a close look at Alwaleed's relationship with the Murdoch family, how he made his $27 billion fortune, and his recent kerfuffle with Forbes over the way the magazine valued his holdings for its billionaires' list. It also has some great revelations about how Alwaleed spends his immense wealth. According to Cohan, these are just some of the crazy things the prince owns: A $130 million, 460,000-square-foot complex in Riyadh with 371 rooms and 500 televisions. It's filled with fresh flowers flown in weekly from Holland. The George V hotel in Paris, which he calls "the ultimate toy" (he bought it for $175 million and spent another $125 million on renovations). He's also a partial owner of other 5-star hotels around the world. A 250-acre "country resort" outside Riyadh with a private zoo. An army of chefs: "At every meal, his chefs prepare vast banquets of many different culinary treats, including roasted camel," writes Cohan. More than 300 cars, including Rolls Royces, Porsches, and Lamborghinis. "... many of the cars are carbon copies of one another so when he travels around town, one car can be a decoy," according to Cohan. A 280-foot yacht, currently docked in Cannes. A Boeing 747 outfitted with a gold throne, as well as a Hawker Siddeley 125. He was the only private person to buy an Airbus A380, the largest commercial plane on the market, which start at around $300 million. But he reportedly sold it last year. You can read the full profile at Vanity Fair &gt;
APU.S. Rep. Paul Ryan's budget passed the House of Representatives on Thursday, with more bipartisan opposition than ever and only three Republican votes to spare. Ten Republicans joined the 197 Democrats in the House for a final vote of 221-207, making it the closest call in the three years of votes on Ryan's budgets. The "no" votes on the Republican side were an unusual mix; including hardline conservatives ó Reps. Justin Amash (R-Mich.), Paul Broun (R-Ga.), Rick Crawford (R-Ark.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), Phil Gingrey (R-Ga.), and David McKinley (R-W.V.) ó and three blue-state Republicans ó Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Chris Gibson (R-N.Y.), and John Heck (R-Nev.) ó who are perhaps worried that support for Ryan's budget would be used against them in 2014.† Leading up to the vote, both parties expected the budget to pass. But it became clear on Wednesday that Ryan did not have as much wiggle room as years past.† Massie scoffed at the vote Wednesday, telling reporters†that it was a "pretend vote" and that Ryan's plan does not cut spending fast enough. Broun attacked†the Ryan budget for the same reasons in a†New York Times op-ed this week. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, meanwhile, has already launched used the budget to attack 2014 House targets. Some of those potential pickoffs ó including freshman Reps. David Joyce (R-Ohio) and Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) ó still hadn't made up their minds as of Thursday morning about whether they would vote in favor of the budget. They both ended up supporting the budget. Republican and Democratic House aides said such skittishness is not unusual, though Republicans said it was disconcerting before such a big vote to not have enough outward support. Ten Republican members of the House contacted by Business Insider on Wednesday said they were still undecided and reviewing the budget. Still, one Democratic aide told Business Insider that if Ryan had sensed any real trouble in passage, he or House Speaker John Boehner likely would have been more active in whipping votes behind the scenes.† And in the end, Ryan swung the vote in his favor with the support of conservatives like Rep. Tim†Huelskamp (R-Kans.), who voted against the Ryan budget last year, but supported it this time around, and†Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), who voted for the Ryan budget both this year and last year despite objections to what he called its slow pace of balance.  Both Huelskamp and Brooks voted Wednesday for the Republican Study Committee's budget , which claimed to balance the nation's books in just four years. But Brooks said that the Ryan budget was, in essence, the next best thing. "I'm going to vote for the budget that most quickly balances," Brooks told Business Insider Wednesday. "If America's elected leadership in Washington does not become financially responsible very soon, then our country will suffer and fall into an economic abyss like we have never seen before in history."
Bloomberg TVCypriot parliament votes down controversial bank bailout deal on TuesdayThe Cypriot government is in last-ditch efforts to come up with a plan that will raise the 5.8 billion euros demanded by the EU as the tiny island nation's contribution to a bailout of its own banking system. Today, they had an idea. Initially, the government was going to impose a "tax" on all of the deposits in Cypriot banks. This effectively meant that a certain percentage of everyone's bank accounts would be confiscated, and it forced a nationwide banking shutdown and long lines at ATMs in Cyprus this week as depositors scrambled to withdraw whatever cash they could. The controversial plan failed to pass in the Cypriot parliament. In fact, there were exactly zero votes in favor of the deal, showing just how little political appetite in Cyprus there is to impose such a levy on depositors. This morning, the ECB told Cyprus that it would cut off liquidity to the Cypriot banking system if no deal is reached with the EU and approved in Cyprus by Monday. So, Cypriot politicians came up with a new plan that they think they can pass in parliament: a "solidarity fund," reportedly composed of nationalized pension assets, church property, and bonds backed by future state revenues from natural gas production. The plan is already coming under fire outside of Cyprus. Hans Michelbach, a German lawmaker in Chancellor Angela Merkel's CDU political party, cited reservations about the new plan, saying it raises "a row of questions" and appears to come up 1 billion euros short of the necessary 5.8 billion euros. Finally, Michelbach said it would add to Cypriot government debt. That is not good in the eyes of the "troika" of ECB, EU, and IMF creditors, because the argument is that it makes the whole bailout that much more unsustainable. The IMF previously said it would refuse to chip in to any bailout that would contribute to a big rise in Cypriot government debt on these grounds. These concerns were echoed by others, including fellow German lawmaker Priska Hinz, who said today that the new plan fails on debt sustainability. And guess who else is staying away from loaning money to Cyprus because of its debt levels: Russia. According to Bloomberg, Cypriot finance minister Michael Sarris ñ who has been in Russia this week trying to negotiate aid ñ said that Russia couldn't help with a loan because of the country's outsized debts. Russia wants to invest in this solidarity fund instead because they're looking for hard assets, but the point is that an increase in Cypriot sovereign debt levels is worrying for creditors (the largest, in this case, being the troika). That's what this new plan does in a way that the unfair haircuts on depositors doesn't, and it illustrates the complex dilemma facing Cyprus and other negotiators in the process. The bail-in of depositors clearly seems like the preferred route by the troika. Citi Chief Economist Willem Buiter thinks that sort of approach is the way the euro zone is headed: The proposed tax on bank deposits in Cyprus also opens up prospects of wider one-off fiscal measures and/or bank debt and other private debt restructuring as an alternative or accompaniment to PSI on sovereign debt and/or OSI on official debt. The greater willingness in the euro area to bail in bank creditors should, in addition to raising default risk on all unsecured bank debt (including deposits), reduce sovereign default risk in countries with large and weak banking sectors. Unsecured creditors of banks and other financial institutions like insurance companies that have weak balance sheets and capital needs that cannot be met by the markets are right to be concerned that they are now more likely to bailed in as part of a resolution and recapitalisation programme. In addition, asset holders or cash-rich companies in other periphery countries may ó with good reason ó worry that they too may face one-off ìtaxesî to fill fiscal shortfalls if policymakers still seek to avoid PSI on sovereign debt, or wish to avoid imposing heavier burdens on more conventional and more politically sensitive tax bases or beneficiaries of public spending. This may be especially likely if official debt holders are unwilling to tolerate large NPV losses and are capable of enforcing these views, or for cases where OSI is inadequate to restore fiscal sustainability, or where asset holders lack political support in periphery countries. To be sure, Cyprus is ìuniqueî in having such a large banking system. But, each euro area country is unique in its own way. Cyprus is certainly not unique in having an unsustainable position of its consolidated banking sector and public sector. These are the complicated dynamics underlying the Cyprus bailout talks right now. The Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers will hold a conference call on Cyprus at 2 PM ET. Observers will be watching closely.
Lululemon is no longer the golden child of retail. Today, the company reported earnings to a chilly reception from analysts. Lululemon recently announced it was recalling 17 percent of its yoga pants because of a defect that made them appear too sheer. Same-store sales growth has slowed, and the company has more competition than ever before, leading investors to say the shares are "overvalued." On a company conference call today, Lululemon CEO Christine Day said that consumers will be out in full force by summer, when luon pants are once again freely available.¬† "The fundamentals of our business are strong, we delivered excellent results in 2012, and we plan to continue to earn the loyalty of our customers and shareholders every day going forward," Day said. But there are a host of problems that could hold back her yoga brand. The¬†sheer-pants debacle¬†"has opened the window wide for competitors¬†to showcase their newest yoga efforts for spring," said Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions in New York.¬† There are general problems with Lululemon's supply chain ‚Äî the see-through pants scandal was its fourth quality-control issue in the past year. This is even more troubling considering the intense competition the brand is up against.¬† Competitors like Nike, Under Armour, and Gap are offering very similar products¬†in response to Lululemon's popularity.¬†Nordstrom was accused of poaching the brand's designers, while Calvin Klein was sued for allegedly copying the signature waistband of Lululemon's pants.¬† Same store sales growth also slowed to 10 percent from 26 percent a year earlier, showing a declining public interest in Lululemon.¬† Even blogger Carolyn Beauchesne, once the retailer's biggest proponent, complained about how the company has changed.¬† "Day has ruined everything special about lululemon. The bullet proof quality, the fit, the femininity, the lululemoness of the product," Beauchesne, who goes by "Lulu Addict," wrote. "She is a one-trick pony who grew the company through expansion." And that's not all.¬†John Zolidis at Buckingham Research said that the company's high inventories are concerning. "This is a sign that sales were not as good as the company was hoping and could be a factor in its ability to avoid markdowns in the future," he said in a note.¬† And equity firm The Oxen Group called Lululemon's stock "strongly overvalued."¬† "The company is working against rising competition from other high-quality fitness clothing brands and we do not see any concrete plans for the 2013 fiscal year that counteract this," the group said in a note.¬† The recent troubles come as a surprise because Lululemon has been touted as an untouchable success for years. The yoga and athletic-wear maker had the perfect mix of unique product, eager customers, and impeccable merchandising. Day boasted that the brand sold 95 percent of its product at full price.¬† Lululemon declined to comment on Wall Street's negative outlook.
Brian Kersey/Getty Images Mike Davis clears snow from the Millennium Park skating rink on March 5, 2013 in Chicago, Illinois. If you live anywhere in America besides Texas and Florida, you're probably freezing right now. But cold temperatures should be warming the hearts of natural gas producers and investors. In a note today, UBS analyst Dominic Schneider says March heating demand could now increase 30 percent year-over-year. "Natural gas prices could bounce above the mark of $4 in the coming days," he says. "Higher-than-normal nuclear power outages for this time of year have also been supportive," said Deutsche Bank's Xiao Fu.† "Weather forecasts are calling for below-normal temperatures to persist in the six-to-10 day outlook across the eastern half of the US implying heating demand will remain elevated." However, Schneider argues this is not likely to last for too long because of an†expected recovery in nuclear power generation output and increased natural-gas-to coal switching. Prices could fall to as low as $3.20 in Q2 2013, he Schneider. Here's a look at how natgas prices have been trading: FinViz
AP PhotoThere are tax havens all over the world, so why is Cyprus so special to Russia? It all goes back to a tax agreement made at the end of President Boris Yeltsin's administration in 1998. The year is mostly remembered for the horrible collapse of the Russian economy. What's less remembered is that, in the years before the crisis, Yeltsin had been trying to reform the tax code to make it more centralized. Those reforms became more vital as the economy deteriorated. From the Washington Post at the time quoting Russian Prime Minister Sergei Kiriyenko: If the state does not learn to collect taxes," Kiriyenko said, "it will cease to exist." Among other things, Kiriyenko announced that Russia could get by with only one type of strategic nuclear missile in the future rather than three. Yeltsin warned of "dangerous" social tensions over unpaid wages. But of course, there were caveats. Russian oligarchs like Roman Abramovich and his frenemy¬†Boris Berezovsky ascended to power during the Yeltsin years, some financing his presidential campaign. So one can only imagine that the passage of the 1998 Double Tax Treaty between Russia and Cyprus was for them, as Russia needed revenue quite badly. The treaty stipulates that citizens of either country will not be doubly taxed on income or capital gains. Russia has a 20% corporate tax rate (capital gains are the same), Cyprus' is 10%. Additionally, according to Bloomberg Russia billionaire reporter Rich Lesser, there is no penalty for moving money out of Cyprus, so if you want to move your money to another tax shelter, say, The British Virgin Islands, you're free to do that. So some oligarchs do. This treaty was just updated in the last few years, with some changes coming into effect on January 1st, 2013, according to Deloitte. The new protocol reinforced the 1998 treaty and added some nice strengthening provisions ‚Äî one of which would remove Cyprus from a so-called "blacklist" of offshore jurisdictions. From Deloitte: This would mean that dividends received by Russian companies from Cypriot subsidiaries can qualify for the Russian dividend participation exemption that will further strengthen the position of Cyprus as one of the most attractive jurisdictions for Russian investment. When Cypriot politicians rejected a European bailout agreement this week, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev made allusions to dumping the entire treaty after a meeting with the head of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso. From the Global Post: "We have an agreement on avoiding double taxation with Cyprus but I do not know whether we need such an agreement in this case, the question may be raised of severing this treaty, of denouncing it." Naturally, there will be some very angry very powerful people if that happens.

michelle caruso-cabreraBloomberg is reporting via CYBC, the state-run broadcaster in Cyprus, that Cyprus Popular (a.k.a. Laiki) ñ the country's second-largest lender and arguably its most afflicted bank ñ will be shut down. The plan will follow the "good bank/bad bank" format. Assets from the "good bank" will be sold, and the proceeds of the sale will be returned to depositors. Bank deposits of less than 100,000 euros are guaranteed, reports Bloomberg. However, according to Bloomberg, the Cyprus Central Bank denied the initial reports, saying it hand't been informed of or taken such a decision. It also said it was trying to find the best solution for Laiki, and that a reorganization of the bank is not the same as a closure. The chart below, via Exotix economist Gabriel Sterne, shows the extent of Laiki's problems, even before this weekend's bailout deal and ensuing chaos hit. Business InsiderClick to enlarge
In case you wanted more evidence that tablets and smartphones are disrupting the traditional TV viewing experience, here are some startling¬†new survey stats from Motorola about how people consume TV and movies these days... The highlights: Here's the bedroom data: Motorola ¬† And here's the living room: Motorola ¬† And there are more interesting tidbits in the press release: Motorola study reveals the effects of multi-screen and time-shifting technology on consumer behavior March 19, 2013¬†¬† HORSHAM, Pa ‚Äì March 19, 2013 ‚Äì Motorola Mobility‚Äôs Fourth Annual Media Engagement Barometer, launched today, reveals that consumers are watching an enormous amount of video, in some surprising ways, in unexpected places. Motorola Mobility‚Äôs Media Engagement Barometer is an independent global study of video consumption habits among 9,500 consumers in 17 countries. The study looks closely at new and emerging content trends, such as multi-screen habits and recording behaviors, which are dramatically shifting the way audiences are consuming video. Notably, these trends reveal consumer frustration with the delivery of video content ‚Äì a prime opportunity for service providers to deliver content experiences in the new multi-screen environment that are free of traditional boundaries and complexity‚Ä¶ the experiences that consumers crave. Key findings from the Motorola Mobility Media Engagement Barometer: John Burke, senior vice president and general manager, Converged Solutions, Motorola Mobility comments, ‚ÄúThis year‚Äôs study shows us that consumers take their viewing experiences very seriously. They want to be firmly in control of the way they experience their videos, but they‚Äôre frustrated. Increasingly, they‚Äôre using tablets and smartphones to view their content, and they expect this experience to transition seamlessly across their favorite programs, whenever and wherever they like. Motorola is enabling this shift through innovation in the cloud, the network and the home. We‚Äôre delivering content experiences free of boundaries, complexity and impairment.‚Äù One Day a Week Spent Watching Video Content ‚Äì rise in hours spent viewing content The study shows that the average consumer watches 19 hours of TV content and six hours of movie content a week ‚Äì totaling just over one day of content a week. Multi-screen Romance ‚Äì tablets eclipse broadcast for content in the bedroom The living room is the center of home entertainment consumption, but consumers are taking advantage of the ability to watch the content they like in multiple rooms throughout the home, even in unexpected places. Smartphones and tablets are driving most multi-room content behaviors ‚Äì they are watched more than broadcast TV in the bedroom (46% and 41% versus 36%). These portable devices are also used in less-conventional rooms; 10% of tablets are used in the kitchen. Tablet Owners ‚Äì the hungriest for content In general, tablet users could be described as ‚Äòsuper users:‚Äô watching more content on their own terms than non-tablet users. DVR killed the Linear Star? Not quite yet... a third of weekly content is recorded Almost a third (29%) of all weekly content consumed is recorded. But live viewing still dominates ‚Äì particularly with News ‚Äì which is watched by 73% as it airs. Though DVR owners tend to watch an average of one hour more content a week, a third (36%) of all content recorded is never actually viewed. The US is the most wasteful content market, with 41% of recorded content never being consumed. The study sheds light on the reasons people record content. With so many reasons to record content, it is understandable that the current hard drive limitations of DVRs cause frustration. Sixty-eight percent, globally, have had to delete content because they have run out of storage room on their device. Seventy-nine percent say this has caused frustration in their house. Women are more often frustrated than men by needing to remove recordings they have stored (26% versus 23%). Content On the Move ‚Äì three quarters would like content loaded onto mobile devices Consumers across the globe are storing content on devices to watch when away from home ‚Äì but the study shows this experience could be made easier. Seventy-six percent would be interested in a service that automatically loaded content a user liked to his/her mobile phone or tablet, to enjoy when on the move. Younger Audiences ‚Äì more likely to engage with programming via social media Fifty percent of global consumers do not follow social media conversations about a TV program on a companion device while watching a program, but younger audiences are more inclined to interact ‚Äì 60% of 16-24-year-olds do follow social conversations during programming. Some countries revealed year-on-year declines in those following social media conversation online: Though it appears the majority do not avidly follow online chatter, people are more likely to use social media channels to recommend content than they are to make oral recommendations (38% versus 34%). The study also shows potential to use social media to further deepen audience interaction and sharing. Seventy-eight percent would be interested in linking their social network profile to a TV service to share what they are watching and increase online, real-time discussion. About Motorola Mobility‚Äôs Media Engagement Barometer Motorola‚Äôs Media Engagement Barometer is a research project looking into the video consumption habits of 9,500 consumers across 17 markets: UK, France, Germany, Sweden, Russia, Turkey, US, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Australia, South Korea, Malaysia, India, Japan and China. The research was conducted on behalf of Motorola by independent agency, Vanson Bourne. As the fourth major study from Motorola Mobility‚Äôs Home business into media consumption habits of consumers in the home, this research focused on television and video content. The aim of the study was to develop both a global and regional understanding of what video content was coming into homes and how it was being consumed, how viewing habits were evolving with the advent of new technologies such as social media and the trends service providers should seek to support both now and in the future.
Dagens NÊringslivThe second story on Dagens Naeringsliv: "USA's game increases."Now that we know America's shale boom is here to stay, how will it affect the rest of the world? That question is front page news today for Norwegian business daily†Dagens Naeringsliv ("Today's Market"). The very rough, Google-Translated headline on the article†at right reads, "USA's game increases." The "game" ("spillerom" in Norwegian) refers to energy geopolitics, and how the U.S.'s shale revolution is causing tectonic shifts in that arena, according to Norwegian Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide. "The shale revolution (in Norwegian, "Skiferrevolusjonen" ó ed.) in the U.S. will very shortly allow it to become more self-sufficient in oil and gas," Eide says (again according to our edit of Google Translate). "That means they need less oil from the Middle East. As that falls, so will its interest in ensuring production and transportation of oil in the oil-rich countries of the Middle East and in the exposed waters around. Instead, Eide says, the responsibility for ensuring steady crude flows from the Middle East will fall to countries like India and China. But Eide warns doing so "really is against their will, to take greater responsibility for world security."† Read the full Google-Translated version here &gt;
Arguably the most popular and reliable measure of stock market value is the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratios (CAPE).¬† The CAPE ratio, which was introduced by Graham and Dodd and popularized by Robert Shiller, measures the stock market's capitalization against the average of 10 years' worth of earnings. In a recent white paper, Cambria Quantitative Research's Mebane Faber examined the CAPE ratios of the stock markets around the world. "We found most CAPEs averaged around 15‚Äê20, bottomed out around 7, and maxed out around 45 (and a few made the United States bubble in the late 1990's look pathetic in comparison, like¬† Japan reaching a value of nearly 100 in 1989). Here's a table from Faber's report ranking CAPE's from cheapest to most expensive: Cambria Quantitative Research From Faber's white paper: We examined 32 countries with data from Global Financial Data and Morningstar, including ¬† as ¬† much ¬†data ¬†as ¬†we ¬†could ¬†find. ¬† ¬†We ¬†realize there is some bias in this study ¬†(if ¬†you ¬†have ¬†German ¬†PE ¬† data ¬†to ¬†1685 ¬†or ¬†French ¬†to 1724 ¬†please ¬†contact us), ¬†but ¬†we ¬†did ¬†the ¬†best ¬†with ¬†what ¬†we ¬†have.¬† We utilized local real returns (and found dollar based real returns to be nearly identical) to net out the effects ¬†of ¬†inflation. We ¬†examined ¬†all ¬†the ¬†countries ¬†on ¬†a ¬†yearly ¬†basis ¬†since ¬†1980, CAPE ¬†levels, and future ¬†returns. ¬† ¬†The ¬† sample ¬†includes ¬†approximately ¬†10 ¬†counties in 1980, ¬†20 ¬†in 1990, ¬†and ¬†30 ¬†by ¬†2000.¬† The ¬†results ¬†are ¬† in ¬†the ¬†table ¬†below and largely confirm the US data. Buy low, sell high. Cambria Quantitative Research
John Fredriksen, the Norwegian tanker magnate and 87th-richest person in the world¬†‚Äî appended his citizenship in 1996 mostly for tax reasons ‚Äî¬†Cyprus doesn‚Äôt tax dividend-based income. ¬†¬† Named of the Bloomberg's 50 most influential people in markets last year, Fredriksen is said to own a 6,000 square foot¬†penthouse condominium ‚Äî an alleged image of which you can see here ‚Äî in Limassol on Cyprus' southwest coast.¬† According to a statement from Fredriksen's spokesman cited¬†by the Economic Times, the mogul's Cyprus-based firms actually have less than $1 million exposed to Cyprus' current financial turmoil. Fredriksen's story is sort of amazing. Per his Bloomberg profile, he dropped out of high school at 16 and moved to Beirut to trade oil. He later leased boats to the U.S. army as it sent supplies to troops in Vietnam. During the Iran-Iraq war, he¬†organized crude oil shipments for Iran. He now owns Seadrill ‚Äî market cap $17.14 billion ‚Äî and a host of other major shippers. Just as interesting, perhaps, is that the country's second-wealthiest individual is ethnically Turkish.¬† Suat G√ºnsel¬†owns Cyprus' Near East University in Northern Cyprus. According to Forbes, business at the private institution is booming.¬†But G√ºnsel's¬†main wealth is tied up in land, Forbes says. ¬†
The controversy surrounding Saudi investor Prince Alwaleed's fortune isn't limited to his current wealth, it also extends to questions about how he made his fortune. So let's get to them. Columnist William D. Cohan sat down with the Prince in Paris for Vanity Fair. After describing the Prince's quirky habits and fast-paced lifestyle he settles into the most important question ‚Äî how he started out as a businessman. The feature is, after all, called "The Creation Myth of Prince Alwaleed." From Vanity Fair: The official story of how Alwaleed got his start in business is where, many people believe, the myths about him originate. Alwaleed claims his father gave him $30,000. Within a year, he had lost the money. He went back to his father, who gave him $300,000. This time, it took him three years to lose it. He went back to his father again, who refused to give him more money and instead gave him the deed to a house he was building for Alwaleed in Riyadh. ‚ÄúGo work for yourself,‚Äù his father admonished. Alwaleed got a $600,000 mortgage on the house from a branch of Citibank in Riyadh. In pictures, the house looks like little more than a ramshackle structure and certainly not one that would serve as collateral for a large mortgage. To raise additional money, Alwaleed says, he sold a $200,000 necklace that his father had given his first wife, Dalal bint Saud, a daughter of King Saud. ‚ÄúShe sold it for me and no one knows about this,‚Äù he says. As a grandson of the king, he also received a monthly stipend of $15,000. That's when Alwaleed started doing deals in Saudi Arabia. Forbes estimated his wealth at about $1 billion at that point (1988), but he wasn't known in the U.S. until the New York Times reported that he saved Citigroup by investing $590 million in a preferred-stock issue. He ultimate built a 10% stake in the bank. In 1999, though, The Economist wrote a story saying that all this was bunk ‚Äî¬†‚Äúyou could barely clothe a Saudi prince for such sums, let alone furnish him with a multi-million-dollar empire...he has not earned enough from his investments to pay for all he has spent in the 1990s.‚Äù Of course, Alwaleed has an answer for that (Vanity Fair): ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs their problem. There‚Äôs no myth.‚Äù He insists that his wealth is self-made. ‚ÄúIf I had access to oil, why would I borrow $30,000 from my father, or from Citigroup?‚Äù he asked me, incredulously. ‚ÄúI‚Äôd just begin from the beginning with $10 million. Why would I do that? Why would I do it twice and go bankrupt? And, by the way, strange enough, the first loan I got from Citigroup, I still have the loan paper. . . . If I was born with a silver spoon in my mouth, why would I have a tin spoon in my mouth?‚Äù Kerry A. Dolan, the senior editor at Forbes who wrote an epic takedown on Alwaleed's wealth earlier this month told Business Insider Alwaleed is "quite serious about investing" and that he reads everything and works hard ‚Äî so this isn't a game to him. Alwaleed isn't playing at business and investing, he just hasn't always been winning at it either. Read the full piece at Vanity Fair&gt;
You'd get both Ireland and Cyprus.¬†And that is how Cyprus became an international banking center.
Christina AvraamEd. note: Earlier this week, Christina Avraam, a freelance photojournalist in Cyprus, sent us†incredible photos she'd taken of the bailout protests.† We asked her to keep us posted of anything new or unusual going on the ground. This morning, she put together the following photo feature showing panicking Cypriots lining up outside ATMs to withdraw their money as the ECB set a Monday deadline for the government to approve bailout terms.  What follows is her full reporting: I heard today that the ATM machines opened, so I went running to take some pictures for you. I spoke to some of the people there too about their situation and why they came...
ZillowCurbed's Rob Bear's pick for "House of the Day" is this beautiful Shelter Island mansion with a stripper pole in the basement that is on the market for $28.5 million.¬† The home belongs to Marco Birch, a portfolio manager at Louis Bacon's Moore Capital Management.¬† Birch's stunning Shelter Island home features 40 rooms and 23,000 square feet of living space. The real gem, Curbed points out, is hidden in the the basement where there's a stripper pole, illuminated dance floor, bar and curtained off VIP area. Who would have guessed that was in there?¬† Anyway, it's definitely a sick home and now we're going to take a photo tour.¬†
(AP Photo/Petros KaradjiasThe big news today is that the ECB has given Cyprus a deadline. If it doesn't have a deal in place by Monday, then it's over. The ECB will not be providing any emergency liquidity to its banks at that point. Expect a busy weekend, as the government scrambles. Still the best possibility is some kind of depositor tax. But Lorcan Roche Kelly, an analyst at Trend Macrolytics, argues there's another possibility. But, there is one other alternative for Cyprus. The question with this strategy is: Is threatening to leave the euro a real threat. I.E., is it a real threat that scares anyone outside of Cyprus? The financial aspect could likely be contained. But as Lorcan notes, the precedent is then created and a pathway is opened up. Expect a very busy weekend.
REUTERS/Jason ReedExisting home sales for February were up 0.8 percent month-over-month in February, to an annual rate of 4.98 million. This missed expectations for a 1.6 percent rise to an annual rate of 5 million. January's reading was revised up to reflect a 0.8 percent rise in sales to an annual rate of 4.94 million. The national median existing-home price was up 11.6 percent on the year to $173,600. This was the 12th straight monthly rise. The last time home prices were up for 12 months in a row was from June 2005 to May 2006. The median time on market for all homes was 74 days, down 24 percent from a year ago. "Job growth in the improving economy and pent-up demand are causing both home sales and rental leasing to rise. Though home prices are rising much faster than rents, historically low mortgage rates are still making home purchases affordable," said Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist in a press release.¬†¬† "The only headwinds are limited housing inventory, which varies greatly around the country, and credit conditions that remain too restrictive." Total housing inventory was up 9.6 percent to 1.94 million existing homes at the end of February. This represents a 4.7-month supply of homes at current sales pace, up from 4.3 months in January. Existing home sales account for a larger share of the market than new homes, and have outpaced new home sales. And with housing supply staying tight, a rise in existing sales should support home prices.
Flickr/Nataraj MetzThe Philly Fed's March Business Outlook Survey is out. The headline index rose to 2.0 from -12.5 last month. The number indicates that business conditions in the region moved into expansion mode from contractionary territory last month. Economists were expecting a slighter gain ‚Äì to -3.0 ‚Äì which would have indicated a continued contraction in the region. Below is the full text from the press release: The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, increased from a reading of -12.5 in February to 2.0 this month (see Chart).* The demand for manufactured goods also showed improvement this month: The new orders index increased from a reading of -7.8 in February to 0.5, its first positive reading in three months. The shipments index showed continued improvement: The index remained positive and edged higher to 3.5. The percentage of firms reporting increased shipments (25 percent) was still only slightly greater than the percentage reporting declines (22 percent). Labor market conditions showed continued signs of stability, but little overall growth. The employment index increased from 0.9 in February to 2.7 this month, its second consecutive positive reading. The percentage of firms reporting employment increases (17 percent) narrowly exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (14 percent). Firms also reported a decline of average work hours this month. The workweek index declined 11 points. The survey‚Äôs price indexes suggest little price pressures again this month. For the third consecutive month, the prices received index was slightly negative. The percentage of firms reporting lower prices for their own manufactured goods (9 percent) exceeded by a slim margin the percentage reporting higher prices (8 percent). With regard to purchased inputs, 17 percent of firms reported paying higher prices for inputs, compared with 13 percent last month. The prices paid index edged slightly lower and is now at its lowest reading in nine months. The survey‚Äôs future indicators suggest that firms expect growth in business over the next six months. The future general activity index increased slightly from a reading of 32.1 to 32.5, its fourth consecutive monthly increase (see Chart). The percentage of firms expecting increases in activity over the next six months (46 percent) exceeded the percentage expecting decreases (13 percent). The indexes for future new orders and shipments showed a mixed pattern this month. The future new orders index decreased 4 points, while the future shipments index increased 1 point. The future employment index fell notably, from 14.9 to 8.1. Twenty-four percent of firms expect to increase employment over the next six months; 16 percent expect to decrease it. In special questions this month, firms were asked about their expectations for capital spending for 2013 compared with 2012 (see Special Questions). Over 39 percent of the firms indicated that total capital spending would increase this year compared with 2012; 32 percent indicated that spending would decrease. With the exception of noncomputer equipment, most categories of planned capital spending were being scaled back this year. Among firms that did not plan to increase capital spending, the most cited reasons were low sales growth, low capacity utilization, and limited need to replace capital and technology equipment. The March Business Outlook Survey indicated an improvement in the region‚Äôs manufacturing sector this month. Most notably, the indicators for general activity and new orders improved markedly, and the survey broadly recorded positive readings this month. Responses suggest that firms expect further increases in business over the next six months. Although firms are generally optimistic, restrained capital spending plans are in evidence. Click here for the full report &gt;
Phillipe LeroyerThe New York Post's Lois Weiss has an exclusive today about how the owner of Nomura's new offices at Worldwide Plaza in New York wants to install fewer ladies' rooms on the lower levels.¬† The argument is that the Japanese bank employs mostly males.¬† The city's plumbing code requires restrooms for men and women be equal unless they get approval otherwise. From the city's plumbing code [.PDF]:¬† 403.3 Number of occupants of each sex. The required water closets, lavatories, and showers or bathtubs shall be distributed equally between the sexes based on the percentage of each sex anticipated in the occupant load. The occupant load shall be composed of 50 percent of each sex, unless statistical data approved by the commissioner indicate a different distribution of the sexes.¬† Nomura's population on these lower level floors, which the Post believes are most likely the trading floors, is 75 percent male and 25 percent female.
AP/Al GrilloThis week, we explained why America's shale oil and gas boom is a true-blue economic game changer, and not just a flash in the pan. It comes down to the fact that we've barely scratched the surface of all the fuel beneath our feet. This morning, the EIA provided another reason why the boom is only getting started. Pennsylvania's natural gas production rose 66% in 2012, despite reduced drilling activity, the agency reports. Here's the chart: EIA How is this possible? It turns out that until recently, the state only possessed "limited pipeline and processing infrastructure." So a lot of wells were drilled, but couldn't come online.¬† That began to change last year: As infrastructure expanded, these wells were gradually connected to pipelines, sustaining natural gas production increases through 2012 despite the decline in new natural gas well starts. And there's still lots of infrastructure left to be built ‚Äî including, for instance, the proposed Bluegrass Pipeline, which would add links to existing lines to better connect Pennsylvania production with Gulf refineries. The boom literally has miles to go.
REUTERS/Adrees LatifThe FHFA House price index for January was up 0.6 percent month-over-month. This came in just below expectations for a 0.7 percent rise. Home prices were up 6.5 percent on the year. Click here to refresh &gt; December's reading was revised down to reflect a 0.5 percent rise, compared with an initial reading of 0.6 percent. On the month, home prices were up the most in the Pacific division (Hawaii, Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California), rising 1.6 percent. The were the weakest in the New England division (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut), falling 0.7 percent. Analysts have been getting increasingly bullish on home prices, with Bank of America and Capital Economics forecasting an 8 percent rise in home prices. Earlier this month, Ivy Zelman said we're in a "nirvana for housing", and she is the most bullish she has every been. Economists have attributed the recent bullishness to declining inventory, and a "positive feedback loop" i.e. when people think home prices are rising, they think they will continue to do so. They also think credit conditions will improve and this in turn increases demand for homes. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) House Price Index (HPI) covers single-family housing, using data provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Here's the trajectory of home prices since January 1991: FHFA
Over the weekend the European Union agreed to a 10 Billion euro bailout of member country Cyprus‚Äô banking sector, but imposed as a condition of the bailout a 9.9% tax on all bank deposits above 100K Euros.[1] On its face and in the abstract, this proposal is a horrible way to bail out a bank and an ailing economy, as it violates rule #1 of financial bailouts, namely ‚Äúavoid bank runs.‚Äù Not only does the proposal guarantee every Cypriot bank will suffer a run by all its depositors as soon as they open on Thursday, but every bank in Southern/peripheral/wobbly Europe ‚Äì Spain, Portugal, Greece ‚Äì has to wonder whether their depositors will do the same in anticipation of future similar bailout terms imposed by the European Union, and Germany in particular. The fastest way to achieve a run on banks in weak countries is to suddenly punish depositors for leaving their money in the bank.¬† Even to threaten to do so can create a self-fulfilling fear, one that leads quickly to bank runs. The proposal also violates rule #1 of dealing with distressed banks, which is that depositors get treated better than bondholders. The European Union‚Äôs proposal to punish depositors ‚Äì while bondholders suffer no losses ‚Äì upends the traditional order of payment priority of bank liabilities. On the other hand, I can see why the European Union made this odd deposit tax proposal, as the specific situation of Cyprus boils down to the European Union vs. Russian oligarchs. Cyprus is the Cayman Islands of Russia, a hub for vast quantities of Russian banking deposits.¬† Some may be savings of ‚Äòordinary‚Äô Russians, but most people believe a combination of Russian Mafia, Russian oligarchs, and dirty money sloshes around the Cypriot financial sector.¬† Bailing out Cypriot banks, without confiscating what is perceived to be largely illegitimate Russian money, was too much for the German leadership of the EU to swallow.[2] Which all reminds me that in a world of Plutocrats, in which huge aggregations of money are perceived to be illegitimate, it becomes much easier for policy-makers to engage in what would otherwise be horrible banking policy. I don‚Äôt think it‚Äôs a stretch to wonder about the implications for the US. The inequality here has reached a point where, if people actually knew how stratified we‚Äôve become, the idea of a Cypriot bank tax in the US to confiscate wealth goes from being an Occupy Wall Street fantasy to becoming more normalized. In the US we currently view our own plutocrats as superheroes.¬† But if they instead become morally equated with Russian oligarchs, then a confiscatory tax like the Cyprus proposal starts to almost look ‚Äòfair.‚Äô I think this is a nightmare scenario, but I also think structural inequality in the US sets the scene for this kind of nightmare.¬† It‚Äôs not unthinkable. [1] Although the proposal keeps changing as of this morning.¬† Maybe it‚Äôll be 15% for depositors over 500K Euro, and 3% for depositors below 100K Euro, and no tax for depositors below 20K Euro.¬† Also, maybe the Cypriot parliament will reject the whole deal and take their chances. [2] The other interesting angle: If you‚Äôre a Cypriot parliamentarian, are you willing to vote for something that hurts the Russian mafia?¬† I mean, admittedly everything I know about the Russian mafia comes from Hollywood, so I don‚Äôt really have real life experience here.¬† But I‚Äôd be pretty nervous to vote for this bank tax and put a big fat Russian mafia target on my back. Post read (180) times.
Tesla MotorsMarkit's March flash PMI report is out. The headline index of nationwide manufacturing conditions rose to 54.9 from February's 54.3 reading. Economists predicted a slightly smaller advance to 54.8. Any number over 50 on the index indicates expansive conditions, so today's reading suggests that the growth rate of manufacturing activity in the U.S. is accelerating. The headline index was led higher by an increase in the new orders sub-index, to 55.9 from 55.4, the new export orders sub-index, which rose to 51.2 from 48.5, and employment, which increased to 54.6 from 53.5. The total output sub-index fell to 56.8 from 57.3, indicating a slowing but still robust pace of expansion. Similarly, input and output prices continued to rise, but at a slowing pace. Below are the sub-components of the index: Markit Click here for the full release &gt;
John Moore / Getty ImagesThe storied New York Stock Exchange in lower Manhattan is a symbol of American capitalism. And the floor brokers, specialists and designated market-makers (DMMs) on the trading floor are the face of Wall Street, constantly appearing in photographs, newspapers and on financial television. Still, despite their visibility, it's not easy to tell what they're actually doing down there. Being curious for some detail, we decided to ask a floor broker, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, to explain his job and daily routine. ¬†
The latest weekly jobless claims report is out. Initial claims rose slightly to 336,000 from an upwardly-revised 334,000 the week before. However, economists expected a slightly larger rise to 340,000. Continuing claims rose to 3.053 million from an upwardly-revised 3.048 million the week before. Economists had expected continuing claims to rise to 3.050 million. Below is a state-by-state breakdown, although there isn't much to report this week: DoLClick to enlarge Click here for the full release &gt;
As the bank closure drags on, the lines around ATMs to get out cash are starting to get longer. Christina Avraam, a photographer and¬†Erasmus Program Assistant at University of Nicosia, was nice enough to share some of her photos of the situation. One particularly interesting one was the cars. She writes: Cars began to pile up outside of the bank; desperately looking for a parking space to get in line. Christina Avraam
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Euro zone finance officials acknowledged being "in a mess" over Cyprus during a conference call on Wednesday and discussed imposing capital controls to insulate the region from a possible collapse of the Cypriot economy. In detailed notes of the call seen by Reuters, one official described emotions as running "very high", making it difficult to come up with rational solutions, and referred to "open talk in regards of (Cyprus) leaving the euro zone". The call was among members of the Eurogroup Working Group, which consists of deputy finance ministers or senior treasury officials from the 17 euro zone countries as well as representatives from the European Central Bank and the European Commission. The group is chaired by Austria's Thomas Wieser. Cyprus decided not to take part in the call, a decision that several participants described as troubling and reflecting the wider confusion surrounding the island's predicament. "The (Cypriot) parliament is obviously too emotional and will not decide on anything, if Cyprus does not even feel that they can attend the call it is a big problem for us," the French representative said, according to the notes seen by Reuters. "We have never seen this." The German representative raised the need to learn more about capital outflows from Cyprus to Russia and Britain, and emphasized that "we stand ready to find a solution immediately" as long as the parameters of the bailout agreed among euro zone finance ministers on Saturday are respected. The official also referred to the need to resolve Cyprus's two biggest banks, both of which are close to collapse, and mentioned the possibility of Cyprus leaving the euro zone. In the event of an exit, the official said steps needed to be taken to "ring-fence" the rest of the euro zone from the impact and to ensure there was no contagion to Greece. One issue repeatedly raised on the call was the risk of large outflows of capital once Cypriot banks reopen, probably on Tuesday. The ECB representative said the situation was being closely monitored and "technical preparations" were being made to try to limit the amount of any outflow. "Some additional laws need to be passed. Overall we are in a very difficult situation," the official said, according to the notes. "(We're) trying to do everything within the powers to limit any unauthorized outflows." Cyprus's finance minister continued discussions in Moscow on Thursday to see whether a way can be found to involve Russia in the bailout so that large depositors in Cypriot banks, many of whom are Russian, are not hit with a one-off levy. Financial markets have largely taken the problems in Cyprus in stride, perhaps calculating that any collapse of an economy worth only around 17 billion euros, will have only a limited impact, or that a solution will be found in the end. "Markets believe that we will find a solution and that we will provide more money and this might not be the case," one of the participants on the call said, according to the notes. In wrapping up the teleconference, the chairman described the situation as "foggy" and expressed concern about Cyprus's decision not to take part in the call. "The economy is going to tank in Cyprus no matter what," the notes quoted him as saying. "Restrictions on capital will probably be imposed," he said, adding that further conference calls would be organized in the coming days. (Writing by Luke Baker, editing by Mike Peacock) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
In a few hours, we'll get a lot of US economic data. Via Calculated Risk, they are:
Jason Merritt/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
From CNBC's Michelle Caruso-Cabrera... Long lines forming at #cyprus ATMs again. twitter.com/MCaruso_Cabrer‚Ä¶ Another ATM line. ECB gives #cyprus a deadline of Monday. twitter.com/MCaruso_Cabrer‚Ä¶ #Cyprus gas station, no cash, no gas twitter.com/Tesa_RT/status‚Ä¶ #Cyprus gas station, "only cash" twitter.com/Tesa_RT/status‚Ä¶
That's a pretty clever cover of Bloomberg Businessweek for a story about his battle to get Apple to use its balance sheet to return more cash to shareholders (via Morning Money). Bloomberg BusinessWeek Of course the cover is a play on the painting The Son Of Man by RenÈ Magritte. Wikimedia Commons
In an extraordinary day in Australian politics, the prime minister, Julia Gillard has kept her job after a day of political wrangling that ended with a leadership contest where no one dared stand against her. Julia Gillard announced a "spill" ‚Äì declaring her position open and inviting rivals to nominate for the job of Labor leader and, thereby, prime minister. The dramatic move followed calls by a senior ministers in her government for her to be replaced in the top job by her predecessor, Kevin Rudd. But when the ballot took place two and a half hours later, Rudd refused to nominate. "I'm grateful to my colleagues for their continuing support for me as demonstrated in our meeting," Gillard told a press conference after she had been reconfirmed in her position as leader. "Today the leadership of our political party, the Labor party, has been settled and settled in the most conclusive fashion possible. The whole business is completely at an end. It has ended now." The conservative opposition leader, Tony Abbott, whom Gillard accused of sexism and misogyny in a fiery speech last year, said the only way to resolve the crisis of leadership in the government was to hold an early election, before the scheduled date of 14 September. "The civil war [in the Labor party] goes on," he said. "The civil war will continue as long as Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard are in parliament. The only way to give our country the good government that we so badly need right now is to have an election. We cannot wait for September 14." The extraordinary day began when Simon Crean, one of the most senior figures in Gillard's minority Labor government, called on her to end speculation over her leadership by calling a ballot. It followed a chaotic week in parliament that saw her government fail to force through a controversial media bill that would have introduced a statutory regulator for newspapers. Supporters and opponents of Gillard publicly attacked the process of the legislation, saying it was rushed to parliament, suggesting chaos within the government. Newspapers depicted Gillard's communications minister, Stephen Conroy, the man behind the media bills, as Joseph Stalin, implying the measures in the bills would sit better in a totalitarian regime than a democracy. Once Gillard had called for a leadership spill on Thursday all eyes then turned to Kevin Rudd, the man she had ousted as leader of the Labor party and prime minister in June 2010. Rudd's removal was the first time a first-term sitting Australian prime minister had been ousted by his own party. Virtually ever since Rudd has led Gillard in opinion polls as preferred Labor leader, causing constant speculation about her tenure in the job in a hotly contested hung parliament. Rudd eventually challenged Gillard for the leadership in February 2012 but was resoundingly defeated by 71 votes to 31. He vowed not to challenge again and left it until 10 minutes before the vote on the party's leadership to declare he would not be nominating. "The only circumstances under which I would consider a return to the leadership would be if there was an overwhelming majority of the parliamentary party requesting such a return ‚Äì drafting me to return ‚Äì and the position was vacant. I am here to inform you that those circumstances do not exist," Rudd said. In the end there was no vote for Gillard's leadership position because no one else put their name forward in the party room. Few doubt that the day's events have damaged the government's reputation. Two opinion polls in the past month indicated that Labor would lose September's election in a landslide. Members of parliament from both sides of the house now return to their electorates for the six week autumn break.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Flickr / Ruin RaiderThe Euro train wreck continues. Just this morning we've got: And the day's really just started. Markets are red. Italy is down 0.6%. Germany is down 0.8%. France is off 1%. For more on the Cypriot drop dead date, see here.
ECBNext Monday is the drop-dead date by Cyprus. If Cyprus doesn't have a deal in place by then, the ECB will not provide its banks the emergency liquidity assistance they need to continue to operate. Earlier this week, the Cypriot parliament rejected a plan that would have recapitalized the country's banks by imposing a one-off tax on all depositors. Since then the government has been scrambling to come up with the nearly 6 billion euros that the country must supply to save its banks. Below the dotted line is the press release the ECB just put out, wherein the central bank says that assistance will be cut off unless there's a deal. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to maintain the current level of Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) until Monday, 25 March 2013. Thereafter, Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) could only be considered if an EU/IMF programme is in place that would ensure the solvency of the concerned banks.
You don't see this much. A really ugly German economic datapoint. Flash PMI -- a composite index that measures both the service and manufacturing parts of the economy -- has tanked. It's still above 50, indicating expansion, but yeesh. Not a pretty decline from last month. Markit
French Flash PMI -- a composite measure that includes both the service and manufacturing sectors of the economy -- has come in very ugly. Here are the key bullet points and the key chart. In the chart, Flash PMI is in blue. markit Markit Economist Frederik Ducrozet notes what's so ominous about this. Collapse in French services PMI (less correlated to external shocks) is not just noise, but a sign of large adjustments to come
Wikimedia CommonsNicosiaThe big story once again today is Cyprus, where there's still no hard deal. The government will reportedly present a new plan to Parliament at some point today, with the goal of raising 5.8 billion euros to bail out the country's banks. In the U.S. there's a bunch of good data coming up today, including the Philly Fed index and Initial Jobless Claims. In the meantime, markets aren't really going anywhere. Asia was mostly up after Chinese Flash PMI.
