BoeingTOKYO (AP) ó Japan's Civil Aviation Bureau is sending investigators looking into problems with Boeing 787 batteries to Seattle, where the aircraft are assembled. The Transport Ministry said members of the team working on the investigation would leave Tokyo on Sunday for Seattle. It provided no further details. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and Boeing earlier dispatched investigators to join the probe in Japan. All 50 Boeing 787s in use were grounded after a lithium-ion battery in a 787 flight by All Nippon Airways on Jan. 16 overheated, forcing an emergency landing. Earlier in January, a 787 operated by ANA's rival Japan Airlines suffered a battery fire while parked at a Boston airport. Investigators on both sides are trying to determine why the batteries have overheated and how to fix the problem.
Fist Of Legend via YouTubeChina's HSBC manufacturing PMI report jumped to 52.3, a two-year high in January. However, China's official NBS manufacturing PMI unexpectedly fell 50.4. So, are we supposed to just follow the official number because it's "official"? Some skeptics would actually argue that "official" makes the NBS report less reliable since it comes from the Chinese government. But conspiracy theories set aside, the two reports actually source explicitly different samples. Bank of America economist Ting Lu, in a note to clients last year, said one of the major differences was that the HSBC number has more exposure to small and medium sized enterprises (SME), which means they have a relatively tough time securing credit when the economy is slowing. They are also considered less favored by the government. So, one could actually argue that the HSBC PMI number offers a better cyclical signal.† Lu argues as much in his latest note. We spoke with Luke Thompson, Head of Markit Economics, who told us more about the HSBC/Markit number: I would just like to clarify two significant points in relation to the China Manufacturing PMI that Markit produces for HSBC. 1) The structure of our PMI survey panel is defined by industry sector and company size as determined by the latest available value added data from the Chinese National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). As such, there is no bias in our sample to small and medium sized industries over large sized companies. Our panel covers small, medium and large sized companies in the proportions determined by the NBS data on value added. This is in common with all PMI surveys that Markit conducts around the globe (using latest official value added data from the relevant official statistics provider). See the attached note for more information on some of the differences between the Markit/HSBC and NBS PMI surveys. 2) Markit is one of the largest independent producers of macro economic data in the world. One of the key features of our data (and one that users most value) is its independence and there is absolutely no involvement in any of our data calculation from any parties external to Markit. I can state categorically that neither the Chinese government or HSBC have any involvement or influence at all in the PMIs that we publish for China or for any other nations. Thompson forwarded us a 2-page note explaining the difference between the official and unofficial Chinese PMI numbers.
Australia's economy continues to struggle to find its legs. The mining-driven economy got slammed as soon as its emerging market export partners like China slowed down. And despite a pick up in China, Australia has yet to see the benefits. It's "a credit bubble built on a commodity market built on an even bigger Chinese credit bubble," wrote strategist Dylan Grice in a note last year. Earlier today, we got another round of ugly economic stats via the Australian Industry Group's January PMI report. Its manufacturing PMI slumped to 40.2 January, down fom 44.3 in December.¬† Any reading below 50 signals contraction. Here's a breakdown of the sub-indices.¬† As you can see, exports are particularly horrific: Markit Here's a historical look at headline PMI:  Here are the key points (verbatim) from the latest report: Click Here For Ongoing LIVE Coverage Of Global PMI Day &gt;
Bank of America-Merrill LynchTing LuChina's official manufacturing PMI slumped to 50.4 in January, down from 50.6 in December. Economists were looking for a reading of 51.0. So, is this the end of the world? No way, says Bank of America economist Ting Lu. Here's an excerpt from a note Lu just blasted: Why markets may not turn bearish despite the ìdisappointingî PMI? First, most data points, especially the industrial earnings, have been pointing to an impressive recovery. Second, the private HSBC PMI, which is a better proxy for smaller enterprises, rose to 51.9 in Jan from 51.5 in Dec. Third, PMI data are heavily seasonally adjusted, especially during the year ends and beginnings. As there is big room of freedom regarding seasonal adjustment during the CNY holiday, itís likely that the NBS statisticians intentionally reported a conservative estimate within the allowable range to save better data for rainy days. Finally, new orders rose to 51.6 in Jan from 51.2 in Dec despite new export orders falling to 48.5 in Jan from 50.0 in Dec, suggesting domestic orders jumped in Jan. Click Here For LIVE Coverage Of Global PMI Day &gt; SEE ALSO: China Is Marching Towards A Massive Credit Crisis &gt;
Bank of America-Merrill LynchTing LuChina's official manufacturing PMI slumped to 50.4 in January, down from 50.6 in December. Economists were looking for a reading of 51.0. So, is this the end of the world? No way, says Bank of America economist Ting Lu. Here's an excerpt from a note Lu just blasted: Why markets may not turn bearish despite the ìdisappointingî PMI? First, most data points, especially the industrial earnings, have been pointing to an impressive recovery. Second, the private HSBC PMI, which is a better proxy for smaller enterprises, rose to 51.9 in Jan from 51.5 in Dec. Third, PMI data are heavily seasonally adjusted, especially during the year ends and beginnings. As there is big room of freedom regarding seasonal adjustment during the CNY holiday, itís likely that the NBS statisticians intentionally reported a conservative estimate within the allowable range to save better data for rainy days. Finally, new orders rose to 51.6 in Jan from 51.2 in Dec despite new export orders falling to 48.5 in Jan from 50.0 in Dec, suggesting domestic orders jumped in Jan. Click Here For LIVE Coverage Of Global PMI Day &gt; SEE ALSO: China Is Marching Towards A Massive Credit Crisis &gt;
Getty Images/Spencer PlattNew York City Council Speaker Christine QuinnJonathan Van Meter has written a big cover story on New York City mayoral hopeful Christine Quinn for New York Magazine. In it, he shares a anecdote about Quinn, Bloomberg, and... women's fashion? Dhani Mau at Fashionista calls it "oddly catty" and "frenemy-sounding."  We're inclined to agree. Then she said, ‚ÄúThe mayor is going to yell at me when I get out of the car because I have flat boots on. The mayor has no use for flat shoes.‚Äù Really, I said. Why would he care? ‚ÄúI was at a parade with him once and he said, ‚ÄòWhat are those?‚Äô and I said, ‚ÄòThey‚Äôre comfortable,‚Äô and he said, ‚ÄòI never want to hear those words out of your mouth again.‚Äô‚Äâ‚ÄùEveryone in the vehicle, including the security detail in the front seat, cracked up. ‚ÄúHe likes me in high heels. Let‚Äôs see how long it takes before he notices.‚Äù She scrolled through her BlackBerry. ‚ÄúAnother big thing with the mayor, when I am rooting ‚Ä¶ like, the couple of days a week before I need to get my hair colored, he‚Äôll say, ‚ÄòDo you pay a lot to make your hair be two colors? Because now it‚Äôs¬†three¬†with the gray.‚Äô And I‚Äôm like, ‚ÄòDid you wake up being this big of an asshole? Or did it take, like,¬†all day¬†to ramp up to it to be able to insult me like that?‚Äô‚Äâ‚Äù Quinn insisted that the pair have a good working relationship despite all that. Bloomberg has often supported the New York fashion scene and he views events like Fashion Week as big wins for his city.
SocGen's currency strategist Kit Juckes has invented something he calls the "Sexy Currency Index." What makes a currency sexy? In a note out to clients today, he explains what makes a currency sexy. "Sexy" currencies are ones with attractive fundamentals - healthy balance of payments, high rates, and strong growth. All of those things, high interest rates, a strong trade balance, and strong growth are what typically make a currency attractive to traders. On this chart, you can see that the currencies that are far to the right on the sexy index include the Norwegian Krone, the Aussie Dollar, the Kiwi (New Zealand), the Swiss Franc, the the Swedish Krona: SocGen Not picture, but also sexy, is the Mexican Peso. On the left side is Purchasing Power Parity, which is a measure of how expensive a currency is. Almost all of the sexy currencies are also expensive, with the exception of Norway. And now, here's a look at the sexiest currencies. Banknotes.com Mypivots.com Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Commons Currencymuseum.net Wikia.com
star5112 / FlickrChina's NBS just published its official manufacturing PMI report, and it's a bit of a disappointment. The headline number unexpectedly slipped to 50.4 in January. Economists were expecting an increase to 51.0 from 50.6 in December. The good news: any reading above 50 signals expansion. † † Earlier this month, the January HSBC Flash PMI jumped to 51.9, a two-year high. HSBC's PMI reading is more tilted toward small and medium sized enterprises, which are a bit more cyclical than the large companies. The PMI reports are big deals because for months people have questioning whether China would face a hard or soft landing.† With the economy showing signs of re-acceleration again, people are looking for confirmation that the world's second largest economy is really picking up. SEE ALSO: LIVE Coverage Of Global PMI Day &gt; SEE ALSO: China Is Marching Towards A Massive Credit Crisis &gt;
AP/Andy WongChina's growth rate might be slowing, but its army of middle class consumers in only getting bigger. And savvier. The convergence of these two phenomena‚Äîgrowth slowing and consumer sophistication rising ‚Äî could signal the emergence of a new era for Chinese corporate giants, according to a recent report by Milward Brown Optimor and WPP Brandz. This new report ranks the 50 most valuable Chinese brands according their proprietary calculation. We took a look at the top 10.
Wikimedia CommonsSouth Korean trade data is out. Exports jumped 11.8 percent year-over-year in January, which was much stronger than the 8.9 percent gain expected.¬† This is according to Bloomberg. Economists refer to South Korean trade as the "canary in the coalmine" because it is extremely sensitive to economic activity in Asia. It is also one of the first major economic data points for the month. Moments ago, we also learned that South Korean manufacturing PMI slipped to 49.9.¬† This signals contraction in the manufacturing sector, but only marginally. Click Here For Our LIVE Global PMI Scorecard &gt; ¬†
MarkitSouth Korea's manufacturing PMI fell to 49.9 in January from 50.1 a month ago. Any reading above 50 signals growth in the manufacturing sector. Here are the key points from Markit: From HSBC's Ronald Man: ‚ÄúKorea's latest manufacturing conditions highlight the country's dependence on trade. New export orders gained momentum and employment growth rose in anticipation of higher output over the coming months. However, the domestic economy remains weak and policymakers in Seoul will likely maintain an easing stance to keep domestic demand firm until 2H 2013, when export growth recovers meaningfully and generates an export-led recovery.‚Äù Click here for our global scorecard &gt;
APThe "No Budget, No Pay" bill passed the Senate Thursday afternoon, sending the measure to the President's desk for a final signature. The bill suspends the debt ceiling until May 18 and contains a measure that cuts off pay for member of Congress in the event that the Senate does not produce a budget that the House approves. However, the title of the legislation is†misleading. Members of†Congress will get paid†ó members earn $174,000 per year, or $348,000 per term ó†regardless of whether they pass a budget. They just might not get their paychecks right away.†† The first thing that has to happen is that both the House and the Senate need to each pass a budget. This is easy for the House, which has already passed the Paul Ryan budget and is working on an updated version now. The onus, as intended, is on the Senate to produce their own budget. Next, select Senators and Representatives start negotiating, with the goal of reconciling the two plans into a mutually-agreed upon conference report, which must then be passed by both chambers.† This is called a concurrent resolution, and sets the levels of appropriation bills for the budgetary year. It's not a law for the President to sign, just a negotiated, binding agreement over what appropriations bills will eventually be sent to the President. US HouseThe relevant text If this occurs prior to April 15, then everybody will get their regular paychecks. If Congress doesn't agree to a concurrent resolution on the 2014 budget by April 15, the payroll administrators of the House and Senate will deposit all paychecks into an escrow account.† If Congress agrees on the concurrent resolution sometime†after April 16, members get†the lump sum payment of all their paychecks put into escrow after the budget deadline. If Congress doesn't agree to the concurrent resolution at any point†during the 113th Congress, then members will not get paid until the last day of the Congress, in late 2014 or early 2015. At that point, each member will get the rest of their $348,000 in a lump sum.†
AP Images On his company's earnings call Thursday afternoon, Wynn Resorts founder and CEO Steve Wynn was asked about the competition he now faces in the Macau casino market. Wynn, who is known for spiking his calls with colorful anecdotes, offered the following description of his rivals: "Murder tough." "Ugh, those guys have blood in their eye," he added. We recorded his full comment below:
APNow that the Senate has voted to suspend the debt ceiling, the focus turns to the next fiscal battle: Sequestration,†automatic, across-the-board spending cuts that will affect most areas of government spending beginning on March.  The cuts are expected to amount to $1.2 trillion over 10 years ó including $85.3 billion in fiscal year 2013 alone. But neither Republicans or Democrats seems concerned about the impending austerity cuts ó not yet, at least. That has the potential to change in the coming weeks, however, especially in light of Wednesday's unexpected GDP report that showed the economy shrinking for the first time in three years, largely due to a 22 percent drop in military spending.† According to both Democratic and Republican aides in the House and Senate, neither side really wants sequestration to happen. But Republicans seem content to go along with the cuts, since they feel it is at least one way they can extract spending cuts from President Barack Obama and Democrats. Democrats, meanwhile, have said that they won't give in to a revised sequester deal without new revenues from closing tax loopholes.† Most surprising is Republican restraint over the massive defense cuts scheduled to start taking effect on March 1. Sequestration would force the Pentagon to make across-the-board cuts of 16.3 percent in this year alone. It's worth nothing that the surprise drop in GDP was due in large part to a 22 percent reduction in military spending. But some Democratic Senate aides think Republicans are bluffing:† "It is not clear to me that they have a strategy," one Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider. "Senate Republicans are definitely not OK with the sequester kicking in, and I can't imagine they appreciate the sanguine tone from their House counterparts. But at the same time, House Republicans seem to be embracing it." A House Republican aide said that the party views the cuts as "extremely damaging," but added that GOP members are frustrated with Democrats. † "We're at a point where you have to say, 'It can't just be us,'" the aide said.† Some Senate Republicans have tried to sound the alarm in recent days. Sen. John McCain, a defense hawk, told The Huffington Post's Sabrina Siddiqui†that using national security as leverage "would be a mistake." The White House has frequently said that it doesn't want the cuts. At a presidential debate in October, President Barack Obama firmly declared that sequestration "would not happen."† But as of now, it looks increasingly likely that the cuts are going to happen, as both sides refuse to budge.† "No one will tell you they want the cuts. But no one will tell you that we'll definitely make them less damaging," the House Republican aide said. SEE ALSO:†BOEHNER: The sequester is my biggest point of leverage to extract spending cuts†&gt;
China Photos/Getty ImagesTonight we get the official and HSBC January PMI numbers for China that will offer insight into how the economy is doing. The official number is out at 8 p.m. ET, and analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for manufacturing PMI to rise to 51 in January, from 50.6 the previous month. The HSBC reading follows at 8:45 p.m. ET, with analysts polled by Bloomberg looking for a rise to 52, from 51.5 the previous month.¬† Bank of America's Ting Lu is looking for the official manufacturing PMI number to rise to 51. He says that industrial earnings have been pointing to an "impressive recovery" and this should help boost business confidence. This should reflect in January's PMI print. Of course some like Diana Choyleva at Lombard Street Research argue that the optimism over December corporate profits isn't justified.¬† "The prevailing analysis in the market has focused on the annual change in the monthly data on industrial profits, stating that profits climbed for a fourth straight month in December. But the profits data is highly cyclical, making monthly moves useless in assessing the underlying trend. Seasonally adjusted quarterly data is a much better guide to the state of corporate profits. Net profits not only fell in Q4, but at a faster rate than in the previous two quarters." If that reflects in tonight's PMI, the data could disappoint. This chart shows the trajectory of PMI and industrial production since 2005: Bank of America  SEE ALSO: China Is Marching Towards A Massive Credit Crisis &gt;
The New York Times' most emailed story Thursday analyzed the sharp drop in law school applications and the brutal impact it could have on legal education. University of Chicago law professor Brian Leiter made the story's most ominous prediction: He estimated 10 law schools would close within the next decade. Now, law school closures are rare. We spoke with Washington University Law Professor Brian Tamanaha, author of Failing Law Schools, who could recall maybe one law school closure in the 1980s. (He couldn't remember the school's name.) But Tamanaha agreed that some law schools could be in trouble now that so many folks seem to be abandoning the notion of getting a JD. The law schools whose deans should be freaking out a little are so-called stand-alone law schools that aren't attached to universities, like New York Law or Thomas Jefferson. With no university to fall back on, "they run like any other business," Tamanaha said. Most stand-alones aren't ranked or have low rankings and are extremely dependant on tuition to operate, says law professor and law school "scam" exposer Paul Campos. "They have negligible endowments and almost no other sources of income," Campos told BI. "If their tuition revenues decrease markedly they may become unsustainable operations very quickly." These schools also rely on loans to cover their daily operating expenses,†Tamanaha pointed out. A dramatic drop in law school applicants might make banks charge them higher rates. "To the extent that applications are collapsing, that makes the [stand-alone] schools riskier borrowers," he said. Some stand-alones may closing or merge with other stand-alones to stay afloat. Law schools attached to big universities are probably here to stay, though. "It's really hard to pull the plug on the law school at a big university," Tamanaha said, "Law school alumni tend to be very generous donors. A university would be reluctant to alienate its alumni donors."
Burger King has admitted that some burgers made in the plant of one of its processors in Ireland were tainted with horse meat, The Guardian reported. There's an ongoing controversy about horse DNA being found in beef in Ireland and the U.K. Supermarket titan Tesco, among others, has been engulfed by the controversy. "Our supplier has failed us and in turn we have failed you," Burger King vice president for global quality Diego Beamonte told The Guardian. He said that Burger King is "deeply troubled" by the findings. The company also said that burgers tested from its restaurants showed no trace of horse meat. Here's the statement from Burger King ‚Äî from The Guardian: "Our independent DNA test results on product taken from restaurants were negative for any equine DNA. However, four samples recently taken from the Silvercrest plant have shown the presence of very small trace levels of equine DNA. Within the last 36 hours, we have established that Silvercrest used a small percentage of beef imported from a non-approved supplier in Poland. They promised to deliver 100% British and Irish beef patties and have not done so. This is a clear violation of our specifications, and we have terminated our relationship with them." The fast food chain had previously given "absolute assurances" that its burgers weren't involved, The Daily Mail reported. The culprit is suspected to be a meat distributor in Poland, which may have used other meats as filler.
With the Dow Jones Industrial Average on track for its best January since 1989 and the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 off to its fastest start since 1997, it seems most pros are expecting a banner year.They say history is on the side of the bulls. When the S&amp;P 500 gained at least 5 percent in January, it has almost always finished the year with a very strong double-digit gain. CNBC Byron Wien, however, isn't most pros. The vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners is among the most celebrated investors on Wall Street. He's known for making predictions and for timing the market with astonishing accuracy. And in an interview on CNBC's "Future's Now," Wien essentially said the bulls were in trouble. Click Here To Watch Wien's CNBC Interview &gt;"I expect the S&amp;P to end the year about where it started," said Wien. "The stock market had a good January, but I think we end where we started."Wien thinks that unlike so many other years when January ushered in a massive rally, this year will be different."Right now the market keeps going up because liquidity keeps finding its way into equities," he said.In other words, with the Fed keeping interest rates at historic lows, Wien feels investors have little choice but to put money in stocks ‚Äì specifically dividend yielding stocks.However, he expects that buying to slow down significantly. "Eventually corporate fundamentals will take over, and I think they're going to be disappointing."Wien doesn't like the latest GDP data. "Nothing bad had happened yet in Q4," Wien said. "No fiscal cliff, no sequester and the payroll tax holiday was still in effect."And yet GDP dropped 0.01 percent during the quarter.By contrast in 2013 all of those negatives present a drag on the economy and by proxy on most companies. "The chances of revenue disappoint is very real," he said.As a result he doesn't expect earnings to go up, like so many bulls. Instead, he thinks they'll go down."Most investors think earnings are going to come in around $110 for the S&amp;P or even better in 2013 ‚Äì but I think they're going to come in below $100. And when that reality sets in, I expect the market could have a correction."If you're among the optimists who argue that investors will pay a greater premium for stocks as the economy proves, Wien thinks you'll be sadly disappointed."Multiples usually expand when interest rates come down ‚Äì the next big move in interest rates should be higher ‚Äì I don't think you can count on expanding multiples," he said.And in the face of market weakness, Wien also said he expects gold to trade $1,900. "I'd buy gold as an insurance policy. If the market is turbulent you'll be glad you own gold," he said.
www.paiz.gov.pl"What will you do when your child asks why didn't invest in Eastern Poland?" This question, along with a picture of a disapproving boy,†has been posed to people around the world through advertisements in The Economist and other publications and with posters in airports and videos on YouTube.†Another ad in the campaign suggests that your father-in-law will disapprovingly ask the same question. So? Should you invest in Eastern Poland? The Internet seems to think this is a ridiculous idea. After a flurry of mockery when the campaign was announced in September, it has become a meme†with dozens of variations appearing†on comedy site Something Awful. That said, the kid could be right. Poland outperformed its neighbors during the crisis, and its future looks even brighter. The central European country†was named†one of the best emerging markets in the world, according to Bloomberg Markets Magazine,†with 21 percent GDP growth projected from 2013 to 2017.
The stock is down slightly after the company reported earnings short of estimates and announced it was doubling its dividend, according to Bloomberg.  Profit excluding some items totaled $1.17 a share in the quarter, the Las Vegas-based company said today in a statement. Analysts were projecting $1.27, the average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Follow along for updates &gt;
APThe Senate passed a bill Thursday afternoon that will suspend the debt ceiling through May 18, by a vote of 64-34. The measure needed 60 votes to pass. All 34 "nay" votes were Republicans. The bill passed the House of Representatives last week with strong bipartisan support. It now moves on to President Barack Obama's desk, where he is expected to sign it. Republican Sens. Rob Portman, Pat Toomey and Rand Paul all introduced amendments that failed. But the legislation also attaches a provision aimed at forcing Senate Democrats to take up a budget for the first time in four years. If they do not, a "no budget, no pay" provision would withhold pay for members. The debt-ceiling bill is that it is not technically a clean hike in the nation's debt limit. It's a suspension of the debt ceiling for a certain time period. On May 19, the debt limit will be raised by an amount "necessary to fund commitment incurred by the Federal Government that required payment." The Bipartisan Policy Center estimates that number will be around $450 billion.¬† If it passes and is signed into law quickly, it could delay the next potential debt-ceiling fight until August. Now, the fiscal battles move on to sequestration ‚Äî¬†$1.2 trillion worth of cuts that will start kicking in on March 1.
Library of CongressIt's jobs week in America. So, let's talk about jobs. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,860, -49.8, -0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,498, -3.8, -0.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,142, -0.1, -0.0 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
El Pais ScreenshotSpanish prime minister†Mariano Rajoy and his government have been rocked today by documents published in El Pais that appear to show his party receiving a large amount of "secret" donations. El Pais claims that the documents show a series of payments from well known businessmen to the†conservative Peopleís Party for more than a decade, with the last payment in 2009. According to the Guardian, one document appears to show Rajoy himself receiving payments totaling Ä250,000 ($340,000) that had been hidden from tax authorities. The scandal revolves around former treasurer Luis B·rcenas, who is under investigation for allegedly having Ä22 million ($30 million) in a Swiss bank account. B·rcenas is alleged to have kept a double accounting system for the party to hide the payments. For the Spanish government this timing is bad ó CNN notes that just one day ago there was a parliamentary debate over how to stop corruption. The country is currently suffering from one of the worst unemployment rates in Europe, and has seen widespread protests on the streets of its major cities. Two senior PP party members have admitted that at least some of the payments are true, but the party itself is denying the report, the Guardian reports. "The party vehemently denies the contents of these documents,"†party secretary general Maria Dolores de Cospedal said, adding that they may sue El Pais. "I have spoken to the prime minister and he is calm."
Tom Keene on InstagramBloomberg TV's Tom Keene, the anchor of "Surveillance," is really, really tall.† Business Insider staff have met him in person before, but only recently noticed how incredibly tall he is when he was in Davos, Switzerland last week for the World Economic Forum.† He made JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon and Nouriel Roubini look super short, and both of them are normal sized people. To see if Keene had the same effect on other people he came in contact with, Business Insider collected pictures of him with co-workers and industry folk. Once you see these pictures, you'll get the picture.
Ezra Klein of Wonkblog (the best digital section of the Washington Post) just sent out a bunch of tweets that might be described as "9 inconvenient truths about the deficit." Mostly, the tweets concern the religious status that discussions about the deficit have attained in this country--in which any proposal that is packaged as a deficit-reduction proposal is given a free pass from analysis, despite the fact that many of them are idiotic. (And, worse, may actually increase the deficit). Klein is perceived as "left-wing," so his tweets will no doubt be instantly dismissed as partisan lobbying. But they're true: 1. A few thoughts on deficits, inspired by @neil_irwin's post on Krugman vs. @JoeNBC: http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/01/31/joe-scarborough-paul-krugman-and-the-economist-pundit-divide-on-debt-and-deficits/¬†‚Ä¶ 2. Claims about deficits in Washington -- so long as they're pro-deficit reduction -- get much less scrutiny than claims about other issues 3. For instance, reporters are allowed to root openly for deficit reduction in a way they can't for, say, universal health care. 4. Policies promoted under the guise of deficit reduction get less scrutiny than those same policies proposed on their own. 5. The biggest problem with the budget debate is people treat deficits as a moral question rather than an economic one. 6. Japan and Britain's low borrowing costs, nonexistent bond crises and rising debt-to-GDP are important context for this discussion. 7. There are few examples of a country getting debt-to-GDP down without getting growth up. Growth is always key. 8. Long-term deficits do matter, in large part for risk aversion and policy smoothing reasons. But they're not near our main threat 9. Manipulating a spreadsheet, which is how most budget proposals work, does not solve our debt problem, which is a health reform problem You can follow Ezra Klein here &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Low Volatility Stocks Outperform Riskier Ones (Advisor Perspectives) A greenhorn investor might believe that with high risks come high rewards.¬† But research by the Late Professor Robert A. Haugen, showed low risk stocks perform better than their riskier counterparts. What's more this low volatility success didn't just follow from the Great Recession. "It would have proved most unfortunate to implement a low volatility portfolio at the outset of the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s: on an annualized basis, low volatility strategies underperformed their cap-weighted counterparts by large margins‚Äî18.5% in the United States and 7.4% in the Developed ex U.S. markets‚Äîover the following three years. However, outside of raging bull markets, it is not the case that low volatility portfolios always underperform when prices are rising. In the bull market of 2003‚Äì2006, low volatility investments provided higher returns than cap-weighted portfolios with approximately 25% lower risk. During the two most recent market collapses, the bursting of the high tech bubble and the Global Financial Crisis, the low volatility strategies significantly outperformed traditional cap-weighted investing while maintaining the desired low-risk profile. Bloomberg, Advisor Perspectives ¬† Money Market Funds Hoping To Stave Off Tougher Regulation By Disclosing More (The Wall St. Journal) Money market funds are voluntarily increasing transparency in hopes of delaying or preventing stricter regulations, but the strategy is probably not going to work. "Part of the rationale behind this move is that investors and regulators will be able to see the underlying mark-to-market NAV of the fund every day, yet still enjoy the convenience of trading the fund at $1 per share," Jerry Klein, managing director and partner at HighTower's Treasury Partners, told the WSJ. Institutional investors appreciate the increased transparency but the new disclosures don't offer much additional insight. Chinese Volatility Means This Is A Good Time To Buy (Mark Mobius) The Chinese markets have been a rollercoaster all of last year, which scared off a lot of investor. And that's exactly why the Chinese market is cheap right now. Equity valuations overall are currently not much above their 2008 lows, said Templeton's Mark Mobius, in a note. "China‚Äôs local equity market appears relatively cheap at the moment with the Shanghai A shares average price/earnings ratio at 12 times, as of mid-January 2013," he said. The Economy Is In A Misnky-esque "Ponzi Finance" Phase Right Now (PIMCO) In his latest investment outlook Pimco's Bill Gross draws on¬†Hyman Minsky in saying that the U.S. economy is currently in a state "when additional credit would be required just to cover increasingly burdensome interest payments, with accelerating inflation the end result." Gross said that new credit is providing diminishing returns. "Each additional dollar of credit seems to create less and less heat. In the 1980s, it took four dollars of new credit to generate $1 of real GDP. Over the last decade, it has taken $10, and since 2006, $20 to produce the same result." This is because more money is being channeled into market speculation than should be. The "Great Rotation" Doesn't Mean Stock Prices Are Going To Go Up (Morgan Stanley) Even though a "great rotation" from debt into equity could happen in 2013, this doesn't mean that stock prices are going to go up, according to Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack. He is skeptical of the rise in stock prices for three key reasons. First, there is no evidence that money moved out of stocks and into debt in recent years, in fact equity ETFs have seen bigger inflows. Second, U.S. pension funds' exposure to equities is already above its long-term average of 50 percent. Third, economic fundamentals are still the biggest open question. "For sure," Minack says, "if the fundamentals continue to improve, equities will do better, and flows may shift."
This morning, the latest Chicago PMI report revealed that regional manufacturing activity raced higher in January. The index lept to 55.6 from last month's 50.0 reading. Economists were only looking for a 50.5 level on the index. The best number in the report, though, wasn't the headline index ñ it was the employment sub-component, which surged to†58.0 from last month's reading of 46.8 ñ the largest gain since February 2002. (Any reading above 50 on the index indicates expansion, so the employment situation suddenly shifted from deterioration in December to robust expansion in January). What gives? Miller Tabak's Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson writes in a note to clients, "We also sense†that if payrolls were unrestrained by the fiscal cliff at yearís end, employers will put their best foot forward to start 2013 ñ†resolution or not on the spending front." Wilkinson says that means we're likely to see a nonfarm payrolls print in excess of consensus estimates (which currently predict 165,000 payrolls added) when tomorrow's jobs report is released at 8:30 AM ET. The table below shows the last five instances where the employment sub-component of Chicago PMI increased more than five points in consecutive months (today's increase was 11.2 points). Each time, save for September 2008, when the global financial system went into meltdown, nonfarm payrolls ended up much better than consensus estimates predicted ñ albeit after revisions in the case of January 2010. Miller Tabak Wilkinson writes: Concentrating on the most recent three lines in the table, our observation shows that on those occasions when the Chicago employment index advanced by more than five points, payrolls beat forecasts at the time between 17-43,000. And better still, after revisions were made, the minimum beat relative to consensus was 49,000 and as much as 142,000. On account of the revisions to the data, we might not expect to see instant gratification from this observation in the January report. However, even a minimum beat of 17,000 is about in-line with our 180,000 prediction. But we might have to wait for several months before watching this jump to around 225,000 if the revision rules hold true. Of course, the tiny sample size here means there's no way to conclude whether the relationship is statistically significant. However, if recent relationships hold up, that big boost in employment in today's Chicago PMI could be a very good sign for tomorrow's report.
Every once in a while I read a finance article that sticks in my head and never goes away.¬† An article about the historical intersection of debt and the United States from the New Yorker from four years ago by Jill Lepore is just one of these.[1] The USA of IOU Jill Lepore‚Äôs article explains that in many ways the United States was founded of the debtors, by the debtors, for the debtors. We know from English literature that the United States represented a fresh start for insolvents from the lower and upper classes, which makes sense when we learn that both Dickens‚Äô father went to debtor‚Äôs prison and Trollope‚Äôs father fled England to avoid it. What I didn‚Äôt know is that as many as two-thirds of Europeans arriving in the Colonies were debtors, paying their way as indentured servants.¬† The colonial governments of Virginia and North Carolina for their part, eager for laborers, passed incentives by promising 5 years‚Äô worth of debt protection.¬† The founder of Georgia, James Oglethorpe, specifically started the colony as a debtor‚Äôs refuge in 1732, as an alternative to English debtors‚Äô prison. Lepore makes the interesting comment that Founding Fathers Jefferson and Washington were so up to their necks in debt to London bankers that the Declaration of Independence from England not only served democratic Enlightenment ideals but also their own balance sheets.[2] Debtor‚Äôs prison Before reading Lapore‚Äôs article I had no idea that the English tradition of locking up debtors in prison jumped the Atlantic and came to the American colonies and the young United States.¬† Debtors through colonial times and the first 40 years of the Republic routinely got locked up in brutal prisons ‚Äì often for very small amounts.¬† There the debtor would stay, half-starved and dependent upon alms from passers-by, until someone ‚Äì usually a relative ‚Äì paid the debt. New York became the first state in the nation to outlaw debtors‚Äô prisons in 1831, paving the way for other states to follow suit. Debtors‚Äô prisons largely predated proper bankruptcy law, which makes sense as bankruptcy would always be preferable to prison. Bankruptcy for Traders vs. Everybody Else You are not going to believe this[3], but in the 1800 to 1830 period, financial traders typically received preferable treatment, by law, over everybody else, when it came to insolvency. If you were a stockbroker in 1800s Wall Street, for example, or you engaged in financing merchandise shipping and trade, or trading in agricultural commodity futures[4], you could declare bankruptcy if the business went awry.¬† But, if you were not a financier, you had no way of getting clear of your debts, and you might face debtors‚Äô prison. In essence when debts became overwhelming, Lepore explains, a bankruptcy law in 1800 allowed financiers to declare bankruptcy and receive a fresh start, freed of their debts. ¬†Presumably lawmakers justified this disparity through a logic similar to today‚Äôs ‚ÄúToo Big To Fail‚Äù principal.¬† If the brokerage houses in turn of the 19th Century Wall Street couldn‚Äôt work through their financial distress, well then my goodness, what would happen to the economy????[5] Since the bankruptcy law only applied to traders, everybody else was liable to be thrown into debtors‚Äô prison.¬† Indefinitely, in fact, until their debts got paid.¬† Not until 1841 did Congress pass a permanent bankruptcy law so that ordinary folks could declare bankruptcy in the event of insolvency.[6] So, if you were wondering whether the bailout of Wall Street in 2008 while Main Street suffered represented the nadir of financial inequality and injustice, you‚Äôd be wrong. Early 19th Century injustices were even worse. There, doesn‚Äôt that feel better now? [1] Here‚Äôs a Scribd link to the article as well. [2] Before reading Lepore‚Äôs piece I knew about the historical train of thought that the Founding Fathers were greatly motivated by selfish private interests, such as keeping taxes low and protecting their own private property, something that British sovereignty increasingly impinged upon in the years leading up to the Declaration of Independence.¬† As a recovering banker, however, I find the we‚Äôre-up-to-our-necks-in-debt-let‚Äôs-cut-ties-with-our-bankers argument plausibly intriguing.¬† I‚Äôm sure Jefferson and Washington were great guys and all, but any time you can simultaneously establish a radical new experiment in non-Monarchical government based on Enlightenment ideals and wipe out your personally huge debts at the same time?¬† Wow, I mean, that‚Äôs a two-for-one.¬† You kind of have to do it. [3] Yes, that‚Äôs sarcasm. [4] Yes, the concept and use of commodity futures are not hundreds, but thousands of years old. [5] Does this sound familiar to anyone? [6] Lepore relates the story of a clever insolvent who found a loophole in the bankruptcy law of 1800 that offered unequal treatment between traders and everyone else.¬† With extraordinarily large debts that had previously landed him in jail, her hero John Pintard managed to get a temporary reprieve from prison through a loophole in the debtors‚Äô prison laws.¬† He took out an advertisement in a newspaper that he was doing business as a stock broker.¬† Pintard then traded a single stock, pocketed the fifty-eight cents profit (later donated to charity), and filed for bankruptcy as a trader. (20)
There is a disconnect between the inflation rate reported by INDEC, Argentina's bureau of statistics, and the numbers reported by independant statisticians. It's a big disconnect ‚Äî 10% vs. 25% ‚Äî and more importantly, those who insist upon it face criminal charges, fines of up to $250,000 and 5 years in prison (Think of what they'd do to Nate Silver!). All that is part of why Anonymous hackers took over INDEC's website earlier this month, and it's why tomorrow, the IMF will decide on how (if at all) to punish Argentina for failing to improve its statistical analysis. In short: These are some powerful numbers. Today in Washington, Carnegie Mellon Statistics Professor Joseph B. Kadane presented on two things. First, on why it's obvious that Argentina is not being forthright about its inflation rate. Second, on why the government's pursuit of statisticians with a differing view from INDEC's is a human rights violation. Business Insider spoke with Kadane before his testimony, and he was kind enough to provide us with some cool charts that illustrate his first point. This first group of charts compares government inflation numbers in four Latin American countries to prices online. As you can see, they match up fairly well. Prof. Joseph Kadane, Carnegie Mellon Now here's what happens when you when you look at the same chart for Argentina. Prof. Joseph Kadane, Carnegie Mellon Not quite the same experience. And that brings us to Professor Kadane's second point, that the suppression of these numbers is a violation of human rights. In 2007 Argentina fired all of INDECs staff responsible for calculating CPI (the Consumer Price Index) and has since also filed criminal charges against former employees charging them with endangering the state. Some of those criminal charges have been dropped while others are still pending. Meanwhile, the government has carried on with its pursuit of independant statisticians through administrative hearings during which they are slapped with fines in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. Those fines have yet to be adjudicated. It's not just statisticians that are being intimidated either. Guillermo Moreno, the country's Secretary of Domestic Trade, has no problem threatening bankers, rolling into a debate with boxing gloves, and carried a gun. From the FT: Moreno, Argentina‚Äôs pugnacious internal trade secretary, is reported to have told a key banker on Friday : ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve got 72 hours to get the parallel (dollar rate) to 4.50 pesos. Tell everyone what I want.‚Äù... His methodology is intimidation ‚Äì he has been rumored in the past to carry a gun and he took boxing gloves to a meeting of shareholders of a key newsprint company in which the state has a stake in a bid to show who was boss. And he has slapped private economists with fines for estimating inflation data way above official statistics. He has been described as Argentina‚Äôs de facto economy minister and many businessmen prefer silence to crossing with him ‚Äì perhaps remembering Mart√≠n Lousteau, a former economy minister, who defied him over farm export tariffs. Moreno was seen at an event running his fingers across his throat, indicating Lousteau was playing a fatal game: the minister indeed lost his job, while Moreno has gone from strength to strength. On top of all that, observers believe that the Kirchner administration has been intimidating the press in order to keep this story in the shadows. The one bright spot here is that politicians are immune from criminal prosecution, so the opposition party does its part to release inflation numbers through the legislature. All this shows that the IMF has plenty of reason to be upset with Argentina. IMF head Christine Lagarde has said she may "red card" the country (kicking them out of the game, so to speak), and that could mean that Argentina could also be forced out of the G20. We'll find out tomorrow.

YoutubeA younger Jerry Brown.Standard and Poor's upgraded California's credit ratings to "A" from "A-" thanks to its improving fiscal and revenue outlook. † The agency cites Gov. Brown's budget accomplishments as a key reason for its upgrade:† The upgrades reflect our view of California's improved fiscal condition and cash position, and the state's projections of a structurally balanced budget through at least the next several years. As part of Governor Jerry Brown's recent budget proposal and multiple-year plan, the state would also largely retire its backlog of payment deferrals and internal loans. We view the alignment between revenues and expenditures as much improved and largely a result of policymakers' heightened emphasis on fixing the state's fiscal structure in the past two budgets. We recently explained how Gov. Jerry Brown was able to balance the state's budget after years of deficit problems.† The agency listed several other factors that influenced its decision: † SEE MORE: How California Came Back From The Brink &gt;
The takeaway from US Global Investors' just-updated Periodic Table Of Commodities Returns is that there is no single best commodity to invest in. Indeed, annual returns can be extremely volatile. Take coal:¬† In 2007, it had returns of +97 percent.¬† The next two years saw pretty bearish results, while the two years after that proved bullish. And last year? Coal was the worst-performing commodity of all the ones the firm tracks, at -16 percent. From US Funds' Frank Holmes. This table shows the ebb and flow of commodity prices over the past decade and illustrates the principle of mean reversion‚Äîthe concept that returns eventually move back towards their mean or average. The price movement of commodities is historically both seasonal and cyclical. That‚Äôs why when investing in natural resources, we believe your portfolio should hold a diversified basket of commodities actively managed by professionals who understand these specialized assets and the global trends impacting them. Here's the full table: USFunds SEE MORE: Aswath Damodaran's Five Cautionary Notes For Value Investors &gt;
New Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren is undoubtedly one of the politicians that big banks fear the most. But, in the spirit of bipartisanship, it appears as though Sen. Warren has reached out to a new friend from across the aisle in the Senate: Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee. The pair originally got to know each other and became friendly during the drafting of Dodd-Frank. Politico reports that their relationship is part of an ongoing, informal effort to improve working relations in the Senate. Both are members of the Senate Banking Committee. Warren has long been known as an outspoken defender of consumers, while Corker has reportedly shown interest in ‚Äì yet failed to complete ‚Äì bipartisan deals on financial policy. The two have already had a meeting, but Corker said they haven't started talking policy ‚Äì yet. A former GOP aide indicated that Sen. Corker was the right person for Sen. Warren to reach out to, saying ‚ÄúThe thing about Bob Corker is that he‚Äôs kind of an unconventional member. ... He‚Äôs willing to take stances that are kind of unconventional at times from the standpoint of party wisdom.‚Äù
BlackBerry's new smartphone, the Z10, has pretty good reviews so far. We've only had a Z10 for a day now, so we're still chugging through all the new stuff. But we wanted to take some time to talk about our experience with one of the most important apps on any smartphone, the mapping app. And the BlackBerry maps app is pretty terrible, even worse than Apple Maps on the iPhone. Here are just a few of the problems we found in BlackBerry Maps:¬† There's more to it, but you get the idea. The app simply isn't as robust and useful as Google Maps and has fewer features than Apple Maps. And a quick search in the App World store on BlackBerry for alternative apps pulls up a bunch of junk, including one app that has the exact same icon as Apple Maps on the iPhone. As we learned with the Apple Maps debacle last fall, mapping apps are incredibly important to smartphone users, almost as much as texting and calling. Apple's decision to ditch Google Maps for its own inferior app caused a major PR headache for the company and was a possible factor that led to Scott Forstall's firing.¬† It's something BlackBerry can't afford to get wrong on a big bet like BlackBerry 10. UPDATE:¬†A previous version of this story said Google Maps for iPhone couldn't find directions between two addresses you enter. That is incorrect.
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (Reuters) - Russell Wasendorf Sr., who admitted looting more than $100 million from broker Peregrine Financial Group in a scheme that shook confidence in the U.S. futures industry, was sentenced to 50 years behind bars on Thursday. Wasendorf was ordered to pay $215.5 million in restitution. Supporters of the disgraced 64-year-old executive had asked Chief Judge Linda Reade of the U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Iowa for leniency, arguing that Wasendorf is in frail health and that he had helped others even in the midst of his 20-year fraud. Wasendorf, wearing an orange sweatshirt, looked gaunt in court after spending six months in isolation in a county jail. Asked by Reade whether he understood the proceedings, Wasendorf replied "Yes, your honor," in a feeble voice. Wasendorf has been sick in jail, and doctors found a tumor on or near his pancreas, said his pastor, Linda Livingston of Ascension Lutheran Church. Wasendorf's mother died of pancreatic cancer, but it is unknown whether Wasendorf's tumor is cancerous, she said. No witnesses testified for the prosecution. Wasendorf admitted last July that he had bilked tens of thousands of clients over a period of nearly 20 years, faking bank statements and lying to regulators, employees and his closest family members. As regulators closed in on the fraud, Wasendorf made a botched suicide attempt outside his $24-million headquarters in Cedar Falls, Iowa, which investigators say was financed with money siphoned from customers. Peregrine Financial, known as PFGBest, quickly collapsed, and 24,000 former customers are still missing most of the money they had invested with the firm. Wasendorf pleaded guilty in September to embezzling more than $100 million. U.S. prosecutors say the large loss, the sophisticated nature of the crime, and the sheer number of victims justify Wasendorf spending the rest of his life behind bars. Peregrine's collapse dealt a blow to confidence in the U.S. futures industry, already reeling from $1.6 billion hole in customer pockets left when giant brokerage MF Global failed nine months earlier. Futures traders had never before suffered such large losses as a result of a brokerage failure. Despite his misdeeds, Wasendorf "did do some positive things for the community," said former U.S. Congressman David Nagle from Iowa, who spoke up for the fallen CEO in court. Nagle, who helped Wasendorf win zoning approval for Peregrine's environmentally-friendly headquarters, asked the judge for leniency. "Who wants to defend the magnitude of the crimes Mr. Wasendorf committed?" he said. "But good people do bad things." (Reporting by P.J. Huffstutter, Writing by Tom Polansek; Editing by Claudia Parsons) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The great debate over the "Great Rotation" continues to evolve on Wall Street. Today, Gerard Minack, Head of Global Developed Markets at Morgan Stanley, picked apart the thesis in his†Downunder Daily note to clients. Minack thinks a big "rotation" into stocks ñ a continuation of the strong flows into equity funds observed in January ñ could conceivably occur in 2013. However, that doesn't mean stock prices will keep going up. Minack presents several reasons for skepticism. "First," Minack writes, "the idea of a ëgreat rotationí from debt into equity presupposes that there has been a massive rotation from equity to debt. It's not clear that that has happened." The chart below shows flows into and out of money market, bond, and equity funds since 2007. While it's true that money has flowed out of equity funds and into bond funds over that period, it's clear that there is more to the story. ICI, Morgan Stanley Research This illustrates that the size of the outflow from equities in the past five years doesn't explain the massive inflows into bonds. The big redemptions from money market funds over the same time period may be the missing link: the rotation in recent times may be more aptly described as one out of†cash and into debt. Regardless, it's not even quite fair to say that money has just poured out of stocks in recent years. In fact, even though equity mutual funds have sustained hundreds of billions of dollars in outflows, the truth is that equity ETFs have seen even bigger inflows over the same period, as the chart below reveals. ICI, Morgan Stanley Research The next issue Minack raises is U.S. pension funds' current allocation to equities. Right now, it's hovering just above its long-term average of 50 percent. It is thus hard to see how the big, "real money" investors could provide much impetus for big marginal flows into equity funds. Minack also fleshes out an argument mentioned by Gluskin Sheff economist David Rosenberg earlier this week: sometimes flows are correlated with returns, and sometimes they are inversely correlated. The chart below plots the relative return of equities over Treasuries versus the relative flows into equity funds over those into bond funds. Federal Reserve, Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley Research While one would expect these to display a positive correlation, the fact is that there have been long periods ñ in the late 1980s, for example, or the mid-1990s ñ when returns displayed an inverse correlation with flows. Even though the economy appears to be on the rebound, economic fundamentals are still the biggest open question, according to Minack: More to the point, while investor sentiment has clearly improved over the past half-year, itís not clear that that sentiment could withstand material bad news. Weíve seen this upbeat equity mood before over the past three years.†Likewise there have been significant set-backs to debt. The recent ~50bp rise in the 10 year US Treasury yield, for example, compares with the 11/2% rise in 2009 or the 11/4% rise in 2010.†The equity bullishness/Treasury bearishness then evaporated when the fundamentals changed. "For sure," Minack says, "if the fundamentals continue to improve, equities will do better, and flows may shift." If the fundamentals don't improve, however, Minack doesn't see inflows into equity funds as any sort of cure. MORE: CITI: This Big Thrust Into Stocks Is Probably Just Seasonal, And That Means A Correction Is Looming &gt;
"As goes January, so goes the year" is one of the popular rules of the stock market.† This is also referred to as the "January Effect." And January has been particularly strong so far, up 5 percent with a few hours to go. "A strong January normally leads to higher full year returns," writes Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a new note to clients.† "There are 9 years since 1960 with 5%+ gains in January: 1961, 1967, 1975, 1976, 1980, 1985, 1987, 1989, 1997. The avg. whole year price gain for these years was 23%. Furthermore, in each of these years the S&amp;P 500 climbed over 19% except for 1987 given the October crash." Of course there are some notable exceptions.† From Bianco: Three down years despite up (but &lt; 5%) Januarys, were 1966, 1994, 2001. The 2001 bear market came despite an up January and before 9/11/01, as Tech crashed on an IT spending collapse amidst demanding valuations. This is unlikely for 2013. However, circumstances of 1966 and 1994 are cautionary. These were poor performance years owing mostly to Fed tightening. Thus, despite a strong 2013 start, we think it critical that treasury bond yields do not surge this year. An orderly and moderate ascent in yields is fine and expected, but any surge on US rating downgrades, fiscal irresponsibility, or inflation fears is a risk that warrants watching. The S&amp;P was up in January 2011 and 1H11, but it corrected sharply on the US downgrade and European sovereign debt crisis and ended 2011 flat. Bianco, who has a 1,600 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500, is pretty confident this will be another great year for stocks. Here's the chart mapping the performance of the January rule: 
Business Insider is still on the hunt for a few paid interns to join our editorial team this winter -- specifically for our lists and rankings, lifestyle, and entertainment sections. Don't be dismayed by the term "intern." At Business Insider, there's no getting coffee or making copies. Our interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features -- even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time if their schedule allows. We do require 3 days a week minimum. Other perks? We have lots of free snacks, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. Please send your resume and three writing clips to jliebman@businessinsider.com. Please describe which BI section(s) interest you most and why. And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. Interested in a journalism internship but have never heard of Business Insider? Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed. Here's another article on our latest round of financing.
Since 2007, the teen retailer has faced a series of problems. The international expansion was failing, designs were too preppy and CEO Mike Jeffries was accused of being a micromanager. There were also lawsuits that took up resources and hurt people's perception of the brand.† Then, out of nowhere, Abercrombie shocked Wall Street by announcing amazing results. Shares soared on the news. Everyone lauded Jeffries for managing expenses and putting Abercrombie on the right path. But†Samantha Panella Houser at MarketWatch cautions that the retailer's big comeback isn't what it seems.† The biggest indicator that Abercrombie is in trouble can be seen through its international expansion, Houser said. She wrote: International revenue grew 37% in the third quarter of 2012. Although this may appear strong, I would make the case that this is not very robust given that the company had 68% more stores open in the international market year-over-year and its square footage was up 82%. Why did its revenue growth trail that of its store growth? Because same-store sales were down 18% internationally.  Same-store sales reflect revenue growth over the past 12 months and are the retail industry's go-to measure for how well business is doing.† Abercrombie's international expansion has been lauded in the past, but the fact that sales are down is troubling for the company's strategy. † That means the retailer could actually be far from a comeback.† DON'T MISS: How Victoria's Secret Became The Top Apparel Brand &gt;
Every week the¬†The Energy Information Administration (EIA) Natural Gas report comes out, telling traders how much natural gas is being stored in the U.S. The report comes out at 10:30 a.m. on Thursdays, and this week it said that nat gas in storage fell by 194 billion cubic feet (bcf) last week to 2,802 bcf. Of course, when this news comes out, people trade on this information the moment they get it and that impacts the price of the commodity. Today, the brilliant minds over at Nanex, a market research firm, noticed that someone started trading on the report about 400 milliseconds before it was released. With high frequency trading software, that 400 milliseconds (roughly the time it takes you to blink an eye) can really make a difference, and you can see that difference in the charts below. Regulators, meanwhile, have decided not to prosecute anyone who trades on news milliseconds before everyone else, leak or no leak. Check out the charts below (from Nanex). This first chart is pretty simple. It shows United States Natural Gas (UNG) trading between 10:29:59 and 10:30:04 this morning. You can see on your left before 10:30 (and between 500 and 750 on x-axis of the chart) there's a flurry of trading activity. Then it stops and starts again at 10:30 when the report officially comes out. That shows that some people had the information to trade on and some people didn't.  Pretty nuts. This next chart is just gorgeous. It shows everyone and their mom jumping into the trade over time. What you really need to pay attention to is the blue on the bottom. That's where the price is ‚Äî the right price. The more people hit the right price ("hit the bid"), the bluer and/or darker it gets. Nanex You can see an amazing animation of this activity below. Nanex Wild what can happen in the blink of an eye, no?
Google FinanceIt's been a little while since we've seen back-to-back sell-offs in the stock market.¬† But it looks like we'll see one this week. Earlier this morning we learned that initial jobless claims jumped by more than expected. We also learned that personal incomes surged in December. But this was largely the result of one-time gains resulting from special dividends. Despite the selling today, U.S. stock remain very close to their post-crisis highs. Click Here For Updates &gt;
APJust because people work together, doesn't mean they like each other. On Wall Street, just because people work together, doesn't mean they don't want to stab each other in the back. When that happens between two people at the top of the heap, you have an epic breakup on your hands. Steve Kaplan, a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, comments on the cutthroat environment that exists in the upper echelon in finance: ‚ÄúWhat happens is people spend time politicking, which has some costs. It‚Äôs the CEO‚Äôs or the board‚Äôs job either to try to get them to stop feuding, or you remove one.‚Äù We've collected the nastiest, most embarrassing breakups from the world of finance to show just how ugly things can get. Whether it's due to gross misconduct, oversized egos, strategic differences, or poor performance, these executive exits have become the stuff of legends.
Wikimedia CommonsTo celebrate its 100th birthday, Grand Central Terminal restaurants and shops are having a crazy discount tomorrow. Participating retailers will be rolling their 2013 prices all the way back to 1913 costs on February 1st, which means if you stop by the station, you could get a 10¬¢ shoe shine or a loaf of rye bread for 6¬¢. (Unfortunately, the trains will still cost the same.) That won't be the only way the transportation hub will be celebrating. There will also be a Rededication Ceremony that day with Cynthia Nixon, Caroline Kennedy, and the Vanderbilt family, as well as music performances in the station by the Grammy Award-winning big band Vince Giordano and the Nighthawks. The terminal will also have a slew of other celebratory specials and parties throughout its centennial year, which will be posted on the Grand Central's website. The station opened officially to the public at midnight on February 2 in 1913, with more than 150,000 people in attendance to see the city's newest landmark. The New York Times even wrote of the day that, "Railroad men viewed the scene with amazement, saying that never before had the public been known to take such a keen interest in the opening of a railroad terminal." Here's the full list of the 1913 pricing rollbacks and participating stores (via the Gothamist).
Most would agree that after Greece, Spain has the worst economy in the eurozone. Fourth-quarter GDP figures released yesterday revealed that the Spanish recession actually intensified at the end of 2012. Even still, Morgan Stanley prefers Spain to France ñ which has all sorts of problems of its own. Though it's considered part of the "core" of the eurozone, along with more robust economies like Germany, it's certainly been losing a lot of its appeal for investors lately. Morgan Stanley strategists Matthew Ostrower and Ben Britz write in a note to clients, "The Spanish recovery trade appears to be better integrated in market valuations, French issues less so. While investors still appear to be heavily underweight Spain and not underweight France, recent stock performance suggests better digestion of good Spanish economic news than risks of ongoing malaise in France." The strategists, who refer to a recent warning from their colleagues about the "French Corporate Hangover," present a condensed argument in the slide below: 
By potentialpast on FlickrShares of Constellation Brands are down 20.5 percent in the intraday session and trading in the stock has been halted. The U.S. Department of Justice is suing to block global beverage giant InBev's proposed purchase of Grupo Modelo ‚Äì the Mexican brewer that has a joint venture with Constellation Brands to import Corona to the United States ‚Äì on antitrust grounds. Constellation Brands just released a statement saying they no longer expect the deal to close in the first quarter of 2013. Bloomberg has the details¬†on the suit: Shares of both companies plunged after the¬†Justice Department¬†filed a complaint today in federal court in¬†Washington, arguing the transaction violates antitrust law because it would eliminate the ‚Äúsubstantial head-to-head competition‚Äù that exists between InBev and Modelo. ‚ÄúIf ABI fully owned and controlled Modelo, ABI would be able to increase beer prices to American consumers,‚Äù Bill Baer, the head of department‚Äôs antitrust division, said in a statement. ‚ÄúThis lawsuit seeks to prevent ABI from eliminating Modelo as an important competitive force in the beer industry.‚Äù Trading in the stock has already been halted by automatic circuit-breakers multiple times in this morning's session.
¬† ¬† When you step into the large, dark basement hall where Friday Night Fights are held in New York City, you immediately feel the energy in the room. Fighters and fans alike roam through the informal setting, but the big ring, the blasting music, and the ice cold beer remind you this is no amateur production. Since 1997, Friday Night Fights¬†(FNF) has been putting on Muay Thai and Mixed Martial Arts events throughout the country, but in 2011 it decided to focus exclusively on Muay Thai kickboxing events. Once a month in New York City, they organize their namesake production, Friday Night Fights, one of the more incredible spectacles on offer in the city.¬† Muay Thai is a form of martial arts from Thailand, known as "the art of eight limbs" (or weapons) because fighters can utilize punches, kicks, elbows, and knee strikes, providing eight different points of contact. Unlike Mixed Martial Arts (MMA), which is illegal in New York State, Muay Thai competitors cannot grapple on the ground but must stay upright and fighting throughout the match. Mixed Martial Arts has been steadily growing as a popular form of entertainment, particularly with the growth of brands like the¬†Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). Justin Blair, president of FNF, told Business Insider¬†that as a result of MMA's rise in popularity, Muay Thai, which can be more palatable to some fans, has great potential to gain audience. Friday Night Fights events feature amateurs and pros, with about 10-15 matches per event¬† ‚Äì two or more being professional bouts. More often than not, even the pros are not full-time Muay Thai boxers and have side jobs ranging from martial arts instructors to engineers. There are even some prominent bankers among the fighters. We attended the league's opening event for the 2013 season in January to see what the fights and the fighters are all about. Produced by Business Insider Video
Warren Buffett is the fourth richest man in the world, so you would think money would be his tip-top priority, but it's not. What he's really worried about, according to Morningstar (h/t Josh Brown) is a nuclear, biological or chemical attack on Washington D.C. or New York City. At least that's what he said in 2002. From Morningstar: "We're going to have something in the way of a major nuclear event in this country. It will happen. Whether it will happen in 10 years or 10 minutes, or 50 years ... it's virtually a certainty." Buffett's worried that the technology it takes to make these terrible fears a reality are becoming more accessible to those that wish to do the United States harm, and eventually our enemies are going to get their hands on these awful weapons. Can't say he sweats the small stuff. †

During the current commodity supercycle, there have been occasions‚Äîtoo many to count‚Äîwhen investor psyche has been damaged by reports about slowing U.S. growth, a hard landing in China or a debt crisis in Europe. Yet just behind the gloom, significant and positive trends are taking hold, causing the storms to start dissipating. I often say that government policies are precursors to change, which is why we follow the monetary and fiscal actions closely as they can have a significant impact on asset prices. You have to go back about 16 months when Brazil kicked off the latest global easing cycle by cutting interest rates by 50 basis points. Since then many developing countries such as the Philippines, China and Colombia, as well as developed nations of Japan, the European Central Bank, the U.S. and the U.K. have joined forces in a world-wide synchronized stimulation of the economy. Last summer, Mario Draghi indicated that the ECB would do ‚Äúwhatever it takes‚Äù to save the euro. In the fall, the Federal Reserve agreed to buy $85 billion a month in Treasuries and mortgages, amounting to $1 trillion a year. And just recently, Japan announced that, in addition to pumping $1.1 trillion into the markets through 2013, the central bank will keep an open-ended approach to buying assets through 2014. Historically, central banks‚Äô policy actions occur after there‚Äôs been some economic deterioration. Several months later, the stimulative measures work their way through the global economy. This has been the case with China, which has been showing remarkable improvement in its export-oriented HSBC Purchasing Managers Index. The PMI is a measure of health of companies in China, as it includes output, new orders, employment and prices across numerous sectors. This month, the Flash PMI came in at 51.9, beating market consensus, which was at 51.7. The PMI stands at a two-year high, as you can see in the chart below.  A few months ago, when China‚Äôs improving PMI was just beginning to attract attention, I talked with Peter Gibson and Randy Cass from Canada‚Äôs Business News Network, who were skeptical of the data because of the slowdown in Europe, China‚Äôs largest trading partner. I indicated that although Europe‚Äôs deceleration negatively affected China, there were other underlying positive factors taking place. In addition to the continuous stimulus program happening in the countries, China‚Äôs new leadership had been solidified. I believed that these dynamics would help PMI accelerate and exports to pick up. PMIs are leading indicators for global resources stocks, which have lagged over the past year. In 2012, the Morgan Stanley Commodity Related Index only increased 1.4 percent. However, this year, the index is off to an incredible start, rising 6 percent in only four weeks. Stocks across a number of cyclical areas of the market have benefited from this global improvement, including industrial companies such as trucking, rail and airlines. Take a look below at a classic cyclical measure of the market, the Dow Jones Transportation Average, or Dow Jones Transports. The index, an average of 20 transportation companies in the U.S., reached an all-time high last week.  In addition to the synchronized stimulus driving resources, we are entering the time of year that has historically been good for energy equities. Looking at two decades of seasonal patterns of companies in the S&amp;P 500 Energy Index, the next six months have historically been the best of the year. While energy stocks typically decline in January, they have seen positive results in February, March, April and May. July has historically been the best month for energy stocks, climbing more than 3 percent on a median return basis.  It seems clear that there are a number of investors who have gained confidence in the global economy and are seeking to capture the growth opportunities taking place around the world. With the European crisis comfortably in the rear view mirror and global central banks taking the position that they will continue their easing policies, investors have taken their foot off the brake and have begun to accelerate. As we‚Äôve been consistently communicating in presentations lately, we see more sunshine and less stormy weather ahead. Take advantage of these momentous and seasonal shifts and make sure you have an appropriate allocation to equities poised to benefit, such as global natural resources stocks. As a benchmark weighting for investors, the energy and materials sectors make up 15 percent of the S&amp;P 500 Index. A caveat to these sunnier days is the U.S. debt ceiling issue. In managing expectations going forward, we likely will see volatility not unlike the ups and downs of the last four years. However, every dip has historically been a buying opportunity. With many investors now considering equities today, future dips are likely to be opportunities to buy as well. ¬† U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources, emerging markets and global infrastructure opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds in the U.S. Global Investors fund family, as well as funds for international clients. For more updates on global investing from Frank and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds. You can also watch exclusive videos on what our research overseas has turned up on our YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/USFunds. The Morgan Stanley Commodity Related Index (CRX) is an equal-dollar weighted index of 20 stocks involved in commodity related industries such as energy, non-ferrous metals, agriculture, and forest products. The index was developed with a base value of 200 as of March 15, 1996. The S&amp;P 500 Stock Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies. The S&amp;P 500 Energy Index is a capitalization-weighted index that tracks the companies in the energy sector as a subset of the S&amp;P 500. The HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI is published a week ahead of the final HSBC China PMI every month. It analyses 85-90 per cent of the responses to the Final PMI from purchasing executives in more than 400 small, medium and large manufacturers, both state-owned and private enterprises.
Bloomberg TVBill Gross, the PIMCO fund manager known as the "Bond King," is out with his February investment letter, titled "Credit Supernova!" This month, Gross tackles the relationship between credit expansion and real growth. He channels the late economist Hyman Minsky, saying the economy is now in Minsky's "Ponzi finance" phase, "when additional credit would be required just to cover increasingly burdensome interest payments, with accelerating inflation the end result." Gross writes that new credit is providing diminishing returns: "Each additional dollar of credit seems to create less and less heat. In the 1980s, it took four dollars of new credit to generate $1 of real GDP. Over the last decade, it has taken $10, and since 2006, $20 to produce the same result." The reason, Gross says, is because more and more of that credit is being channeled into market speculation, driving a wedge between markets and the real economy. "Investment banking, which only†a decade ago promoted small business development and transition to public markets, now is dominated by leveraged speculation and the Ponzi finance Minsky once warned against," he writes. Below is an excerpt from the letter†(emphasis his): So our credit-based financial markets and the economy it supports are levered, fragile and increasingly entropic ñ it is running out of energy and time. When does money run out of time? The countdown begins when investable assets pose too much risk for too little return; when lenders desert credit markets for other alternatives such as cash or real assets. REPEAT: THE COUNTDOWN BEGINS WHEN INVESTABLE ASSETSPOSE TOO MUCH RISK FOR TOO LITTLE RETURN. Visible first signs for creditors would logically be 1) long-term bond yields too low relative to duration risk, 2) credit spreads too tight relative to default risk and 3) PE ratios too high relative to growth risks. Not immediately, but over time, credit is exchanged figuratively or sometimes literally for cash in a mattress or conversely for real assets (gold, diamonds) in a vault. It also may move to other credit markets denominated in alternative currencies. As it does, domestic systems delever as credit and its supernova heat is abandoned for alternative assets. Unless central banks and credit extending private banks can generate real or at second best, nominal growth with their trillions of dollars, euros, and yen, then the risk of credit market entropy will increase. The element of time is critical because investors and speculators that support the system may not necessarily fully participate in it for perpetuity. We ask ourselves frequently at PIMCO, what else could we do, what else could we invest in to avoid the consequences of financial repression and negative real interest rates approaching minus 2%? The choices are varied: cash to help protect against an inflationary expansion or just the opposite ñ long Treasuries to take advantage of a deflationary bust; real assets; emerging market equities, etc. One of our Investment Committee members swears he would buy land in New Zealand and set sail. Most of us canít do that, nor can you. The fact is that PIMCO and almost all professional investors are in many cases index constrained, and thus duration and risk constrained. We operate in a world that is primarily credit based and as credit loses energy we and our clients should acknowledge its entropy, which means accepting lower returns on bonds, stocks, real estate and derivative strategies that likely will produce less than double-digit returns. Click here to read the rest of the letter at PIMCO.com &gt;
Statistician, blogger, and all around badass Nate Silver just played in Australia's Aussie Millions Poker Championship. While he was there, the man that accurately predicted the 2012 U.S. elections¬† shared a few poker tips with Fairfax Media and the world on video (via NYT). He says the game is more about the math than the physical signs, but he still does things to distract his opponents ‚Äî ticks and what not. Watch the video below: 
Flickr / ifmuthThe January Chicago PMI release is out. The headline index reading unexpectedly rose to 55.6 from last month's downwardly-revised reading of 50.0. Economists expected the index to clock in at 50.5 this month. The gains were led by production and new orders, which both climbed to 10-month highs. The employment sub-component surged to 58.0 from last month's reading of 46.8 ‚Äì the largest gain since February 2002. Order backlogs experienced a sixth consecutive month of contraction. TD Securities economist Millan Mulraine said in a note following the release, "The strong gains across the board in this report point to an up-tick in tomorrow's ISM manufacturing index, which we expect to post a modest rise to 51.1 (current consensus if for a 50.6 print). Moreover, the surge in the forward-looking indicators suggests this positive momentum could be sustained in the coming months." Click here for the full release &gt; Several regional manufacturing indicators have been weak in January ‚Äì including data out of the Philadelphia Fed, the New York Fed, and the Kansas City Fed. On the other hand, the Dallas Fed reported strong regional manufacturing data, and Markit's advance estimate of national PMI rose above expectations. Add Chicago PMI to the list of positive January data.
401(K) 2012 / FlickrPersonal income unexpectedly surged 2.6 percent in December, against expectations of a 0.8 percent rise. Household income rose at its fastest pace in a decade, according to Millan Mulraine at TD Securities. But this was largely driven by a wave of corporate cash dividends that were intended to beat a potential year-end tax-hike. This was one of the major components of the "fiscal cliff" debate. "Personal income in November and December was boosted by accelerated and special dividend payments to persons and by accelerated bonus payments and other irregular pay in private wages and salaries in anticipation of changes in individual income tax rates," according to the BEA press release. "Personal income in December was also boosted by lump-sum social security benefit payments." Dividend income increased by 34.3 percent month-over-month (MoM) and wage and salaries rose by a stronger than usual 0.6 percent MoM, according to Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics It is precisely because of this one-off dividend payment that Dales believes this rise in personal income won't be sustained. "Without these effects, income would have risen by something like 0.5% m/m. A corresponding fall in dividends and bonuses in January, together with the hike in payroll taxes, will reduce income this month. In fact, the net effect will be negative so annualized consumption growth in the first quarter will be much weaker than the fourth quarter‚Äôs 2.2%" He also writes that the 0.2 percent rise in spending is not encouraging and that the payroll tax hike has impacted confidence in January. Dales expects that improving employment trends means "households won't roll over entirely" and he sees a 1 percent annualized rise in real consumption. Mulraine is a bit more optimistic. He writes that the improvement in wage growth and no real inflation concerns give the Fed room to continue to pursue their loose monetary policy. Plus all the additional income that went to savings will boost personal spending in coming months.
CNBCArt CashinYesterday, we learned that US GDP unexpectedly contracted 0.1 percent in Q4, which was much worse than the 1.1 percent growth expected.† Economists spent most of the day downplaying any concerns, arguing that the number was "grossly distorted" by volatile government spending and inventory numbers. The 2012 annual growth number, however, may have gotten less attention than it deserved, says Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services director of floor operations. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: The Other GDP ñ While most of headlines concentrated on the 4th Quarter GDP, it did give us a look at the annual GDP for 2012.† It figures to about 1.5% (not the 4% growth that I think was the Fed's projection). For why that annual reading may be important, let me quote my Bloomberg pal, Rich Yamarone: The year-over-year change in real GDP was 1.5 percent. There has never been a time since measurement commenced in 1948 when the annual pace of real GDP has fallen that low without the economy ultimately slipping into recession. Sub-2.0 percent readings are historically the warning signal. Patterns can always change of course let but that one's got a rather compelling history. Maybe this time will be different. SEE ALSO: JPM: The Charts Show That Easy Fed Money Is Doing More Harm Than Good &gt;
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffHedge fund titan Bill Ackman, who has been in the spotlight lately for his big Herbalife short,†is putting on a hedge fund conference in the coming weeks. On February 13, Ackman, the CEO of $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management,†and Mark†Axelowitz, managing director from UBS Private Wealth Management,†will co-host†the 2013 Harbor Investment Conference at the JPMorgan Chase Conference Center in Midtown Manhattan. The annual event brings together some of the industry's top investors to share trade ideas, while raising money for the Boys &amp; Girl's Harbor.† It's unclear what Ackman will be talking about or what investment pick he might present, but he will be making himself available for a Q&amp;A session with the audience and that could get really interesting. In addition to Ackman, the other speakers this year include,†Andrew Feldstein (BlueMountain Capital), Mick McGuire (Marcato Capital Management), Howard Shainker (Bow Street), Mona Sutphen (Managing Director of UBS AG†and former White House Deputy Chief†of Staff for Policy) and†David Weinreb (CEO of The Howard Hughes Corporation).† Business Insider will be there covering the event. † In the meantime, let's review how last year's investment picks did. † These ideas were shared on February 2, 2012. †Some were before the closing bell and others were given after the bell that day. †They were all embargoed from the public until after the closing bell on February 3. For this report, we used data from†Yahoo! Finance and tracked the stock's performance from February 3 through January 30, 2013. † Here's the rundown: Now let's do some simple math for a bit.† Let's say these ten stock picks make up a portfolio. †If we take the stocks and have them all equally weighted, the performance of this portfolio would be approximately 21.59%, according to our calculations.† For comparison, the S&amp;P is up 13.31% since February 3, 2012. †Meanwhile, the Barclays Long/Short hedge fund index was 6.32%†YTD through December 2012. †The January numbers were not available at the time of this report.
Just links today:THE ESSENTIAL EIGHTChina‚Äôs brokerages turn shadow banks - FT.com -way it was described to me, by someone generally very bearish, is that it has the potential to spiral into a huge mess but it is not yet horrible//¬† The rise of brokerages as shadow banks has been remarkably fast, which is also a worry. Nevertheless, looked at in absolute terms, the entrusted funds at brokerages are still just 1.6 per cent of overall bank assets. ‚ÄúIf you want a more comprehensive capital market in which the market share of banks drops, you have to allow things to happen outside the banking sector,‚Äù said an analyst who covers brokerages, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs something that people should pay attention to. But it‚Äôs not alarming yet.‚ÄùBanks Tap Credit Potential to Meet Surging Capital Demand-Caijing - Domestic banks' lending capacity will be put to the test in 2013. Statistics show that the National Development and Reform Commission approved projects with a total value of 7 trillion yuan in the second half of 2012, portending a huge demand for capital by the real economy this year. The banks' lending capacity has been drained by years of enormous lending, with loan-deposit ratios and capital adequacy ratios barely meeting regulatory standards. As a result, tapping credit potential to provide abundant capital for urbanization and stabilize macroeconomic growth has become a challenge facing policymakers and domestic banks.China Banking Regulator Warns over Default Risks-Caijing - Chinese banking industry, with assets of more than 130 trillion yuan, is facing risks of a default as outstanding loans build up, Chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission warned, according to the 21st Century Business Herald, citing his remarks at an annual working meeting concluded in mid January. Total loan balances held by China's financing institutions are around 67 trillion yuan, with half made to local governments through financing vehicles, and to property, business clusters as well as industries with overcapacity, Mr. Shang reportedly said. Characterized as "highly concentrated" and "broadly impacted", the loans need to be "heavily fortified" and require "classified polices", he said.Analysts Debate Meaning of Central Bank's Newest Regulatory Tool - Caixin - The short-term nature of SLO and the great flexibility the central bank has when using the tool has a large impact on interest rates as well. China International Capital Corp., an investment bank, predicted in a report that the yield of seven-day repos in the upcoming few months would fall as investors fret less about liquidity risk. Moving forward, the central bank may seek to create a capital pricing mechanism, which allows it to affect interest rates for the long term by regulating those for the immediate future, the state-owned bank's capital trader said. "From now on, people will be pay more attention to the yield of central bills, and the interest rates of repos will be more important," he said.Property prices set to rise as supply tightens[1]|chinadaily.com.cn - China's property prices will continue to rise in 2013, fueled by tighter supply, quickening urbanization and an improved economy, according to the latest report on the market. Figures from REICO, the research institution jointly created by the China Real Estate Chamber of Commerce and the China Urban Reality Association Fund, suggest the country's housing inventory will be lower than that of 2012, due to a slide in new construction since the third quarter of 2011 and quickening sales last year. New home building in Beijing was down 24.1 percent, and in Shanghai, 26.9 percent, year-on-year in 2012, according to REICO, meaning that shrinking supplies and robust sales have strengthened market expectations of further price hikes in 2013.//expectations of rising prices certainly risingÈíüÂçóÂ±±Ë∞àÂ§ßÊ∞îÊ±°ÊüìÔºö‰ªª‰Ωï‰∫∫ÈÉΩË∑ë‰∏çÊéâ ÊØîÈùûÂÖ∏ÂèØÊÄïÂæóÂ§ö_ËµÑËÆØÈ¢ëÈÅì_Âá§Âá∞ÁΩë - Zhong Nanshan, Dr who oversaw SARS research/treatment, tells CCTV the air pollution crisis is worse than SARS crisisChina, GitHub and the man-in-the-middle | GreatFire.org- The attack happened on a Saturday night. It was very crude, in that the fake certificate was signed by an unknown authority and bound to be detected quickly. The attack stopped after about an hour. The whole episode seems rather irrational. It‚Äôs conceivable that one or several individuals identified on these lists as enemies of a free Internet decided to take action into their own hands. They are the technical people behind the Great Firewall and so they would clearly be capable of implementing this attack. They had a motive in that they were personally being targeted by the people behind the White House petition. And they had no other options since they had been barred from blocking GitHub completely. While the attack was short-lived, it is possible that passwords of many GitHub users were recorded. It‚Äôs also possible that the IP addresses of users accessing certain URLs, such as these lists of GFW contributors, were tracked. The people organizing these initiatives should take great care.China, Japan and the Islands: What Do the Tensions Mean? | ChinaFile Beta - What these island disputes suggests about China is that its search for new wealth and power, fuqiang ÂØåÂº∫, born out of an understandable urge to protect ‚Äúthe motherland‚Äù from foreign predation as the Qing Dynasty collapsed, may have now passed something of a milestone. Initially inspired by a defensive impulse, one wonders whether it is not now gaining a new and unwelcomed aggressive dimension. If so, should this new impulse not be tempered, it could end up as a serious impediment to the ongoing rise of a China that is viewed as ‚Äúpeaceful‚Äù and embraced by its neighbors. This would not only be harmful to China and the Chinese people, but to U.S.-Chinese relations as well as all the people of this increasingly dynamic and important region of our newly globalized world.
Bloomberg News'†Annette Weisbach†and†Nicholas Comfort report†that Deutsche Bank's bonus pool for 2012 has decreased by 11% compared to 2011. This time around, the bank's bonus pool is $4.3 billion. This was to be expected, but it still hurts. In July, when the bank announced that it would lay off up to 1900 people, it also said that it would be reviewing compensation practices in order to "address... relative balance between rewards for shareholders and those for employees." As if on cue, right before Deutsche made that announcement, bank analyst Meredith Whitney said Wall Street should expect more job cuts and lower compensation across the board. And in today's Q4 earnings release, the bank used the exact same language to address the compensation cuts that have no been brought to fruition. Deutsche talked about a "deep cultural change" and how the bonus pool has been significantly reduced. Here's an excerpt from the release:† The management is determined to bring about deep cultural change at Deutsche Bank. Short term measures are an overhaul of the compensation practices and the continued tightening of the control environment. The Bank significantly reduced the bonus pool. Full year variable compensation is down to 9% of revenues ñ the lowest level for many years. Additionally, the Compensation Panel, chaired by J¸rgen Hambrecht, made a series of recommendations which played a part already in the 2012 compensation. The Panel recommended, for example, that the Bank reduces deferrals, thus reducing the compensation cost for future years. It also advised that measures of performance for clients play a greater role in performance management assessments. Longer term measures towards achieving deep cultural change include issues like client integrity, operational discipline and cross-silo cooperation. These areas of focus were identified by conducting the most comprehensive dialogue with employees in recent years. It sounds like Deutsche Bank is taking a similar route to Morgan Stanley, where CEO James Gorman has said that bankers are "overpaid" and used compensation to cut costs overall. However, Deutsche didn't mention reducing its headcount or anything. So perhaps bankers there don't have to worry about layoffs as they do at Morgan Stanley (or as Goldman Sachs COO Gary Cohn has said his bankers should do every day). Deutsche Bank also announced a surprise loss of $3 billion†today for the fourth quarter.
Personal incomes expanded 2.6 percent in December, beating expectations of 0.8 percent growth. November income growth was revised up to 1.0 percent from the 0.6 percent gain reported last month. Spending was up 0.2 percent, slightly below expectations of a 0.3 percent rise. The boost seems to have been driven by a surge in divided payouts ahead of the December 31 tax deadline. From the press release:  "Personal income in November and December was boosted by accelerated and special dividend payments to persons and by accelerated bonus payments and other irregular pay in private wages and salaries in anticipation of changes in individual income tax rates.¬† Personal income in December was also boosted by lump-sum social security benefit payments." TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said the number is encouraging despite the one off dividend payment: "On balance, even abstracting from the one-off surge in dividend payments (which we expect to reverse in January) the general tone of this report was quite encouraging. In particular, the improvement in wage growth and subdued inflationary backdrop provides the justification for the Fed to continue its current accommodative policy efforts while reinforcing their benign views on inflation and inflationary expectations. Moreover, the surge in savings is likely to provide the kind of underpinning for personal spending in the coming months that could boost overall economic activity." Personal income climbed 3.5 percent in 2012, compared with 5.1 percent in 2011. Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) or spending was up 3.6 percent, compared with 5 percent in 2011. Click here for the entire release &gt; SEE ALSO: How The Fiscal Cliff Freakout Boosted Personal Incomes &gt;
Weekly jobless claims figures are out. Initial claims were 368,000 last week, up from 330,000 the week before. Economists expected initial claims to rise to 350,000. The last two initial claims releases may have been skewed lower by data processing issues. Continuing claims rose to 3.197 million, more than economists' estimates of 3.171 million. Last week's continuing claims number was revised up to 3.175 million from 3.157 million. Below is a table from the release showing states where initial claims rose the most (click to enlarge): DoL Here are the states that reported the largest drop in claims: DoL Click here for the full release &gt;
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderUPS earnings are out. The global shipper reported earnings per share of $1.32 versus expectations of $1.38, blaming $0.05 of the difference on Hurricane Sandy. Revenues were stronger than expected, coming in at $14.57 billion versus analysts' consensus estimate of $14.43 billion. The company says it sees 2013 earnings in the range of $4.80-5.06 per share. This is below analysts' expectations of $5.13. The stock is sinking in pre-market trading. ‚Äú2012 presented its challenges, most notably weak global trade. Nonetheless, UPS executed well, delivering superior service to customers,‚Äù said Scott Davis, UPS Chairman and CEO. ‚ÄúDespite modest macro growth expectations for 2013 and uncertainty in the U.S. caused by the lack of progress in Washington, the UPS business model will deliver consistent results, with operating profit growth in all segments.‚Äù Below is a table from the UPS release showing package volume trends (the columns from left to right are Q4 2012, Q4 2011, the change between the two, and the percent change between the two): Press Release Total U.S. domestic package volume was up 3.0 percent while total international package volume was up 2.2 percent. Below is the the company's outlook (from the release): ‚ÄúUPS delivered its best ever adjusted earnings per share with strong free cash flow, even in the midst of weaker than expected global economic conditions in 2012,‚Äù said Kurt Kuehn, UPS chief financial officer. ‚ÄúEconomic growth for 2013 is expected to be below long-term trends. Despite $350 million in headwinds from unfavorable foreign exchange comparisons and increased pension expense, UPS anticipates full year diluted earnings per share to increase 6% to 12% over 2012 adjusted results. ‚ÄúFree cash flow remains a UPS hallmark, creating opportunities for significant distributions to shareholders,‚Äù Kuehn added. ‚ÄúBased on our strong financial position, UPS has increased expected share repurchases for 2013 from $1.5 billion to $4.0 billion.‚Äù Click here for the full release &gt;
Foursquare user Jadi R.FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) ‚Äî Reducing the value of assets and lawsuit expenses pushed Deutsche Bank into a big and unexpected fourth quarter loss of ‚Ç¨2.15 billion ($2.91 billion). The net loss for the October-December period compared to a ‚Ç¨186 million profit a year ago. Analysts surveyed by FactSet expected a bare profit of ‚Ç¨62 million. Deutsche Bank is reshaping its business to meet new regulatory requirements for banks to keep larger financial buffers against losses in the wake of the 2007 financial crisis. Meeting the new requirements means dropping some risky investments and assets. To do that, the bank took accounting losses of ‚Ç¨1.9 billion for the fallen value of businesses it had acquired before 2003, and for risky assets and investments that it is in the process of selling off. Expenses for litigation the bank is facing came to ‚Ç¨1 billion. The bank faces lawsuits and investigations along with other big banks over the manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate interest benchmark in past years. The rate is used to price trillions of dollars in global contracts. Co-CEOs Juergen Fitschen and Anshu Jain, who took over from Josef Ackermann last year, said the performance of the bank's core business was otherwise strong, and management recommended an unchanged dividend to shareholders of 75 euro cents a share. They said the losses came from "the most comprehensive reconfiguration of Deutsche Bank in recent times." Jain said that the bank's outlook for 2013 is better than it was at the same time in 2012, with the U.S. economy recovering and an easing of financial market turmoil from the euro currency union's drawn-out crisis over too much government debt in some countries. He warned however that the bank's restructuring was "a journey that will take years, not months." Like all global banks, Deutsche Bank is being pushed from an international effort, known as Basel III, to hold more capital as a buffer against losses. Basel III is a response to the financial crisis that began in 2007 when banks reported big losses on mortgage-backed securities in the United States and then worsened with the collapse of U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers. Building larger capital buffers can mean either raising capital by selling new shares, or by exiting risky investments and holdings. The riskier an investment, loan or security is considered, the more capital must be held to protect against losses on it. Deutsche Bank has put many of these assets in a separate unit which will manage their disposal. Jain said the bank's efforts during the year at selling off or writing down risky investments was the equivalent of selling ‚Ç¨8 billion in new shares. Doing it by disposing of risky assets means that the bank avoided diluting existing shareholders' investments through the issuance of new shares. By doing that the bank accelerated its progress toward meeting the Basel III goals, and narrowed the gap with competing banks that have been making faster progress than Deutsche Bank. The bank reached a Core Tier 1 capital ratio ‚Äî the Basel III standard ‚Äî of 8.0 percent of its loans, investments and other risky assets as of Dec. 31, 2012. That is 0.8 percentage point ahead of its goal. Basel III will eventually require the bank to have a 9.5 percent capital ratio by 2019. Despite its reverse in the fourth quarter, the bank did post a net profit for the full-year of ‚Ç¨665 million, though that was way down on 2011's ‚Ç¨4.32 billion. On the revenue front, Deutsche Bank fared better. In the fourth quarter, revenue rose 14 percent to ‚Ç¨7.9 billion from ‚Ç¨6.9 billion. Full year revenue rose to ‚Ç¨33.74 billion from ‚Ç¨33.22 billion. The company said last month that it would face reductions to earnings for the fallen value of businesses and assets, but did not say how big the accounting loss would be. Deutsche Bank's share price was up 1.1 percent in late morning trading at ‚Ç¨37.56. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
 Facebook posted good fourth-quarter results yesterday. Facebook is a great company, with a great management team, and a big long-term opportunity. Facebook is growing at a very healthy rate, especially relative to most big companies. And Facebook still has lots of "platform" opportunities that may lead to big revenue opportunities in the future. If investors are willing to bet that, at some point, those platform opportunities will unlock a huge revenue engine that will cause Facebook's revenue and earnings to skyrocket, then investors can certainly buy the stock at this price (just north of $30). But, otherwise, there's just no obvious reason to do it. Yesterday, after reporting good Q4 results, Facebook announced that expenses will grow much faster than revenue in 2013. Translation? Facebook's profit margin will drop. As a result, Facebook's earnings will grow at an even less-compelling rate this year than analysts were previously expecting them to grow. If Facebook's stock were trading at a low price-earnings multiple, or even a medium price-earnings multiple, this would be totally fine. But Facebook's stock is not trading at a low-price-earnings multiple. It's trading at a high price-earnings multiple--nearly 50X this year's projected earnings, before factoring in the estimate cuts that analysts are making after yesterday's news. Facebook's 50X price-earnings multiple compares to multiples like these for other (relatively) hot growth companies: Yes, there are some hot growth companies that trade at even higher multiples than Facebook, such as LinkedIn and Amazon: Importantly, however, the profit margins of LinkedIn and Amazon are low and rising, whereas Facebook's profit margin is high and falling. This means that earnings at LinkedIn and Amazon are likely to grow vastly faster than earnings at Facebook over the next few years. And LinkedIn's revenue is growing more than twice as fast as Facebook's, which means that the company deserves a much higher multiple. (And Amazon's valuation, especially, is almost inconceivably high. As an Amazon shareholder, I thank those who are loading up on the stock at this price, but I have no idea what they're thinking.) Now, there are times when valuation just doesn't matter. Momentum investors, for example, don't care about valuation. What momentum investors get stoked about is acceleration and upside surprises. It is the hope for this acceleration and upside surprises that has driven Facebook's stock up 50%+ in the last few months. And last night, Facebook delivered that acceleration and an upside surprise. It also delivered margin improvement, which means even greater growth for earnings. But are those trends going to continue? We might get another couple of quarters of revenue acceleration, thanks, in part, to weak revenue growth in the first two quarters of last year. But unless Facebook CFO David Ebersman was just sandbagging everyone, Facebook's profit margin will drop over the next several quarters. That means that earnings growth will be weak. And, by the third quarter of this year, Facebook's revenue growth will likely begin to decelerate again. Some other facts to consider: The bottom line is this: Given the price-earnings multiple that investors are paying for Facebook, it appears that the market still views Facebook as an explosive tech-growth story--a company that will blow away analysts expectations for many quarters and years to come. Two years ago, before Facebook went public, this is exactly what Facebook was--and the stock valuation soared as a result. In the past two years, however, Facebook's growth has decelerated, and the company is no longer blowing away analysts' estimates. This suggests that analysts have a pretty good sense of how fast Facebook is likely to grow and how much money it is likely to earn. And the truth is that this growth rate just isn't so compelling that it deserves a 50X earnings multiple. Facebook is a great company. And Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is doing exactly the right thing by investing heavily now instead of "maximizing profit" quarter after quarter. This long-term approach will almost certainly make Facebook more valuable in 5 years than it would be if Zuckerberg were to kowtow to Wall Street each quarter the way so many other companies do. Another CEO that invests heavily instead of "maximizing profit" each quarter is Jeff Bezos at Amazon, and Amazon's amazing success over the past 15 years shows how smart (and rare) this strategy is. So the fact that Zuckerberg is choosing to do this should come as a great comfort to Facebook investors who are in the stock for the long haul. But none of that means that Facebook will magically trade at a 50X earnings multiple forever. (No stock ever does). And those who plunge into it at this price should at least be aware of that. I continue to think that Facebook is in the middle of a long-term "consolidation" process in which the stock's multiple gradually compresses from a super-high "momentum" multiple to a more reasonable "growth" multiple (say, 20X-25X). That process often takes years. (See Google). SEE ALSO: Facebook Beats Wall Street--And The Stock Drops
BloombergJim O'SullivanHigh Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan, who was recently listed as a top U.S. economic forecaster by Bloomberg BRIEF and crowned MarketWatch's forecaster of the year, thinks jobless claims are doomed to jump after falling to 330k last week and 335k the week before that. O'Sullivan expects a reading of 375k today, which compares to the Street's expectation for 350k. But that's no reason to freak out. From O'Sullivan: Jobless claims are likely to surge today. Is the economy suddenly collapsing again? Absolutely not. Other confidence data continue to show more resilience, as does the equity market. Weakness in GDP was overstated by a reversal of exaggerated strength in defense spending and inventories in Q3, and probably also some hurricane effects. The surge we expect in claims today reflects payback for the plunge in the prior two weeks, with the trend probably close to flat. Payback in claims after two very low readings would be consistent with this monthís data being affected by the same seasonal adjustment problems as in January 2008, which had an identical calendar configuration. As we discussed in our Weekly Notes, that was also the start of the recession, so we do not expect the patterns to match up after this week. High Frequency Economics A research firm cited by the Wall Street Journal last week noted that California likely under-reported their claims and that we would see some payback in the near future. Initial claims will be published at 8:30 AM ET this morning. Follow the release live at BusinessInsider.com. SEE ALSO: The Mysterious Titans Of Shipping Reveal The Truth About The Economy &gt;
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Wikimedia CommonsThe escalating dispute between China and Japan over an archipelago of rocky islets known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan has curbed Japanese exports into China, forcing Tokyo to fast-track moves to distance itself economically from its larger neighbor. In a recent report, the World Bank said the Japanese economy appeared to be contracting ‚Äúin part because of political tension with China over the sovereignty of islands in the region.‚Äù But while these sovereign disputes hurt the bottom lines of Japan‚Äôs export-driven companies and push some to hedge their China exposure by increasing sales to other Asian economies, the size of the bilateral trade should secure the flow of Japanese investments into China over the long term. In the short term, however, there is pain. Trade between Asia‚Äôs two largest economies fell 3.9 percent last year to $329.45 billion, the first drop in three years, as Japan slipped from being China‚Äôs fourth-largest trade partner to its fifth largest. The deteriorating trade relations come as Japan gets ready to implement both fiscal and monetary stimulus measures to revive its struggling economy. Japanese automakers are among those hardest hit by the souring relations. Nissan saw sales in China, the world‚Äôs biggest auto market, fall 5.3 percent to 1.18 million units; Toyota reported a 4.9 percent drop to 840,000 units; and Honda posted a 3.1 percent decline to 598,576 units. The tensions appear to have hurt China as well. Foreign direct investment in China fell for the first time in three years in 2012. Most of the FDI into China comes from 10 Asian countries and economies, including Japan, and this fell 4.8 percent last year to $95.74 billion, official figures show. ‚ÄúOver the long term, the shockwave that the dispute has sent across the Japanese business community will expedite a move to hedge the risk,‚Äù said Michal Meidan, a London-based analyst for global political risk consultancy Eurasia Group. But, she went on, ‚ÄúI think Japanese investments in China are going to continue, probably going to pick up slightly, because that still is a major market for the Japanese.‚Äù Jonathan Holslag, a research fellow at the Brussels Institute of Contemporary China Studies, agrees. ‚ÄúThe recent turmoil has added impetus to an agenda that already existed for diversifying commercial relationships,‚Äù Holslag told The Financialist. On Jan. 16, Shinzo Abe embarked on his first overseas trip since being elected prime minister for the second time in December. Rather than make China his first stop, as he did in 2007 during his last premiership, he headed to Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia instead. ‚ÄúThe growing dependence of Japan on China‚Ä¶is not a very desirable evolution so there is a lot of thinking going on to try to diversify away from China, to conclude commercial partnerships with the countries of Southeast Asia and with India and some places as far as the Middle East and Africa,‚Äù Holslag said. While Abe hoped the trip would result in stronger relations with Southeast Asia‚Äôs other major economies, it does not mean Japan is turning its back on China ‚Äî far from it. Nevertheless, the dispute over the islands will continue to cause political and economic headaches for China and Japan, with neither acting to defuse the tensions. Abe warned recently that there was ‚Äúno room for negotiations‚Äù with China over the islands. ‚ÄúMy resolve to defend our waters and territories has not changed at all,‚Äù the hawkish Abe said, according to The Daily Yomiuri, shortly after announcing the first increase in Japanese defense spending in more than a decade. The Chinese also have taken a hard line. Last week, an editorial in the state-controlled Global Times warned its readers to ‚Äúprepare for the worst‚Äù and said the Chinese military ‚Äúshouldn‚Äôt be hesitant to take military revenge‚Äù in response to Japanese provocations. A mixture of historical animosity, self-serving politics and energy security is fueling the dispute. As the US increases its strategic engagement in the Asia-Pacific region, China is eager to use the spat with Japan as an opportunity to show off its strength and boost its influence in the region. But energy and the control of potentially large hydrocarbon reserves are at the core of the dispute which ensures lasting tensions between Asia‚Äôs economic giants. ‚ÄúThey will give you a long, historical explanation of their sovereignty claim. But the idea that there are vast resources under the East China Sea just off their coast is a tremendous motivation for the intensity of their territorial dispute,‚Äù Sheila Smith, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, D.C, told National Geographic late last year. While Sino-Japanese relations are likely to remain tense, the strong economic interests linking the two countries ‚Äî and, in particular, Japan‚Äôs large investment in China ‚Äî should ensure neither side overplays its hand. It won‚Äôt be an ‚Äúeither-or issue,‚Äù Tony Nash, managing director at IHS Consulting in Asia, told Bloomberg earlier this month. ‚ÄúFirms will stay in China, and they will invest in Southeast Asia and other places. It‚Äôs hard for Japanese exports to move totally away from China and it‚Äôs hard for Chinese OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) to move totally away from Japanese components,‚Äù said Nash.
Spanish bank Santander, the biggest in the eurozone by market value, said its net profit plunged in 2012 as it wrote off nearly 19 billion euros ($26 billion) on bad loans and property assets in Spain. The charges slashed net profit last year by nearly 60 percent but left Santander's balance sheet looking more secure. The group said it made 12.7 billion euros in provisions for non-performing loans in Spain and another 6.1 billion euros for Spanish real estate exposure -- 18.8 billion euros in total. A property market collapse in 2008 left Spain's banks awash with bad loans and destroyed millions of jobs. The banking sector as a whole is expected to book more than 80 billion euros in new provisions on their 2012 accounts under a Spanish government drive to clean up their books. The provisions in 2012 left Santander with 73 percent of its bad loans in Spain covered, up from 61 percent previously. They also allowed the bank to meet new Spanish legislation requiring better coverage of real estate exposure. The bank said that net profit dropped 59 percent from the level the previous year to 2.2 billion euros, after declining by 35 percent in 2011. Stripping out the huge charges in Spain, however, Santander said its would have boosted net profit by 2.0 percent to 23.6 billion euros. "Profits reached a turning point in 2012," chairman Emilio Botin said in a statement. "In 2013, with the exceptional write-offs behind us, we should see a marked increase in earnings based on the group's recurrent revenues and cost control," he said. Net interest income in 2012 rose 3.6 percent to 30.2 billion euros while gross income climbed 2.2 percent to 43.7 billion euros. Spain last year won agreement for a rescue loan of up to 100 billion euros from the eurozone to finance a banking sector clean-up. Four Spanish banks and a so-called bad bank that has taken over many risky loans have received 39.5 billion euros so far from the European Union credit. Santander and another bank BBVA are among the few that have not had to ask for outside aid. Santander said its doubtful loans rose to 4.54 percent of total loans in 2012 from 3.89 percent a year earlier. In Spain, the bad loan ratio was higher -- at 6.74 percent, down from 5.49 percent a year earlier -- but well below the industry average, the bank stressed. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
LONDON (Reuters) - Asset manager BlackRock &lt;BLK.N&gt; has built a stake of more than 8 percent in the listed shares of British soccer club Manchester United &lt;MANU.N&gt;. The U.S. company owns 8.21 percent of the English Premier League club's Class A shares, listed on the New York Stock Exchange last year, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The asset manager has also invested in the Formula One motor racing business. United are seven points clear at the top of the Premier League and have had a good start to the year commercially, signing up a series of sponsorship deals. A report this week by Forbes said that United's recent share price rise has made it the first professional sports team with a value of more than $3 billion. The club is owned by the American Glazer family. The share listing last August used a dual structure of Class A and B shares, which left the Glazers firmly in control of the club. The shares languished below the initial $14 price for much of last year but have surged in recent weeks to a peak of $17.75. They closed at $16.78 on Wednesday. English soccer clubs will benefit over the next three years from enhanced television deals, while spending should be curbed by European rules punishing clubs that run up big losses. (Writing by Keith Weir; Editing by David Goodman) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
NOTE: This post originally appeared on TheAutomaticEarth.com on January 30, 2013. US GDP came out today and it was a stinker: -0.1%. Enter a choir of 10,000 pundits who all figured out that all that bad smell was the result of one thing only: cuts in military spending. That's the sort of thing that tells me - or more correctly: confirms - that the optimism bias has become so strong and infectious it's no longer worth even discussing. And that's before I notice - caveat: I haven't read all the eerily similar comments - that nobody I read bothers to explain by how much military spending has raised US GDP lately. Or to what degree they hope it'll go up again. Soon. So, I then think - I have a hard time focusing when confronted with blinders -, by how much would US GDP have been raised with more military spending? Would it perhaps have reached the same lofty level as French GDP? Here's a graph: † Yes, French GDP rose by 0.3%. Ergo: France is doing better than the US, and quite a bit. Well, you know, assuming that the nouveaux FranÁais theatre de warfare in Mali is not yet included here. Here's a safe prediction all 10,000 can pen in right now: French GDP will rise significantly next quarter; ain't nothing like guns and ammo and military funerals to raise the outlook of an economy. There is just one problem with this seemingly watertight argumentation. That graph comes form a series of articles by the Daily Mail on French.... drumroll..... bankruptcy. Which is translated as "Banqueroute"; they even invented the word, and imported it into Britain right after 1066, we may assume. Now if France is bankrupt with a 0.3% GDP growth, what is the US with 0.1% shrinkage? Could the answer be: looking for a theater? Back to France, which, despite those far better GDP numbers, gives the US a run for its money when it comes to make-believe. This week, French labour minister Michel Sapin provided a glimpse behind the Elysee curtain, which of course was promptly denied as soon he spoke out, in these hilariously priceless words by finance minister Pierre Moscovici, as per The Telegraph: Pierre Moscovici, the finance minister, said the comments by Mr Sapin were "inappropriate". He added: "France is a really solvent country. France is a really credible country, France is a country that is starting to recover." Brilliant. Who said the French have no sense of humor? Nonetheless, be that as it may, French news daily Le Figaro did a poll that showed 80.5% of French think their country is indeed broke. And I don't think all 80.5% were joking. What Sapin said comes down to something like: "There's a state captain, but not as we know it, not as we know it". Here's Tim Shipman's Daily Mail piece on the issue: France is 'totally bankrupt', jobs minister admits as concerns grow over Hollande's tax-and-spend policies France's government was plunged into an embarrassing row yesterday after a minister said the country was ëtotally bankruptí. Employment secretary Michel Sapin said cuts were needed to put the damaged economy back on track. ëThere is a state but it is a totally bankrupt state,í he said. ëThat is why we had to put a deficit reduction plan in place, and nothing should make us turn away from that objective.í In a frantic damage limitation exercise yesterday, colleagues in the Socialist administration said he was only highlighting faults of the previous government of Nicolas Sarkozy. Finance minister Pierre Moscovici said: ëWhat he meant was that the fiscal situation was worrying.í But a poll yesterday by Le Figaro newspaper showed eight out of ten readers agreed that France was indeed bankrupt. Data from the Bank of France shows capital investment is leaving the country every day. Rating agencies Moodyís and Standard &amp; Poorís have both already removed Franceís once-coveted AAA credit. [UK] Tory MP Peter Bone said: ëThis is clearly a case of at least one Frenchman speaking the truth. ëWe need to hear more of this kind of honesty from the French. This man deserves promotion.í While Mr Sapin's admission was unlikely to have been intentional, it highlighted huge concern at President Francois Hollande's handling of the economy. Despite all this, Mr Moscovici insisted: ëFrance is a truly solvent country, France is truly credible country, France is a country which is starting its recovery.í Mr Moscovici also insisted that France is in a position to ëmeet its financial obligations, including the payment of its employees, thankfully.í Yes, Mr Moscovici, I'm sure we can all agree that  that France is in a position to ëmeet its financial obligations, including the payment of its employees. However, there may be some disagreement on how long it can do that for. The statement itself is true even if it's only good for just two weeks or so, though we all know that's not what you intend people to take home from it. But it doesn't deny that either. Me, personally, I find it astonishing how little attention Mr. Sapin's comments have attracted. I'm one of those rare people who are all for having these discussions out in the open. All of them, those about today's US GDP embarrassment as well as France's financial perils. Don't tell me that you're "in a position to ëmeet your financial obligations'", show me how and why. We can't all go through life shying away from what really should be obvious questions, only to find out later we've been had by another bunch of lying and cheating politicians, just like generation upon generation of our ancestors before us. We need to have learned at least something from what they went through. More from that Daily Mail piece: Since Mr Hollande came to power, unemployment and the cost of living have continued to spiral, while 'anti-rich' measures have provoked entrepreneurs to leave the country. The President is currently trying to revive France's economic fortunes by cutting spending by the equivalent of more than £51 billion. The Bank of France has already produced data showing that capital investment is leaving the country every day, along with the business people who helped to build it. [..] There have even been reports that Nicolas Sarkozy, the last President of France, is preparing to move to London with his third wife, Carla Bruni, to set up an equity fund. Prime Minister David Cameron has already said that Britain will 'roll out the red carpet' to attract wealthy French people.   My impression, but that's just me, is the French are still suckers for authority figures - Charles the Gaulle and Napoleon engraved that into their very foreheads -, but they'll have to wake up at some point. From the economical fairy tale that says they're doing fine, and from the grandeur idea they've been fed forever now. As far as President Hollande is concerned, I'm mostly neutral, but if I were to single out on thing he's done for the biggest fool award, it's his decision to reverse pension reforms, enabling his voters to retire at 60 or even earlier. While at the same time he's part of the Troika cabal pressuring Greeks to work longer, and while all his Eurozone neighbors are pushing up retirement age to 67-68 and onwards. That one thing makes me doubt Hollande will sit out his term. You can fool some of the people all of the time and all that, and all of them some of the time. The Daily Mail ran a little update by Daniel Miller today: Bankrupt France's latest efforts to save moneyÖ turn off all the lights The French government has ordered shops and offices to turn off their lights at night in a desperate bid to save vital resources as the country struggles to prevent a looming financial crisis. From July 1, all non-residential buildings will have to switch off interior lights one hour after the last worker leaves the premises while all exterior and shop window lighting must be turned off by 1 am. The announcement follows an embarrassing incident for President Francois Hollande yesterday when employment secretary Michel Sapin admitted the country was ëtotally bankruptí. The French environment ministry hopes the move will both save energy and reduce light pollution. Local authorities will be able to allow exceptions for Christmas lighting and other local events. The new law will save about two terawatt/hours of electricity a year - the equivalent of the annual consumption of 750,000 households, the ministry said. Environment Minister Delphine Batho said it would also make France a pioneer in Europe in preventing light pollution, which disrupts ecosystems and people's sleep patterns.  Oh boy, what's not to love? Save face and change tack with "preventing light pollution". And to make it better, don't do it right now, no, wait till July 1. The gift that keeps on giving if ever I saw one. Isn't Paris known as the City of Lights? Well, those days are gone. What this tells you is that France has not one, but two problems: finance and energy. And that prior to July 1, we can expect a bunch of real nasty announcements on both. Plus also, that FranÁois Hollande is not so sure heíll last that long. That's why he's pushing it forward, hoping for a miracle. Are things that bad in the US? Who knows, really, given the ever rising extent of opaqueness? Anybody want to bet their children's lives one way or the other? GDP comes in negative and people fall over themselves to declare that it's only because military spending fell. So what does that mean? Does it mean the US has to go back to war to raise its GDP? Look for a new off Broadway theater? Why is it so hard to call a spade a spade? Because incumbent politicians and wealthy moguls fear that the truth will set them free in a way they don't like. As in "The Truth Will Set You Free, But Not When You Dunnit." And so we make do with the few scrappy shrapnel of truth that fall off their tables. Is that really the best we can do? Something tells me the French will lead the way, farming equipment and all, in front of the crumbling presidential palaces, come July 1 or so. And when the fires rage in Paris, Americans will still be discussing recovery. And if there's anything "positive" to be said about it, it will be that somehow it has something to do with somebody getting hurt in some new theater somewhere in the world.
Chinaís stock market was a roller coaster in 2012, and those investors with a weak stomach for unpredictability probably found the ride unpleasant. Itís true that by many measures last yearís weak market performance in Chinaís A share market was disappointing, but in a market of this size the story isnít all good or all bad, so unlike the market masses, I †remain confident about Chinaís prospects and continue to search for long-term investment opportunities in China. As the late Sir John Templeton famously said, ìThe time of maximum pessimism is the best time to buy, and the time of maximum optimism is the best time to sell.î For instance, from my teamís value perspective, Chinaís local equity market appears relatively cheap at the moment with the Shanghai A shares average price/earnings ratio at 12 times, as of mid-January 2013.1†Equity valuations overall are currently not much above their 2008 lows, although we believe earnings downgrades may have peaked. Retail Investors Swing the Market In the early part of the past decade, Chinaís local equity market charted a bullish course. The Shanghai Composite Index (of A and B shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange) rose from about 1,000 in 2005 to above 6,000 in October 2007.† It then crashed, taking many local investors with it. The market was then able to regain some lost ground, but in December 2012, it fell back to a four-year low, and the index stood just above 2,300 as of mid-January. Retail (individual) investor participation accounts for about 80% of the Shanghai and Shenzhen A share markets. That being the case, retail investor sentiment is a driving force behind market fluctuations. †(For more information on the different equity markets in China, read my previous post, ìThe ABCs of Chinaís Share Markets.î) The Power of Policy Sentiment toward Chinaís local market seems to have improved a bit recently. Guo Shuqing, chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, seemed to aid the market in early 2013 as he suggested a possible expansion of foreign participation in Chinaís local equity markets. Chinaís local stock markets are subject to tight capital controls, making them largely inaccessible to foreign investors. A more open, transparent and equitable playing field would be a welcome development. In the past, though, policy measures have largely been the catalyst for a surge in Chinese stocks. More than 90% of the population reads the same news reports, so major policy announcements and reform programs can trigger large emotional market reactions. I believe Chinese investors will probably start moving into the market in greater numbers as they see reform policies implemented at the local level. Overseas investors in the B-Share and Hong Kong H and Red Chip markets seem to have been more easily moved, since money has been pouring into emerging markets equity products. Global inflows into emerging markets funds surpassed US$50 billion in 2012.1 We have thus seen overseas listed Chinese stocks generally outperform the local Chinese (A-share) equity market last year. Of course, past performance is not indicative of future results. Upwardly Mobile Itís our expectation that, as disposable income increases for Chinaís middle class, more personal assets could be funneled into savings and investments. Many consumers in China have been benefitting from annual increases in wages of 20% or more. In addition, urbanization is continuing apace, with the government devoting more resources to infrastructure and subsidized housing as well as extending social security, education and health benefits to new migrants to the cities. Challenges of Chinaís New Leaders It looks like a new generation of Communist leaders is steering the country toward continued potential for growth and dramatic reform. Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang will officially take over the reins as Chinaís next president and premier in March 2013. They both face a time of big changes and challenges, including some intense political rivalries. Mr. Xi and the incoming leaders will have to contend with the continuing influence of party elders. The retired and standing committee members will likely want a say in major decisions. Mr. Xi represents a generation of heirs to the revolution who now need to prove that they have the integrity to lead the nation without corruption and abuse, and move China toward greater openness in both the economic and political spheres.† An anti-corruption campaign recently went into full swing, and it seems likely that in some regions, government officials will be required to declare their asset holdings within the next one to two years. Mr. Xi has made his position clear; at the Party Congress in November he said bluntly:† ìWe have every reason to be proud ó proud, but not complacentÖ Inside the party, there are many problems that need be addressed, especially the problems among party members and officials of corruption and taking bribes, being out of touch with the people, undue emphasis on formalities and bureaucracy, and other issues.î Mr. Xi seems to be laying out a strong reform program with specific timetables and goals verses the piecemeal approach of ìcrossing the river by feeling the stonesî which former party leader Deng Xiaoping had advocated decades ago. The new leaders also aim to increase efficiency of decision making. The implementation of Chinaís 12th Five-Year Plan (released in 2011) should also encourage businesses, calling for a rebalancing of Chinaís economic growth toward domestic consumption and reforming the financial and social welfare systems. The new leaders should have lots of leeway on interest rates to help fuel the economy. Between 2010 and 2011, interest rates in China increased five times and are now at a 6% lending rate. This means that the leadership has a lot of room to reduce rates if they need to stimulate the economy, since most major nations around the world have much lower rates. While many investors often see volatility as a bad thing, thereís one thing it does bringóopportunity. This year is likely to bring some challenges for China, and volatility too. But as we see it today, my team and I think the outlook for Chinaís stock market under its new leaders looks bright, and plan to go along for the ride. 1. Source: Bloomberg LLC. 2. Source: EPFR Global. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
Germany released retail sales data for the month of December this morning, and the numbers came in much worse than expected. Sales fell 1.7 percent in December from the previous month. Economists were expecting a smaller loss of 0.1 percent after sales expanded 0.6 percent in November. Year-over-year, December retail sales were down 4.7 percent ‚Äì well below the 1.5 percent decline predicted by economists and last month's -0.6 percent figure. Deutsche Bank economists Oliver Rakau and Stefan Schneider suggest that the recent uptick in consumer confidence could see these retail sales figures revised up: Destatis, European Commission, Gfk, DB Research The Deutsche Bank economists write, "The same happened recently with sales in October which were revised from an initial -2.8% mom to currently -0.9%." Below is the full text from the release: WIESBADEN¬†‚Äì According to provisional results of the Federal Statistical Office (Destatis), retail turnover in December 2012 in Germany decreased 1.9% in nominal terms and 4.7% in real terms compared with the corresponding month of the previous year. The number of days open for sale was 24 in December 2012 and 26 in December 2011.¬† When adjusted for calendar and seasonal variations (CENSUS-X-12-ARIMA), the December turnover was in nominal terms 2.0% and in real terms 1.7% smaller than that in November 2012.¬† Compared with the previous year, turnover in retail trade was in the whole year 2012 in nominal terms 1.9% larger and in real terms 0.3% smaller. However, Germany also reported an unexpected drop in unemployment this morning. The German DAX is trading lower, but it's not falling as much as the rest of its European counterparts this morning.
APMarkets across Europe are trading lower this morning after a mixed overnight session in Asia (the Nikkei gained 0.2 percent and the Shanghai Composite was up 0.1 percent, but the Hang Seng fell). Spain is leading the way lower, down 1.8 percent. Italy is down 0.9 percent, while the London FTSE and the French CAC 40 are both off 0.6 percent. In Spain, the biggest losers are construction stocks:¬†Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas is down 2.5 percent,¬†Sacyr Vallehermoso is down 2.4 percent, and¬†Obrascon Huarte Lain is down 2.2 percent. However, the sell-off appears broad-based ‚Äì no issues are currently trading higher on the Spanish IBEX 35. The big economic news so far this morning is out of Germany: unemployment fell to 6.8 percent (economists expected it to be unchanged at 6.9 percent), but retail sales plunged 1.7 percent in December against expectations of a 0.1 percent decline.
