cinemavirtualis vit YouTubeOne of the biggest arguments against active management has been the cost to clients. Vanguard, which is known for passive investing or investing in index funds, does however have some active stock funds. In a Q&amp;A with Sean Hagerty, head of Vanguard's portfolio review department, Daniel Wallick, principal of its investment strategy group, says the key to active outperformance, is cost. "So we‚Äôve done some studies on cost, and low cost is the only thing that we can identify ahead of time to help us target a potentially successful manager. It‚Äôs the only quantitative tool we have in our arsenal to sort of identify potentially useful managers, but that alone can‚Äôt get us there, right? So the other thing that‚Äôs very useful, is you have to be able to identify talent. So it‚Äôs some combination of both of those. "That said, cost is the most certain thing you know when you purchase a security. Right, it‚Äôs the only known when you actually purchase a security. You know how much it costs. Everything else is a to-be-determined function in the future. So that‚Äôs why low cost is really, really a crucial function to whatever investment you have but particularly when we‚Äôre talking about active management. That‚Äôs why low-cost active is really the function that needs to be incorporated by investors." Wallick goes on to say that the lowest-cost funds always perform better than higher-cost funds.
AP Images/Carlos Osorio FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Detroit's Bankruptcy Has Retirees Concerned About Their Benefits (Investment News) Detroit filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection on Thursday. Now the fate of retiree benefits for Detroit's municipal workers is uncertain. Retirees in the city's biggest pension funds, The General Retirement System and the Police and Fire Retirement System, are worried the city could use this filing as a pretext to change retirement benefits, according to Investment News. Detroit has a statute in place to prevent any such changes but how this plays out has yet to be seen.† "ÖAdvisers in the area have been bracing clients for Detroitís bankruptcy filing.'Weíve seen this coming, so Iíve been preparing them to save money and shore up for health care expenses,' said Leon LaBrecque, managing partner at LJPR LLC in Troy, Mich. "The biggest fear is that retiree health care arrangements are up for grabs and can be negotiated away, requiring retirees to pay more out of pocket for their care. Many municipal workers in Detroit didnít pay into Social Security and arenít covered by Medicare, according to Mr. LaBrecque. 'Those poor people could end up with dramatic increases in health care expenses.'î BlackRock Thinks There Are A Few Things Investors Should Know (Advisor Perspectives) In a new Q&amp;A BlackRock's Russ Koesterich answers some questions that investors have half-way through the year. Here's an excerpt. "Q: What are the opportunities now in fixed income?A: In light of potential Fed tapering, I continue to prefer credit sectors over those more sensitive to interest rates (like Treasuries and TIPS). I also continue to like municipal bonds and believe that high yield still provides a better yield-to-risk payoff than many other fixed income alternatives. "Q: What is the outlook for gold?A: While I still believe that investor portfolios should contain a strategic allocation to gold, changing monetary conditions provide for a less accommodating environment. All else being equal, gold returns are likely to be lower and more volatile than has been the case over the past four or five years." Hedge Funds Just Had Their Worst Month In A Year (Preqin) Hedge funds had a monthly net return of -1.52% in June, according to Prequin's latest report. ""Following on from the strong Q1 performance, when hedge funds were up 3.35% and funds of funds not far behind with Q1 returns of 3.16%, Q2 performance was looking to be equally buoyant until this disappointing June brought the quarterís performance down to 0.14% and -0.61% for hedge funds and funds of hedge funds respectively." Preqin Hedge Fund Analyst Wirehouses Now Think FA Productivity Is More Important Than Headcount (The Wall Street Journal)  Wirehouses have a new way of gauging success. Revenue per financial advisor or FA productivity has come to be the new measure, replacing advisor headcount, according to the Wall Street Journal.† During the most recent quarterly earnings call Morgan Stanley's CEO James Gorman said the headcount will "bounce around" quarter to quarter that productivity is more important.  SEC Sues Steve Cohen For Failing To Supervise Portfolio Managers, Seeks To Bar Cohen From Overseeing Investor Funds (Business Insider) SEC is suing SAC Capital's Steve Cohen for failing to supervise portfolio managers and prevent them from and "prevent them from insider trading under his watch," according to a press release. The SEC is also trying to bar him from overseeing investor funds.† Meanwhile the SAC released a statement saying, "The S.E.C.'s administrative proceeding has no merit. Steve Cohen acted appropriately at all times and will fight this charge vigorously. The S.E.C. ignores SAC's exceptional supervisory structure, its extensive compliance policies and procedures, and Steve Cohen's strong support for SAC's compliance program."
WikipediaSteel magnate Charles M. Schwab had management skills that were way ahead of his time. And one of his most effective management tactics was formulated with a piece of chalk and the number "6." During the early 1900s, Schwab wanted to increase the amount of steel his workers produced.¬† But none of his methods worked. Not even threat of firing.  So he devised a simple plan to stimulate good, old-fashioned, healthy competition. According to Carnegie's book¬†"How To Win Friends &amp; Influence People," the story went something like this: "This conversation took place at the end of the day just before the night shift came on. Schwab asked the manager for a piece of chalk, then, turning to the nearest man, asked: '¬Ä¬úHow many heats did your shift make today?' 'Six.' Without another word, Schwab chalked a big figure six on the floor, and walked away.¬†When the night shift came in, they saw the six¬Ä¬ù and asked what it meant. The big boss was in here today the day people said. ¬Ä¬úHe asked us how many heats we made, and we told him six. He chalked it down on the floor. The next morning Schwab walked through the mill again. The night shift had rubbed out ¬Ä¬úsix¬Ä¬ù and replaced it with a big seven. When the day shift reported for work the next morning, they saw a big seven¬Ä¬ù chalked on the floor. So the night shift thought they were better than the day shift did they? Well, they would show the night shift a thing or two. The crew pitched in with enthusiasm, and when they quit that night, they left behind them an enormous, swaggering 10. Things were stepping up. Shortly this mill, which had been lagging way behind in production, was turning out more work than any other mill in the plant." Schwab's strategy instantly created a rivalry between the day and night shift crew because it's natural to¬†try to¬†enhance the status of your own team. "The way to get things done is to stimulate competition,"¬†Schwab told Carnegie.¬† Many organizations today still follow Schwab's simple strategic move by posting employees' quota or quantitative output for everyone in the company to see. NOTE: The author learned this story during¬† a¬†Dale Carnegie training class, which she registered for after hearing¬†Warren Buffett say it "changed [his] life in a big way". Carnegie passed away in 1955, but his self-improvement courses have trained more than eight million people and are represented in more than 80 countries.
Sizing up the competition is Wall Street's all-time favorite parlor game¬†‚Äî especially during earnings season. Now that Q2 results have rolled in, the wait is over. Big banks posted big numbers last quarter, with sales and trading revenue exceeding expectations and wealth advising continuing to grow.¬† It was a turbulent quarter for traders. The market went on a tear in May and the S&amp;P and Dow hit record highs. Of course, bonds got crushed on the news that the Federal Reserve might begin to taper its asset purchase program. Emerging markets saw record outflows. It was ugly few weeks¬†‚Äî and earnings announcements made sure to mention it. From Goldman's Q2 2013 report: Although Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities Client Execution operated in a generally favorable environment during the first half of the quarter, market conditions across products became more challenging during the latter part of the quarter, as interest rates and market volatility increased. Still there was no face-melting European Q2 crisis like the last two years, so traders had a fighting chance. That's why most of this quarter's smack talk will derive from sales and trading revenue, proving who got what right in Q2. JP Morgan led the pack there with $5.3 billion in trading revenue (Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs both clocked in at around $4.3 billion). Business Insider In terms of growth, Morgan Stanley saw a 32% jump in trading revenue between Q2 2012 and Q2 2013 ‚Äîthey were the sickest man on the Street before ‚Äî Citigroup won the silver medal at 26.1% and JP Morgan the bronze with 18.5% growth. Of course, this doesn't tell the whole story. We're comparing this quarter to Wall Street's business during its poorest time in recent history. Now the economy is slowly coming back and shareholders can start to expect more. To get the full picture of how well banks are doing on a long term basis, you have to look away from the growth in sales and trading to a more far-sighted metric ‚Äî return on equity. That's where shareholders really find out if a company is making a profit and generating value on their behalf. Wells Fargo had the largest return on average shareholders' equity (ROE) at 14%. JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs were right behind, with 13% and 10.5%, respectively.¬† Business Insider But as you can see in the chart above, that's nothing compared to what they were doing before the crisis in Q2 2007. In the good old days, Goldman had an ROE of 31.2%, Morgan Stanley came in second with an ROE of 27.5% and the bronze medal went to JP Morgan at 26%. So while the nation's six largest banks amassed $23 billion in Q2 profits, which may further convince regulators it's time to impose stricter capital controls, the business still has a long way to go before it's all "Greed is Good," limos, and boiler rooms again.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookGeneral Motors Corp.'s world headquarters is seen along the Detroit River in Detroit, Michigan.Markets made modest moves to end the week. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Natalie Morgan* isn't your average millennial. At 28 years old, the Queens, N.Y. native is single, childless and gainfully employed as a budget analyst. And this month, after years of slaving and saving, she will put a downpayment on her first home, a one-bedroom apartment in a co-op building in her hometown. Morgan is one in a surge of single women who have been leading the charge into the housing recovery, making up 21% of all home purchases in June ó double that of single men, according to the National Association of Realtors. "I'm not a super anxious person by nature, and I never had anxiety until this process," Morgan told Business Insider. "Waiting to hear from CPAs and lawyers and wondering if I should take a place or not ... I feel like this is something I should be very proud of." We've been following Morgan on her house hunt over the last couple of months. Here's what she told us about being a young, single buyer in one of the toughest real estate market in the country: BI: You don't have a lot of real estate experience. Where did you even begin to look for a home? NM: I started in December 2012, just by going to open houses I found on Zillow or Realtor.com. I met my realtor at an open house, actually. At the time, I just wanted to see what was out there. I knew I wanted to buy, but I needed to know what I could afford with my money. A lot of it was also talking to other people who've bought homes, like my sister and brother-in-law. BI: How much of your life did you devote to house-hunting? NM: From the moment a new listing would hit the market that he thought I'd like, my realtor would send it to me. I would say I saw a good 30 to 40 apartments. Usually, we did weekend trips in the morning and it'd just be us in his car driving around. He was only pushy if he thought there was a glimmer of hope that I might like it. He spent enough time with me to know my personality and how to gauge me. BI: You probably had a lot of competition from other buyers. What was the bidding process like?  NM: In all, I put in bids on three different co-op buildings. The first place I put a bid on, I was outbid. And the second place, my bid was accepted but it fell apart after I looked at the building's financials. My dad's friend is a CPA, so I sent him the paperwork and he pointed out some issues. Even from my perspective as a budget analyst, I could tell the building owners didn't have much capital on hand. It looked like their assets could not cover their liabilities. I passed. BI: Did you ever feel like you were being treated differently as a young, female buyer?  NM: The third place I bid on [I wanted it] but the seller was kind of douchey. I didn't get nearly as many personal questions about my financials from other sellers as I did from this guy. He wanted to see what was in my savings account, my checking account, those types of things. And he would tell my lawyer he didn't know if I had enough to afford it. For me, being a single person trying to buy something, that was really annoying. I've spent too long keeping my financials in check to have someone who didn't even know me question me. The more information you give them, they more they can be like, oh, she can afford more. And I was still in a bidding war, so every time he saw [more of my financials], he kept increasing what he wanted. BI: In the end, you won the bid.  NM: I put down 30% but that's only because my co-op requested that only 70% could be financed. Other places typically requested 20%. I didn't mind because it makes my mortgage cheaper. The contract has been executed. Now, it's getting my loan application approved by the lender. I have 45 days from that point to get a loan commitment letter. That could take up to three months. BI: What was your strategy for saving up to buy an apartment? NM: After grad school (2009), I made a choice to move back home with my parents. I was lucky in that way. And they always raised me to be super frugal. The trick is to live like you're always a poor college student, I found. I'm not really a big spender, though I do like to travel. I always ask 'Do I need this?' versus 'Do I want this?' And I didn't want to be broke after I bought this [apartment]. I wanted to still have at least three to six months worth of my salary in savings. I set up my paycheck to just put money in my savings and IRA automatically. I didn't even miss it. BI: Speaking of your parents ... have you told them you're moving out yet?  NM: (Laughs) No. My mom is very traditional. She'll find out later on. I looped my dad in after they accepted my bid on the last place. He's done a lot with real estate and fixing up places to rent, and I wanted him to see if there were any structural things in the apartment I should note in the contract. He seemed OK with it. BI: Any unexpected costs you encountered along the way?  NM: Maintenance fees. Property taxes. I think people forget they have to buy homeowner's insurance. Those costs have to be factored in. I think I was amazed at how much it takes a co-op board to look at me and decide whether I'm a good candidate. And now that I'm looking for a mortgage, closing cost fees are coming up and those range from $2,000 to $10,000. BI: How did you go about loan shopping? NM: I wanted to move quickly so I could take advantage of the low rates. I just put in a loan application and was pre-approved. I started by looking at Bankrate.com, HSH.com, and Zillow because they have price shoppers for mortgages. And then I'd go into local banks in my area on my lunch hour to compare. BI: You're going to be a single woman dating New York men your age who probably can't even dream of buying an apartment. Are you worried about that getting in the way? LY: That's something my mother has raised concerns about in the past. But I feel like it's something I should feel very proud of. [As far as dating goes] it'll just be trying to manage egos. BI: How long-term are you thinking you'll stay there? LY: I think right now I'm buying more as an investment. Realistically, I don't think I'd fit a family of four in there. Depending on when that happens, I'd probably plan on staying here for the next three to five years maybe. *Because "Natalie" is still under review by her co-op board, she has requested that we change her name.†
REUTERS/Rebecca CookA large "Opportunity Made In Detroit" banner is seen on the side of one of the buildings owned by Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert in downtown Detroit, Michigan January 30, 2013. Gilbert has a vision for downtown Detroit that many would find hard to square with the long, painful decline commonly associated with this city: a vibrant urban core full of creative, innovative and talented young people. Yet Quicken Loans, the mortgage lender Gilbert co-founded in 1985, has invested $1 billion over three years, bought some 2.6 million square feet of commercial space in the downtown area and moved 7,000 employees there in a bid to make that vision a reality. Picture taken January 30, 2013.A Michigan judge says the city of Detroit's Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing Thursday was unconstitutional, and she demands that it must be withdrawn. At issue are the city's pension obligations, which would be reduced in the bankruptcy process. However,¬†Ingham County Circuit Court Judge Rosemarie E. Aquilina says that would cause irreparable damage to pensioners, and asserts that in order to rectify the situation, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder must order the bankruptcy filing to be withdrawn. Bloomberg's¬†Steven Raphael and Megan Durisin report that Aquilina can't make that happen, though: Kenneth Klee, the bankruptcy lawyer who spearheaded the¬†bankruptcy restructuring of Jefferson County, Alabama, said a¬†state judge can‚Äôt force Detroit out of federal bankruptcy, even¬†if Snyder agrees to try to withdraw the petition. Once Detroit city filed the bankruptcy petition, it came¬†under federal jurisdiction and the case cannot be withdrawn,¬†even by Snyder, said Klee, of Klee Tuchin Bogdanoff &amp; Stern LLP¬†in Los Angeles. A federal judge would have to agree to dismiss¬†the case, according to Klee. ‚ÄúIf the governor changes his mind, it doesn‚Äôt matter,‚Äù he¬†said. ‚ÄúNot only can‚Äôt she do that, but her order may be in¬†contempt of a federal court, and a federal judge can put her in¬†jail.‚Äù Snyder is appealing Aquilina's decision. She is holding a hearing on the case on Monday morning.
The Securities and Exchange Commission sued billionaire hedge fund manager Steven Cohen for failing to supervise two portfolio managers at Stamford-based SAC Capital. †The SEC is also seeking to bar Cohen from overseeing investor funds. What's interesting is in the complaint against him the SEC published some instant messages between analysts and Cohen discussing whether or not former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma had information he shouldn't have been able to get. [h/t @matt_levine] From the complaint [.PDF]: (emphasis ours) The Analysts exchanged a number of emails and instant messages with Cohen about whether Martomaís advice on Elan and Wyeth was sound. On March 28, 2008, one of the Analysts told Cohen in an instant message that he did not think anyone could yet know the Phase II Trial data, because the trial was not over yet. Cohen responded by saying he would follow Martomaís and Hedge Fund Manager Aís advice, because ìthey are closer to it than you.î Later in the same message, the Analyst asked Cohen: ì[I] don't know if [Hedge Fund Manager A] or mat [Martoma] will answer, but do you think they know something or do they have a very strong feeling.î Cohen replied: ì[T]ough one . . . i think mat [Martoma] is the closest to it.î The Analyst†responded: ì[T]he question that I would ask is if it[í]s possible to know the data yet ñ i could be wrong, but i don't think it is yet.î A few days later, on April 6, 2008, Cohen exchanged instant messages with the other Analyst about the Drug. Cohen remarked that it ìseems like mat [Martoma] has a lot of good relationships in this arena.î In the insider trading case against Martoma, who worked at SAC's CR Intrinsic,†the complaints allege†that the insider trading scheme involved information in pharmaceutical companies, Elan Corporation and Wyeth, between the summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. † The Justice Department's complaint alleges that Martoma got access to negative non-public drug trial information, which caused the hedge fund to dump positions in the stocks. †The hedge fund then shorted those stocks betting that the price would decrease, the complaint said.†
Detroit's fallen on hard times. But we know you're familiar with that chestnut about crisis and opportunity. Via Realtor.com, here are 15 properties that are on sale for $500 or less. 3 beds, 2 baths, home size 1,300 sq. ft., lot size 4350 Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, home size 830 sq ft., lot size 3,000 sq ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, home size 930 sq ft , 3900 sq. ft. lot size Realtor.com $100 2 Bd 1 Ba 672 Sq Ft 5,662 Sq Ft Lot Realtor.com 3 Beds, 1 bath, home size 704 sq. ft., lot size 3,000 sq. ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, house size 1,300 sq. ft., lot size 4,356 sq. ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, home size 1,100 sq. ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 2 bath, house size 1,400 sq. ft., lot size 3,900 sq. ft. Realtor.com 1 Bed, 1 bath, house size 600 sq. ft., lot size 3,000 sq. ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, house size 1,400 sq. ft., lot size 3,400 sq. ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, home size 870 sq. ft.&gt; Realtor.com 2 beds, 1 bath, home size 700 sq. ft., lot size 4,300 sq. ft. Realtor.com 2 beds, 1 bath, home size 380 sq. ft., lot size 4,300 sq. ft. Realtor.com 1 bed, 1 bath, home size 1,200 sq. ft., lot size 4,300 sq. ft. Realtor.com 3 beds, 1 bath, home size 690 sq. ft., lot size 4,350 sq. ft. Realtor.com
REUTERS/Steve MarcusThe Securities and Exchange Commission has charged hedge fund billionaire Steven Cohen with failing to supervise portfolio managers, according to a release. The SEC also seeks to bar him from overseeing investor funds, the release states. "The S.E.C.'s administrative proceeding has no merit. Steve Cohen acted appropriately at all times and will fight this charge vigorously. The S.E.C. ignores SAC's exceptional supervisory structure, its extensive compliance policies and procedures, and Steve Cohen's strong support for SAC's compliance program," Cohen's SAC Capital said in a statement. Here's the SEC's full release (emphasis ours):¬† Washington D.C., July 19, 2013¬†‚Äî¬† The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced charges against hedge fund adviser Steven A. Cohen for failing to supervise two senior employees and prevent them from insider trading under his watch. The SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement alleges that Cohen received highly suspicious information that should have caused any reasonable hedge fund manager to investigate the basis for trades made by two portfolio managers who reported to him ‚Äì Mathew Martoma and Michael Steinberg.¬† Cohen ignored the red flags and allowed Martoma and Steinberg to execute the trades.¬† Instead of scrutinizing their conduct, Cohen praised Steinberg for his role in the suspicious trading and rewarded Martoma with a $9 million bonus for his work.¬† Cohen‚Äôs hedge funds earned profits and avoided losses of more than $275 million as a result of the illegal trades. ‚ÄúHedge fund managers are responsible for exercising appropriate supervision over their employees to ensure that their firms comply with the securities laws,‚Äù said Andrew J. Ceresney, Co-Director of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement.¬† ‚ÄúAfter learning about red flags indicating potential insider trading by his employees, Steven Cohen allegedly failed to follow up to prevent violations of the law.¬† In addition to the more than $615 million his firm has already agreed to pay for the alleged insider trading, the Enforcement Division is seeking to bar Cohen from overseeing investor funds.‚Äù According to the SEC‚Äôs order instituting administrative proceedings against Cohen, portfolio managers Martoma and Steinberg obtained material non-public information about publicly traded companies in 2008, and they traded on the basis of that information. ¬†The SEC¬†charged Martoma and his tipper¬†with insider trading in an enforcement action last year, and¬†charged Steinberg with insider trading¬†in a complaint filed earlier this year. ¬†In connection with those cases, CR Intrinsic, an affiliate of Cohen‚Äôs firm S.A.C. Capital Advisors,¬†agreed to pay more than $600 million¬†in the largest-ever insider trading settlement.¬† Another Cohen affiliate, Sigma Capital,¬†agreed to pay nearly $14 million¬†to settle insider trading charges. The SEC‚Äôs investigation found that in his supervisory role, Cohen oversaw trading by Martoma and Steinberg and required them to update him on their stock trading and convey the reasons for their trades. ¬†On at least two separate occasions in 2008, they provided information to Cohen indicating their potential access to inside information to support their trading. ¬†However, Cohen stood by on both occasions instead of ascertaining whether insider trading was taking place. According to the SEC‚Äôs order, Cohen watched Martoma build a massive long position in the stock of two pharmaceutical companies ‚Äì Elan and Wyeth ‚Äì based on their joint clinical trial of a drug with the potential to treat Alzheimer‚Äôs disease. ¬†Cohen allowed this despite repeated e-mails and instant messages to Cohen from other analysts at CR Intrinsic advocating against it. ¬†The analysts questioned whether Martoma possessed undisclosed data on the results of the trial.¬† Cohen responded by saying it was ‚Äútough‚Äù to know whether Martoma knew something, but that he would follow Martoma‚Äôs advice because he was ‚Äúcloser to it than you.‚Äù¬† In later exchanges of instant messages, Cohen further remarked that it ‚Äúseems like mat [Martoma] has a lot of good relationships in this arena.‚Äù¬† Cohen also was told about a doctor who had provided his portfolio managers with potentially non-public information about the clinical trial, but failed to express any concern about the use of that information.¬† During his e-mail exchanges, Cohen displayed no concern that Martoma might possess non-public information or about his use of such information to inform investment decisions at his firm.¬† Instead, Cohen encouraged Martoma to talk further with a doctor familiar with the clinical trial. The SEC‚Äôs Enforcement Division alleges that after months of building up the massive position and being bullish on both Elan and Wyeth, Martoma had a 20-minute phone conversation with Cohen on July 20, 2008. ¬†According to Cohen, Martoma said that he was no longer comfortable with the Elan investments that CR Intrinsic and SAC held.¬† Despite Martoma‚Äôs abrupt change in view and red flags that he likely received confidential information about the clinical trials from a tipper, Cohen failed to take prompt action to determine whether an employee under his supervision was violating insider trading laws.¬† Starting the next morning, Cohen oversaw the liquidation of his and Martoma‚Äôs positions in Elan and Wyeth and the accumulation of a short position instead¬† According to the SEC‚Äôs order, Cohen also supervised Steinberg while he was involved in insider trading of Dell securities in August 2008.¬† After being looped into a highly suspicious e-mail between Steinberg and other firm employees reflecting the clear possibility that they possessed material non-public information about an upcoming earnings announcement at Dell, Cohen again failed to take prompt action to determine whether Steinberg was engaged in unlawful insider trading.¬† Instead, Cohen liquidated his Dell shares based on the recommendation of Steinberg, who continued short selling Dell shares in his Sigma Capital portfolio based on the confidential information. ¬†Dell‚Äôs stock price dropped sharply after its August 28 earnings announcement, and funds managed by Cohen‚Äôs firms profited or avoided losses totaling at least $1.7 million. ¬†Three hours after the earnings announcement, Cohen e-mailed Steinberg: ‚ÄúNice job on Dell.‚Äù The SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement alleges that by engaging in the conduct described in the SEC‚Äôs order, Cohen failed reasonably to supervise Martoma and Steinberg with a view to preventing their violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.¬† The administrative proceedings will determine what relief is in the public interest against Cohen, including financial penalties, a supervisory and financial services industry bar, and other relief. The SEC‚Äôs investigation, which is continuing, has been conducted by Joseph Sansone, Charles Riely, and Daniel Marcus of the Market Abuse Unit in New York as well as Amelia Cottrell, Matthew Watkins, Justin Smith, Neil Hendelman, Diego Brucculeri, and James D‚ÄôAvino of the New York Regional Office.¬† The SEC‚Äôs litigation effort will be led by Matthew Solomon and Preethi Krishnamurthy.¬† The case has been supervised by Sanjay Wadhwa.
phlezk via YouTubeA man tries to remove the lid off an old Chinese pressure cookerEarlier today, the People's Bank of China announced that it was removing the floor on lending rates.  The move surprised markets and many experts pointed out that this was a significant step towards interest rate liberalization. However, it didn't lift the ceiling on deposit rates. Last summer, we pointed out that China's move to allow commercial banks to offer up to 10% premium to the benchmark deposit rate from 0% previously was under-reported.¬† This was a important step towards liberalizing interest rates. "It is the ceiling that is placed on deposits that acts as a powerful source of "free" funds to the Chinese banking system benefiting borrowers at the cost of lenders (depositors)," Arthur Dong, professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University told Business Insider. "This is nothing less than an act of financial suppression that stymies the Chinese household sector and dampens household consumption because depositors feel poorer as they are getting negative returns on their deposits." Correcting this would create a wealth effect, he pointed out, which could help rebalance the economy towards consumption and away from investment. It would however pressure banks' margins. Interestingly, he points out that China's crackdown on shadow banking, though important to cutting down systemic risks to the financial system, will impact depositors. "It may also be seen as a move to suppress higher-yielding alternatives to the traditional banking system thus forcing households back into the lower-yielding traditional bank accounts." The bottom line however is that if policymakers are serious about rebalancing the economy and liberalizing interest rates they need to remove the ceiling on deposit rates.
CNBCWhen you're taking in your must-read financial news, you're probably dreaming about the journalists who brought you each sentence and number. Brains are, after all, very attractive. Now, put that together with an actually good looking person and you've got a dangerous combination. We found the 35 sexiest financial journalists in both print and TV who embody brains and beauty. They'll get some information out of you for sure.
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderThe eroding bluff on Baxter Road.Yesterday, I told you about the big news on Nantucket Island this summer, which is that beach erosion is threatening to cause some $5-$10 million houses to fall into the Atlantic. The owners of these houses have been trying for years to persuade the Town of Nantucket to let them spend their own money to enact various erosion-control measures, including "de-watering" systems, "beach nourishment and replenishment" programs (barges dumping sand), and, most recently, a "hard armor" seawall.¬† For more than a decade, however, the Town has resisted, arguing that these measures might threaten fragile ocean fisheries and ecosystems, increase erosion elsewhere, and have other nasty unintended consequences. (The year-rounders who control the Town, it is also suspected, may quietly enjoy the spectacle of watching summer residents get ever more animated as their houses get closer to falling into the Atlantic. Nothing, after all, will turn you into a devout environmentalist and preservationist than a good case of¬†schadenfreude.) This summer, however, the threatened homeowners on Nantucket's Baxter Road have finally softened the Town's resolve. How?¬† By hiring a lawyer to point out some things. Henry Blodget / Business InsiderBaxter Road is just south of Sankaty Head lighthouse, on the eastern shore of the island.The homeowners' lawyer has pointed out, for example, that, if the erosion next winter is as bad as the erosion last winter, a stretch of Baxter Road itself might fall into the Atlantic. And if that happens, the water, sewage, and electric services that the Town is legally required to provide to more than a dozen houses at the far end of Baxter Road will get cut off. And since the Town is¬†legally required¬†to provide these services, the Town will have to acquire some new land through which to provide them. The cost of this land acquisition and construction, the lawyer has estimated, might be, say, $10-$15 million. And, of course, for every additional $5-$10 million house that plops into the Atlantic, the Town will lose significant tax revenue. And then there are the legal fees and penalties the Town might incur defending itself against a lawsuit that the lawyer might file--in which the Town might be held liable for the loss of tens of millions of dollars of property value by refusing to allow the homeowners to build erosion-control measures with their own money. This loss of tax revenue, legal fees, and lawsuit could get pretty expensive. The lawyer's observations have apparently been heard. Because suddenly the Town is considering a proposal by the Baxter Road folks to hard-armor the bluff with a rock "revetment" that will eventually be nearly a mile long. No one knows whether this seawall will stop the erosion and prevent the $5-$10 million houses from falling into the Atlantic (the Atlantic's a powerful beast, especially with the climate changing and sea levels rising). And no one knows whether this seawall will ruin fisheries, starve fragile ecosystems, accelerate erosion for the poor unprotected slobs who live on either end of it, or have other unintended consequences. But the Town, it seems, is finally ready to let the Baxter Road homeowners give it a try. And that, interestingly, is creating an opportunity for some real-estate speculation. You see, there are two sides of Baxter Road. There is the ocean side, with the direct ocean views and gorgeous $5-$10 million houses that are threatened by the bluff erosion. And then there is the inland side, which has¬†indirect¬†ocean views and gorgeous¬†$2-$5 million¬†houses that are not (yet) threatened by the bluff erosion. The only difference between these two sets of houses is the direct vs. indirect ocean views. But when the house across the road that is blocking your view of the Atlantic falls into the Atlantic, well, then, your¬†indirect¬†ocean view becomes a¬†direct¬†ocean view. And if the natural force that caused your neighbor's house to fall into the Atlantic and give you a direct ocean view were to be suddenly subdued by, say, a seawall? Well, then, you might just get to¬†keep¬†that direct ocean view. And that would add millions of dollars to the value of your house! Henry Blodget / Business InsiderA former driveway (turned cliff) on Baxter Road.Depending on what happens with the bluff erosion and seawall, we might have some serious swings in some Baxter Road house prices over the next couple of years. We have already seen some serious swings, of course. Over the last several years, a handful of the once- $5-$10 million houses on the ocean side have sold for big discounts, on account of the fact that they appear to be about to fall into the Atlantic. One beautiful house, for example, which might have fetched $6 million if it had been located only a quarter mile south, sold last year for about $600,000. The buyer of the house, presumably, figured that there was some possibility that the Town might relent and let the community build a seawall, or that the erosion might just stop of its own accord (this happens sometimes). And if either of those things happened the $600,000 house might suddenly be worth $6 million again.¬†Or, the erosion might continue and, in two years, the house might fall into the Atlantic, taking the buyer's $600,000 with it. Que sera sera. Today, there is a house on the market at the northern end of Baxter Road. It's a small house (by Nantucket bluff house standards), and it is located on the inland side of the road. Henry Blodget / Business Insider"Windy Moor" and Baxter Road.A few years ago, this house, which is called "Windy Moor," used to have only indirect views of the Atlantic Ocean, because the two houses across from it on the ocean side would have made Jay Gatsby proud. But the owners of one of the two house blocking Windy Moor's view disappeared a couple of years ago when the owners gave up on defending it and cut it up into four sections and trucked it off to Monomoy on the other side of the island. (One of the sections fell off the truck en route, which created quite a scene. But that's a different story.) And the owners of the other house blocking Windy Moor's view, sadly, got a telephone call this winter saying that three successive storms had consumed a staggering 30 feet of bluff and that their house's time had come. (You can see excellent pictures of the demolition and bluff erosion here.) So now little Windy Moor, which, for most of its life, has been a small house on the wrong side of Baxter Road suddenly has a gorgeous unobstructed direct ocean view. Henry Blodget / Business InsiderPart of "Windy Moor's" new view--a plot of oceanfront land that, until this spring, was the home of "Bluff House."Windy Moor is for sale. With an asking price of $950,000. A price that is likely less than half of what it would be if Windy Moor itself were not threatened by the same bluff erosion. This sets up some interesting speculation opportunities. (Before going further I should confess that I have a small emotional attachment to Windy Moor. Thirty years ago, when I spent my teenage summers here, Windy Moor was the home of a family named Whittemore ("Whittemore" - "Windy Moor") who had a daughter named Alison (sp?) who pretty much every guy in town had a crush on. Sometimes the whole gang would be invited to hang out in Windy Moor drinking beer and playing a card game called Egyptian Rat Screw. The game was fun, but it wasn't the main attraction. I never so much as held hands with Alison Whittemore, and I haven't seen or heard of her in decades, but I recall fond memories of ancient summers every time I pass by.) (This, by the way, gets at why the homeowners on Baxter Road have tried so hard for so long to persuade the Town to let them try to save their houses. For them, the houses aren't speculations. Or shelter. Or a view. They're personal history and family memories. And in that sense they really are irreplaceable.) Anyway, the speculation possibilities on Baxter Road are this: If the Town allows the Baxter Road homeowners to build their seawall and it works, the erosion of the bluff might stop forever. If that happens, Windy Moor will be left with a permanent, direct ocean view.¬† And if that happens, Windy Moor will suddenly be worth, say, $3 million ($4 or $5 if you did a bit of expansion and renovation). Of course, if the Town refuses to allow the Baxter Road homeowners to build their seawall, or it doesn't work, well, then, Windy Moor's front yard is already only 50 feet from the edge of the Atlantic. So, two years from now, Windy Moor might be worth zero. In fact, given that the Town probably wouldn't let you just let Windy Moor fall into the Atlantic, it might be worth¬†less than zero. It might actually have a negative present value, on account of the money you will have to pay the demolition crew to destroy it and truck it away. Que sera sera. So if you have a couple of million burning a hole in your pocket and you want to play the Bluff Erosion Roulette Wheel, come on up. Whatever happens, you'll enjoy your time here.Henry Blodget / Business InsiderLook out below!
Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesA momentous thing happened on CNBC.com yesterday:†Apple†wasn't the top stock looked up by readers of the Web site. It was†Bank of America. For more than a year and a half Apple has been the ticker lookup champ. Before that, Citigroupóowing to its widely held statusówas the usual winner. But in 2010 Apple started appearing at the top of the ticker list, usually on its earnings days and MacWorld events. Then, in 2011, it started regularly seesawing with†Citigroup. In January 2012, Apple went to the top of the list and stayed there, accounting for anywhere from 5 percent to 25 percent of our ticker traffic on a given day. Okay, it was unseated for two days by Facebook's debut. But the social-media†upstart†was slapped down pretty quickly. Will Apple smack down Bank of America just as quickly? It was†hoopla about the bank's earnings, after all, that probably helped it take the ticker crown yesterday. Or is it just more confirmation that Apple isn't the superstar stock that it used to be? The price has been on the wane since last fall and it's down about 18 percent year-to-date. But as you can see on the chart, that hasn't really affected ticker lookups all that much. Indeed, sharp moves in the stock have prompted more ticker lookups. Pretty natural when you think about itÖit's the "what the heck is going on?" phenomenon. It's reign as ticker king can also be taken as confirmation that†too many people and institutions own the stock. CNBC Should Apple's stock price bounce back, and some people think it might withnext week's earnings report, it might indeed remain the ticker king on our Web site. For now though, its staying power is an open question.
On Thursday afternoon, Detroit announced it would file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, the largest municipal bankruptcy filing in history. Ever since the financial crisis, there has been some concern that municipal bonds across the U.S. were at elevated risk of defaulting. However, those concerns have proven to be largely overblown. And the Detroit bankruptcy should not worry holders of other municipal bonds as Detroit's financial and economic woes are very particular to its local economy. Here's Capital Economics' Paul Dales: ...Detroit is unlikely to be the first of a string of cities to fall in bankruptcy. Admittedly, the recent spike in municipal bond yields, which was triggered by the Fed‚Äôs signal that it is edging towards tapering QE3, has led to an outflow of funds from the market. But while this may have pushed Detroit over the edge, most of the City‚Äôs problems are structural and can be traced back to the long-term decline of the auto sector that has substantially reduced Detroit‚Äôs taxable base. Of course, the budgets of most cities have been under pressure since the recession. But thanks to the boost to tax receipts generated by the economic recovery, most cities are now on a much firmer footing....The upshot is that we don‚Äôt expect the bankruptcy of Detroit to send many shockwaves though the financial markets or the wider economy. Nor do we expect it to prompt municipal bond spreads to break out of their recent range. Of course, this is not to take away from the fact that there will be losers in this ordeal. "The news that Detroit has applied for Chapter 9 bankruptcy could have big ramifications for the citizens of Detroit, particularly retired workers, and anyone invested in the City‚Äôs debt," said Dales.
CNBC anchor Mandy Drury, who is an Australian native and a former Great Barrier Reef lifeguard, gave tips on how to not get eaten by a shark†in a new video posted on CNBC.com. This is an important life hack, so pay attention. Here they are: Don't wear "yummy yellow" and don't play with a dog, she says.† "Don't wear yummy yellow because sharks have very bad vision, but they can spot yellow and orange. So we're always told don't wear yummy yellow. Don't play with a dog before going in the water because dogs have a much stronger smell and that smell rubs off on you and sharks can detect that much further away." Drury says she likes to wear dark blue, green or black when it comes to her swimsuit. Check it out below:† 
New college graduates can still find jobs if they know where to look. The Bureau of Labor Statistics expects 8.5 million job openings in occupations that typically require a bachelors degree from 2010 to 2020. Business, education, and computer science have among the most opportunities, though there are good options in many career fields. From the BLS's recent College To Career¬†report, we've picked out entry level jobs that typically require a bachelors degree with at least 100,000 projected openings over the decade. Elementary school teachers, except special education 573,200¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $53,400¬†median wage. Flickr/woodleywonderworks Accountants and auditors 452,100 projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $63,550¬†median wage.Flickr/michalo Middle school teachers, except special and career/technical education 249,300¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $53,430¬†median wage. Editor B via flickr Computer systems analysts 222,500 projected¬†job openings from 2010 to 2020. $79,680 median wage. BYU-Idaho Admissions/Flickr Software developers, applications 197,900 projected¬†job openings from 2010 to 2020. $90,060 median wages. Google Developers/Google+Market research analysts and marketing specialists 191,800¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020 $60,300¬†median wage. PSYGMON 7 / Flickr Software developers, systems software 168,000projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $99,000¬†median wages. mh.xbhd.org Network and computer systems administrators 155,300 projected job openings¬†from 2010 to 2020. $72,560 median wage. AP Photo/Jim MoneChild, family, and school social workers 128,300 projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $41,530 median wage. District 37 Computer programmers 128,000¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $74,280¬†median wage. stickwithjosh via www.flickr.com Creative Commons Graphic designers 123,800¬†projected job openings¬†from 2010 to 2020. $44,150¬†median wage. Instagram/jpdesignsartRecreation workers 118,600 projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $22,240 median wage.  Special education teachers, preschool,¬† kindergarten, and elementary school 113,300¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $52,480¬†(preschool) and $53,820(kindergarten and elementary school) median wages. a daydream away Information security analysts, Web developers, and computer network architects 110,300¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $86,170¬†(Information security analysts),¬†$62,500¬†(web developers), and¬†$91,000¬†median wages. REUTERS/Rick Wilking  Civil engineers 104,400¬†projected job openings¬†from 2010 to 2020. $79,340¬†median wage.¬† Flickr/USACEpublicaffairsFinancial analysts 104,200¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $76,950¬†median wage. Flickr/KrippticCost estimators 103,000¬†projected job openings from 2010 to 2020. $58,860¬†median wage. Flickr via skewgee What should young people do with this information? Projected job openings are an important thing to onsider when choosing a career, but students should also have a good idea of their interests and abilities.  Getting an internship during college will give you a good idea of what employees in specific jobs do every day. With all of this information in mind, you can increase your chances of finding a career path that will be the best fit for you.
The takeaway is that for most EM currencies, we appear to be in the midst of a shallow corrective bounce from the May-June sell-off. We think the bounce can be extended, but we believe EM will find it hard to gain medium-term traction until the Fed tapering story is much clearer. For now, it remains muddy and so we expect further volatility ahead for EM FX. Whatever the case, itís best to be selective and stick with the names with stronger fundamentals, especially external accounts. On the equity side, EM has behaved differently than DM this year. Most EM equity markets peaked in January and fell steadily through much of H1 before bouncing a bit as H2 gets under way. In this piece, we will focus on the EM equity moves that took place in May, June, and July in an effort to capture the tapering-related moves that we are comparing in EM FX. Most of EM equity markets continue to lag the S&amp;P, which has fully retraced the down move from the May 22 peak and is making new highs. Notable outperformers: Colombia, Mexico, Israel, Poland Notable underperformers: Brazil, Peru, Czech Republic, Turkey  Latin America† Brazil:  USD/BRL has only retraced about a quarter of the move, and has yet to test the 38% objective near 2.17. The 50% and 62% objectives are near 2.1375 and 2.1040, respectively. The May 9 low was 1.9950. The Bovespa has barely retraced a quarter of the move down and has yet to test the 38% objective near 49070. The May 22 high was 57099. Chile: USD/CLP has retraced over a third of the move, and is near the 38% objective around 499. The 50% and 62% objectives are 493 and 487, respectively. The May 3 low was 469. The IPSA has retraced a quarter of the move down and is on its way to testing the 38% objective near 3961. The May 8 high was 4367.† Colombia:  USD/COP has retraced about half of the move, trading near the 50% objective around 1886 after it tested but failed to break the 62% objective near 1871. Break below the 62% would target the May 7 low near 1822. The COLCAP has retraced nearly three quarters of the move down after breaking the 62% objective near 1658. This targets the May 28 high near 1725.† Mexico: USD/MXN has retraced nearly two thirds of the move, breaking below the 62% objective near 12.52. This targets a retest of the May 9 low near 11.94. The Bolsa has retraced over half of the move down and is on track to test the 62% objective near 40629. Break above would set up a test of the May 3 high near 42852.† Peru:  USD/PEN has only retraced about a quarter of the move, and has yet to test the 38% objective near 2.7230. The 50% and 62% objectives are near 2.700 and 2.6750, respectively. The May 14 low was 2.60. The Lima General Index has only retraced about a quarter of the move down and has yet to test the 38% objective near 15923. The May 14 high was 18009. EMEA Czech Republic: EUR/CZK has not really traded with the rest of EM in recent months. Instead, the pair has been trading largely sideways in a 25.40-26.20 range since February, and is currently near the top of that range despite the recovery elsewhere in EM. The Prague Index has retraced only about a quarter of the move down and is testing the 38% objective near 902. The May 22 high was 993.† Hungary: EUR/HUF trading has been slightly different from the rest of EM too. Instead of early May, the pair bottomed on May 28 and then spiked to 301 in mid-June. EUR/HUF had retraced two thirds of the move but failed to break below the 62% objective near 291.65. The pair is now trading back near the 38% level around 295. The BUX has traded a bit differently than much of EM too, peaking June 10 and then bottoming June 24. It had retraced almost all of that move by mid-July, but has since given up much of those gains and is trading near the 38% level around 18893. The June 24 low was 18282. Poland: EUR/PLN has retraced about half the move, and is testing the 50% objective near 4.2450. The 62% objective is near 4.2160, and break below that would target a retest of the May 9 low near 4.1200. The WIG-20 has traded a bit differently than much of EM too, peaking June 10 and then bottoming June 27. It has retraced over a third of that move down, trading near the 38% objective around 2290. The 50% comes in near 2332 and the June 10 high was 2513.† Israel:  USD/ILS has retraced about three quarters of the move, and is close to the May 9 low near 3.54. The Israeli central bank intervened this week in an effort to support this pair. The TA-25 has retraced nearly three quarters of the May-July drop, breaking above the 62% objective near 1220 and on its way to testing the May 28 high near 1243. Russia: USD/RUB has retraced over a third of the move, breaking below the 38% objective near 32.45. The 50% and 62% objectives are 32.16 and 31.88, respectively. The May 3 low was 30.95. The MICEX has retraced about three quarters of the down move, trading just below the May 22 high of 1454.† Turkey: USD/TRY has retraced a little over a quarter of the move, and has yet to break the 38% objective near 1.9030. The 50% and 62% objectives are near 1.88 and 1.8590, respectively. The May 8 low was 1.7875. The ISE-100 has only retraced about a quarter of the move down and has yet to test the 38% objective near 78996. The May 22 high was 93398.† South Africa:  USD/ZAR has retraced a little over a third of the move, and is testing the 38% objective near 9.8085. The 50% and 62% objectives are 9.6350 and 9.4620, respectively. The May 3 low was 8.90. The JSE All Share index has retraced almost three quarters of the move down, breaking the 62% objective near 40539 and on track to test the May 31 high near 42208. Asia India: USD/INR has only retraced about a quarter of the move, and has yet to test the 38% objective near 58.33. The 50% and 62% objectives are near 57.44 and 56.55, respectively. The May 2 low was 53.67. The SENSEX, however, has retraced over three quarters of the move down, breaking the 62% objective near 19689 and on track to test the May 20 high near 20444. Indonesia:  USD/IDR has not really traded with the rest of EM in recent months. Instead, the pair has been generally drifting upwards within a 9800-10200 range since late May. It is currently near the top of that range despite the recovery elsewhere in EM. The JCI has retraced over third of that move down, trading just above the 38% objective around 4709. The 50% comes in near 4812, while the May 21 high was 5251.† Korea:  USD/KRW has retraced about half of the move, testing but failing to break the 62% objective near 1113. It is currently trading just above the 50% level of 1122. Break below 1113 would target the May 9 low near 1082. The KOSPI has retraced over third of that move down, trading near the 38% objective around 1863. The 50% comes in near 1892, while the May 31 high was 2013.† Malaysia: USD/MYR has hardly retraced any of the move, and is trading just below the May 7 high near 3.22. The 38% objective comes in near 3.12, while the 50% and 62% objectives are near 3.09 and 3.06, respectively. The May 7 low was 2.96. However, the KLCI has retraced over two thirds of the down move, and just broke above the 62% objective near 1787. This puts it on track to test the May 6 high near 1826. Philippines: USD/PHP has only retraced about a quarter of the move, and has yet to test the 38% objective near 42.87. The 50% and 62% objectives are near 42.46 and 42.05, respectively. The May 9 low was 40.74. The Philippines Composite has retraced over half the down move and is nearing the 62% objective near 6745. Break would target the May 15 high near 7404. Singapore: USD/SGD has retraced less than a third of the move, and fell short of breaking the 50% objective near 1.2565. The 62% objective is 1.2500 and the May 8 low was 1.2270. The STI has retraced about a third of that move down, trading near the 38% objective around 3218. The 50% comes in near 3265, while the May 22 high was 3465. Thailand: USD/THB has only retraced about a quarter of the move, and has yet to test the 38% objective near 30.60. The 50% and 62% objectives are near 30.30 and 30.00, respectively. The May 1 low was near 29.00. The SET has nearly retraced half the down move, nearing the 50% objective near 1494. The 62% level is near 1531 and the May 21 high was 1650. Taiwan: USD/TWD has retraced less than a third of the move after testing but failing to break the 50% objective near 29.78. The 62% objective is 29.68 and the May 9 low was 29.34. The TWSE has retraced over two thirds of the down move, breaking above the 62% objective near 8143. The May 22 high was near 8439.        Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
It's been a few weeks since lawmakers let the interest rates on subsidized Stafford student loans double to 6.8%, reportedly adding an additional $1,000 to borrowers' burden after graduation. Beyond the initial blow of extra interest payments, graduates could also lose a considerable amount of cash on tax credits,¬†according to a¬†new analysis by NerdWallet Taxes. Whenever students pay interest on a federal student loan, they are able to claim those interest payments as a deduction on their taxes.  The IRS caps interest rate deductions at $2,500 per year, which means graduates may wind up paying more in interest than they're able to deduct.¬†For example: If Bobby pays $3,500 in interest on student loans today, he will only able to claim $2,500 as a credit on his taxes. It gets worse for high-earning graduates. Once grads start earning $75,000 or more, they no longer qualify for the interest rate deduction at all.  Over a 10-year repayment period, the top 5% of high-earning graduates could lose up to $4,000 in possible tax credits, according to Nerdwallet.¬†When you also factor in the cost of the doubled interest rate, that would add another $4,800 to their load, totaling $8,800 over a decade. Now, if the IRS decided to expand its interest rate deduction rule by an extra $1,000 to compensate for higher interest rates, Nerdwallet estimates graduates could save up to $7 billion over 10 years in taxes alone. Unfortunately, that outcome isn't looking likely.¬† "Even though student loan rates have doubled, the $2,500 limit is not set to increase anytime soon, as the IRS set the limit for years 2001 and beyond back in 1986 in the Internal Revenue Code," Nerdwallet's Dana Lime notes. As for raising the cap on interest deductions, Lime points to a bill introduced by¬†House Rep. Charles Rangel, who suggested raising the cap from $2,500 to $5,000.¬† According to Govtrack.us, a government transparency monitor, the bill has "only a 1% chance of making it through committee and is¬†unlikely to be passed in time to help students."¬† So, what's a cash-strapped college grad to do? 1. Minimize loans.¬†If you're still in school, you've got time to minimize your student loan damage. That means steering clear of private loans (and their sky-high interest rates) altogether, and researching tuition rates rigorously before enrolling. You can offset costs with scholarships and grants whenever possible, which may involve a lot of pre-planning.¬† 2. Consider crowdfunding. For a cash-strapped college graduate who has exhausted every repayment option possible and is still struggling, the hot new trend in fundraising is online crowdfunding. This can be as simple as launching a page on GoFundMe.com and passing it around to your friends and family to contribute online. If you're on the entrepreneurial track and have a solid business plan, you could stand a chance at getting your loans paid off with investor dollars via sites like Upstart.com.¬† 3.¬† Research other tax credits. The¬†Lifetime Learning credit or American Opportunity credit¬†are both viable options. Also, see our guide to paying down student loans when you're broke ¬ª
Hedge funds had negative returns in June for the first time in a year, according to new data from research firm Preqin. "Thirteen proved to be an unlucky number for hedge funds in Q2 2013, as hedge funds‚Äô 12 month positive streak in terms of performance was brought to an abrupt halt with a monthly net return of -1.52% posted in June," said Preqin in its latest quarterly report, released today. The industry's performance in June really dragged down the entire quarter, according to the report:¬†"Following on from the strong Q1 performance, when¬†hedge funds were up 3.35% and funds of funds not far behind with Q1 returns of 3.16%, Q2 performance was looking to be equally¬†buoyant until this disappointing June brought the quarter‚Äôs performance down to 0.14% and -0.61% for hedge funds and funds of¬†hedge funds respectively." The table below shows the performance of various hedge funds grouped by strategy in June. Preqin Hedge Fund Analyst
One of China's biggest impediments is that it appears to have hit the Lewis Turning Point. This is the point at which declining rural labor supply raises bargaining power for higher wages. This also marks the point at which the shift of people from agriculture to manufacturing does not lead to productivity gains for an emerging nation. In a new piece, Paul Krugman argues that this is why China has hit a wall. "Now, however, China has hit the ‚ÄúLewis point‚Äù ‚Äî to put it crudely, it‚Äôs running out of surplus peasants. ...That should be a good thing. Wages are rising; finally, ordinary Chinese are starting to share in the fruits of growth. But it also means that the Chinese economy is suddenly faced with the need for drastic ‚Äúrebalancing‚Äù ‚Äî the jargon phrase of the moment." This argument has previously been made by Peter Orszag and other economists.  This chart shows the decline in agricultural employment: Barclays This chart shows that even in poorer regions and during times of slack, wages have been rising. This is considered to be a sign that the rural surplus labor is running out. Barclays Here's a stylized chart of the Lewis turning point from Nomura: NomuraAnd we've seen that it's taking more and more credit growth to deliver less GDP growth: Societe Generale ¬†
Was it too harsh or not harsh enough? The Wall Street Journal reports that the SEC voted to reject a settlement against Phil Falcone and his hedge fund Harbinger Capital. If accepted, Flacone would been barred from the securities industry for two years, and paid an $18 million fine. Falcone would not have been forced to admit or deny that he was guilty of charges that he used a $113.2 million of Harbinger money as† a loan to pay personal taxes in in 2009. It is unclear if the SEC means to make the sentence more severe, as the agency's filing only says that they voted to reject the settlement "on principle." For the full report head to WSJ&gt;
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories came out with their annual Sankey Diagram explaining energy use in the U.S. today, and it's another excellent visualization of the real story of American energy use.¬† The chart shows the magnitude of flow between different sources of energy (left) and different consumers of energy (right).¬† If you want to know what makes America run, this is the only chart you need to see.¬† (Click to enlarge) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories There are a couple things we can observe.¬† Compare 2012's chart to previous years here.¬†
Many observers were taken aback by the record inflows into stock market mutual funds and ETFs in January. The outsized flows sparked a lot of chatter about a "Great Rotation" out of bonds and into equities, a concept that implied the reversal of a major trend that has seen hundreds of billions of investor dollars flow out of equity funds and into bond funds over the past five years. Since January, flows into equity funds have been robust, but nowhere near the levels we were seeing in the first few weeks of 2013. That is, until now. So far, statistics we have for flows into equity funds in July are blowing away those in January. "Over the first 12 trading days of July (all data here from¬†www.xtf.com, through¬†Wednesday) investors have added $24.4 billion in fresh money to ETFs which track various U.S. stock indices," writes Nick Colas, chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group, in a note to clients. "This is a run rate of just over $2 billion/day, almost four times the pace of money flows into U.S. stocks for the first half of 2013." Nearly half of that $24.4 billion has gone into a single ETF: the¬†SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF. In other words, investors have been putting $1 billion a day into the S&amp;P 500 since the start of July. "Our contacts in the industry tell us that these inflows are 'Smooth' and not the result of a few chunky reallocations of capital by a handful of accounts," says Colas. In his note, Colas also highlights the losers: The S&amp;P 500 is up 5.1% so far this month. Business Insider
Business Insider/Matthew BoeslerThis weekend is the moment currency strategists have been waiting for since late May, when the rally in the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen stumbled sharply, and the market's faith in Abenomics ‚Äì an experimental stimulus program designed in part to depreciate the yen ‚Äì seemed to come into question. The coalition spearheaded by Japanese Prime Minister Shinz≈ç Abe's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) already controls the Lower House of the Japanese legislature, but this weekend's Upper House election will likely see it gain a majority there as well, putting it in control of the entire government. "Japan's Upper House election on 21 July is expected to deliver a convincing victory for the LDP/New Komeito coalition," writes Deutsche Bank strategist Taisuke Tanaka. "If the partners win 63 seats, they would combine with their 59 uncontested seats to secure them a majority. Opinion polls indicate the coalition will most likely win 70-80 seats." The implication for Abenomics, says Tanaka, is that "following the 21 July election, no election is scheduled until 2016, so the Abe administration will be able to tackle long-term issues." That prospect has those betting against the yen excited once again, because those long-term issues ‚Äì the structural reforms that take longer to implement than the fiscal and monetary stimulus measures that the government has already launched ‚Äì are viewed as key to continued yen depreciation. "Control of both houses would give PM Abe freedom to push through policies that should see the yen weaken significantly further," says Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Kit Juckes. "I think the move to USD/JPY 110 starts¬†on Monday." The dollar is trading today around ¬•100.20.

Fixing America's ailing education system could boost GDP by $1.7 trillion a year by 2030, according to McKinsey's "Game Changers: Five Opportunities Five Opportunities†For US Growth And Renewal." Of course, that's just a positive way of saying that the current talent gap is costing us big time. From McKinsey: †One source of Americaís historic economic prosperity has been the high skill and education of its workforce. But this edge is now eroding as other nations surpass the United States. US student achievement measures have fallen near the bottom half in international rankings, and the nationís rate of tertiary education attainment for younger workers lags dramatically behind that of other countries (Exhibit E8). Moreover, even those who receive post-secondary education may not be acquiring the skills they need: a recent McKinsey survey found that more than 60 percent of US employers are skeptical of recent graduatesí potential to succeed in their company. So how does America fix education?†McKinsey has four major suggestions: 1. Create non-degree training programs to give workers the specific skills needed by employers. 2. Improve learning and labor market outcomes for some graduates of two- and four-year colleges. 3. Expand the number of graduates in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). 4. Incorporate a greater focus on skills in targeted areas of immigration policy. Now here's an excerpt from the report showing how these improvements could boost GDP by $165 billion yearly by 2020 and by $1.7 trillion yearly by 2030: Non-degree training programs. Raising the number of high school graduates receiving post-secondary, non-degree training directly translates to GDP gains. Participants often achieve better labor market outcomes than graduates of associate degree programs.170 We assume that instead of facing the job prospects typical of high school graduates, this population will exhibit the labor force participation, employment, and wage characteristics of associate degree holders.171 In addition to making this path more widely available to new high school graduates, training can benefit currently unemployed workers who lack college degrees. The historical rate of unemployment among this group is 6 percent, but today there are 1.3 million more unemployed in this group than would be expectedóand they are prime candidates for these types of programs. Altogether, expanding industry-specific training programs could add $7 billion to nearly $15 billion to annual GDP by 2020. Improving learning and employment outcomes for college graduates. If current trends persist, we estimate that by 2020, roughly one-quarter of workers with bachelorís degrees will earn less than the median full-time annual earnings of associate degree holders. Similarly, one-third of workers with associate degrees will earn less than the median wages of high school graduates. Adjusting for factors such as cost-of-living differences and voluntary choices of lower-paying careers, we find that improving labor market outcomes of these bachelorís degree holders to match the median wage of associate degree holders and lifting these associate degree holders to the†median high school graduate wage would raise annual GDP by $45 billion by 2020. Improving bachelorís and associate degree outcomes even furtheróto match the median wages associated with their actual educational attainmentówould add $95 billion to annual GDP by 2020. <U+0083><U+0083>Increasing the number of STEM graduates. By reducing attrition rates in STEM fields to levels comparable with other majors, the United States can improve the persistence rate of STEM majors from 53 percent to 76 percent. In combination with increasing the enrollment rate in STEM programs from 14 percent to 24 percent, the share of US four-year-college graduates with STEM degrees can grow from 15 percent today to 23 percent by 2020, bringing the United States in line with peer countries. Increasing the number of STEM graduates can raise annual GDP by $25 billion in 2020 because of the lower unemployment rate and higher wage premium for STEM graduates over non-STEM graduates. †High-skill immigration. Increasing the skill level of the net additional 7.4 million immigrants that are likely to arrive between 2012 and 2020 will also have tremendous impact on GDP. Increasing H-1B visa issuance to match the 2001 peakóthat is, issuing an additional 37,000 H-1B visas each yearówould increase the 2020 population of H-1B visa holders by nearly 130,000 above the baseline 2020 projection. Assuming these additional H-1B workers earn the average wage for workers with tertiary-level STEM education, this shift would add $8.5 billion to annual GDP by 2020.173 Even more significantly, the educational profile of incoming family-sponsored permanent resident workers can be shifted to give preference to those with specialized skills or tertiary degrees. (This would apply only to extended family members who would be in the labor force, not to the immediate families of citizens and permanent residents.) Applying this change only to this specific group would generate an annual GDP impact of $22 billion by 2020.
APPresident Calvin Coolidge and President-elect Herbert Hoover, as they left the White House for Hoover's inauguration, March 4, 1929.Every five years, the Bureau of Economic Analysis combs through the annals of history to revise past GDP figures. This time, the BEA will add R&amp;D and royalties from film, television, literature, and music into GDP accounts, painting a sunnier picture of our economic history. Deutsch Bank economist Joseph LaVorgna wrote his thoughts in a new letter to clients: The net effect could be a 3% upward revision to the level of output. However, of greater significance to us (as well as the Fed and financial markets) will be the change in growth, rather than the outright level. This is what makes Q2 GDP estimates so difficult to forecast. Based on the recent and substantial upward revisions to nonfarm payrolls, we believe the growth rate of GDP will be revised modestly higher over the past several years. This is a separate issue from the overall level being revised higher.¬† But it is important to downplay the Q2 GDP figures until we see the full spate of revisions from the BEA, LaVorgna writes. "We should point out that in our Q2 GDP forecast, private domestic final sales are still slated to rise +2.6%," he writes, "which is a decent pace considering the¬†fact that the economy experienced so much first half fiscal drag."¬†

Tifani SadekTifani and Brian Sadek in front of their home.NOTE: Detroit has now filed for bankruptcy, which we felt made this story even more relevant than when we first ran it a few weeks ago. Detroit's got problems. Its schools are dismal. Its crime rate, while declining, is still scary. And it¬†just defaulted. We recently made a case for why you should ignore all that and instead focus on the things Detroit has going for it. But we wanted to dig deeper. So we called up some folks who recently moved to downtown Detroit and asked them to explain their decision, which until recently many might have said was crazy. They ended up all offering ¬†the same basic rationale: they wanted to live in what is by many measures the cheapest big city in the country. Here, for example, are the values some of our interviewees paid for their homes. The last figure belongs to lawyers Tifani and Brian Sadek, who moved from Chicago to the Woodbridge neighborhood just north of downtown 10 months ago. Mortgage insurance and taxes are quarter of what we paid in Chicago,‚Äù Brian said. ‚ÄúAnd we still have access to world class museums, major sports, downtown events. Brian and Tifani Sadek for Business InsiderA picnic in the Woodbridge neighborhood. For Jeremy Brown and his wife, moving to Detroit came down to a dream ‚Äî literally. One day in November 2011, she had a random dream about Detroit.‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI‚Äôd never even thought about it, never been to Detroit. I did a day of research and was like, ‚ÄòYeah, that sounds good to me.‚Äô I put Detroit weather in my phone, checked that everyday. Everyone told us we were crazy." But they desired similar things as the Sadeks, and the decision was made. "We wanted to be in an urban environment, but at the same time have two dogs and two cats," he said. "We wanted to find way to have space without being forced into the suburbs ‚Äî it would take several years before we'd be able to buy something ‚Äî maybe never. Instead, the couple, who work in real estate, just closed on the 4,000 sq. ft. home. Almost everyone we spoke with credited Quicken Loans CEO Dan Gilbert investments (who is arguably more famous for owning the Cleveland Cavaliers) with driving Detroit‚Äôs commercial revival. We‚Äôve written about his initiative before ‚Äî as have¬†most others ‚Äî but to hear folks on the ground discuss it gives it new meaning. Jeremy Brown for Business InsiderCommunity event in Cadillac Square. "He doesn't just buy buildings, he fills them with companies and workers - over 10,000 workers and 71 companies to date," Tifani said in a follow-up email. "He financially supports cultural events that not only entertain those of us who live in the city but that also¬†bring people from outside of Detroit. He encourages his employees to spend time in the city. He makes downtown "cool" and welcoming to Detroiters and visitors alike. Life in downtown Detroit is not perfect, and the problems are unique and sometimes harrowing. Brown says there is a major market for scrap metal, and thieves are aggressive about stripping as much as they can. People are trying to make ends meet by getting $5 or $10 of scrap, and they‚Äôre causing $5,000 in damage,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs happening all over the place. That's really hurt.‚Äù Jeff Winkler, a Vice President at Morgan Stanley, says he and his family have gone months at a time without functioning streetlights, and occasionally have had to pay extra to get their streets plowed.¬†Jeff Winkler for Business InsiderThe view from Jeff Winkler's block. There‚Äôs also the class division issue, which everyone we spoke with said they were fully aware of. "One of the big problems with Detroit is an us-versus-them mentality,‚Äù said Ryan Southen, a 27-year-old photographer who moved to the city last year. ‚ÄúThe city has had it for decades. There‚Äôs always going to be a little bit of friction, and one thing the city needs to do to move forward is not neglect people who who have been here for new development." But to a person, everyone is committed to their decision ‚Äî not only to sticking around, but raising a family too. "My son just turned 5, and it‚Äôs exposed to him more in 5 years than me in my first 20 years,‚Äù Winkler said. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs been in downtown Detroit more in his first years here than I have in my whole life. I grew up in small town where there wasn't much diversity ‚Äî to him, he doesn‚Äôt know any better. The goal is to get him involved and do things for charity, get him involved with people who aren‚Äôt as fortunate. It‚Äôs an opportunity for him to learn a lot."
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidPaul Krugman has taken a break from picking on inflation truthers to write an important column today about China titled "Hitting China's Wall" about the slowdown in the economic data. The basic story that Krugman tells is this: China¬† has experienced, for the last few decades, a virtually unlimited ability to spend on consumption thanks to the massive supply of rural surplus labor. China has an extraordinarily unbalanced economy that's comprised of almost entirely investment, and very little consumption. Now things are changing. There's not much useful investment left, and the surplus labor is disappearing. The existence of this surplus labor, in turn, has two effects. First, for a while such countries can invest heavily in new factories, construction, and so on without running into diminishing returns, because they can keep drawing in new labor from the countryside. Second, competition from this reserve army of surplus labor keeps wages low even as the economy grows richer. Indeed, the main thing holding down Chinese consumption seems to be that Chinese families never see much of the income being generated by the country‚Äôs economic growth. Some of that income flows to a politically connected elite; but much of it simply stays bottled up in businesses, many of them state-owned enterprises. It‚Äôs all very peculiar by our standards, but it worked for several decades. Now, however, China has hit the ‚ÄúLewis point‚Äù ‚Äî to put it crudely, it‚Äôs running out of surplus peasants. That should be a good thing. Wages are rising; finally, ordinary Chinese are starting to share in the fruits of growth. But it also means that the Chinese economy is suddenly faced with the need for drastic ‚Äúrebalancing‚Äù ‚Äî the jargon phrase of the moment. Investment is now running into sharply diminishing returns and is going to drop drastically no matter what the government does; consumer spending must rise dramatically to take its place. The question is whether this can happen fast enough to avoid a nasty slump. For a really detailed dive into what China is facing, this IMF report from earlier this year really goes deep on some of these issues.
APGoogle missed Wall Street's financial expectations last night, whiffing on both revenue and earnings. Not surprisingly, the stock instantly tanked 5% in the after-market, throwing a bucket of cold water in the face of those who had convinced themselves it was going to blast right to $1,000. But as analysts dug through the details and listened to Google CEO Larry Page and CFO Patrick Pichette on the earnings call, it became clear that the big whiff wasn't actually that big a deal. Google's core business--keyword search on Google.com--is healthy and performed pretty much as expected. Most of the revenue "miss" came from product-quality-improvement initiatives in a smaller business--Google's Networks business--which are the ads and search windows that Google puts on third-party sites in exchange for a share of the revenue. This business is less profitable than Google's core business and contributes a much smaller share of Google's overall profit, so shortfalls in this business are relatively unimportant. Because the product changes Google made are designed to improve the user experience for readers and the return-on-investment for clients, meanwhile, Google is just sacrificing some short-term revenue to create greater long-term value. Most of the earnings miss, meanwhile, came from Google increasing investments in new products, including mobile, smartphones, tablets, "Chromebook" PCs, Google Fiber (a cable-company killing TV and Internet subscription service) and other initiatives. In the short term, these investments reduce Google's profit margin. But over the long haul, at least some of them should pay off. Long-term investors, Google clients and users, and ordinary citizens of the world should celebrate the decisions Google is making. Unlike many companies, which are slaves to a myopic obsession with quarterly earnings, Google is balancing healthy near-term profitability with aggressive investment in big, long-term opportunities. It is hiring rapidly, paying employees well, and providing an excellent work environment. It is also voluntarily forgoing some near-term cash to create more long-term value for users, customers, the economy, and society. This is what the world's best companies do. †And it's what more companies should do. (We would all be much better if they did). GoogleThe other big concern about the quarter is that Google's "cost per click" in its search business continued to drop (see the purple bars in the nearby chart). The concern here is that clicks on mobile search links are worth less than clicks on desktop search links and, therefore, that, as the world increasingly moves to mobile, Google is screwed. This concern has always been been misplaced.† If Google users were simply switching their clicks from desktop to mobile, and if mobile ads had no chance of ever being worth as much as desktop clicks, then investors would be right to be concerned. In that case, a $2 click on the desktop might eventually be replaced by a $1 click on a smartphone, thus cutting Google's revenue in half. But that's not what's happening. What's happening is that the proliferation of mobile devices is driving a vast increase in the number of paid clicks that Google gets each quarter--an increase that more than offsets the decline in average revenue per click. Google's paid clicks increased an impressive 23% year over year, far eclipsing the 6% drop in revenue per click. The main reason revenue per click dropped, meanwhile, is not that mobile sucks but that much of Google's paid-click growth is coming in emerging markets, in which there is barely any money spent on advertising and revenue-per-click rates are very low. Google acknowledged the the growth of mobile is one factor in the declining revenue per click, but it's far from the only reason.†And, importantly, the growth of mobile is helping to drive rapid growth in overall paid clicks. So even if the average revenue per click on mobile is lower than it is on the desktop, the net result of mobile growth is more revenue, not less. Google is now a ~$50 billion company (revenue), and it obviously isn't growing as fast as it once was. But Google's stock is also no longer priced like Google is a rocketship. On the contrary, most analysts expect Google to earn about $50 a share next year. †And the ~$1,000 targets out there call for Google's stock to trade at about 20-times those earnings per share. For a company as aggressive, innovative, talented, rapidly growing, and strategically well-positioned as Google, 20X earnings just isn't that high a multiple. So, once they dig into the numbers, most investors should conclude that Google's bad quarter actually wasn't all that bad.
 maxwell GS  via FlickrDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics that traders are talking about today. Morning, Futures in the US are basically unchanged this Expiry Friday, but NDX underperforming by 15bp early as the Tech ? Fins continues today with GOOG and MSFT results.¬† DAX just surged back to unchanged on headlines China is removing the ‚Äúfloor‚Äù on lending rates domestically.¬† That said, Shanghai had lost 1.5% as the Solar trade row escalates, and Taiwan was hit for almost 2% on heavy tech weakness (TSM) overnight.¬† There was heavy volatility in Japan, with a 4% intraday swing, before the Nikkei closed off 1.5% ahead of Sunday‚Äôs elections.¬† Watch RSX as Judge Frees Putin Critic During Appeal, and there are heavy headlines about the Detroit Bankruptcy. (Market Focus is on the Muni Side, where they are trying to write down $500mln in GOs to pennies on the dollar.The 10YY in the USA has popped back towards unch on the China headlines, and Yields across the PIIGs have all tightened despite Germany barking at Greece.¬† The DXY is dropping quick on the China reform ‚Äì and the Aussie Dollar is ripping higher, driving the ‚ÄúCarry Trade‚Äù of AUD-JPY back towards the 200dma.¬† Commodities are popping as well, with Gold knocking on $1300/oz again, and Oil Globally popping to new highs ‚Äì The Brent/WTI Spread rests at 50c this AM.¬† ¬†Headlines showing the G20 is backing the OECD‚Äôs 15point plan to reform International tax Loopholes and Havens.¬† This has weighed on some issues this week, but looks like it is a minimum of 12+ months from implementation.¬† EPFR indicates some $19.7bn was invested in global equity funds in the past week, the highest weekly inflows since 2008.China‚Äôs Solar Panel Feud With the West Leads to New Tariffs - The tariffs could exceed 50 percent on materials for solar panels, a move seen as retaliation for an American trade lawsuit - Beijing's move, a widely expected hit on U.S. and South Korean producers, coincides with difficult talks between the EU and China to defuse a conflict over alleged dumping of Chinese solar panels in Europe.Huge sums poured into US equity funds - Wall of money sends weekly inflows to highest since June 2008 - Some $19.7bn was invested in global equity funds in the past week, the most for six months, while $700m was pulled from bond funds - $1.7bn of outflows from investment grade debt funds and $1.1bn of outflows from Treasuries as bullish investors turned away from assets regarded as ‚Äúsafe‚Äù. High-yield bond funds saw $4bn of inflows, the largest since October 2011 - emerging market debt funds continued to suffer, with a further $1.3bn worth of outflows
Wall Street must have gotten the willies. But it was a quixotic moment for two senators from the opposite sides of the aisle to stand up to the banking lobby. ìBig Wall Street institutions should be free to engage in transactions with significant risk,î Senator McCain explained ñ such as ìinvestment banking, insurance, swaps dealing, and hedge fund activities,î Senator Warren clarified ñ ìbut not with federally insured deposits.î While the legislation ìwould not end Too-Big-to-Fail,î he said, ìit would rebuild the wall between commercial and investment banking that was in place for over 60 years, restore confidence in the system, and reduce risk for the American taxpayer.î Senator McCain isnít quite the immaculate soul in this discussion: in 2008, as presidential candidate, he ñ along with his opponent Barak Obama ñ strongly supported TARP and the whole principle that these megabanks must be bailed out at taxpayersí expense. But TARP amounted to inconsequential peanuts compared to the many trillions the Fed was hand-delivering free of charge to the banks, and he never said squat about that either. But hey, a guy can change his mind. The original Glass-Steagall Act became law in 1933, in response to the financial crisis that triggered the Great Depression. It separated depository banks from investment banks and worked like a charm. There were stock-market crashes, bond fiascos, and bank collapses, as there should be, but no financial mushroom clouds formed over the economy. Yet, starting in the 1980s, the Fed ñ ever the banksí most intimate companion, rather than a regulator with teeth ñ and the Office of the Comptroller began to chip away at it by ìreinterpretingî certain legal terms. Meanwhile Congress, after 12 attempts to repeal it, finally threw it out in 1999, with a big nod, victorious smile, and energetic signature by President Clinton. It triggered a wave of consolidation among banks, hedge funds, insurance companies, brokers, private-equity firms, and other outfits. And it took these geniuses of bankers only nine years to build up their empires to the point where they started collapsing under the weight of their bets gone wrong. The Lehman moment billowed into a mushroom cloud that became the Financial Crisis that, after trillions of dollars from the Fed, ended with even greater consolidation. Now twelve Too-Big-To-Fail and Too-Big-To-Jail banks ñ 0.2% of all banks ñ control 70% of all banking assets. Because of their status, theyíre ìtreated differently from the other 99.8% of the banks and differently from other businesses,î the nearly rebellious Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher pointed out. These megabanks, after having been bailed out, have taken over the economy and the political system [but Fisher isnít singing from the same hymn sheet; read.... The Fedís Token Voice Of Reason: Megabanks Undermine Americansí Faith In†Democracy]. ìDespite the progress weíve made since 2008, the biggest banks continue to threaten the economy,î lamented Senator Warren. ìThe four biggest banks are now 30% larger than they were just five years ago, and they have continued to engage in dangerous, high-risk practices that could once again put our economy at risk.î The 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act (PDF) would reestablish a wall between these high-risk practices and commercial banking ñ which, as Senator Warren had put so elegantly, ìshould be boring.î It would make the financial system more stable and secure, she said. Gobs of people have been clamoring for this kind of financial and regulatory reform. It would be the biggest threat to bankers, their industry, their bonuses, their source of free money, their way of life, their egos, their religion even. ìThe banking lobby is simply too strong to allow something like this to happen,î said Bob Rice, managing partner at Tangent Capital Partners, in a Bloomberg interview. He thus confirmed just how quixotic the senatorsí stance has become. ìWeíre having trouble getting the basic Volker rule from Dodd-Frank implemented,î and Senator Warrenís plan, he said, would go much further than the Volker rule. If enacted, the law would keep megabanks from holding the federal government hostage and from forcing a bailout whenever they need it, only to propagate afterwards with reinforced vigor their blind risk-taking and bonus-extraction culture and their key strategy of socializing losses and privatizing gains ñ as if nothing had happened. The 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act was a valiant effort, but now, only a week after its introduction, the financial industry has already declared victory. It simply wonít be allowed to happen. And the risk-taking orgy, nurtured by the Fedís addictive and intoxicating flood of QE dollars, zero-interest-rate policy, and bailout guarantees must go on. Alas, there are feeble signs that it might not.... ìThe financial markets have now seen what a world without QE is going to look like, and they donít like what they see,î wrote credit analyst Michael Lewitt in The Credit Strategist. So ìthe mere possibilityî of an end to QE ìsent credit markets to some of their biggest losses in recent history.î Read.... Outside the Box: The Mirror†Cracks
REUTERS/Rebecca CookGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
The People's Bank of China has just moved to lower the floor on lending rates, potentially easing credit to corporations. Bloomberg's Michael McDonough has some perspective. PBOC says floor on lending rates will be removed from tomorrow, according to a statement on its website today. -Bloomberg This is a massive step toward interest rate liberalization in China well ahead of most people's expectations. (long-term positive) Futures and the Aussie dollar have popped.
Dinner Series / FlickrFrom Citi's currency guy Steven Englander: The Fed, accused of pulling back the punch bowl earlier than promised, has convinced investors that 1) the punch bowl is filled to brimming; 2) it is spiked as it has never been spiked before; 3) they will let the party go one for longer than they ever have and 4) it will be diluted so slowly so late in the party that no one will notice. The guests, having briefly contemplated what the morning after would feel like, are now back to partying. In fact, the guests have disposed of their hip flasks, so confident are they there is nothing to worry about. Well then.
Given this week's poor housing starts report, some economists are raising concerns about the sustainability of the positive momentum in residential construction. The primary explanation for the latest decline seems to be the slowdown in apartment construction. NAHB: - ìWhile demand for new homes and apartments has grown considerably over the past year, builders are still being very careful not to get ahead of the market, and todayís report reflects that cautious approach,î said Rick Judson, Chairman of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) and a home builder from Charlotte, N.C.  ìThe large dip in multifamily production in June follows a boost of activity in May, and is consistent with the volatility that has come to characterize that sector as well as the uneven pace of the housing recovery,î noted NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe. ìThat said, the fact that single-family starts and permits both rose in three out of four regions in June is a positive sign thatís in keeping with our forecast as well as recent surveys in which single-family builders have registered an increasingly positive outlook.î The annualized rate of multifamily production declined 26.2 percent to 245,000 units in June after a 28.2 percent gain in the previous month. Some have also attributed the slowdown to weather conditions. There is another issue however that nobody wants to discuss. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the sudden rise in interest rates has spooked some developers who decided to cool things down a bit - at least until there is more certainty around rates and economic growth (we've seen glimpses of this earlier). There is no question that construction will resume on its upward path, if for no other reason than demographics. The US population is growing at the rate of roughly 2.3 million per year and construction rates are just not keeping up.  But even a temporary slowdown in construction (particularly if caused by policy uncertainty) is bad news for the US economic growth, which remains fragile. WSJ: - The weaker-than-expected housing activity could weigh even further on second-quarter growth estimates, which have already dropped below 1%. BNP Paribas economists on Wednesday said the drop in June housing starts could shave 0.1 percentage point off their forecast of 0.8% annualized growth of gross domestic product in the second quarter. SoberLook
CR Note: A significant portion of the decline in the unemployment rate from 10.0% in October 2009 to 7.6% in June 2013 was related to a decline in the participation rate from 65.0% in Oct 2009 to 63.5% in June 2013. If the participation rate had held steady, the unemployment rate would be 9.7% (assuming an increase in the participation rate with the same employment level).  Now the participation rate is forecast to mostly move sideways - or maybe even increase a little in the short term¬†- so we probably shouldn't expect a decline in the participation rate¬†to help push down the unemployment rate over the next year or two. Instead, and decline in the¬†unemployment rate will¬†probably because¬†of an increase in employment.Longer term the participation rate will probably continue to decline until 2030 or 2040. I expect the rate to fall from the current 63.4% to around 60% in 2030 based on recent trends and demographics.
One of the big stories of the year is the incredible return of investor money to US stocks. After the financial collapse, we saw a huge reluctance among investors to put money into equities, as they instead preferred bonds, or emerging market assets. That's all changing this year, as the market hits record highs, and squashes the skeptics. In a note on fund flow, Bank of America reports: Largest weekly inflow to US equity funds since June ë08 (note market value of S&amp;P500 index, adjusted for float, exceeded $15 trillion for the first time ever today) Huge $20bn global equity inflows versus $1bn out of bonds. This one chart shows what an incredible year it's been. Technically, the red line is showing "Developed Market" equities, but everyone knows that the US is the big story in the developed world, and that that's what's really driving the show here. BofA/ML
The economy continues to do okay, the stock market is hitting all-time highs every day, real estate is back on the up and up, interest rates remain very low by historical terms, the net worth of Americans is back at all-time highs, we‚Äôve just dragged ourselves out of the worst recession in 80 years, but people are still upset about a lot of things. ¬†I guess that‚Äôs to be expected in an environment with 7.6% unemployment. ¬†That‚Äôs not exactly a happy number. ¬† But I have a feeling that there‚Äôs more to this general unhappiness than meets the eye. ¬†And I think a lot of people are mad because the fear case has totally lost out at this point. If you‚Äôve been paying attention over the last few years, you probably remember how many people predicted hyperinflation, surging bond yields, soaring gold prices, a cratering US Dollar and a collapsing stock market. ¬†This was the fear trade. ¬†You overweight gold, short US government bonds, short the USD, short equities and laugh all the way to the bank. ¬†Parts of that trade have worked out OKAY (like the gold portion over the years), but on the whole that trade has been a big disaster. ¬†In other words, fear lost out ‚Äì again. ¬†And I think a lot of people who bought into the fearmongering nonsense are angry. ¬†They‚Äôre angry because they backed their political beliefs with their wallet. ¬†They‚Äôre angry because they listened to so-called ‚Äúexperts‚Äù peddling their political beliefs as an understanding of the monetary system. ¬†They‚Äôre angry because they read scary websites that claim to have predicted the crisis, but have gotten almost everything wrong since 2008. ¬†They‚Äôre angry because they let their emotions get in the way of sound analysis. Look, there‚Äôs plenty to be upset about. ¬†I am not here to claim that all is well in the economy and in the USA. ¬†In a lot of ways this country feels as disjointed as ever. ¬†But I see a lot of people who seem to be upset for reasons that can be pinpointed to little more than their ideological beliefs. ¬†If I am right then these people have no one to be upset at but themselves for constantly buying into this fearmongering nonsense. ¬†You have to be very careful approaching the monetary system and the economy with an ideological or political bent. ¬†It will lead you astray at times. ¬†I know it has certainly led a lot of people astray in the last 5 years‚Ä¶. The good news is it‚Äôs never to late to learn from mistakes. ¬†I‚Äôve made plenty of mistakes over the last 5 years. ¬†But I always try to learn from mistakes. ¬†So the question is, will people actually try to approach the monetary system and the economy objectively, rationally and apolitically? ¬†Or will they continue to expose themselves to the same biases and ideological pitfalls that have led so many people to fall for the fear trade?
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are generally a bit lower this morning. Thanks to big earnings whiffs from Microsoft and Google after the bell yesterday, the NASDAQ will likely get slapped around today. Meanwhile, Japan and China both had bad sessions. Japan lost about 1.5% in weird trading activity, which saw a sharp decline about an hour and a half into the day. Conversely, China had been fine, but it too lost 1.5%, seeing a fairly swift decline late in the day.
