ReutersChina accounts for 97 percent of global rare earth production and is said to have 87 percent of the world's rare earth deposits. But in an attempt to curb pollution and protect its resources, the country began to slow exports of the metals. Rare earths are used in everything from wind turbines to smartphones. The U.S., EU, and Japan have filed complaints†with the World Trade Organization over these curbs. Take a look at rare earth mining in China and its impact on local villagers and the environment.
EPAThe cleanup continues after an ExxonMobil pipeline carrying crude from Alberta's tar sands ruptured in Mayflower, Ark., last week.¬† New photos from the EPA show the extent of the damage.¬† At least 60 homes were impacted, and oil entered a creek connected to a cove attached to Lake Conway, a tributary that leads to the Arkansas River. Exxon said in a statement that the oil did not reach Lake Conway, although "ducks, turtles, a beaver and a muskrat" were affected. About 5,000 barrels of oil spilled, although the final figures have not yet been released, the company said.
Wikimedia CommonsTax reform is one of the few things in Washington these days that Republicans and Democrats agree is worth doing. Especially at this time of year, when taxpayers are struggling to file their tax returns, it‚Äôs not hard to get applause for promises to make the tax system fairer and simpler. Converting this widespread bipartisan desire into legislation, however, is another matter. People overwhelmingly desire a balanced federal budget. It is easy for politicians to support this goal but close to impossible for them to find the votes for any specific package of spending cuts or tax increases that would actually bring it about. The same is true of tax reforms, especially any that are revenue-neutral, which by definition is a zero-sum game; one person‚Äôs or business‚Äô tax cutting reform is necessarily offset by another‚Äôs tax increase. The Holy Grail is the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which broadened the tax base and lowered rates enough that even the net losers supported it. But people forget that all of the net losers, those who paid more taxes as a result of reform, were on the business side. Individuals were net winners. The problem today is that the driving force for tax reform is the corporate community, which very badly wants to lower the statutory corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent. But there aren‚Äôt enough corporate tax expenditures ‚Äî special tax provisions unjustified by basic tax principles ‚Äî to finance such a large rate reduction without losing revenue.¬† Therefore, to cut corporate taxes, as many people believe is necessary, there are really only three options: ‚Ä¢¬†First, revenue neutrality could be abandoned and Congress could simply give corporations a big tax cut. Given the deficit and the opposition of Democrats to a reduction in revenues, this option would seem a nonstarter.‚Ä¢¬†Second, Congress could do the converse of what it did in 1986 and restrict individual tax expenditures to pay for a cut in corporate taxes. For example, tax rates on dividends and capital gains, which are well below the rates on ordinary income, could be raised. Those with dividends and capital gains are approximately the same people who would benefit from a cut in the corporate tax rate. According to the¬†Tax Policy Center, taxing dividends and capital gains as ordinary income would finance a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 26 percent and only raise net taxes on the top 1 percent of taxpayers. Nevertheless, I just don‚Äôt see this happening, politically.‚Ä¢¬†Third, Congress could look beyond tax expenditures to core corporate tax deductions such as for depreciation (the write-off for the wearing down of buildings and equipment), or interest on corporate debt. The latter idea, in particular, has garnered some support. One of the basic problems with corporate taxation is that dividends paid to shareholders are in effect double taxed ‚Äî first at the corporate level and again when paid out. By contrast, interest paid to bondholders is deductible at the corporate level, but fully taxed at the individual level. Many economists believe that this disparate treatment has discouraged corporations from raising capital by issuing new stock and instead by selling bonds. This is the principal reason why corporate taxes have fallen from 30 percent of federal revenues in the 1950s to about 12 percent today. In the 1950s, corporate tax revenues equaled 6 percent of the gross domestic product; today they are about 2 percent. When I worked at the Treasury Department, we called the shift to debt financing from equity financing the ‚Äúprivatization of the corporate income tax.‚Äù One big problem with this shift is that dividend payments can be suspended when there is an economic downturn and corporate profits shrivel. But interest payments must be made regardless of economic circumstances. Many companies go years without paying dividends, but failure to make a single interest payment precisely on schedule can quickly lead to bankruptcy. Thus many economists believe that corporate indebtedness intensifies economic downturns as companies with too much leverage are forced to sell assets at fire sale prices, lay off workers, and close facilities that are only marginally unprofitable to preserve cash at all cost. It would be better from a macroeconomic point of view if companies replaced at least some of their debt with equity. But the benefits of tax-deductible interest are too great. Thus something needs to be done with the tax code to get them to change their financial structures. Ideally, we should fully integrate the corporate and individual income taxes. Under such a system, all corporate profits would be attributable to shareholders whether paid out as dividends or not. Net operating losses would also be attributable to shareholders and deductible on individual returns. This would completely eliminate distortions created by the corporate income tax. The present corporate tax could be retained as a withholding tax, with such tax payments also attributable to shareholders. Some people suggest that we simply abolish the corporate income tax. This is not viable, because we can‚Äôt afford to give up so much revenue and because incorporation would then become very easy way to avoid paying any income taxes at all. A half-way measure supported by some economists would be to allow corporations to deduct dividend payments as they now deduct interest payments. The problem here is the same as for cutting the corporate rate ‚Äî replacing the lost revenue. As corporations become increasingly convinced that corporate tax reform is impossible without offsets that might make many worse off, their¬†ardor for reform is waning. If corporations cease pushing for tax reform, however, it is highly unlikely that anything will happen. Even under the best of circumstances, such as those in 1986, tax reform is a long and difficult process. Circumstances now are far less optimal, in part due to deep mistrust and philosophical differences between the White House and congressional Republicans. Therefore, the odds of tax reform are very long indeed. More from The Fiscal Times:
slideshare.netFive years after the financial crisis, Wall Street has yet to return to its former glory. Jobs are still getting cut, regulation is still driving compliance departments made, and even the hedge fund industry can't beat the S&amp;P. But if you put everything in perspective, this is nothing. The Street's been through tough times before, and it'll get through this too. So let's have a little fun looking back at we've all been though... in stick figures.
Chung Sung-JunHELSINKI (Reuters) - Big bank depositors could take a hit under planned European Union law if a bank fails, the EU's economic affairs chief Olli Rehn said on Saturday, but noted that Cyprus's bailout model was exceptional. "Cyprus was a special case ... but the upcoming directive assumes that investor and depositor liability will be carried out in case of a bank restructuring or a wind-down," Rehn, the European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner, said in a TV interview with Finland's national broadcaster YLE. "But there is a very clear hierarchy, at first the shareholders, then possibly the unprotected investments and deposits. However, the limit of 100,000 euros is sacred, deposits smaller than that are always safe." The European Commission is currently drafting a directive on bank safety which would incorporate the issue of investor liability in member states' legislation. To secure a 10 billion euro EU/IMF bailout last month, Cyprus forced heavy losses on wealthier depositors. Initially it had also pledged to introduce a levy on deposits of less than 100,000 euros - even though they are supposedly protected by state guarantees - before reneging in the face of widespread protests. Rehn also said that the European Central Bank should launch fresh action to help boost the recession-hit euro zone economy. ECB President Mario Draghi, at a press conference on Thursday, opened the way for the bank to possibly cut interest rates and to take fresh 'non-standard measures' - steps other than classic rate moves, such as government bond purchases or funding operations like the twin three-year loans it offered banks just over a year ago. Rehn said that high financing costs for companies, especially in southern Europe, were a major problem right now. "Therefore, the ECB's talk on Thursday about both standard and non-standard measures is very important because the ECB may have a role in making the situation easier," Rehn said. (Reporting by Jussi Rosendahl; Editing by Susan Fenton) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The North Korea BlogNorth Korea has been acting really wild lately, spooking the international community with its decision to close off an industrial zone shared with South Korea for the first time since 2009, stepping up its rhetoric, and warning diplomats about their safety. At worst, one supposes the 30-year-old dictator is moving toward war. At best ‚Äî and probably more likely ‚Äî he is doing this macabre charade in order to boost his power at home and around the world. The problem is, it's probably not going to work. Former United States Ambassador to South Korea Christopher Hill, who led the U.S. delegation during nuclear talks with North Korea, tells Quartz's Gina Chon: Nobody will give them a nickel. They worsened their strategic situation. And they‚Äôve made it worse for China.¬†We‚Äôve now thickened up our missile defense in a way no one could‚Äôve foreseen a couple months ago. That‚Äôs very upsetting to the Chinese.¬†It‚Äôs also a myth that North Korean bluster gets them something. They really haven‚Äôt gotten anything. Hill doesn't have a very high opinion of Kim either: "I‚Äôve known a lot of world leaders, and this is really one of the more pathetic examples of a leader I‚Äôve ever seen." While Hill says things could get bad quickly, he also says things could turn quiet fast: "North Korea has the ability to reverse propaganda like no other country." Read the full interview at Quartz &gt; So what happens next in North Korea? A thus-far spot-on intelligence report that appeared last month in Korea's JoongAng Daily¬†described a three-part plan to create fear of nuclear war: The first stage is issuing war threats against the South and spreading the idea that a war is imminent, the source said. The second stage is reportedly forcing foreigners in the North to leave the country, warning that their personal safety cannot be guaranteed in time of war. The North would also inform foreign diplomatic missions in Pyongyang to pull out their citizens. The third step will be a terrorist attack on a public installation in the South such as an airport, or an armed attack like the sinking of the Cheonan, the source said. This theory gibes with what many analysts have said. Sue Mi Terry, a¬†Columbia University¬†professor who served as a senior analyst on North Korea at the CIA from 2001 to 2008,¬†told Wired's¬†Spencer Ackermann to expect "a relatively small attack¬†that won‚Äôt leave many people dead." While these exercises aren't impressing anyone outside of Korea, their purpose may be to consolidate power within.
DAN CALLISTER Online USA Inc The U.S. housing recovery has been causing home prices to rise. Las Vegas stands out as one of the hottest markets in America with home prices up 15 percent year-over-year. "More traditional buyers and sellers are sitting out of the market and investors are bidding up prices for foreclosed homes and [homes] at the lower end of the market," Quinn Eddins at RadarLogic tells Business Insider. Eddins says investor activity in Las Vegas has increased 67 percent year-over-year through December 2012. All of this has some economists warn that it may be overheating. "Phoenix and Las Vegas were cities that had not been very bubbly, but then they joined this bubble around 2004 and then they became wild and they became very speculative and then they crashed over 50%," Robert Shiller said in an interview with CNBC. "Now they're starting to come up with some exuberance I have to say. Those are the most dramatic places."
The twentieth century‚Äôs tyrannies were more brutal and more barbaric than those of any previous age. And‚Äîastonishingly‚Äîthey had their origins in economic discontents and economic ideologies. People killed each other in large numbers over questions of how the economy should be organized, which had not been a major source of massacre in previous centuries. Twentieth-Century governments and their soldiers have killed perhaps forty million people in war: either soldiers (most of them unlucky enough to have been drafted into the mass armies of the twentieth century) or civilians killed in the course of what could be called military operations. But wars have caused only about a fifth of this century‚Äôs violent death toll. Governments and their police have killed perhaps one hundred and sixty million people in time of peace: class enemies, race enemies, political enemies, economic enemies, imagined enemies. You name them, governments have killed them on a scale that could not previously have been imagined. If the twentieth century has seen the growth of material wealth on a previously-inconceivable scale, it has also seen human slaughter at a previously-unimaginable rate Call those political leaders whose followers and supporters have slaughtered more than ten million of their fellow humans ‚Äúmembers of the Ten-Million Club.‚Äù All pre-twentieth century history may (but may not) have seen two members of the Ten-Million Club: Genghis Khan, ruler of the twelfth century Mongols, launcher of bloody invasions of Central Asia and China, and founder of China's Yuan Dynasty; and Hong Xiuquan, the mid-nineteenth-century Chinese intellectual whose visions convinced him that he was Jesus Christ‚Äôs younger brother and who launched the Taiping Rebellion that turned south-central China into a slaughterhouse for decades in the middle of the nineteenth century. Others do not make the list. Napoleon does not make it, and neither does Alexander the Great or Julius Caesar. By contrast the twentieth century has seen five or six people join the Ten Million Club: Adolf Hitler, Chiang Kaishek, Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Mao Zedong, and Tojo Hideki. Hitler, Stalin, and Mao have credentials that may well make them the charter members of the Thirty Million Club as well‚Äîand perhaps the Fifty Million Club. A regime whose hands are as bloody as those of the 1965-1998 Suharto regime in Indonesia‚Äîwith perhaps 450,000 communists, suspected communists, and others in the wrong place at the wrong time dead at its creation in 1965, and perhaps 150,000 inhabitants of East Timor dead since the Indonesian annexation in the mid-1970s‚Äîbarely makes the twentieth century's top twenty list of civilian-massacring regimes. What does this‚Äîbloody‚Äîpolitical and secret police history have to do with economic history? It seems at first glance that, while deplorable, it has little to do with the story of how people produced, distributed, and consumed the commodities needed and desired for their material well-being. But it is not possible to write economic history without taking the bloody hands of twentieth century governments into account. First, the possibility that the secret police will knock at your door and drag you off for torture and death is a serious threat to your material well-being. The seventeenth-century political philosopher Thomas Hobbes wrote that people are motivated by sticks and carrots: ‚Äúthe fear of violent death, and the desire for commodious living.‚Äù In a century where the chance that a randomly-selected person will be shot or starved to death by his or her own government approaches two percent, the fact of large-scale political murder becomes a very important aspect of everyday life and material well being. Second, the shooting or starvation was often part of the government‚Äôs ‚Äúmanagement‚Äù of its economy: the stick used to compel the people to perform service or labor as the government wished. The economies of the Soviet Union in the 1930s and of China in the 1960s cannot be understood without understanding how mass terror was used as a social discipline device. Third, and most extraordinary, the twentieth century is unique in that its wars, purges, massacres, and executions have been largely the result of economic ideologies. Before the twentieth century people slaughtered each other for the other reasons. People slaughtered each other over theology: eternal paradise or damnation. People slaughtered each other over power: who gets to be top dog, and to command the material resources of society. But only in the twentieth century have people killed each other on a large scale in disputes over the economic organization of society. When you think about it, killing people on a large scale over what social mechanisms should coordinate economic activity is profoundly stupid: we want social mechanisms that will work in the sense of delivering prosperity, progress, and a reasonably egalitarian distribution of income. Combinations of mechanisms that fail to accomplish this should be rejected; combinations that succeed should be approved; but the stakes are not overwhelmingly large. Moreover, the power of tyrants and leaders does not depend on the balance of command or market mechanisms in the economies that they govern. Fidel Castro would rule in Havana whether farmers are allowed to sell their crops in roadside stands, or whether they are prohibited from doing so‚Äîforced to sell to government monopoly bureaucracies. The power or personal status of leaders or the eternal salvation of peoples had little to do with twentieth century episodes as the Soviet collectivization of agriculture, the Cuban suppression of farmers' markets, the Khmer Rouge's forced emptying of Cambodia‚Äôs cities, or the disaster of Mao‚Äôs Great Leap Forward. All were in large part attempts to guide and shift the economy along the lines dictated by ideology. Other twentieth century disasters had equally strong roots in economic ideology: it is hard to see World War II in the absence of Adolf Hitler's insane idee fixe that the Germans needed a better land-labor ratio‚Äîmore ‚Äúliving space‚Äù‚Äîif they were to be a strong nation. The last word should be Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn‚Äôs: The imagination and inner force of Shakespeare's villains stopped short at ten or so cadavers, because they had no ideology.... It is thanks to ideology that it fell to the lot of the twentieth century to experience villainy on the scale of millions. And one of the most important‚Äîand certainly one of the most bizarre‚Äîthings about the history of the twentieth century is that so many of these deadly ideologies were economic ideologies.
Last month I posted a commentary on Some Stunning Demographic Trends in Employment. In a footnote I commented on the unreliability of the Bureau of Labor Statistics' employment data for Nonfarm Payroll Employment, which included a link to historic revisions back to 1979 on the BLS website. I subsequently posted a commentary to illustrate the changes. With the release of today's jobs report, we have an additional month of data. My approach is to take the employment numbers since January 2000 and plot the change from the first to third estimate for each month through January 2013, the most recent month for which we have three estimates. During this timeframe there were 91 upward revisions and 63 downward revisions. The absolute mean (average) revision was 46 thousand, which breaks down as 48K for the upward adjustments and 44K for the downward adjustments. Interestingly enough, the direction of revisions was upward during the brief recession of 2001 but downward during the nasty recession from December 2007 to June 2009. The message is clear: Don't take the initial monthly employment jobs data too seriously.
Matthew Lloyd/Getty ImagesLate last month, Alexey Miller, CEO of the Russian energy giant Gazprom,¬†dismissed the energy boom¬†occurring in the U.S. right now as a ‚Äúsoap bubble [that] will burst soon‚Äù ‚Äì and said the United States was ‚Äúnot a competitor‚Äù to Gazprom. ‚ÄúCurrently, there aren‚Äôt any projects that we know of where¬†shale gas production¬†would be profitable,‚Äù Miller said.¬†He added that ‚Äúabsolutely all the boreholes‚Äù in the U.S. are empty. In the same article, published by Russia‚Äôs state-sponsored outlet¬†Russia Today,¬†Vagit Alekperov, president of Lukoil, another huge Russian energy firm, also dismissed the advancements the United States has made in shale drilling. Coming from a typical business executive, these kinds of comments toward competitors could be dismissed as corporate bluster. It‚Äôs the same kind of talk that was heard during the Bush administration, when Russia seemed to celebrate each one of the U.S.‚Äôs multiple missteps in¬†European and Iraq relations.¬† Coming from Miller and Alekperov, the comments have weight and deserve attention. But they also show that the tables have turned: Russia had the United States on its heels during the Bush administration. Now, Russia is concerned about how much the U.S. shale gas explosion will hit Russia‚Äôs energy industry, the single source of the country‚Äôs economic strength. In 2000, shale gas provided only one percent of U.S. natural gas production. By 2010 that number grew to 20 percent, and some analysts predict it will swell to 46 percent by 2035, according to Paul Stevens, an oil and energy expert, in his book¬†The Shale Gas Revolution. Both Miller and Alekperov are in their current positions in Russian business because they have close ties to¬†Vladimir Putin,¬†the Kremlin, and the Federal Security Service (FSB), the¬†successor to the KGB.¬†The energy business and politics are intertwined in Russia, more so than in any other country in the world. Since Putin took office as president, Russia has used its energy industry not just to build its wealth, but to exert its political will. So when two Russian energy executives tell the world not to worry about American industry, they‚Äôre sending a political message. As the U.S. shale industry grows, it makes Russia less and less important to vulnerable countries like Poland, who are at Russia‚Äôs mercy. It also takes away potential customers, as the United States looks to explore markets that were targets of companies like Gazprom. For proof that the Russians are concerned about the emergence of shale energy, consider this: Despite dismissing shale publicly, on Thursday Gazprom announced its own¬†shale-drilling project.¬†¬† ‚ÄúRussia has their own vested interest to downplay the affect of shale gas,‚Äù said Rons Dixon, founder of Shale Experts, a firm that consults on the industry. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre hypocrites ‚Äì they‚Äôre announcing their own shale projects ‚Äì because they know there are billions of dollars at stake.‚Äù RUSSIA‚ÄôS SPHERE OF ENERGY¬†After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia was in tatters: Its economy was broken, its military pilfered, its government feeble. Boris Yeltsin‚Äôs ineffectiveness left a power void that was eventually filled by Putin. Putin used Russia‚Äôs vast energy resources, along with a lot of dirty politics, to get the county back on its feet. In the first decade of the 21st century, Russian energy companies like Gazprom and Lukoil made hundreds of billions of dollars with energy contracts in Europe. (Putin‚Äôs opponents were jailed or left the country before being shipped to Siberia. British authorities are currently investigating whether Putin¬†had one such exile killed.) Russia then used those energy contracts to establish political power and exert political will in its old sphere of influence. Multiple times, it shut down energy supplies to countries like Ukraine, Poland and the Czech Republic over pricing disputes, all of which conveniently happened in the middle of¬†bitter Eastern European winters.¬†¬†¬† At the same time, it began building a pipeline that would bypass former Warsaw Pact countries completely. That‚Äôs when the Bush administration urged Europe to diversify supplies, but those calls were ignored. U.S. companies have found a way to make the expensive process of drilling for shale gas much cheaper, according to Dixon of Shale Experts. These companies are now exporting this technology to countries like Poland and Sweden, who right now are slaves to Russian energy. Soon, Poland and Sweden will be able to produce their own energy, eliminating the need for a relationship with Russia, Dixon said. ‚ÄúThis starts to shift the political balance away from the need to rely on Russia,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúCompanies are bringing that technology over to Poland right now, where the environment is perfect for shale gas exploration.‚Äù A CHALLENGE IN EUROPE AND ASIA¬†The booming U.S. shale industry, as well as the consumption of less foreign energy, is now allowing the United States to begin to enter the energy production market. Dixon says U.S. companies are making inroads into the British energy market, taking away opportunities from Russian firms. According to Daniel Twining, a senior fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund, American energy surpluses also allow American firms to challenge Russia in Asia, especially in critical ally countries like Japan. Twining adds that the U.S. firms also have a shot at breaking into the Chinese market, one that‚Äôs been long sought by Russian firms, with little success.¬† It would be a coup for the American energy industry if it could establish ties with China. ‚ÄúWe all keep waiting for this Russia‚ÄìChina relationship,‚Äù said Twining. ‚ÄúThe Russians do seem to have a strategy of tying up China through energy supply agreements, but it hasn‚Äôt happened.‚Äù That‚Äôs not to say that companies like Gazprom are to be taken lightly. It still has deep ties to the FSB. And most of Russia‚Äôs money is tainted, as there are a number of gangsters who have their fortunes tied up in these energy giants. They play by a different set of rules than their American and European competitors. The best approach to Gazprom was outlined by former CIA chief James Woolsey in 2008, when he described a¬†typical Gazprom employee¬†this way:¬†¬†‚ÄúIf you meet a really smart, articulate 45-year-old guy at the Noga Hilton bar in Geneva, and he says he's with Gazprom and he'd like to talk to you about a joint venture in some part of the world, he might be what he says he is. He might be a Russian intelligence officer under commercial cover. He might be a senior member of some Russian organized-crime family. And the really interesting thing is that there's a pretty good chance that he's all three ‚Äì and that none of those institutions have any problem with that at all.‚Äù More from The Fiscal Times:
Flickr / Al_HikesAZSTOCKHOLM (AP) ‚Äî Ikea says it has withdrawn 17,000 portions of moose lasagna from its home furnishings stores in Europe after traces of pork were found in a batch tested in Belgium. Ikea spokeswoman Tina Kardum said the product had only been on sale for a month when it was pulled off the shelves on March 22. The company didn't announce the withdrawal publicly until Swedish newspaper Svenska Dagbladet wrote about it Saturday. Kardum said the company found out Friday that a follow-up test in Belgium confirmed the lasagna contained 1.6 percent pork. She said: "We have more information now. That's why we choose to inform now." Ikea has previously recalled meatballs and other meat products sold in its cafeterias and frozen foods sections after tests showed they contained traces of horsemeat.
The market appears to be running into some technical problems at the same time that the fundamentals are showing sign of deterioration.¬† Recent U.S. economic releases have tended to be disappointing, while the global economy is either in recession or reporting slower growth.¬† At the same time the situation in Cypress is still festering, Italy is without leadership, North Korea is making serious threats and the Mid-East is----well, the Mid-East. ¬†Japan is embarking upon unprecedented massive easing that is most likely to set off a global currency war to see who can devalue faster. The market is showing signs of divergences that usually show up at market peaks.¬† The Russell 2000 has been underperforming the S&amp;P 500, market breadth has begun to erode, new daily highs in stocks are diminishing and transports are lagging.¬† In addition investor behavior is signifying a flight to safety as the strong performers have been defensive stocks such as consumer non-durables and health care, while cyclicals, commodities, banks and brokers have been lagging.¬† The economy also appears to be cooling off after a decent start to the year.¬† Weekly unemployment claims jumped to 385,000 compared to estimates of 347,000.¬† The ISM manufacturing index dropped to 51.3 from the previous month‚Äôs 54.2 and estimates of 54.¬† The ISM non-manufacturing index declined to 54.4, its lowest number since August.¬† The ADP employment report dropped to 158,000 compared to an estimate of 215,000. Real consumer spending has been growing at a mediocre 2% rate over the past year, outrunning the weak 0.9% growth in real disposable income over the same period.¬† To accomplish even this meager growth rate, consumers had to drop their savings rate to an extremely low 2.6% in February.¬† It is highly likely that consumer spending will slow down even more.¬† Employment growth is diminishing and the negative effects of the January tax increases and the sequester have barely begun to kick in. ¬†¬† According to William Dudley, the head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, ‚ÄúThe increase in payroll tax, the rise in high income tax rates, the increases in taxes associated with the Affordable Care Act, and now the sequester----if sustained----will result in fiscal drag of about 1 ¬æ percentage points of GDP in 2013‚Ä¶.in an ideal world, fiscal policy would have broad-based bipartisan support.¬† That would reduce uncertainty and reassure households and businesses that the U.S was on a sustainable long-term path.¬† Instead, we have nearly the opposite:¬† significant retrenchment in the near-term, but no credible action over the long-term, with partisan divisions and significant uncertainty about what will happen next.‚Äù  Adding to the global problems, the Japanese central bank has announced its intention to begin a massive and unprecedented easing program with the aim of doubling central bank assets within two years and increasing the inflation rate to 2% after more than 20 years of deflation.¬† The plan is to buy the equivalent of $75 billion of various types of securities each month compared to the U.S program of $85 billion---and keep in mind that Japan‚Äôs economy is only one-third the size of the U.S.¬† One important result will be a significant devaluation of the Yen in attempt to make Japanese goods attractively priced in world markets.¬† The problem is that other nations will also have to attempt devaluation in order to protect their economies, resulting in a deflationary global currency war that we at Comstock have long anticipated (Cycle of Deflation-attached). ¬† All in all, we believe that the cyclical bull market that started four years ago has run its course and that it is now in the process of topping out.¬† The consensus does expect a minor correction, but is eagerly looking forward to buying ‚Äúbargains‚Äù on the dip.¬† However, the first downturn in a new bear market is usually indistinguishable from any run-of-the-mill correction.¬† It is only after the first rally attempt fails that the reality of a new bear market begins to sink in.¬† While the topping process may take some time, we think a major downturn is in store.
APFormer JC Penney CEO Allen Questrom has been one of Ron Johnson's most outspoken critics, saying his discounting strategy clearly failed back in August.†More recently, after the company's disastrous fourth quarter, he said the company "can't continue with the same leadership" if it wants to recover. He's worth listening to. Questrom's a legend for turning around JC Penney from 2000 to 2004 when it seemed headed for bankruptcy, and has also led Neiman Marcus and Federated Department Stores (now Macy's). Women's Wear Daily broke the news†Saturday that Johnson attempted to mend fences with Questrom and convince him Johnson's strategy was best by giving him a personal tour of the company's prototype store in Dallas. Questrom came away impressed with Johnson, telling the Dallas Morning News†"heís a very nice man, bright, a good communicator and a good salesman," and that "I would like nothing more than for him to be successful."† However, none of that changed his mind about the company's mistake.†Questrom still feels that Johnson made a huge strategic gamble without testing it. And now it's paying the price,†he told Maria Halkias:† ìPenney had an existing base of people who decided to shop there. Those customers chose to come to you because of what you are. You canít decide to change that without testing it first. I canít imagine that this was done with the idea that sales would decline 25 percent.î Essentially, it tried to do too much too soon.†"I remember when Bloomingdaleís decided to go upscale," Questrom said. "It took 20 years.î He personally likes the shops, calling them creative and well done, but he's not the one that Johnson has to impress; he's not a customer. Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management owns 17.79 percent of the company's outstanding shares, was highly critical of the company's direction today, saying its execution†"has been something very close to a disaster." Even if the shops are a brilliant new direction for retail that will attract a whole new customer base, it's hard to argue that the rollout was done as well as it could have been. † Ackman's been nothing but supportive in the past, and recruited Johnson away from his previous job as head of retail at Apple. His waning confidence indicates Johnson's store of goodwill and time may be running out. A 97 percent pay cut from his board isn't exactly a vote of confidence.† Johnson may still pull it off, but it doesn't seem likely. "If it works heíll go down in history as a miracle man," Questrom said.
