Anthony Taylor for National Championship Air RacesMike O'Rourke of JonesTrading has one of the best characterizations of how the stock market is viewing the situation in Washington right now. The financial markets digested the Administrationís scare tactics on Thursday and quickly rebounded on Friday.† Apparently, the sentiment tone remains that investors want to be long for the deal that everyone knows must be made. The lack of a deal has the S&amp;P 500 futures down 50 basis points tonight. Continuing with the trend thus far in 2013, the shallow nature of most sell offs has reinforced the ìbuy the dipî mentality.† Now it appears the purchases are being made more enthusiastically, with the mindset that a deal announcement would create an immediate 1-1.5% rally.† As the S&amp;P 500 remains within a stoneís throw of all-time highs, it is safe to say the equity market has not priced in any potential ill effects of the Government shutdown and Debt Limit battle. This is right. With just over a week to go, the market is incredibly sanguine about how this all plays out. Nobody thinks anything can go wrong, and everybody is afraid to be short or to sell lest they miss the "deal." This is pretty different from recent fiscal shenanigans. On Twitter, Matt Busigin observed the same thing: @mbusigin @mbusigin This kind of blind bullishness and fear of missing even a shred of the rally speaks to a worrisome level of confidence. For the market's sake, DC better navigate this smoothly.
REUTERS/Larry Downing The White House is firm in its stance that it will engage in no negotiations on the debt ceiling. It's demanding a "clean" hike from Congress, unlike in 2011, when it ultimately agreed to 11th-hour spending cuts in order to avoid a debt ceiling breach. This refusal to negotiate appears to be more than merely good game theory (i.e. putting 100% of the onus on the GOP to swerve at the last second). Ezra Klein explained that The White House sees this stance as being important for the fate of the nation, basically: Top administration officials say that President Obama feels as strongly about this fight as he has about anything in his presidency. He believes that he will be handing his successor a fatally weakened office, and handing the American people an unacceptable risk of future financial crises, if he breaks, or even bends, in the face of Republican demands. And so the White House says that their position is simple, and it will not change: They will not negotiate over substantive policy issues until Republicans end the shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. In 2011, The White House caved to governance by hostage-taking. Going down that road again in 2013 would surely establish this as the norm, rather than a freak exception. The only problem is, John Boehner may not be able to pass a clean debt ceiling hike without some kind of "victory" over The White House, something that would be impossible to achieve without negotiation. But there is one kind of condition under which Obama should be willing to deal. Ramesh Ponnuru explained what it is in a Bloomberg View column: ...a deal should include policies that minimize the potential damage of a future debt-limit standoff. The most important one would be a law stipulating that even if the debt limit is breached in the future, the government will still be authorized to make debt-service payments in full, taking a default off the table. Republicans in the House have already passed a bill that would come close to doing this. Once this change is enacted, hitting the debt limit would mean having a partial government shutdown -- which isnít great, but not the disaster a default would be. Basically, if it could be ensured that 2013 was the last time there was ever the risk of the debt ceiling being used as the nation's self-destruct button, then that would be a good deal for Obama to make, both in terms of avoiding current pain and also for the long-term. If Obama could get some kind of acceptable way to permanently defuse the debt ceiling, then that would be worth a "cave" somewhere. But if Obama does ultimately give a pound of his flesh, and the debt ceiling remains on the table next year, the year after that, and every year after that, then we're looking at something very grim. For one thing, we'd be establishing that when the opposition minority party held Control of even one of the Houses of Congress, it was appropriate and institutionalized to go right up to the edge of a breach in order to win a concession. And we'd be permanently hampering the economy. On Twitter, investors and economist Matt Busigin explained: Mbusigin Mbusigin Mbusigin Bottom line: A major governance crisis every year or so can not be part of the landscape of a healthy economy. If there's a deal to be made where Obama takes this off the table in the future (and that doesn't seem very likely) then he should go for it.
REUTERS/StringerWorkers carry out a practice drill in case of a hydrogen sulfide leak at a natural gas appraisal well of Sinopec in Langzhong county, Sichuan province March 1, 2011. China, which has by far the world?s largest shale deposits, has just started to exploit this source of unconventional natural gas, as it tries to cut costly foreign oil and gas imports. Picture taken March 1, 2011. Shell's outgoing chief executive, Peter Voser,¬†says any talk of other countries witnessing a U.S.-style fuel production boom has been "hyped."¬† In an interview with the FT's Guy Chazan, Voser also said the company's Arctic drilling plans have been derailed and may not be back up and running until 2015. On other countries' unconventional oil and gas production potential, Voser said China in particular could end up disappointed: "...Mr Voser also said rhetoric about the US shale revolution being exported to other countries was ‚Äúhyped‚Äù, and that the rest of the world was in an early ‚Äúexploration phase‚Äù which could yield ‚Äúnegative surprises‚Äù. "He singled out China, where Shell has drilled 22 wells, as one of the most prospective countries for shale gas, but warned that costs there were higher than in the US." On Arctic drilling, Shell has sunk $5 billion into exploration, infrastructure, and leasing on Alaska's North Coast, which is said to contain 22 billion barrels of oil. Shell's drill ship, Kulluk, was set to begin operation this spring.¬†But the vessel ended up running aground on New Year's Eve, and the company was subsequently fined $1.1 million for damages incurred. ‚ÄúThat was a big disappointment to me personally,‚Äù Voser said. The incident forced Shell to delay its drilling plans, and Mr Voser said the company still didn‚Äôt know ‚Äúif we‚Äôll go back [into Alaskan waters] in 2014 or 2015.‚Äù Voser also discusses why the company had to sell off holdings in Texas' Eagle Ford shale, an epicenter of the unconventional oil boom. He is stepping down at the end of the year. Read the full interview on FT.com ¬ª
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew testifies before a Senate Banking hearing on "The Financial Stability Oversight Council Annual Report to Congress." on Capitol Hill in Washington, May 21, 2013.Theoretically, breaching the debt limit doesn't mean the U.S. needs to default on its debt. Those who are sympathetic to debt ceiling brinksmanship rightly point out that the U.S. has way more tax revenue coming in each day* than it has to pay each day in interest payments, and so therefore the U.S. does have the financial means to be good on its debt obligations without incurring more debt. The argument is that after the debt limit is hit the Treasury can "prioritize" payments, meaning that it would guarantee that bondholders get paid, while withholding money from, say, soldiers or Social Security. Of course, this would obliterate the economy (Goldman estimates that this would erase 4.2% of GDP) but it wouldn't mean a debt default. But is this actually possible? Here's the answer: Nobody knows. Seriously, it is remarkably difficult for anyone outside of Treasury to get any real answer to what is possible with regard to prioritization. Cardiff Garcia has a must-read post at FT Alphaville just walking through the ABCs of the Treasury payment system. Suffice to say, just the ABCs are very complicated. Over 80 million payments go out per month, and they're handled by three different systems. From Credit Suisse: As we understand it, there are three main systems ñ the Department of Defense Disbursing Offices, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service (which deals with Treasury security related payments), and the Financial Management Service (which makes all other payments).† The way that they are set up, they can either be set to ìonî or ìoffî ñ i.e., a system either makes all of its payments or it doesnít make any at all. The extent to which the system can be rearranged to honor Treasury payments first, and then disbursing what's left over is unclear, though at a minimum it would be extremely difficult. But even if there were some technical approach to all this, you'd still have the legality. Morgan Stanley recently published an FAQ on the debt ceiling, and this was the first question. In the Event Congress Fails to Raise the Debt Ceiling, Is the Treasury Allowed to Prioritize Its Obligations? Bottom Line : No, there is no legal basis for the Treasury to prioritize payments. As noted in our previous report, if the debt ceiling is not raised before October 17th, the Treasury will have approximately $30 billion left in the coffers to fulfill its obligations. Given reasonable assumptions for receipts and planned expenditures, the remaining cash could last until November 1st, when large Social Security, Medicare, pension and other benefit payments are scheduled (about $67 billion in total). On November 15th, $31 billion in interest is due to bondholders. There is no legal basis for Treasury officials to fulfill certain obligations at the expense of others, and they therefore have no authority to cancel payments scheduled for November 1st. Further, without illegally stockpiling cash over the first two weeks of November, there will not be enough tax receipts on November 15th alone to prioritize bondholder interest payments over other expenses on that particular day. That last point, about what happens on Nov. 15 is why we included the asterisk above, when we mentioned that the U.S. has more cash coming in each day than it has interest payments to make. While that is true most days, that's not true every single day. So you have a technically difficult operation possibly running afoul of the law. Does that mean it's not going to happen? Not necessarily. One can only surmise that The White House and The Treasury have crafted various escape hatches in the event the debt ceiling isn't raised. And an effort at prioritization would certainly be better than missing a Treasury payment. But this is incredibly murky territory, and almost nobody on the outside has a great grasp of what would happen.
A new note from Alliance Bernstein's Hugh Wynne and Francois Broquin asks at what price you're willing to pay to convert the country's power generators to renewables. At the current rate, they write, we are now on a "national kamikaze mission." According to their calculations, America's renewables surge ó†of which we've recently turned up our coverage††ó is actually costing American consumers $50 to $80 per Megawatt hour. †"Renewable energy counts among the most expensive sources of electricity in the United States, yet it is the only source that is growing...When we consider both their electricity and tax bills,†therefore, U.S. citizens are being dunned an extra $50 to $80 MWh†for each MWh of renewable generation they consume, relative to†the cost of purchasing electricity in the wholesale market, and an†extra $35 to $70/MWh relative to the all-in cost of electricity from†a new [conventional combined gas turbine]." The boom in†renewables has been pretty impressive.  The analysts say that from 2007 through 2012... Here's the chart: Alliance Bernstein The trend will only accelerate, they say.  Through 2015 conventional fuel is forecast to have declined 8.5%. And renewables are directly eating into conventional generation: Allaince Bernstein So what's driving the surge? States' renewable portfolio standards: "Why is the U.S. incurring billions of dollars of incremental power supply costs even as electricity consumption declines? Because state laws require it. Currently, 29 states and the District of Columbia have adopted renewable portfolio standards (RPS), mandatory obligations on electric utilities to supply a stipulated fraction of their retail electricity sales from renewable resources. "Together, these jurisdictions account for ~65% of total U.S. power demand. Another eight states, accounting for a further 10% of retail electricity sales, have adopted renewable energy goals, which set target levels of renewable generation but impose no mandatory requirement." It's not clear whether that extra $50 to $80 is per person or in aggregate; if it's the latter, one might argue that does not exactly amount to a "national kamikaze mission." What the analysts appear to be referring to is the impact this will have on utilities. They zero in on power providers represented in three regions ó the upper Midwest (MISO), Texas (ERCOT) and the mid-Atlantic (PJM)†ó to see how increased renewables are cutting into utilities' bottom lines. The figures are not insignificant: Alliance Bernstein Given that 29 states plus Washington DC now have renewable portfolio standards, lots of people seem willing to accept this mission.
REUTERS/Keith BedfordBofA Merrill Lynch has lowered its Q3 and Q4 U.S. GDP forecasts on the expectation that the government shutdown will extend another week, resulting in decreased government spending and attendant "significant spillovers into the private sector." The bank is adopting its 1.7%-annualized tracking estimate of of Q3 GDP growth as its official forecast, which would mark a slowdown from Q2's 2.5% annualized pace of growth. It also lowered its Q4 growth estimate to 2.0% from 2.5%. "Both we and the consensus have had a baseline forecast that the government shutdown will be too short to impact 4Q GDP growth," write BAML economists Ethan Harris and Michael Hanson in a note to clients. "However, with the shutdown approaching its one-week anniversary and with both sides digging in their heels, that assumption is looking increasingly untenable. Our forecast is quickly becoming a 'best-case scenario'." Harris and Hanson expect the shutdown to persist another week for three reasons: "inside the beltway thinking," evidenced by little change in the rhetoric out of Washington; no obvious end game surrounding the battle over Obamacare; and the lack of pressure from the stock market and the economic growth picture (as government data releases have been postponed). "Ironically, a resilient stock market and a cloudy economic picture increase the risk of an extended shutdown in our view," they write. The BAML economists explain how this hits economic growth: Our new baseline assumes a two week shutdown, but no violation of the debt ceiling. As a result, we are cutting our 4Q GDP forecast from 2.5% to 2.0%, but assuming some bounce back, we have added 0.3pp to 1Q growth. In addition, our tracking model points to just 1.7% 3Q growth and we are adopting that as our official forecast. The forecast change also impacts our Fed call: while a December taper is still possible, more likely the Fed will wait until January to start tapering and we see virtually no chance of tapering at their October 29-30 meeting. We still do not expect the first Fed rate hike until end-2015 at the earliest. Digging into the details, half of the revision to 4Q is from lower government spending and the other half comes out of consumption and investment. Note that a partial shutdown directly reduces GDP growth by about 1% due to layoffs and cuts in government services. Table 2 summarizes government furloughs by agency and major program; at least 800,000 federal workers are currently ‚Äúnon- exempt‚Äù and thus not reporting to work. In the 1995-96 episode, the government shut down from November 14 to 19 and then again from December 16 to January 6. The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that this directly cut 4Q GDP by about 0.3%. In recent press reports, most analysts point to this as the full impact of a shutdown today, but in our view there will also be significant spillovers into the private sector. Many sectors that rely on the Federal government for approvals or information are impacted. The tourism and travel industry is hurt by the shutdown of national parks. And companies in the defense industry are already starting layoffs. Even if the shutdown doesn't last another full week, Harris and Hanson say they won't flip-flop on their forecast. "Unless they agree to both an extended continuing resolution and an extended increase in the debt ceiling, we will stick to our weaker growth call," write the economists. "As we have noted before, the risk to the economy comes not just from the shutdown, but from repeated rounds of brinkmanship that undercut consumer, business and investor confidence. Indeed, if this goes on long enough, we plan to cut growth our growth forecast for next year as well."
Rather than inch towards a fiscal deal this weekend, Washington amped up the rhetoric about the debt ceiling and "default." And so, markets are going down. It's as simple as that. S&amp;P futures are off about 8 points. You can see the drop here on this chart from Friday's close. CME
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson *If the U.S. government remains shut down, several of the scheduled economic releases listed below will be cancelled.------------------------------ The U.S. government has been shut down since October 1 because Congress has been unable to agree on a budget deal. As such, most of the economic data provided by the U.S. government has been delayed and is accumulating in what is quickly evolving into an avalanche of economic data. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar (*These releases will be delayed if the U.S. government is shut down.) Market Commentary With the stock market barely off of its all-time high, its pretty clear that investors and traders feel confident that we'll get through this ongoing budget debate without too many disruptions. "We believe the risk of a U.S. debt default is not high enough at the moment to justify selling ‚Äî but to be clear, a debt default would have serious negative consequences to our positive thesis on equities were it to occur," said JP Morgan's Tom Lee. "As we noted earlier in the week, equity markets have shown decent performance once a shutdown begins. The greater risk, obviously, is of a potential debt default. [T]his does not yet appear to be a material concern of the debt markets (as evidenced by CDS spreads) and we believe both political parties have enormous interest in avoiding this outcome as well." In other words, a default is most likely to be avoided. But if it isn't, watch out.
For Abdalla el-Badri, kingpin of the 12-nation group of oil producers that controls a third of the world‚Äôs supply, says that governments increasing taxes on fuel are the main culprits behind higher prices at the petrol pump and not the actual cost of crude oil, which Opec is often accused of manipulating. ‚ÄúThe G7, which Great Britain is one of, is generating more revenue from tax on our oil than our member countries,‚Äù said Mr Badri in an interview in London with The Daily Telegraph. ‚ÄúThey are making more money from taxation, this is the easy target. They can increase taxes and blame Opec and everyone will believe them.‚Äù Opec estimates that between 2007 and 2011, members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development earned more than $5.5¬†trillion (¬£3.4¬†trillion) from direct taxation on oil products, compared with $4.2¬†trillion that Opec producers gained from pumping the ‚Äúblack gold‚Äù out of the ground over the same period. That figure does not account for the cost of production either, which in some countries can be as high as $80 for every barrel of crude. Critics of the group of oil producers, which includes such international pariahs as Iran and Venezuela, say that Opec should be broken up and that its grip on the international oil market effectively amounts to a monopoly controlled by a collection of dictators. In the US, the group often finds itself the target of public lobby groups that seek to have antitrust laws applied to its activities. Both characterisations are wrong, according to Mr Badri. ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt fix prices: we look at the market, at supply, demand, at the economic situation and also the stocks and then we see if we can satisfy the market at a fair price,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúUnfortunately, we can do nothing about taxes. As they say in America you cannot avoid tax and death.‚Äù When oil prices spiked to $147 a barrel in 2008, many industry experts predicted that the world had reached a period of ‚Äúpeak oil‚Äù that would see a long-term decline in supply and the cost of oil to skyrocket. About the same time, Arjun N. Murti, the star energy analyst at Goldman Sachs, came out with a controversial call that predicted a ‚Äúsuper spike‚Äù that would see oil prices hit $200 a barrel and keep rising as demand continued outstripping supply. Such arguments are exaggerated, according to Mr Badri, who has spent his entire career working in the oil industry at every level. He argues that spikes in prices during the past decade were caused by the long-term under-investment in building new oil wells, itself the result of low prices making new drilling unprofitable. ‚ÄúFossil fuel will end one day. I don‚Äôt know when ‚Äì we don‚Äôt see it in the foreseeable future, but one day it will be over. But not at this time, we don‚Äôt see it now,‚Äù he said. Based on Opec‚Äôs own figures, the group‚Äôs members have ratcheted up spending on new oil production, with $300bn worth of projects currently in the pipeline. The trouble is that the increased investment has not delivered a significant fall in prices, which Mr Badri argues need to be maintained at, or above, $100 a barrel in order to cover the cost of production and provide revenue. ‚ÄúWhen the price went down to $10 [in 1998] we did not invest and then suddenly the price went up tremendously and there is where you have a problem. We want a stable investment and supply from Opec and from other sources,‚Äù he said. It is in this area that Mr Badri says international oil companies can play an important role in working alongside Opec and its state-controlled national oil companies (NOCs). The group is often accused of promoting resource nationalism, due to many of its countries restricting access for the giant oil ‚Äúsuper majors‚Äù such as Shell, BP and ExxonMobil. ‚ÄúI think the time has come that we really should work together, because they have the technology, they have the know-how, they have the financial support and I think they can help NOCs in many ways,‚Äù he said. The unseen part of Mr Badri‚Äôs role as secretary general of Opec is keeping peace within the organisation, a task made tougher by the Arab Spring uprisings . Regular Opec meetings held in the group‚Äôs Vienna headquarters, where oil ministers knuckle down to agree on how much oil to pump into the system, are often fraught and full of intrigue with the two biggest producers, Saudi Arabia and Iran, frequently at loggerheads over strategy. ‚ÄúThere is difficulty here and there, but not like before when you had Iraq invading Iran, or Iraq invading Kuwait, and decisions which created problems that still live with us until now,‚Äù said Mr Badri. ‚ÄúI am lucky that we have good ministers who agree that this is not a political institution, it‚Äôs an economic institution and it should look after the interests of our member countries and leave the political situation alone.‚Äù Of greater concern to him are sanctions that have constrained oil development in member countries such as Iran, which in turn has helped to push up the price of oil. Oil companies are currently prohibited from dealing with the Islamic republic, which is suspected of using its nuclear energy programme as a mask for developing atomic weapons. Some reports indicate that Iran‚Äôs oil exports have more than halved in the past year, from 2.4m barrels a day to 1m, while oil revenues had dropped by $40bn since the beginning of the year. The international oil industry‚Äôs hopes that sanctions might be lifted were raised by the recent telephone call between US President Barack Obama and his Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani ‚Äî the first such dialogue between the two countries for more than 30 years. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt want to see any of our member countries under sanctions. Sanctions are a problem. Lifting these sanctions over Iran will help Iran flourish. They have very educated people, they can contribute to the benefit of the world I have no doubt,‚Äù said Mr Badri. Although Opec is directly detached from the oil and gas industry in the UK, whatever the group decides can still have a dramatic impact on jobs and investment in the North Sea and its major hydrocarbons hub of Aberdeen. Indeed, much of First Minister of Scotland Alex Salmond‚Äôs thinking on how an independent Scotland could fund itself is predicated on oil, the price of which is largely dictated by Opec‚Äôs decisions on production levels. So is Scotland under Salmond swapping economic rule from London for dependence on Opec? Mr Badri believes that the interests of both London and Edinburgh are best served under the umbrella of a single nation. ‚ÄúMyself, I don‚Äôt see how England will stay without Scotland and Scotland stay without England,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThis is how we all grew up, with the UK, not with Scotland and England. This has nothing to do with Opec.‚Äù 
Flickr/KOMUNewsWith less than two weeks to go until the Debt Ceiling is breached, there's a lot of talk about the risk of a U.S. "default" and what happens if the U.S. does default. Unfortunately, there's a lot of sloppiness about the meaning of this word, default. In a note examining the debt ceiling, Goldman Sachs provides a service talking about some meanings of the word, and how it's used. The term ìdefaultî has been used to mean a number of different things in the context of the debt limit. The media often refers to a failure to extend the debt limit by the deadline as a form of default, while lawmakers sometimes refer to any failure of the Treasury to make a scheduled payment to an individual or business as a default.† The two areas where a default is more narrowly defined are the rating agencies and US sovereign credit default swaps (these definitions are independent of one anotheróa default in the eyes of a rating agency is not equivalent to a default for CDS purposes, and vice versa):††††† The prospect of a U.S. "default" sounds like a terrible thing, but it seems safe to say that a "default" on U.S. contractor obligations (or military pay or Social Security) would not have the kind of instantaneous, catastrophic ripple effects the way an actual missed Treasury payment would. It's tempting to say that the word "default" should only be used in the technical financial sense (defaulting on debt), though arguably from a broader perspective, a country failing to make some legal obligations (say, to its citizens) has cast its creditworthiness in doubt, even if it's still making debt payments. Bottom line, not all "defaults" as used by the media or by sell-side analysts are the same. Some are much scarier.
NOTE: *In an Oct. 5 research note, Goldman Sachs estimated that a sustained failure to raise the debt ceiling would amount to a fiscal pullback as big as "9% of GDP." In an Oct. 6 correction, the analysts rephrase to say "4.2% of GDP (annualized)."----------------------------- The government shutdown is the result of Congress' failure to make a budget deal. However, the shutdown has taken attention away from a much bigger policy risk: the impending debt ceiling, which is when the U.S. Treasury is no longer able to borrow money by issuing debt. Economists as well as policymakers on both sides of the aisle agree that failure to raise the debt ceiling and defaulting on U.S. debt would be far too devastating to the economy. As such, most people are confident that Congress will ultimately raise the debt ceiling before it is reached on October 17. But considering Congress' track record, it's safe to assume there is a non-zero chance that we do hit the debt ceiling. And while it is not their base-case scenario, Goldman Sachs economists Alec Phillips and Kris Dawsey provided an estimate of the economic cost of the government depleting cash after crashing through the debt ceiling. "If the debt limit is not raised before the Treasury depletes its cash balance, it could force the Treasury to rapidly eliminate the budget deficit to stay under the debt ceiling," wrote Phillips and Dawsey in a note distributed to clients on Saturday night. "We estimate that the fiscal pullback would amount to as much as 4.2% of GDP (annualized). The effect on quarterly growth rates (rather than levels) could be even greater. If this were allowed to occur, it could lead to a rapid downturn in economic activity if not reversed very quickly."* Here's more from Phillips and Dawsey's 13-page note: Growth, Not Treasuries, Ultimately at Risk in a Debt Limit MishapFailure to raise the debt limit would eventually lead to a sharp reduction in spending and could result in a rapid downturn in near-term economic activity. A very short delay past the October deadlineófor instance, a few daysócould delay the payment of some obligations already incurred and would create instability in the financial markets. As noted in prior research, this uncertainty alone could weigh on growth. But a long delayófor example, several weeksówould likely result in a government shutdown much broader than the one that started October 1. In the current shutdown, there is ample cash available to pay for government activities, but the administration has lost its authority to conduct "non-essential" discretionary programs which make up about 15% of the federal budget. By contrast, if the debt limit were not increased, after late October the administration would still have authority to make most of its scheduled payments, but would not have enough cash available to do so. Using our cash flow projections as a guide, we estimate that the revenues the Treasury will receive in the month following the October 17 deadline would equal only about 65% of spending going out, implying a far greater fiscal pullback than will occur as a result of the ongoing shutdown. In essence, a prolonged delay would force the Treasury to rapidly eliminate the budget deficit to stay under the debt ceiling. (The deficit has significant seasonal fluctuations and CY Q4 is normally a higher-deficit period, offset by lower deficits or surpluses in other periods, particularly CY Q2.) We estimate that the minimum pullback in spending that would be required to remain under the debt limit for one month without an increase would be equivalent to 1.7% of GDP (annualized). However, if the Treasury decided to set aside interest payments and make other payments in arrears, we estimate it would result in a pullback in primary (i.e., noninterest) outlays of 4.2% of GDP (annualized). In both cases, the effect on quarterly growth rates (rather than levels) could be even greater. If this were allowed to occur, it could lead to a rapid downturn in economic activity if not reversed very quickly. Bottom line: the failure to raise the debt ceiling means economic devastation.
AP On the House floor Monday night, House Speaker John Boehner urged his House colleagues to pass amendments to a bill that would keep the government funded and avert a shutdown.  The amendments, he said, were necessary changes to Obamacare, including one that gets rid of what he called an "exemption" for members of Congress and their staff. "Get rid of the exemption for Members of Congress," Boehner said. "Itís a matter of fairness for all Americans." But new, leaked emails paint a different picture of how Boehner fought privately to maintain certain health insurance subsidies for federal employees under the Affordable Care Act.  The emails were first reported by Politico, which detailed how Boehner worked with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (R-Nev.) to preserve these subsidies that have become a source of controversy in Congress over the past few months. A brief history: The perception that some lawmakers and Congressional staff are "exempted from Obamacare" began when Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) proposed an amendment to the Affordable Care Act designed to embarrass Democrats. It†required that members of the legislative branch and their staff purchase health insurance through the exchanges. Democrats agreed to a similar provision, but there was a problem with the legislative language: It didn't offer a clear way for Congress to continue paying a part of its employees' health premiums, as most public and private employers do. The Office of Personnel Management has since interpreted the Grassley amendment to mean that the federal government may offer tax-free subsidies to help members of Congress and their staff buy exchange health plans. Many Republicans contest that legal interpretation, saying it has set up a "special exemption" for Congress not contemplated by the law. The proposal that House Republicans voted on Monday night would have ended those subsidies. This has caused angst among both Republican and Democratic staffers, who correctly fear that it would significantly hit their pockets. Boehner railed against the so-called "exemption" for Congress, but the politics of the ploy were better than the practicality. In July, Mike Sommers, Boehner's chief of staff, went through David Krone, Reid's chief of staff, to try to set up a meeting with President Barack Obama to find a way to maintain the subsidies. Business Insider obtained the email exchange (which you can see below) in which Krone requests that they come up with a different cover story than Obamacare for the meeting. "People will know we are going down there," Sommers wrote. "We can't let it get out there that this is for the [Speaker] and [Leader] to ask the President to carve us out of the requirements of Obamacare. ... I am even ok if it is the President hauling us down to talk about the next steps on immigration." Krone responded that the White House would love to say the meeting would be about immigration.† "I really don't care what it is about ó†it just can't be about what we know it is about," Sommers wrote back.† The meeting never happened. But it appears that Boehner's public reversal on this position made Reid and Democrats reach their breaking points. Michael Steel, a Boehner spokesman, accused Reid's staff of selectively leaking emails. And he said there is not a disparity between Boehner's public and private positions. "The Speakerís position is clear: He voted against ObamaCare, and he wants to repeal ObamaCare," Steel told Business Insider. "If the Senate Democrats and the White House wanted to make a ëfixí to the law, it would be their fix. The Speakerís ëfixí is repeal. This is just a desperate act by Harry Reidís staff to protect their own subsidy." A GOP leadership source accused Krone of pulling this kind of "sleazy stunt" ó selectively leaking emails ó before, pointing to a September 2012 story in The Las Vegas Sun†after frustration with Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) about an online poker bill. Nevertheless, the revelations put Boehner in a tricky position. And the leaks are sure to increase distrust among the two sides, with no immediate end to the government shutdown in sight. Politico also reported that, at one point, Boehner "wondered aloud at one point whether he and the Nevada Democrat could quietly slip some language into a bill to end the problem without it receiving any public attention." The emails between Krone and Sommers are below: Business Insider
REUTERS/Erik De CastroA vehicle transporting a body of an earthquake victim tries to pass through a destroyed road in La Libertad, Negros Oriental in central Philippines, Feb. 7, 2012.Investors and traders live on weekly and monthly economic reports published by private and public data agencies. With the government shut down, much of the popular economic data ‚Äî like the closely followed monthly U.S. jobs report ‚Äî has been delayed. But maybe we're better off without some of these reports. The Bank of England keeps a table of which indicators correspond nicely to observed global growth. Air freight and Suez Canal data are useful, but there are plenty of other indicators out there that are just unreliable or overrated. We rounded up seven heralded economic indicators that have drawn criticism from the experts. They are the market-moving reports that see huge revisions, use questionable data,¬† or are just flat out misunderstood.
I think too many investors have failed to put those events and developments in the proper context. Rather, they have come to the conclusion that emerging markets are finished, particularly, they say, as the US Federal Reserve (Fed) is expected to turn off the money tap, depriving emerging markets of needed liquidity to protect their weakening currencies and pay their debts. For the time being, the Fed has decided to keep the tap flowing, removing one immediate investor fear. But I think there are also other reasons why investors who doubt the emerging markets‚Äô story need better context.¬†¬† Inherent in this kind of doomsday thinking are a number of misconceptions. First of all, some emerging market currencies have been getting stronger, not weaker. Good examples of this are China and Thailand, where their currencies have become stronger against the US dollar over the past few years. The fact is that many emerging markets are not dependent on the support of the West and the developed world. Proponents of the idea that emerging markets are dependent on the developed market countries say that money from the US, Europe and Japan has allowed the emerging market countries to live beyond their means!¬†Ironically, others say that a slowdown in the emerging world will have a negative impact on developed nations. But if you look at the global debt picture, many developed market countries have more debt in relation to their respective levels of GDP, have higher government deficits, and are more dependent on investors from all over the world buying their bonds. Additionally, the emerging market countries generally have far higher foreign reserves than the developed market countries. There is a pattern of thinking among many economists and commentators that the emerging market countries are not capable of handling their economies and they need the guidance of the developed market countries. Many in the developed markets lectured Asian nations on fiscal discipline during the 1997 Asian crisis. Then, the emerging markets world watched as the disaster of the US and European financial systems unfolded in 2008‚Äì09 while many emerging countries themselves generally continued to not only survive, but prosper. The reality is that the emerging market countries have experienced, and we believe should continue to experience, the most dramatic increases in incomes at the national and individual levels. Their adoption of market economic models and acquisition of productivity-enhancing technology have engineered this positive result. Asian Emerging Markets: Challenges and Opportunities  The largest of the emerging markets, China, always gets its fair share of attention. There‚Äôs been much speculation about worrisome issues in China, including a potential housing bubble, debt problems, and so on. But growth in China has continued at a rapid pace. In September, my team and I visited a large housing development in Beijing, and this particular development was 70% sold out in a matter of weeks. I saw the same thing in other cities I visited, a clear demonstration to me that the demand for property in China remains strong. Of course there will be some developments in China that will fail, and some problems with debtors. But generally speaking, we think that China has the potential to grow at a strong pace, particularly when compared with most developed markets. China‚Äôs economy is now the second-largest single economy in the world, so growth is likely to naturally slow a bit from double-digits of the past. For an economy this size, growth in the range of 7% ‚Äì 8%, which many forecasters are projecting, should hardly be disconcerting. Elsewhere in Asia, of course Japan is pumping money out at a pretty rapid rate. We expect a lot of this money could find its way into Southeast Asia. Countries including Vietnam, the Philippines, Thailand, Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia could potentially benefit. There‚Äôs been a fair share of negativity about India recently, but despite all the problems, the current growth trajectory this year still looks good to us. The International Monetary Fund projects growth of more than 5% in 20131, which is still above most developed countries. We believe India‚Äôs elections in the spring of 2014 could bring solutions to some of the country‚Äôs problems. From our perspective, challenges often present investment opportunities, and not always where you might expect. For example, you might think weakness in India‚Äôs currency would be a very negative thing for the stock market, but there are companies that can potentially benefit. One example would be an outsourcing company that does most of its business outside of India and has costs in rupees, but income in US dollars. A weak rupee and stronger dollar could be very good for this company. A Global Recovery Story Even in the throes of a debt crisis a couple years ago, I felt Europe would eventually recover. I expected the process would likely be slow, with a lot of careful thought, but a recovery would come. We believe we are now seeing that in Europe. In the emerging markets in Eastern Europe, a growth slowdown tied to the crisis brought changes and reforms, in some cases quite dramatic. We think Eastern Europe could do well going forward, and if oil prices continue moving up, Russia, of course, could benefit as the largest emerging economy in the region. It‚Äôs not just large countries that are experiencing change. In September, I traveled to Georgia, a small country in Eastern Europe undergoing rapid change. Corruption had been a problem there, but it‚Äôs been largely reduced. I saw construction all over the country, and people seemed to be very¬†upbeat about the future there. Looking at the global picture, we are quite optimistic. The recovery in Europe appears to be underway; in the US, the¬†Fed‚Äôs continuation of its QE program should drive growth in many other parts of the world; and Japan is determined to ramp up activity in¬†its economy with its own ambitious monetary policy regime. We believe many emerging markets globally should likely benefit as liquidity currently remains plentiful. For example, in Latin America, countries such as Brazil, Chile and Colombia, which have widening current account deficits, may benefit from needed investment inflows. Mexico also appears well positioned to potentially benefit from greater trade and capital inflows due to its proximity to the US economy. We recognize that it hasn‚Äôt been smooth sailing for emerging markets investors this year. Late in the second quarter and into the third, there was a move away from both emerging markets equity and debt markets. However, we believe the recent outflows are likely to prove temporary. Not only is there still plenty of liquidity in the system, but, given the outflows that occurred, we believe many investors have reduced their weightings to emerging markets. I‚Äôm not saying everyone will or should increase their allocations to emerging markets, but I think that many could very well rebalance their portfolios as market sentiment should improve. 1. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, July 2013. Copyright ¬© 2013 International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
Female pop music star Miley Cyrus hosted this season's second episode of "Saturday Night Live." The sketch comedy show committed plenty of time to the government shutdown. But the one skit that'll be most-remembered is the disturbing and nonsensical music video about the government shutdown starring Miley Cyrus as Michele Bachmann and Taran Killam as John Boehner. Sadly, one could easily argue that the video isn't as nonsensical as the fact that the government has been shut down because of Congress' inability to negotiate a budget deal. Watch here. Some images are disturbing and not safe for work: 
APHouse Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) says that the House won't pass a "clean" increase in the nation's debt ceiling ó and that the U.S. is on the "path to default" if President Barack Obama won't negotiate on an increase. "We're not going to pass a clean debt limit increase," Boehner told ABC's George Stephanopoulos on Sunday. "I told the president, there's no way we're going to pass one. The votes are not in the House to pass a clean debt limit. And the president is risking default by not having a conversation with us." Later, Stephanopoulos asked: "So are you saying that if he continues to refuse to negotiate, the country is going to default?" "That's the path we're on," Boehner said. Obama said in an interview with The Associated Press Saturday that he expects congressional Republicans to relent and raise the debt ceiling by an Oct. 17 deadline. His long-held position has been that he won't negotiate with Republicans if the "full faith and credit" of the U.S. is at risk. But he also didn't explicitly rule out working around Congress to take unilateral action on the debt ceiling ó if it comes to that. During a round of Sunday-show appearances, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew also warned that Republicans are "playing with fire" on the debt ceiling. The Treasury Department has begun sounding the alarm in full force this week, warning in a new report that failure to raise the nation's borrowing limit could inflict an economic catastrophe worse than anything since the Great Depression. In the interview, Boehner claimed he did not have the votes in the House for either a "clean" debt-ceiling increase or "clean" government-funding bill that would reopen the government. The government shutdown entered into its sixth day on Sunday†ó and on that, too, Boehner doesn't see an end. "When is this going to end?" Stephanopoulos asked. "If I knew, I would tell you," Boehner said.
Charles W. Cushman Photography Collection / Indiana University ArchivesAmateur photographer Charles W. Cushman traveled extensively in the U.S. and abroad capturing daily life from 1938 to 1969. His works have been donated to and maintained by Cushman's alma mater Indiana University, which has kindly given us permission to publish his gallery of New York City photos taken in 1941 and 1942. They give a great impression of what Chinatown, the Financial District, and Midtown looked like 70 years ago.
REUTERS/Dominic EbenbichlerChina's Xue Chen (R) blocks a spike by Brazil's Juliana in their women's beach volleyball bronze medal match at the Horse Guards Parade during the London 2012 Olympic Games, August 8, 2012. Over a decade ago, economist Jim O'Neill coined the term BRIC. The acronym was used to identify four fast growing economies that by 2050 would be bigger than the current richest economies in the world. China has been living up to those expectations. But many have questioned whether Russia, Brazil, and India deserve to be part of the group. In the recent past, experts argued that Russia and India should be replaced by Indonesia. And in a Wall Street Journal column in August, O'Neill argued that China is the only BRIC nation worthy of that title. And it would appear he is bang on the money. Grant Thornton's 2013 Global Dynamism Index (GDI) ó which assesses the world's 60 largest economies ranked on 22 indicators including business operating environment, science &amp; technology, labour &amp; human capital, financing environment, economics &amp; growth ó saw China jump 17 places from 2012 to take the third spot. China is not without its problems, but of the four emerging nations that were expected to become the next big nations, China is the only one to stand true to that prediction. In terms of economic growth, China had been growing at an unsustainable breakneck speed and is expected to slow to 7.5% in 2013.† But a hard economic landing -- four straight quarters of below 6% growth -- hasn't emerged. Some economists still predict a "bumpy landing," but China is making an effort to rebalance its economy and move towards growth supported by domestic demand. So, what went so wrong in the other three BRICs? Brazil's Dutch Disease &amp; Credit Woes By comparison, Brazil has flustered and flailed. Brazil's economic growth plunged from 7.5% in 2010, to 0.9% in 2012. Some blame the Dutch disease. China's investment-led growth helped boost commodity prices subjecting Brazil (and Russia, but more on that later) to the Dutch disease, where "an overemphasis on commodity-led growth," strengthens the currency and boosts wages, "twin forces" that are a blow to the country's manufacturing sector, according to Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels. Of course this isn't Brazil's only problem. † Using monetary policy easing (a cyclical tool) to fix†economies suffering from the Dutch Disease (a structural problem) creates "unintended consequences." Rate cuts by Brazil's central bank† eased borrowing conditions for everyone (not just the sectors that needed help) boosting lending for everyone. This in turn boosted "bank lending to consumers and inflation expectations, precisely the two things that Brazilís economy did not need." In fact, inflation is a deep rooted problem for the country and one that the government needs to tackle. Growth has continued to slow despite the money being spent on infrastructure leading up to the World Cup and the Olympics. REUTERS/Maxim ShipenkovRussia Is Too Dependent On Oil The World Bank expects the Russian economy to grow a mere 1.8% this year. Like Brazil, Russia suffers from the Dutch Disease, and experts have long argued that the country is too dependent on its oil and gas sector. This in turn has impacted its manufacturing sector. In fact, Russia has had three-straight months of sub-50 HSBC PMI readings, showing that its manufacturing sector has been contracting. The state's role in the economy is another problem plaguing this BRIC nation. "In Russia, the corporate sector is dominated by state-run companies. The efficiency and flexibility that the private sector tends to provide, is thus missing in Russia Inc," writes Fels. Russia continues to face structural challenges to its economy and external demand issues, and it needs to get serious about cracking down on corruption. India's "Vicious Loop" In India, a mix of global headwinds and disastrous domestic policies have sent growth to a 10-year low. Fels thinks India's biggest problems are its "deep cyclical issues:" "Policy action in 2009/10 created unintended consequences... Aggressive fiscal easing supported consumption and economic growth during the Great Recession. However, the lack of support for investment meant that productive activities did not benefit from the governmentís initiative. The result? A widening of the fiscal and current account deficits along with a deterioration of what our colleague Chetan Ahya calls the ëproductive dynamicí. This poor productive dynamic helped to produce an inflation problem that appears to be ebbing only now." India's high gold and oil imports haven't helped narrow its troublingly wide current account deficit. This in turn has been crushing the Indian rupee, boosts inflation, and external debt. "In the absence of a credible policy response, currency weakness and volatility may create a vicious loop," wrote Lombard Street Research's Shweta Sing in an August note. India's labor laws and corruption also continue to hold it back. O'Neill thinks India has been the most disappointing of the BRICs. REUTERS/Jerry Lampen What Has China Done Right? While the economy is slowing, it has long been argued that the ongoing slowdown was inevitable as officials began to rebalance the economy towards domestic demand. Premier Li Keqiang promised a growth floor of 7.5% in 2013. The Chinese leadership's promise to double per capita income by 2020 is in line with their efforts to boost domestic demand. Moreover, policymakers seem aware of problems in the economy. Wary of a property bubble, they acted aggressively to deflate it, forcing China bears like Jim Chanos to admit the country might have got a handle on the property sector. In an effort to boost land reform and achieve growth, officials are trying to speed up urbanization. Yes, China has a burgeoning shadow banking system and will have to worry about its "Minsky moment." Yes its state-run banks can't guarantee bad debts forever. Yes†the nation has a long way to go in liberalizing its capital account, and yes the government is right to be wary of social unrest. But for now, it's easy to see China has been the star BRIC nation.
There is no doubt that the single most contentious topic I can bring up in a small group discussion or speech is the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare. You can feel the tension rise, as everyone has an opinion they want to express ñ most of them based essentially on preconceived philosophical positions, nearly all of which can be can seen through their own eyes as reasonable and consistent with civilized behavior. And the facts that can be trotted out to support their positions, pro and con, could fill up a document almost as long as the original 2,300+ page bill. I have avoided writing about the Affordable Care Act (ACA) for a variety of reasons but primarily because it is so difficult for us to get our heads around the economic implications. Today I will try, though some of my readers may conclude that I have failed, to avoid coming to political conclusions about the ACA. Instead, I will aim to dwell simply on the economic ramifications of the implementation of the bill as it exists today. We are changing the plumbing on 17.9% of the US GDP in profound ways. Many, if not most, of the changes are absolutely necessary. This letter has grown out of a rather lengthy, ongoing conversation I have had with my very close friend and personal doctor, Mike Roizen, about his perceptions of changes that his institution, the Cleveland Clinic, and others like it have to make concerning the delivery of medicine in the near future, and the Clinic's expectations regarding the income they will receive for providing their services. The Cleveland Clinic is one of the largest and most respected hospital groups in the world (heck, Obama and Romney even cited it in their first debate as an institution providing great care very efficiently ñ the only institution so cited). The Clinic has 43,000 employees and a healthcare budget of over $6 billion. Looking at the future budget considerations of the Cleveland Clinic and similar institutions outlined below, there is both reason to be both optimistic and reason to be deeply concerned about the changes that are coming to US society in the immediate future. I asked Mike if he would be willing to provide me with some notes concerning the future of healthcare in our nation and the Clinic's own future. He kindly obliged, and I have edited and expanded upon what he wrote and shared with me in our conversations. This following should not be read as a policy statement or an official analysis from the Cleveland Clinic itself; instead, it is an essay that grew out of an exchange between two friends, a doctor and an economist, trying to make sense of how things will change. For those not familiar with†Mike, he is quite the medical celebrity. He is an anesthesiologist and an internist, an award-winning author, and the chief wellness officer of the Cleveland Clinic. He has completed a tour of duty in the US Public Health Service and has written more than 170 peer-reviewed papers and 100 medical chapters, filed 14 US patents, started 12 companies, served on Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory committees as a committee member or as a consultant to them for 16 years, and chaired an FDA advisory committee. He also co-invented a drug that is now FDA-approved. He first became famous for developing the RealAge concept and has authored or coauthored five number-one†New York Times†best sellers, including†RealAge†and three titles in the YOU series, with Dr. Mehmet Oz. Possibly, he is best-known for being Oprahís doctor. He has been praised for encouraging Americans to exercise, eat healthier, manage stress, and live healthier lives. He has been an outspoken critic of politicians who use healthcare funds for other purposes, and particularly of statesí taking tobacco settlement money and using it wrongly for projects in no way related to tobacco prevention programs. Besides advocating for a healthier lifestyle today, Dr. Roizen has controversially speculated that by 2023 one of the 14 areas of aging research might see a breakthrough that will allow us to live until 160 with the same quality of life we enjoyed at age 45. Mike wants to be sure you know that we are talking here about what may happens to hospital systems similar in size to the Cleveland Clinic. The views he expressed in preparation for this letter are his and his alone and are not necessarily reflective of anyone else's at the Cleveland Clinic. This letter is somewhat longer than usual, but I was simply not willing to break it up into two letters. It was written to be read as one essay, and this topic is too important and timely to serve up by halves. I think you will find the conclusion thought-provoking, as we come at this issue from a bit of a different angle than you normally encounter. Mike and I welcome your comments and will read them and perhaps do a follow-up letter with our responses. † The Road to a New Medical Order We want to make something very clear right at the beginning. The US healthcare system as it stands is dysfunctional and can no longer continue as it currently operates. With or without Obamacare, profound change is required to deal with the dysfunctionality, and that change will happen, one way or another. Obamacare is simply one method for ìencouragingî that necessary change. The US currently spends 17.9% of its total GDP on health services (http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SH.XPD.TOTL.ZS). This figure is projected to rise in the near future by about another 1% due to the populationís aging and a further 3% due to the growing incidence of chronic illnesses. Anticipated increases would raise the nationís healthcare costs to an unsustainable 22% of GDP, crowding out spending for other goods and services. By contrast, the Netherlands spends 12% of its GDP on healthcare; Switzerland, Germany, France, and Canada about 11%; New Zealand 10%; Sweden 9.4%; and the United Kingdom 9.3%. As we travel through these countries, there is frequently a clear, if anecdotal, perception that people are healthier than in the US. And the data backs up that perception. The US spends more money on healthcare because we are in fact far less healthy on average than the rest of the developed world. This difference is in large part due to poor lifestyle choices, but the good news is there are programs that have clearly and conclusively demonstrated that this difference is reversible. Changing behavior, while it will be difficult, can result in significant cost savings. In fact, changing behavior may allow us to spend more on education, social programs, and even defense. The potential for positive change is rather spectacularly illustrated by work done by†Dr. Jeff Brenner†in Camden, New Jersey. Jeff was recently awarded one of this year's MacArthur Foundation grants, informally known as the ìgenius grants.î He is the founder and executive director of the†Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers†(CCHP), an organization that seeks to improve the quality of care delivered to vulnerable populations in Camden. Basically, he found that 1% of the patients in Camden were responsible for 30% of hospitalization costs. Sometimes called super utilizers, high utilizers, or frequent fliers, these patients have complex medical conditions and often lack social services such as transportation or knowledge about how to use the health system most effectively. By some estimates, 5 percent of these patients account for more than 60 percent of all healthcare costs. This is a system that is so dysfunctional that it does not even work for those who are getting the care! CCHP has been able to lower costs in a prototype program by proactively working with these high utilizers prior to an emergency event. There are scores of such opportunities throughout the healthcare system to reduce costs and improve services, so we write not of a bleak healthcare future, just a profoundly changing one. We Are Changing the Health Care Plumbing Perhaps the best way to illustrate the problem is by means of a rough analogy. Letís imagine an older, 50-story office building in a big city. New office buildings have grown up all around it, and †the business tenants are beginning to vacate. Because of the lower rents available to individuals, people have started renting space and converting it into apartments. But as is typical in office buildings, there are very few bathrooms and no showers to speak of, so residents rework the plumbing to provide bathroom and kitchen supply water and drains for their living spaces. On a small scale it works. One floor after another soon converts, until the building is now an apartment complex. But at some point the plumbing becomes a huge problem. Not everybody can get enough water at the same time; sewage backs up on some floors at inconvenient moments; and if someone flushes a toilet, someone else gets scalded by hot water in the shower. Depending solely on where you live in the building, you may have access to much better service, while others get none. Because of the plumbing problems resulting from poor infrastructure, many of the apartments no longer receive adequate water or get it only on an emergency basis and at great expense and trouble. The cost of maintaining the system becomes significant, so the residents get together and decide that the building must have a completely new plumbing system. No one wants to keep the old plumbing, but everyone has a different idea about how to go about creating a new system and what it should accomplish and how much it should cost and who will pay for it. Do you do one floor at a time? All the kitchen sinks at once? And can there be different sinks, or must one type fit all? Do you separate the water for the toilets from the potable water? In a very contentious vote, the occupants of the building narrowly decide on a plan that requires all of the plumbing in the building to be changed simultaneously. Walls will be knocked out, and new pipes and equipment will be installed. The new system is going to be a marvel of technology and efficiency, but the process has the potential to be very messy, as the all-too-human occupants will be going about their day-to-day business in the midst of the construction. They will need fresh water and sewage disposal even as the plumbing is being reworked. The United States, by analogy, is changing the plumbing of its healthcare system. In describing the plumbing changes, we will focus primarily in this letter on the financial aspects, and specifically on money flows from patients to providers and from providers to their staffs. How do we go about paying the doctors and nurses and covering other hospital costs? As it turns out, a more efficient system will mean that each apartment (hospital) will actually get less water (money) and will have to organize itself to deal with that. Again, the fundamental changes that are necessary in the US healthcare system are going to happen with or without Obamacare. The system is simply dysfunctional. ACA is just accelerating the process. With a few noncontroversial (we hope) exceptions, we are not going to be making suggestions about what to do to improve the healthcare system or the new healthcare law. The following is simply an analysis of the economic and business challenges that will occur as a result of the Affordable Care Act as it is currently understood. This is the business reality that hospitals all over America face, not just the Cleveland Clinic. First, we want to acknowledge one real caveat. As you read the requirements that are going to be forced on the Cleveland Clinic, it might be very easy to assume that many hospitals are not going to be able to make the necessary changes, given the history and difficulty of making major changes in the medical care system. The challenges, as you will see, are quite daunting. However, there is an alternative view to despair. †I was reminded by Jack Rivkin at a dinner in New York of a similar problem in our nationís recent history. As we approached the opening of the new millennium, there was great concern about the so-called Y2K problem. Computers were simply not designed to deal with the changeover of the date, and many legacy systems had to have massive upgrades. Given the observable historical fact 50% of major software updates are not completed on time (and that this had been the case for 40 years), it was not unreasonable to be concerned as to whether every provider of important services would in fact be ready for the year 2000. January 1†came, and we held our breath, and sure enough, not much happened. It was business as usual. It was just as my good friend (and former Libertarian presidential candidate) Harry Brown told me in a 1999 conversation in New Orleans: ìJohn, it wonít be a problem. Each company will solve their own problem, and they will get it done on time, given the cost of failure. Thatís what a free market system does.î Hospitals and doctors are going to be required to make significant adjustments to their operating budgets and methodologies for delivering medicine. If they ignore the problem, theyíre going to be dealt a rude awakening. But just as with Y2K, this is a problem that we can see coming. It is not a Black Swan. Perhaps most, if not all, healthcare organizations are making plans in the same way that the Cleveland Clinic is. We can only hope. We agree that a successful outcome is probable over time. Our concern is that the transition may be messy and economically disruptive for a limited time. We offer the following analysis as information to be considered rather than as a prescription for a solution for healthcare delivery. First, we will give you a brief summary of the problem. Over the next five years we will go from volume-based reimbursement in medicine (based on the number of procedures or patients a provider sees) to a value-based system (being paid the same amount per patient no matter how well or sick she is, so the goal will be to motivate people to stay healthy). This change will result in lower hospital income even as we treat more patients. We will need to redesign the flow of patients to accommodate a different set of insurance reimbursement rates, and there will likely be a three-tiered care system much different from todayís current system. Whether this transformation plays out in the way we outline below or in a very different way will depend on the interaction of several opposing forces: (1) labor shortages for skilled positions and the need to retain skilled employees, (2) pressures on corporations to lower costs despite the need to keep skilled employees, (3) an excess of chronic disease and a lack of triggers to motivate employees to live healthier lives, and (4) the push to a predominantly one-payer insurance exchange (Medicaid-like reimbursement) program. Thus, what is certain is that more people will be cared for and at a lower cost. What is not certain is the degree to which employer-based insurance will change in light of a shortage of highly skilled employees and a large increase in the number of less-skilled employees in the general workforce of the United States. If you are an engineering firm and you are having trouble finding trained and skilled workers, and your competition offers health insurance, then to be competitive you also need to do so. Businesses that use less-skilled labor will likely not offer full health coverage. As we see with each passing week, more and more firms are moving their employees onto the new healthcare exchanges and providing a subsidy for individuals to purchase their own coverage, controlling costs that way. There will probably also be a shortage of skilled medical providers. These shifts will occur irrespective of Obamacare but will be greatly influenced by it. Specifically, there are five major cost-pressure factors that will affect Cleveland Clinic and other hospital organizations: ∑ The overall cost of medical care and the increased incidence of chronic disease ∑ Cost transparency and reference pricing ∑ Increased government role in paying for care ∑ Increased coverage (Forty million more people will be covered nationally, at reimbursement rates below the cost of providing that care.) ∑ Limited highly skilled medical workforce Let's take these in turn. 1.††The overall cost of medical care and the increased incidence of chronic disease: In 1960, the US spent 5.2% of GDP on medical care. By 1970, medical care claimed 7.2% of GDP, and its slice of the pie continued to widen, to 12% in 1990, and to around 17.5-18.5% now. While improved technology, specialized treatments, and the overall increased medical care required by our aging population have contributed to these increased costs, so has the increase in chronic disease, with, for example, the†incidence of†hypertension growing from 3% to 10% of our population over the last half century, type 2 diabetes from 2% to 10%, and obesity from 10% to 28%. This prevalence of chronic disease and the spending it requires makes the USA less competitive with respect to jobs and decreases our ability to fund social, educational, and even defense programs. Over the next six years, the projected increase in chronic disease stands to boost medical costs another 3% of GDP (if cost per process remains constant), and the aging of the population is likely to account for an additional increase of 1% of GDP. This trend, if allowed to continue, would clearly crowd out other spending options and weaken the rest of the economy. 2.††Cost transparency and reference pricing: A hospital system like the Cleveland Clinic currently bills about $18 billion for medical services and collect around $6 billion. (We do not know the exact numbers for the Clinic.) It costs such a system around $5.5 billion to provide all the services, and thus they are able to invest $500 million in plant, equipment maintenance, and new equipment at the Clinic. An institution like the Clinic gets this revenue by collecting from Medicare about $0.23 on the dollar billed, from Medicaid about $0.18 on the dollar billed, and about $0.38 on the dollar billed for the aggregate of commercially insured patients. We are sure this seems bizarre to someone from outside the US, and actually it does to us, too, but it is the way the system has evolved. As medical costs become more transparently evident and reference pricing (see below) becomes more popular, commercial insurance providers will continue to demand prices closer to those paid by Medicare. (In Florida, for example, a branch of the clinic already collects at Medicare-level rates for commercially insured patients). The present three-tiered U.S. medical insurance system is composed ofconcierge care†(typically a flat fee for super-quick access to a medical professional and/or someone to help you navigate the healthcare system) for 1.5% of the population, a Medicaid system that 5 to 15% of the population uses, a Medicare system that 40% of the population depends on now, and a commercial system that 35 to 42% of the population uses. (About 15% are now uninsured.) In order to plan and develop a budget, you could logically forecast that by 2015 the number of Americans utilizing concierge care will decrease from 1.5% to 1% (as Cadillac plans are taxed), the public using Medicaid or insurance priced to pay at Medicaid rates will increase from 5-15% to 23%, Medicare use will remain about 40%, and lower-cost commercial plans will cover 35% of people, down from 42%, and reimburse the Clinic at just $0.32 on the dollar (vs. the $0.38 they now receive). You can find different forecasts, but for our purposes, given that this is a guess about the unknowable future (see more below), this is about as educated an estimate as we are likely to find. We can forecast that by 2018, perhaps 5% of Americans will be able to choose (that is, to afford) concierge care, 75% will likely be utilizing insurance exchanges that represent a public Medicaid-Medicare model, and 20% will be commercially insured by corporations, reimbursable at $0.26 on the dollar (vs. the present $0.38). It is likely that traditional insurance will be used as an employee retention/recruiting tool, but even traditional insurance will become far more cost-conscious. The move to insurance exchanges is an economic one for business and governments. The drivers and contra-drivers for the percentages of each dollar billed will remain access to care and whether a business can afford to and wants to retain its super-key employees. In a 100% low-cost hospital push necessitated by Medicare and insurance-exchange reimbursement, we cannot forecast with certainty what will happen with fewer doctors and nurses. Businesses, for their part, will struggle to retain limited-skill employees and to ensure that employees have good access to medical care. An article in†Health Affairs†indicates that in California the CALPERS system, the largest state-run health insurance provider, has gone to reference pricing in some areas ñ CALPERS gives employees $30,000 for a total hip or total knee replacement and lists the hospitals that charge less than that. Virtually all academic medical centers (those that provide care for the sickest, and those that train our future doctors, nurses, pharmacists, dieticians, etc.) fall into the high-cost group, and their share of the CALPERS patient population that has hip or knee replacements has gone from 54% to 35%, while the share for low-cost hospitals has climbed from 46% to 65%. (Only one high-priced group hospital in California converted to a low-cost group hospital in the past three years.)  3.††An increased government role in paying for care: The third major cost-pressure factor that will affect hospitals is that the government, which in 1990 paid for 20% of patients through Medicare and 10% through Medicaid, is now paying for about 60% of their patients. As this percentage grows, the government's take-it-or-leave-it prices (at $0.23 on the billed dollar for Medicare and $0.18 for Medicaid, depending on the state) mean that they will all have to find a way to reduce their costs to $0.23 on the dollar billed, a 30% reduction from the average of $0.33 they now collect, just to break even ñ that is, without any money to reinvest in plant, equipment, or new procedures. This means that hospital systems like the Cleveland Clinic have to find a way to reduce their costs by approximately $1.6 billion over the next four years as these expected changes occur. 4.††Increased coverage: 40 million more people will be covered nationally, at a reimbursement rate below our cost. The Health Care Reform Act will extend coverage to 40 million more people. As a result, all hospitals will likely see more people, mostly pediatric patients or those who did not have insurance in the past, and will be reimbursed, for the most part, at a level below the current rates. This increase in patients will not allow most hospitals to cover even the current variable costs of their services. This is the same issue that will be facing the hospitals in your neighborhood. 5.††Limited highly skilled medical workforce: The increase in the number of patients hospitals serve and a reduced reimbursement per patient will mean that hospitals need to re-engineer care in ways that impact personnel. The prediction is these hospitals will be paid approximately 5% fewer total dollars next year and 25ñ35% fewer dollars in 2018, while treating a growing number of patients. Since more than 60% of their costs (in many institutes the figure is more than 80%) are for personnel, we either have to find ways to do things more efficiently, that is with fewer personnel to do the same amount of work (for example, as the Center for Integrative Medicine has done with the shared medical appointments for acupuncture or with the shared†TrimLife Program); or to do things in new ways (to re-engineer care), as in theLifestyle Medicine Program; or to do things with less-expensive personnel, for example, by substituting a medical assistant for a physician or nurse in some processes where a physician assistant is equally capable of doing those things. An example of these savings is a potential program for dealing with low back pain. Low back pain is one of the two most common problems seen in most medical centers and at the Cleveland Clinic. For the first three to six weeks after the onset of low back pain, being cared for by medical personnel with limited training will generate the same result as being cared for by an extremely skilled surgeon ñ that is, conservative therapy, involving at most non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, works in most cases to help patients get better. No imaging or other procedures are needed. Further, it should be noted that no opiates will be prescribed for the first three to six weeks while the patient implements a treatment program of non-steroidals and exercise. Thus, instead of having the patient seen by any one of five different physicians ñ a family practitioner, internist, pain management specialist, spine specialist in medicine, or spine specialist in orthopedic or neurosurgery surgery ñ those patients will now all go to a physical/occupational therapist who will teach them how to do exercises progressively and if possible put a system on their smartphone that will alert them every four hours to do the exercises. The patient will indicate in that smartphone app that she did the exercises, and the physical therapist or practice office will respond in some automated fashion to the patient's responses. Eventually, people who do not get better using that conservative therapy will receive imaging studies, but 40 to 60% of the currently ordered imaging studies will be eliminated. Further, instead of a system the size of the Cleveland Clinic having 14 spine surgeons and 8 anesthesiologists and 22 operating room nurses to meet those needs, it will end up with several fewer spine surgeons, anesthesiologists, and OR nurses for the same volume of patients. Such a system will transform services, so that not everything is available everywhere. This approach will result in lower personnel costs and a lower cost to treat low back pain ñ but will the public be accepting of such changes? Anecdotally, as we ask our audiences how receptive they will be of such a process, the universal answer seems to be ìnot very.î If that is your answer, you may need to pay for concierge insurance. There is another option in reforming the system, and that is to reduce the incidence of chronic disease. Since 70% of our healthcare costs are occasioned by the abuse of alcohol and other substances (especially tobacco!), physical inactivity, poor food choices and overly generous portion sizes, and unmanaged stress, we could avoid a substantial fraction of these costs if people had better incentives to make lifestyle changes and were able to change their behavior. There are many potential triggers to get this done in Obamacare, and some corporations are using these triggers on their own. For example, the Cleveland Clinic has gone from a 9% yearly increase in costs to actually decreasing per person costs of Medical care for their own employees this year by reducing the incidence of new chronic disease in their caregivers from +10% a year to -2% per year. This innovation and change did not happen overnight but took years to develop. As an example of such transformations, the 43,000 Cleveland Clinic employees have lost over 400,000 pounds by using a variety of programs. The problem for the immediate future is that it is unknown whether this transformation in healthful human behavior will occur quickly enough, or whether most corporations and the government understand the process of motivating people to make lasting changes well enough, so that wellness programs can supplant the alternative model of changing the insurance system. But make no mistake, there are a substantial number of corporations that will use wellness programs to drive down medical costs and thereby have an advantage in retaining employees with key skill sets (the very employees who will be in short supply). These companies will be able to recruit better employees because they have figured out how to use wellness programs to drive down healthcare costs and increase employee satisfaction and engagement. Implications for Provider Organizations The Cleveland Clinic is now financially strong and believes it is able to innovate and move more nimbly than most of its peer organizations. Hospitals and other healthcare providers everywhere are faced with the same challenge and opportunity. This could be their time to thrive if they respond to the challenge. But it is no small challenge. The Cleveland Clinic will have to reduce overall costs 5-10% (average 8%) per year for the next four years. That is no small feat. They have been taking roughly 2.5% per year out of their cost for supplies, and this supply-cost reduction bucket is largely exhausted. They will now have to re-engineer and reorganize what they do, since personnel is their largest cost. What will happen overall to medicine? Healthcare providers will have to reduce the cost per procedure and/or the cost per person delivering the procedure, or reduce costs by reorganizing and recrafting how care is given, with the same number of people doing the same or greater amounts of work (as in the low back pain example above). But we have been able to be efficient and then be more efficient for years in a variety of industries. Healthcare should not be an exception to American ingenuity, as the story about the Camden, New Jersey, doctor above illustrated. There is every reason to believe that we can meet this challenge. A Bumpy Transition Going back to the comment by my friend Jack Rivkin that this is just like Y2K, I would agree ñ except for one huge caveat. Y2K was a very known problem. In one sense it was quite straightforward. See that software is broken: fix software. The Cleveland Clinic and other hospitals around the country are recognizing that their revenue is going to go down, and they are planning responsibly. That is the known part of the problem. The concern here is the unknown part. How many young people will sign up on insurance exchanges the very first day they are open for business? How many of them will wait until they have an emergency, walk into the hospital and sign up, get free service for 90 days, and then neglect to pay their insurance premiums? While the insurance company is responsible for the first 30 days of billing, the hospital is responsible for the next 60 days. Hospitals currently have to write off a great deal of emergency medical care. Will the future percentage be roughly the same? Less? More? We donít know. Think everyone who does not currently have insurance will be covered? Think again. TheNew York Times†writes: A sweeping national effort to extend health coverage to millions of Americans [later estimated to be 8 million] will leave out two-thirds of the poor blacks and single mothers and more than half of the low-wage workers who do not have insurance, the very kinds of people that the program was intended to help, according to an analysis of census data by The New York Times. This failure of coverage is primarily due to the variations between states, as government coverage begins at different income levels in different states (26 states having rejected the expansion of Medicaid funded by Obamacare). The very people who cannot afford insurance today are likely to sign up for an exchange only when it is absolutely necessary. Their costs will not be covered by the government. Hospitals will have fewer employees (the Clinic is accomplishing this through early retirements and care transformation this year) and/or lower-cost employees (employees practicing close to the limits of their licenses), since if they suffer the expected 25-35% reduction in real income and simultaneously treat more patients without redesigning their systems, each employee would need to be paid 40% less. Whatever way the Clinic and other hospitals go, the net result will be a lower-cost system. This reduction is clearly needed and will benefit society. But the transition may be very difficult. While there will be a growing long-term need for more healthcare workers, during the transition period it is quite possible that significant numbers of health workers will find themselves unemployed. And while they may be able to find new jobs, the may also receive lower pay. If you reduce the revenues of 18% of the economy by 6 to 8% every year for 4 years, you are forcing a reduction of about 1.4% of GDP over the entire economy. Admittedly, this money will eventually be freed up to go elsewhere, but it is the short term that is the concern. In an economy that is growing at not quite 2%, what would be the effects of such a reduction in employment and revenue? The cost reduction has to come from some portion of the economy. Fewer bandages? Cheaper medicines? One organization's cost reduction is another organizationís lost sales. Further, it is fairly evident that the US has too many hospitals and that one of the outcomes of cost savings and reorganization is that some hospitals will simply have to shut down and/or consolidate. What happens to those workers while they are looking for jobs? Will this reorganization happen slowly, or will cash-flow concerns become readily apparent in the third quarter of 2014, forcing drastic reductions in hospital staff and/or pay? There is simply no way to know until we get there. Reducing the redundancy in the system may be good for the overall system, but it is quite difficult for the individual participants who are part of the reduction. All sorts of models can be built to make projections, but there are just too many variables that are functions of human behavior. All such models are significantly dependent on assumptions, and when we are talking healthcare, all too often those assumptions are made on the basis of a political bias. One can create models that predict the end of the world scenario, and with a different set of assumptions it is possible to predict a future of no worries. As they confront healthcare changes and costs, companies will have to balance their need to retain highly skilled employees, whose availability may be limited in a declining workforce population, with their need to strategically deploy the skills of lower-cost employees who are not in short supply. How the transition in healthcare will affect companies that provide health insurance to their workers will depend on that balance. Success in motivating employees, through various initiatives both in and outside the workplace, to adopt healthier lifestyles and thus prevent chronic disease will also be very important. While Obamacare incorporates many potential triggers that would accelerate incentives for wellness, it is not clear how quickly these will be deployed. It is also not clear how great an effect the technology revolution will have on increasing the currently limited supply of skilled employees or, conversely, making them less needed. The implementation of technology is uncertain not just in medical care. Clearly, in medicine, the new smartphone applications that will teach patients how to manage their own diseases will play a major role, but how great a role they will play in the shift from highly skilled provider visits to relatively less-skilled provider visits? How fast that shift will occur will be determined by how well relevant technological advances are accepted. For example, will all taxis in New York City really turn into Google Cars with nobody driving them? Will you get into one the first year they are available? If you are given a smartphone application instead of a visit with the doctor, how happy will you be, even if your outcome is better (with lower risk of adverse effects) and your radiation exposure is less? Just asking. On the business front, competitive cost pressures will affect the resources that companies can devote to healthcare. The simple budgetary fix of putting your employees on a healthcare exchange has proven to be extremely tempting to many corporations ñ Walgreens, Trader Joe's, etc. And given that businesses have responded to Obamacare by increasing the number of part-time workers in order to avoid a few thousand dollars per employee in health insurance, how likely is it that they will respond to the other budgetary incentives available? It is likely that the overall dollar inputs to medical care will decrease, while more patients will be accessing the system. There will be more first-line and second-line providers, fewer nurses, and fewer doctors in the future for the average person. As the dollars spent per patient falls, innovation at the individual patient level, education, and research will be threatened; and in the system as a whole we will either have less money per provider or fewer providers. To put that in perspective, these are not small changes, as a system like the Cleveland Clinic will go from a system that now creates revenues of $6 billion a year to a system that is reimbursed around $4.4 billion for the same services; and other institutions are probably somewhere in that range of revenue reduction. While the Clinic can predict that their income and costs will change and that the $1.4 billion reduction is the most minimal shift they believe will occur over five years, they cannot predict the real extent of the transformation. That will be dictated by the balance between the number of companies opting for lower-cost insurance programs because they have excess employees available versus the number of companies that will need to continue to attract employees that have skills in short supply, so that they will need to pay premiums for them, including health insurance. We think that a three-tier system will evolve, consisting of (1) concierge care, (2) Medicaid-Medicare-model insurance exchanges, and (3) a system like Great Britain's of private insurance for the employees of a minority of corporations; and it is possible there will be much pain in getting from the current state of affairs to what our healthcare system will become by 2020 or 2024. This momentous shift has the potential to heighten perceptions of an income divide in our country, and we expect these healthcare economic issues to be quite contentious in the coming years. When I am asked what keeps me up at night about our economy, my ready answer for the past few months has been the unknown transition costs associated with the ACA. I hope Jack Rivkin is right and that the transition to Obamacare proves to be just another Y2K. I truly believe that healthcare will be significantly better in 10 years, largely due to advances in technology, but also as we streamline our healthcare delivery. So Iím a long-term optimist, though I have to confess that, in the short term, which would be through the last half of 2014, I am quite concerned that dislocating 1 to 2% of the economy could be enough to push us into recession. I have nothing factual to base that on ñ no inverted yield curve, no evident bubble getting ready to burst ñ so I will stop far short of a prediction. Letís just say that these issues need to be right up front on our radar screens. And it wouldn't hurt to keep our fingers crossed. I must also note that after a few years there will be a massive tax increase on the middle class as all the costs of Obamacare kick in. Yes, you get healthcare in return, but this still rearranges consumer spending patterns. Again, you can create models that will yield any results you find politically and philosophically appealing, but in a few years the truth will out. When Obamacare was being first proposed, I and others criticized it as a giant incentive for businesses to move staff from full-time to part-time work. We were told that we did not understand how business worked and that it would not make any major difference. It does not give me any pleasure to note that we were right. That does not mean that those of us who are concerned about the unintended incentives embedded in the ACA are necessarily right about the future. One correct observation does not qualify you as an infallible prophet. I really have tried to keep my personal political concerns out of this letter. I also understand the need that people lacking insurance have for healthcare in a country where healthcare is outrageously expensive. Within the last few years my oldest son, Henry, has developed type 1 diabetes; my middle son, Chad, has suffered a lung collapse while at work; my daughter Melissa has had thyroid cancer (with no insurance!); and our family has seen multiple childbirths with their related costs, all too many visits to emergency rooms, and so on. Healthcare is easily the most contentious issue of our time and will become even more so as entitlement costs spiral out of control. There are no easy answers, and all too many of our political leaders in both parties are seemingly unwilling to confront the issue, paying only lip service to the need for change. Procrastination makes for terrible future policy decisions. Science Saves the Future On a totally coincidental note, my team at Mauldin Economics has almost completed a new video webinar called†Science Saves the Future.†It will air on†October 16, and you can sign up†here†to watch it for free.  The editor of our new†Transformational Technologies Alert,†Patrick Cox, and I will cohost this webinar. We'll interview our friend George Gilder, along with other major biotechnology experts, to shed light on the transformation that is about to overtake our world. If our healthcare transition keeps me up at night, the biotechnology transformation that is arriving on our doorstep gets me up and going in the morning. This new service from Mauldin Economics has me totally psyched up. We have been planning this for a very long time, and now that the launch is here I feel like a proud father. While the creation of this prodigious infant happened through the very hard work of our whole team of associates, I at least had a small part at the beginning, and I get to be responsible for its care and feeding as it grows up. Will You Still Need Me, Will You Still Feed Me, When Iím 64? I finish this letter in Tucson, Arizona, where I am speaking this weekend at the Casey Summit. The highlight of the weekend will be dinner†tomorrow†night with my friend Ron Paul, who as a doctor has his own personal take on healthcare. Conference organizers have also invited several experts on healthcare to discuss the issue. I plan to attend all those sessions. I was only 18 when the Beatles recorded† ìWhen Iím Sixty-Fourî on the album†Sgt. Pepperís Lonely Hearts Club Band.†As Iím close to the same age as Paul McCartney, who originally wrote the song when he was 16, I wonder if he was as clueless then as I was about what it would be like to actually be 64. A bit of Beatles trivia: the track was actually sped up a bit faster to raise the key a semitone to D-flat, because McCartney thought it would make him sound younger and was closer to the sound he wanted to have. Iíve been getting calls and texts from family and lots of emails from friends wishing me a happy birthday. Itís a little bit of an odd feeling to think about being 64, because I still think of myself as no older than 30-something. But there have been a lot of memories packed in over the decades, so I guess it must be true. And if Mike Roizen is right, I may get to pack another hundred years of memories in alongside whatís already there. Itís been a fun ride so far, if a tad strange here and there. My partners David Galland and Olivier Garrett will be throwing a smallish birthday party for me tonight. A number of friends have come for the evening, including my dentist, Dr. Gary Sanchez from Albuquerque. Iím going to attempt to play golf†tomorrow†morning with him ñ or at least something approximating golf. The Barefoot Ranch, New York, and†Code Red I fly back†Sunday†night to a full schedule†on Monday. Anatole Kaletsky is flying into town, and we will have dinner†Monday†night before we head off the next day to the Barefoot Ranch near Athens, Texas, to join Kyle Bass and his friends at the Barefoot Economic Summit. My partner Jon Sundt of Altegris Investments will be with us for two days of feasting on macroeconomics, investments, and Texas hospitality and food. Itís a pretty free-flowing discussion, and I always learn a lot when Iím with Kyle. And Iím sure Jon and I will take the opportunity to scout out a few more funds for our platform. Itís that kind of an event. Later in the month I will return to New York, where we will launch my new book,†Code Red, co-authored with Jonathan Tepper (who also co-authored†Endgame). The book is about the runaway effects of post-Great Recession central bank policies and the very serious currency war that was kicked off in a big way by Japan this year and is likely to dominate the global economic landscape the rest of this decade. And finally, let me offer you one last link. It was sent this by a friend who is aware of my eclectic musical tastes. This is from last December at the Kennedy Center Honors Ceremony in Washington, DC, when the rock band Led Zeppelin was honored. Of all groups, they asked Heart to play what I think is their finest song, "Stairway to Heaven." Their rendition moved Robert Plant to tears. It was one of the most powerful versions of the song Iíve ever heard, and I admit that there might have been a little moisture in the vicinity of my own eyes. Take a few minutes, turn up the volume, and enjoy. http://blogs.vancouversun.com/2012/12/27/heart-plays-led-zeppelins-stairway-to-heaven-makes-robert-plant-cry-video/ Have a great week, and I look forward to celebrating many more birthdays with you. Your 64 is the new 34 analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. Thoughts From the Frontline†is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting†http://www.mauldineconomics.com. To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribe Thoughts From the Frontline†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member†FINRA†and†SIPC, through which securities may be offered. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Intr oducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. Note: Joining the Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at†www.MauldinCircle.com†or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as wel l as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauld in receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have t otal trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor's interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at†800-829-7273.
Sober LookThe chart to the right shows US total loan balances relative to bank deposits over the past couple of years. The total loan growth rate continues to deteriorate while deposits grow. In fact the ratio of these two measures, the so-called loan-to-deposit ratio is now at the lowest level in some 30 years. This creates material headwinds for economic growth. Unfortunately there is no evidence that the current monetary policy will reverse the trend of weakening loan growth. And as we all know, the US fiscal policy (if one could call it that) is not going to help much either... Sober Look
