The rise in bond yields, particularly in Japan and the US, complicates life for all the central bankers who have been pushing the outer limits of QE. To keep us from going into the darkness, they have taken us to the brink of monetary policy's final frontier. The positive interpretation is that bond investors have concluded that the central bankers will succeed in stimulating self-sustaining economic growth and in boosting inflation rates. If so, then the monetary authorities do need to provide a credible exit plan from QE that wonít push yields back up to levels that depress economic activity. Alternatively, central bankers are in a Catch 22 situation in which rising yields depress economic growth, forcing the continuation of QE or even more of it! What should they do? What can they do? What will they do? When he was just a simple Fed governor, Ben Bernanke provided the answer in a remarkable speech on November 21, 2002 titled, ìDeflation: Making Sure ëItí Doesnít Happen Here.î In it, he listed all the possible tools that central banks could use to avert deflation including ZIRP, QE, and even printing money. The major central banks have followed Bernankeís advice except for actually running the printing presses, which is the ultimate final frontier of monetary policy. However, other than printing money, there is still one tool mentioned by Bernanke that has not been used, i.e., pegging bond yields. Here is what he had to say on the subject: ìA more direct method, which I personally prefer, would be for the Fed to begin announcing explicit ceilings for yields on longer-maturity Treasury debtÖ.î Back then, he focused on doing so for the two-year note: ìThe Fed could enforce these interest-rate ceilings by committing to make unlimited purchases of securities up to two years from maturity at prices consistent with the targeted yields. If this program were successful, not only would yields on medium-term Treasury securities fall, but (because of links operating through expectations of future interest rates) yields on longer-term public and private debt (such as mortgages) would likely fall as well.î Why not just go for it and peg the 10-year Treasury at 1.50% in the US and the 10-year JGB at 0.50%? This would be a variation on current QE programs that donít specify any target levels for the yields of the bonds that are being purchased. Thatís too bad since those yield pegs probably could have been achieved with much less buying of securities. Want proof of my assertion? Look at how ECB President Mario Draghi lowered yields in the peripheral euro zone bond markets simply by pledging to "do whatever it takesî to defend the euro. The ECB is the only major central bank that has fewer assets on its balance sheet than a year ago. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Final Frontier. (1) Into the darkness? (2) Five-year mission. (3) Central bank trekkies boldly go where no man has gone before. (4) The three scenarios again. (5) Escape velocity. (6) Debris field of weak PMIs. (7) Central banks flying into turbulent bond market. (8) Bernanke as Kirk. (9) Dudley more like Hamlet than Spock. (10) Cyclicals have come back in May, while defensive stocks have gone away. (11) ìStar Trek Into Darknessî (+ +). (More for subscribers.)
REUTERS/Vincent KesslerRafael Nadal almost losing in his first round match at the French Open.PARIS (Reuters) - With a piercing flat forehand and a serve launched from high in the Parisian sky, Daniel Brands laid out a blueprint for how to upset claycourt king Rafa Nadal in his own backyard. For the best part of two sets on Court Philippe Chatrier on Monday, Nadal was lost for ideas and looking up into the ether for a drip of inspiration to help him fathom a solution to Brands' hard hitting, heavy-pressure tennis. It was not the first time the seven-times champion had been shaken by a big server with the hammerhead approach shot. American John Isner led Paris's imperious matador by two sets to one in 2011 while the Spaniard's only defeat in 53 previous matches at Roland Garros came in 2009 at the hands of Robin Soderling, who was a honed and refined version of Brands. It also bore a striking similarity to the way Lukas Rosol sent Nadal packing in the second round at Wimbledon last year, firing huge forehand winners under the roof lights of Centre Court. While the German, ranked a modest 59 in the world having lived out the majority of his tennis career in relative obscurity, eventually succumbed 4-6 7-6 6-4 6-3, he laid out a road map for others to follow. REUTERS/Vincent KesslerDaniel Brands"I think if you play against Rafa you have to play aggressive from the beginning," was the German's simple take on how to trouble Nadal. "Just try to put some pressure always. I think that's the main goal. If you can do this, I think you have a chance to compete against Rafa. "I was trying to hit with a lot of pressure to break his rhythm. I did it quite well until the third set." Having entered the tournament on the back of a 15-match winning streak with five titles won on clay in 2013, Nadal is an overwhelming favorite to win a record-extending eighth French Open title. Unsurprisingly, he was keen to play down the fact that his opponent may have stumbled upon a tactical device to shake him out of his comfort zone on clay. What fans witnessed was merely a player who had decided to come out swinging and for a brief period, pulled it off. "The problem is not the tactic," he said. "The problem is the execution that he did very well... "I think that he arrived on the court completely decided upon striking all the balls, 100 percent, and he was inspired. "He played his game right up to the hilt, all the balls, all his services he played, and he was just firing on all cylinders." Brands had never won a main-draw match at Roland Garros in four previous attempts and his best grand slam result came when he reached the round of 16 at Wimbledon in 2010. "I think he didn't know me until the match, and I think he was surprised," Brands said of his illustrious opponent. At 3-0 down in the second set tiebreak, Nadal resorted to the age-old trick of upping the decibel level and trying to spark some life into his labored performance with some lung-busting grunts. An ill-timed slice into the net from Brands handed the initiative to the Spaniard, who won seven out of the last eight points in the tiebreak to turn the momentum of the match in his favor. "Maybe I was too sure to win the point and lost a little bit concentration on this ball, and normally that shouldn't happen against him," said Brands. "Maybe that was the turning point." With rival Novak Djokovic, one of the few players who can get under Nadal's skin, in the same side of the draw, his hopes of reaching a fourth consecutive final are reduced. While Djokovic lacks the massive serve that Brands used to great effect, he would be unlikely to take his foot off the gas in the same way as the German should the opportunity present itself.
Michael Loccisano/Getty Images"I'll have this tapered, my good man."The U.S. took Monday off to observe Memorial Day. This gave Americans time to think about the economy, which has been showing signs of slowing in Q2, and the stock market, which is just off of its all-time high. Last week saw the stock market's first three-day losing streak of the year.¬† It's worth noting this streak started when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested that the Fed could soon start to "taper" its quantitative easing (QE) program. Has talk of the taper caused volatility to return to the markets?¬† Have we seen the top? Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update Even Wall Street's most bullish stock market strategists have been caught off guard by the strength of the bull market. Most have revised their year-end targets for the S&amp;P 500 upward.¬† Just this past week, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin cranked up his target to 1,750, making him the most bullish strategist on the Street. Kostin published that call on Tuesday when the S&amp;P closed at 1,669, and then proceeded to begin its three-day losing streak. Will Kostin's call go down as one of the most ill-timed calls ever?¬† Surely, those who attribute the stock market's movements to the Fed will likely mark Wednesday's hawkish Fed appearance with a bearish turn in the market. Watch Doreen Mogavero of Mogavero, Lee &amp; Co. discuss the ongoing debate in the market from the New York Stock Exchange floor:
For now, Japan has stabilized. After a 7% crash on Thursday, followed by weakness on Friday and Monday, Japan has stabilized. After starting down by over 1% in the early going, Japan is up modestly in early Tuesday trading. The Nikkei has been remarkably volatile lately, but for now, some peace. Nikkei.com
Last month I posted two graphs comparing changes in public and private sector payrolls during the Bush and Obama presidencies. Several readers asked if I could add Presidents Reagan and Clinton (I've also added the single term of President George H.W. Bush). Important: There are many differences between these periods. Overall employment was smaller in the '80s, so a better comparison might be to look at the percentage change, but this gives an overall view of employment changes. The first graph shows the change in private sector payroll jobs from when each president took office†until the end of their term(s).††President George H.W.†Bush only served one term, and President Obama has just started his second term.†  Mr. G.W. Bush (red)†took office following the bursting of the stock market bubble, and left during the bursting of the housing bubble.† Mr Obama (blue) took office during the financial  crisis and great recession.† There was also a significant recession in the early '80s right after Mr. Reagan (yellow) took office. There was a recession towards the end of President G.H.W. Bush (purple) term, and Mr Clinton (light blue) served for eight years without a recession. Calculated Risk The employment recovery during Mr. G.W. Bush's first term was very sluggish, and private employment was down 946,000 jobs at the end of his first term.†† At the end of†Mr. Bush's second term, private employment was collapsing, and†there were net 665,000 private sector†jobs lost during Mr. Bush's two terms.†  Private sector employment increased slightly under President G.H.W. Bush, with 1,490,000 private sector jobs added. Private sector employment increased by 20,864,000 under President Clinton and 14,688,000 under President Reagan. There were only 1,933,000 more private sector jobs at the end of Mr. Obama's first term.††A few†months into Mr. Obama's second term, there are now 2,582,000 more private sector jobs than when he took office.A big difference between the presidencies has been public sector employment.† Note the bumps in public sector employment due to the decennial Census in 1990, 2000, and 2010.† Calculated Risk The public sector grew during Mr. Reagan's terms (up 1,414,000), during Mr. G.H.W. Bush's term (up 1,127,000), during Mr. Clinton's terms (up 1,934,000), and during Mr. G.W. Bush's terms (up 1,748,000 jobs). However†the public sector has declined significantly since Mr. Obama took office (down 739,000 jobs). These job losses†have mostly been†at the state and local level, but they are still a significant drag on overall employment. Looking forward,†I expect the economy to continue to expand for the next few years, so I don't expect a sharp decline in employment as happened†at the end of†Mr. Bush's 2nd term (In 2005 and 2006 I was warning of a coming recession due to the bursting of the housing bubble). A big question is when the public sector layoffs will end.† It appears the cutbacks are mostly over at the state and local levels, but there are ongoing cutbacks at the Federal level.
Italy previously was the world's third largest appliance manufacturer. †Last year it was in ninth place. †Until the crisis, the industry was the second largest employer after the auto sector. †In the 2007-2012 period, major appliance production in Italy fell, according to Della-Santa's research, by 3.6 mln units annually for a total of 18 mln units. †Of these 8 mln were large cooking appliances. † Turkey and Poland have picked up much of the slack. †Poland's output doubled. †In part then this fits into the larger theme of the integration of central and eastern Europe into the global supply chains. †It is partly about cheaper labor for assembly work. It also a part of broader competitive issues. †It is worth considering the multiplier effects, such as where to locate R&amp;D for such products? †Close to production? Della-Santa notes that the US appliance production fell by 12 mln units over the same period, roughly a 25% decline. †It is still second behind China. †Most of US production is consumed domestically, making it less dependent on the relative health of trading partners. Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
Flickr/darwinbellIn order to sharpen our reasoning skills, we must have a good grasp of our own cognitive biases, as well as the basic laws of the universe. But in a dynamic world, new laws are constantly emerging. The editors over at Edge.org asked some of the most influential thinkers in the world ‚Äî including neuroscientists, physicists and mathematicians ‚Äî what they believe are the most important scientific concepts of the modern era. The result is "This Will Make You Smarter: New Scientific Concepts To Improve Your Thinking," a compilation of nearly 200 essays exploring concepts such as the "shifting baseline syndrome" and a scientific view of "randomness." We've highlighted 35 of the concepts here, crediting the author whose essay highlights the theory.
We're giving you a chance to win a¬†Kindle Fire HD. ¬†Become a newsletter subscriber now¬†to enter. ¬†If you're the lucky winner you will have a host of features at your fingertips. ¬† Entry deadline is May 31. As a newsletter subscriber, you'll get daily updates and alerts on topics that matter most to you.¬†You must subscribe to at least one newsletter to be eligible, so if you haven't already, be sure to choose one or more before submitting your entry. On or after May 31, 2013, we'll announce the lucky winner. You must be a legal resident of the U.S. and a newsletter subscriber to win.
The same disconnect is breaking out all over the world. The chairman of a British parliamentary committee investigating Google for tax avoidance calls the firm ‚Äúdevious, calculating, and unethical,‚Äù yet British officials court the firm‚Äôs CEO as if he were royalty. Prime Minister David Cameron urges tax havens to mend their ways and vows to crack down on tax cheats, yet argues taxes must be low in the U.K. because ‚Äúwe‚Äôve got to encourage investment, we‚Äôve got to encourage jobs and I want Britain to be a winner in the global race.‚Äù These apparent contradictions are rooted in the same reality: Global capital, in the form of multinational corporations as well as very wealthy individuals, is gaining enormous bargaining power over nation states. Global companies are not interested in raising living standards in a particular country or improving any nation‚Äôs competitiveness. Their singular goal is to maximize returns to their investors. ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt have an obligation to solve America‚Äôs problems,‚Äù said an Apple executive last year. ‚ÄúOur only obligation is making the best product possible‚Äù (he might have added ‚Äúin order to make as much money as possible‚Äù). Likewise, the wealth of rich individuals flows all over the world in search of the highest returns and lowest taxes. Such single-mindedness is abetted by a new wave of technologies, represented by the likes of Google, Apple, Amazon and other new tech behemoths: advanced software applications combined with enormous computing power, all available on the internet in such a way as to enable users to shift resources almost anywhere on earth at the speed of an electronic impulse. Not only does money move immediately to wherever it can summon the highest return and be subject to the least tax, but jobs can be dispatched almost as quickly to wherever workers get the lowest wages for the most output. Yet such technologies are simultaneously making nations ever more dependent on global capital, as ‚Äúbrick and mortar‚Äù investments in plants and equipment (requiring commitment to a particular geographic location) are replaced by intellectual capital and portfolio investments that are essentially rootless. These technologies are also displacing workers from assembly-line and routine service jobs (bank tellers, telephone operators, petrol station attendants), as well as any skilled jobs that can be replicated by software (brokers, accountants, insurance claims adjusters). They‚Äôre even starting to threaten higher-level professionals (how long before doctors are replaced by diagnostic software and professors by online lectures?). All this, in turn, is putting increasing pressure on politicians to produce more investments and jobs. Because citizens don‚Äôt like it when global corporations or wealthy individuals are found to avoid taxes, such practices elicit indignant reports, hearings, and warnings from political leaders. But little or nothing is done to end these practices because nations are too dependent on those corporations and individuals. Nations are in a fierce ‚Äúglobal race‚Äù for investments and jobs, as Cameron says. But it‚Äôs rapidly turning into a race to the bottom. Effective tax rates on global companies and wealthy individuals are declining almost everywhere; regulations are being dismantled (not even the worst financial disaster since the 1930s has produced much in the way of new financial rules); government subsidies to corporations are growing; and real wages are dropping. In the U.S., the U.K., and other rich nations, the percentage of gross domestic product going to wages continues to decline while the percentage going to profits steadily increases. Almost all the economic gains in the U.S. since the Great Recession have gone to the wealthiest 1%, who own the lion‚Äôs share of financial assets, while the bottom 90% have become poorer. Individual states in the U.S. have embarked on their own races to the bottom, seeking to lure investments and jobs ‚Äì often from neighboring states ‚Äì with lower taxes, higher subsidies, reduced regulation and lower real wages. Here again, the new generation of information technologies is intensifying the race. But these trends are not inevitable. One way for nations (as well as individual states or provinces) to regain some bargaining leverage over global capital would be to stop racing against one another and join together to set terms for access to their markets. After all, global capital depends on consumers, and access to large consumer markets such as the U.S. and the EU is essential if global capital is to earn a healthy return. Why should Apple have access to U.S. consumers, for example, if Apple refuses to pay its fair share of taxes to finance the infrastructure and education that Americans need to improve their living standards? Americans could buy from one of Apple‚Äôs competitors instead. Likewise, it makes no sense for regions or provinces in any nation to compete against one other for jobs and investment; such races only further strengthen the hand of global capital and reduce the bargaining power of the nation. These contests don‚Äôt produce net new jobs or investment but only move the jobs and investments from one locale to another and should be prohibited by federal law. Similarly, the EU could be a bargaining agent for its citizens if it were to condition access to its hugely valuable market on paying taxes in proportion to a global corporation‚Äôs EU earnings, as well as making investments (including research and development, and jobs) in similar proportion. As a member of the EU, Britain would have more bargaining leverage than it would if it bargained separately. Hence, an important reason for Britain to remain in the EU: Rather than a race to the bottom, the U.K. would thereby join in a race to the top. Any move toward enhancing the power of nations or groups of nations relative to global corporations and wealthy individuals would surely provoke fierce resistance. Corporate-financed lobbyists, lawyers, political operatives, media empires, campaign donations, think tanks and the potential lures of lucrative jobs and directorships awaiting high government officials will all be deployed in opposition. This doesn‚Äôt make the goal of countervailing the power of global capital any less important. It just makes it difficult to achieve. Read more posts on¬†robertreich.org ¬ª
If I ripped off the top third of your resume and handed it to a complete stranger‚Ä¶ ‚Ä¶would they be able to tell me what you wanted to do with the rest of your life? If the answer is no, then you should consider updating your resume strategy. You see, the top 1/3 of your resume should be a professional summary that expresses quickly and succinctly what you‚Äôre looking to do next by showcasing the abilities that will get you there. HR professionals, hiring managers, executive recruiters: they‚Äôre all pressed for time these days and they can‚Äôt try to guess what you‚Äôre looking for. A ‚Äúprofessional summary‚Äù at the top of your resume lists the relevant accomplishments, qualifications and proficiencies for the job you would like to get, and is an important part of helping people understand you and what role they should consider hiring you for. The biggest temptation is to list all your past accomplishments. Avoid it. Nobody wants to read your ‚Äúingredients‚Äù label ‚Äî the comprehensive listing of everything and anything that you contain. Would you market Coke Zero by putting Phosphoric Acid, Potassium Benzoate and Potassium Citrate in the same size font on the label as ‚Äúgreat Coke taste, zero calories‚Äù? No, because you‚Äôd want to emphasize the most important things, rather than distract people with irrelevant information. So don‚Äôt make it tough on your audience. Use the top-third of your resume to list the skills, capabilities and talents relevant to your next job. You also need to have one resume. This has been the best advice for a long time, but it‚Äôs even more so in our digitally-connected social media world. I know all the arguments for multiple resumes. You want to tailor it to the position. You want to target a particular firm. You want to emphasize this here and that there. My experience over the last decade suggests: In addition to these points, which remain as valid and true as ever, there‚Äôs a new, important one: Your online presence needs to back up your paper resume and be consistent with your off-line job goals. You‚Äôve got profiles, pages that show up in Google searches, and a social media presence that looks the same to your audience regardless of which resume you give them. It is important that your online and offline presences provide one consistent story. If the two look dissimilar, or, even worse, conflict in small or important ways, you set yourself apart as an unserious or potentially untruthful candidate. Nothing will get you not hired faster than untruths. It is highly unlikely that you‚Äôre a skillful enough writer and editor to make one social presence support two or more competing resumes. So you need to have one resume. One presence, one theme, one summary, one coherent career goal‚Ä¶ One resume to rule them all. And that, my dear Readers, is something to put in your pipe and smoke on this Memorial Day weekend. Have a great week! ¬† Read more posts on TheLadders ¬ª
His words fill the vacuum of the collectively blank American mind, where hopes and dreams spin like debris in an Oklahoma twister, only to fall incoherently on a landscape of man-made ruins. If Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke were hooked up to a polygraph machine when he made a public statement -- such as last Wednesday's testimony before Congress -- I bet the output graph would look something like a seismic record of the 9.0 Fukushima megathrust, all fretful spikes and dips. When historians of the future ponder our fate around their campfires, they will marvel that this society invited such a temporizing little nerd to act as its Oracle-in-Chief... that he made periodic visits to sit before the poobahs of the land, and issued prophesies that nobody could really understand -- and that the fate of the people in this land hung on his muttered ambiguities.†Let's face it: people need oracles when they don't know what the fuck is going on. What's going on is as follows: America's central bank is trying to compensate for a floundering economy that will never return to its prior state. The economy is floundering because its scale and mode of operation are no longer consistent with what reality offers in the way of available resources at the right price, especially oil. So, rather than change the scale and mode of operations in this economy -- that is, do things differently -- we try to keep doing things the same by flushing more "money" into the system, as though it were a captive beast receiving nutriment. One problem with that is that the "money" is no longer money. That is, it's not really an effective store of value, or pricing reference. It remains for the moment a medium of exchange, but the persons exchanging it grow suspicious of what this "money" purports to represent. Does it stand for promises of future repayment? Hmmmm. Those promises are looking sketchy lately, especially since this is an economy that does not generate enough new real wealth to make the interest payments, let alone manage to pay back the principal. Is it a claim on future work?†Some are afraid that the future work deliverable will be less than they expect. Whatever else it is, does it find respect in other societies where different money is used? These questions are making a lot of people nervous these days. Of course, a time will come when all matters concerning this particular incarnation of money will be seen as strictly ceremonial. Ben Bernanke, we will understand, was not stating facts before congress but rather singing a song, or rather chanting in a low, repetitive, tedious way in the primal manner of a frightened person trying to comfort himself with reassuring sound -- that is, prayer. You'd be surprised how well that goes over in a place like congress, which is stuffed with prayerful characters, people who exist in a religious delirium. These are not the people who are nervous, by the way. The nervous tend to be more secular, and inhabit the margins of life where unconventional thinking thrives weedlike at a remove from all the mental toxicity at the center. These nervous ones are looking ever more closely these days at the distant nation of Japan, where an interesting scenario is playing out: the last days of a giant industrial-technocratic economy. The story there is actually pretty simple if you peel away the quasi-metaphysical bullshit it comes wrapped in these days from astrologasters like John Mauldin and Paul Krugman, viz. Japan has no fossil fuel resources. Zip. You can't run their kind of economy without the stuff. And they can't. Japan is crapping out, as they say in Las Vegas. Tilt! Game over. As this happens, Japan issues a lot of distracting financial noise that involves evermore "creation" of their own "money," and the knock-on effects of that, but it's all just noise. Japan's only good choice is to go medieval, that is, to give up on the rather hopeless 150-year-long project of being an industrial-technocratic modern super-state, and go back to being an island of a beautiful artistic hand-made culture.†I call that "going medieval," though you could quibble as to whether that's the best word for it, since I'm not talking about cathedrals or crusades. One of Japan's other choices is to "go mad-dog," something they actually tried back in the mid-20th century. It didn't work out too well then. The Japanese leadership is making noises about "re-arming," and a nice state of conflict is already simmering between them and their age old rivals-victims next door in China, a country that has lately enjoyed the upper hand in the industrial-techno racket (though it will be faced with the same choices as Japan not too many years hence). Do the Japanese start another world war on their side of the planet? Let's hope not. Let's hope they lay down their robotics and their nuclear reactors gently and go back to making netsuke. Just give it up and do things differently -- after all, that's what all the human beings on the planet have to do now. For what it's worth, Japan's stock market has tanked a hearty 14 percent in the past five days, if that means anything, and I'm not sure it does considering the aforesaid "noise," but there you have it. Our own stock markets are mercifully closed this holiday, having given American worriers an extra day of anxious reflection on the state of things out there. My own opinion is that we're all going medieval sooner rather than later and the big remaining question is how much of a mess we'll make on the journey to it. Also, personally, I don't like these manufactured holidays when the landscape is cluttered with morons enjoying motorsports. I'll be working today, and grateful when it blows over. For a complete list of books by James Howard Kunstler and purchase links,†CLICK HERE. ††††††††† Read more posts on Kunstler.com ª
Every new summer brings ¬†fresh stores, clubs, and restaurants to the Hamptons ‚Äî but some things never change on the Long Island shore. Zagat¬†has ranked¬†the top restaurants in the Hamptons for this year, and unsurprisingly all of the old faithfuls are still there. All ten scored over 26 in the food category of the survey's 30-point scale, which according to Zagat means the meal was considered "extraordinary to perfection." From North Fork Table to the Plaza Caf√©, here are the places you'll need to book a table in advance this summer.
The army of experts and analysts stood at the ready to name the external factors that made it happen (by the way, that army seems to have grown a hundredfold or so over the past 5 years, or is that just me? So where's the added quality?). Some blamed it on something Bernanke did or did not say, some on the Dow's drop (0.5%?!) the day before, and others on weakish China's manufacturing numbers. Very few addressed Japan's own internal issues. But that's still where Japan's problem lies, and what can and will lead to more of that volatility. One thing should be clear: The Bank of Japan is not pumping money into the economy, it's pumping credit into the banking system. They are not the same thing. To tackle deflation, PM Abe and BoJ chief need to increase the velocity of money, and quite dramatically too. Those out there who didn't know it already are now also being forced to consider that no central bank in the world controls the velocity of money, even if most will continue to deny it. Limitless credit for the banking system will not achieve the stated goal of a 2% rise in overall prices. Not unless the feet on the ground start moving, and spending. But the feet on the ground don't actually have any more money than they had before, during the deflation decade(s), so why should they start spending now? Or does anyone believe the Japanese will start borrowing in huge numbers? After all those years of deflation? Deflation scares people into a deep freeze, and it takes a long time to defrost them. Abe would have much more chance of success if he handed out money to the people than he does with his present policy of handing it to banks, but that's sacrilege. What seems to have gotten lost in translation very rapidly is the appreciation of how big the gamble is that Japan is taking. And even more how desperate it is. Abenomics is a bet on perception, the perception that Abe and Kuroda†have control over - virtually - all aspects of all possible outcomes. They do not. As a matter of fact, they have pushed themselves, and their people, into a†"doomed if you do, damned if you don't"†quandary. If they should somehow manage to achieve that 2% price rise, they will lose control over interest rates no matter what they try - it would simply be the price to pay - most harmfully of all those on Japanese sovereign bonds - JGB -. And if the opposite happens and prices don't rise, well, the markets will come after those bonds too. The plummeting yen may cause a short term export boost, but that can only be a self defeating phenomenon. First because too much of the world has too much in debt to buy more, second because the more Japanese exports would rise, the more China, Europe and the US will be, and feel, forced to devalue their currencies as well. President Obama announced a few years ago that he wanted US exports to double over 5 years, and so far that goal has been spectacularly missed. China's exports rise far too little to achieve the economic growth needed to prevent their economy from hitting a wall. And Europe's exports are being demolished by the high value of its currency (among other things). It's therefore - inevitably - only a matter of time before the currency race to the bottom takes off for real. Beggar thy neighbor on steroids. If one party starts, the rest can't stay behind. What we've seen so far is just background rumbling. The US has given "benign" warnings that Japan's financial policy must not be directed at pushing down the yen, but those warnings have no meaning: it was always obvious the yen would fall. And already today, Abe is beginning to realize he has to do more, and not too long from now he will. That will cause a lot more friction with the other three than we've seen so far; the warnings will move way south of benign. Abe's gamble is based on the perception that markets have of the Japanese economy, of Abenomics, of the Bank of Japan's control over interest rates and prices, and of the reaction of the rest of the world to what Abe and Kuroda†do. The markets predictably play along for a while, since in early goings there's money to be made, but they're very aware that Abe and Kuroda†are executing a desperate gamble, and they'll be out in a wink when they get nervous. That will leave the fate of Abenomics in the hands of global greater fools, and chances are there's not enough of them to go around. Time will play a crucial role as well: if results don't show fast enough, pressure will increase rapidly on Abe to deliver ever more of the same. But there is no limitless pile of yen and bonds at Tokyo's disposal, even if Abe likes to create that impression;†"we'll do whatever it takes"†is not a timeless entity. The longer the velocity of money in the Japanese economy remains at levels that don't allow for consumer prices to rise, the higher the risk that investors will turn their backs on Abe and start selling bonds and/or equities. And when they start doing that in large enough quantities, the outcome of Abenomics may turn out much more harmful than anyone seems willing to consider today. And not just for Japan either: the countryís easily large enough to have its weight squash other economies too. When Abe - and the rest of the world - find out that the Bank of Japan does not really set interest rates, which happens when those rates rise beyond what bank and government want, the cost to Japan of servicing its debt can quickly grow beyond its grasp. Even before Abenomics that debt was second to none in the developed world; if and when JGB yields rise and values plummet, the squeeze can have only a further deflationary influence on the economy (and suffocate the government). The recent rise from 0.32% to nearly 1% in 10-year JGB is merely a first sign on the wall (and is temporarily manageable because rates are extremely low). Another near tripling could see that same wall crumble to pieces. Even a doubling would shake its very foundations. Abe and Kuroda†have wagered the bet of all bets, but the house (the global economy) never loses. Seen from that point of view, it's not even a bet, since that implies a chance of winning. Hence, in final analysis, there's only the perception of a bet. It's all nothing but sleight of hand. And even if the greater fools fall for it, the Japanese people will not; their fear won't thaw anywhere near fast enough. Abenomics can not last, and it can not succeed. And you can safely disregard anything anyone says that begs to differ. Paul Krugman and Christina Romer claim that rising prices can lead to falling real interest rates, but they amazingly and completely ignore the reaction their very own government will have that will make sure no such thing can happen. It just sounds like they keep on talking their Book of Stimulus no matter what, despite all the stimulus that has occurred already, and all the positive effects that haven't. They want to believe in Abenomics so much it keeps them from thinking, all for the further glory of their own spending mantras. From an intellectual perspective, that's so disappointing it's enough to bore a man to tears. Even John Mauldin, though he's far more careful than that, leaves open the option that Abenomics could work. Although if Mauldin really believed his own words, he'd be out of his short position in no time. Think it through guys, don't just stop at some random point that seems to suit you and then present that as analysis. Just because you find something that seems to fit well with what you've been saying for decades, doesn't make it true. And stop referring to inflation without implicitly including the velocity of money, it turns inflation into a meaningless term, and certainly in this case, where velocity of money is the key to understanding the entire inevitability of the spectacular disaster Abenomics is guaranteed to be. Because if you're Japanese, spending what you have left in wealth is the last thing you want to do today AND tomorrow after 15-20 years of deflation and your falling wages under huge pressure. How is that not obvious?
NYC DOTThe first Citi Bike was stolen last night, reports the New York Post's Natasha Velez. The pedal pilferer snatched the blue Citi Bike at around 6 p.m. in Kips Bay, and was able to ride off before workers noticed. The crew had been busy placing a load of the $825 rental bicycles into a rack at Second Avenue and 25th Street, and had not yet locked them in place when the thief struck." According to Velez, the bike thief was still at large as of last night. Citi Bike is a citywide bike sharing program launching today in New York City.
Flickr/Mike_flemingI own one finance textbook, and I occasionally open it to remind myself how little I know about finance. It's packed with formulas on complex option pricing, the Gaussian copula function, and a chapter titled, "Assessment of Confidence Limits of Selected Values of Complex-Valued Models." I have literally no idea what that means. Should it bother me that there's so much about finance I don't know? I don't think so. As John Reed writes in his book¬†Succeeding: When you first start to study a field, it seems like you have to memorize a zillion things. You don't. What you need is to identify the core principles -- generally three to twelve of them -- that govern the field. The million things you thought you had to memorize are simply various combinations of the core principles. Evolution tells you a lot about biology. A handful of cognitive biases explain most of psychology.¬†Likewise, there are a few core principles that explain most of what we need to know about investing. Here are five that come to mind. 1. Compound interest is what will make you rich.¬†And it takes time.Warren Buffett is a great investor, but what makes him rich is that he's been a great investor for two thirds of a century. Of his current $60 billion net worth, $59.7 billion was added after his 50th¬†birthday, and $57 billion came after his 60th. If Buffett started saving in his 30s and retired in his 60s, you would have never heard of him. His secret is time. Most people don't start saving in meaningful amounts until a decade or two before retirement, which severely limits the power of compounding. That's unfortunate, and there's no way to fix it retroactively. It's a good reminder of how important it is to teach young people to start saving as soon as possible. 2. The single largest variable that affects returns is valuations -- and you have no idea what they'll doFuture market returns will equal the dividend yield + earnings growth +/- change in the earnings multiple (valuations). That's really all there is to it. The dividend yield we know: It's currently 2%. A reasonable guess of future earnings growth is 5% per year. What about the change in earnings multiples? That's totally unknowable. Earnings multiples reflect people's feelings about the future. And there's just no way to know what people are going to think about the future¬†in¬†the future. How could you? If someone said, "I think most people will be in a 10% better mood in the year 2023," we'd call them delusional. When someone does the same thing by projecting 10-year market returns, we call them analysts. 3. Simple is usually better than smartSomeone who bought a low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund in 2003 earned a 97% return by the end of 2012. That's great! And they didn't need to know a thing about portfolio management, technical analysis, or suffer through a single segment of "The Lighting Round." Meanwhile, the average equity market neutral fancy-pants hedge fund lost 4.7% of its value over the same period, according to data from Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Indices. The average long-short equity hedge fund produced a 96% total return -- still short of an index fund. Investing is not like a computer: Simple and basic can be more powerful than complex and cutting-edge. And it's not like golf: The spectators have a pretty good chance of humbling the pros. 4. The odds of the stock market experiencing high volatility are 100%Most investors understand that stocks produce superior long-term returns, but at the cost of higher volatility. Yet every time -- every single time -- there's even a hint of volatility, the same cry is heard from the investing public:¬†"What is going on?!" Nine times out of ten, the correct answer is the same: Nothing is going on. This is just what stocks do. Since 1900 the¬†S&amp;P 500¬†(SNPINDEX:¬†^GSPC¬†¬†) has returned about 6% per year, but the average difference between any year's highest close and lowest close is 23%. Remember this the next time someone tries to explain why the market is up or down by a few percentage points. They are basically trying to explain why summer came after spring. Someone once asked J.P. Morgan what the market will do. "It will fluctuate," he allegedly said. Truer words have never been spoken. 5. The industry is dominated by cranks, charlatans, and salesman. This is perhaps the most important theory in finance. Until it is understood you stand a high chance of being bamboozled and misled at every corner. "Everything else is cream cheese." Check The Motley Fool every Tuesday and Friday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics.¬†
Last week, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin became the most bullish forecaster on Wall Street, raising his year-end target on the S&amp;P 500 to 1,750 and unveiling his 2015 target of 2,100. Here's a chart of what that forecast looks like in the context of the dotcom and credit bubbles.† The trajectory almost seems irrationally bullish, but Kostin has his reasons. Goldman Sachs Assuming his earnings forecasts hold, which is a big assumption considering its low volatility and upward trajectory, valuations should hold relatively steady. But they would nevertheless be on an upward trajectory. "Our new P/E assumptions include a premium to our fair value models," wrote Kostin. Goldman Sachs In his note distributed last night, Kostin reiterated his list of 6 reasons for being so bullish. Kostin's fifth point is a key one for many people. We wrote more about his rationale last week.
en.wikipedia.orgYour Twitter tells me more than your dreams!IN AMERICA alone, people spent $170 billion on "direct marketing"--junk mail of both the physical and electronic varieties--last year. Yet of those who received unsolicited adverts through the post, only 3% bought anything as a result.  If the bumf arrived electronically, the take-up rate was 0.1%. And for online adverts the "conversion" into sales was a minuscule 0.01%. That means about $165 billion was spent not on drumming up business, but on annoying people, creating landfill and cluttering spam filters. Which might, in the modern, privacy-free world of sliced and diced web-browsing analysis, come as something of a surprise. Marketing departments gather terabytes of data on potential customers, spend fortunes on software to analyse their spending habits and painstakingly "segment" the data to calibrate their campaigns to appeal to specific groups. And still they get it almost completely wrong. A group of researchers at IBM's Almaden Research Centre in San Jose, California, however, is here to help. According to Eben Haber, the group's leader, the problem is that firms are trying to understand their customers by studying their "demographics" (age, sex, marital status, dwelling place, income and so on) and their existing buying habits. That approach, he believes, is flawed. What they really need is a way to discover the "deep psychological profiles" of their customers, including their personalities, values and needs. And he and his team think they can provide it. Modern psychology recognises five dimensions of personality: extroversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, neuroticism and openness to experience. Previous research has shown that people's scores on these traits can, indeed, predict what they purchase. Extroverts are more likely to respond to an advert for a mobile phone that promises excitement than one that promises convenience or security. They also prefer Coca-Cola to Pepsi and Maybelline cosmetics to Max Factor. Agreeable people, though, tend to prefer Pepsi, and those open to experience prefer Max Factor. People are, of course, unlikely to want to take personality tests so that marketing departments around the world can intrude even more on their lives than happens already. But Dr Haber thinks he can get around that--at least for users of Twitter. He and his team have developed software that takes streams of "tweets" from this social medium and searches them for words that indicate a tweeter's personality, values and needs. The personality-profiling part of the software is based on a study published in 2010 by Tal Yarkoni of the University of Colorado, Boulder. Dr Yarkoni recruited a group of bloggers and correlated the frequencies of certain words and categories of word that they used in their blogs with their personality traits, as established by questionnaire. Some of the relations he found were commonsensical. Extroversion correlated with "bar", "restaurant" and "crowd". Neuroticism correlated with "awful", "lazy" and "depressing". But there were also unforeseen patterns. Trust (an important component of agreeableness), for example, correlated with "summer", and co-operativeness (another element of agreeableness) with "unusual". Inspired by Dr Yarkoni's findings, Dr Haber and his team are conducting research of their own, matching word use with two sets of traits not directly related to personality. These are people's values (things they deem to be good, beneficial and important, such as loyalty, accuracy and self-enhancement) and their needs (things they feel they cannot live without, such as excitement, control or acceptance). In a test of the new system, Dr Haber analysed three months' worth of data from 90m users of Twitter. His software was able to parse someone's presumptive personality reasonably well from just 50 tweets, and very well indeed from 200. At the moment the system is being tested by a financial-services company. If all goes well, Dr Haber hopes to launch it commercially by the end of the year. He says the new software has the potential to serve people as individuals rather than "vague demographic blurs". Whether they will actually wish to be "served" in this way, when the price of such service is having strangers build up intimate psychological profiles of them, remains to be seen. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
A WIDENING arc of violence across Iraq is raising fears that the country could fracture under the weight of sectarian and political strife. Attacks in the past week stretched from north of Baghdad, the capital, to the normally calm southern city of Basra, killing more than 200 people. The targets included Sunni mosques as well as Shia districts and Iraqi security forces. On May 20th alone, at least seven car-bombs went off in Shia districts of Baghdad. The UN says more than 700 Iraqis were killed last month, the highest figure since 2007, when the country suffered its worst sectarian mayhem since the American invasion of 2003. In a sign of rising concern, the UN mission in Baghdad has resumed issuing casualty figures. Though the death toll is still a lot smaller than at the height of Iraq's civil war in 2007, when 3,000 people were sometimes being killed in a month, the latest sectarian violence, together with growing links between al-Qaeda in Iraq and the conflict in neighbouring Syria, is dangerously undermining Iraq's stability. Although no group has yet taken responsibility for the most recent wave of attacks, the suicide-bombings and many of the car-bombings and kidnappings in Shia districts bear the hallmarks of al-Qaeda in Iraq, which has taken advantage of political tension to regroup in Sunni areas. But joining the deadly mix, say Western and Iraqi security officials, is a hitherto obscure extremist Sufi group believed to be led by Saddam Hussein's elderly former right-hand man, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri. Iraq's government blamed him and his Jaysh Rijal al-Tariq al-Naqshabandi for last month's attacks on security forces near the city of Kirkuk, which is disputed by Kurds, Turkmen and Sunni Arabs. Though deemed heretical by al-Qaeda, the group is believed to have operational ties with it and seems to have growing support among Sunnis on the ground. Much of the violence has been in areas claimed both by Iraqi Kurdish leaders and Iraq's central government in Baghdad. The authorities in the Kurds' autonomous region in the north responded to last month's unrest by moving their troops south of Kurdish territory in what they said was a bid to protect the oilfields. "I think what we're seeing is the beginning of the break-up of Iraq," says a senior Kurd. When rebellious Sunnis rose up between 2004 and 2006, chunks of Iraq's police and parts of its army buckled. This time, Iraq's security forces have so far stood firm. But the army's tactical withdrawal after clashes in Sunni-dominated Anbar province to the west of Baghdad and the government's security clampdown elsewhere have created a de facto partition of territory between Sunnis and Shias, including in cities such as Baghdad. Three years after he formed his present coalition government, Nuri al-Maliki, the prime minister, a Shia, still has no defence or interior minister. He has responded by replacing many of his senior security men. That is unlikely to make a big difference. The residents of many Sunni districts in Baghdad and in cities in Anbar have been locked in by army roadblocks and prevented from moving freely. The government fears armed gangs infiltrating from Anbar and talks of reinforcing a trench around all of Baghdad. The capital is again becoming like a fortress. Many parts of Iraq are still ruled under emergency measures imposed by America after its invasion; they have stayed in force since American troops left at the end of 2011. Although the influence of America has greatly diminished, it still plays a big role as mediator, seeking to bring together Iraqi officials with Sunni leaders who view the United States as their protector. But Arab governments in the region, all Sunni-dominated bar Lebanon's, view Iraq's Shia-led government with fear, distrust and hostility, and are loth to offer Mr Maliki help. The Arab League has closed its mission in Baghdad, established with fanfare when Iraq held the organisation's rotating presidency. That honour now belongs to Qatar, which Iraq's government accuses of condoning and even paying for the current wave of attacks. It also blames Saudi Arabia and Turkey. With such sectarian bad blood stirring across the region, the chances of soon restoring harmony in Iraq look slim. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Getty Images(Reuters) -†Angelina Jolie's aunt died of breast cancer on Sunday, a hospital spokesman in†California†said, nearly two weeks after the actress wrote about electing to have a double mastectomy after learning she had inherited a high risk of breast cancer. Debbie Martin, the younger sister of†Jolie's mother, died at age 61 at†Palomar Medical Center†in Escondido, near†San Diego. Her husband,†Ron Martin, told Britain's Sky News that his wife had the same defective†BRCA1 gene†as†Jolie. Jolie's mother,†Marcheline Bertrand, died of breast cancer in 2007 at age 56. On May 14,†Jolie, the Oscar-winning film star, revealed she had a double mastectomy in an article in†the New York Times, saying she hoped her story would inspire other women fighting the life-threatening disease. Jolie, 37, is raising a family with fellow actor and fiance†Brad Pitt. She wrote that she went through with the operation in part to reassure her six children that she would not die young from cancer, as her own mother did. "We often speak of 'Mommy's mommy,' and I find myself trying to explain the illness that took her away from us. They have asked if the same could happen to me," wrote†Jolie. "I have always told them not to worry, but the truth is I carry a 'faulty' gene." The actress, who won an Oscar as best supporting actress for her 1999 role in the film "Girl, Interrupted," said she opted for the surgery after her doctors had estimated she had an 87 percent risk of breast cancer and 50 percent risk of ovarian cancer, due to an inherited genetic mutation. (Reporting by Jane Sutton and Daniel Trotta; Editing by Peter Cooney and Bill Trott)
Since the European economic crisis began, Germany has widely been viewed as an impediment to recovery. Monetary stimulus seems to violate the German constitution, and the government's view is that all countries across the eurozone should pursue fiscal discipline and German-like structural reforms. This famous Venn diagram from @pawelmorski basically explains the situation. @pawelmorski Eventually, the ECB was able to address a critical component of the crisis (against the objections of the Bundesbank) when it established the OMT program, which promised to backstop government bond markets, provided said governments were willing to pursue reforms. This program (which has never actually been used by anyone) was announced last July, and since then government borrowing costs have declined precipitously, nicely easing financial tensions across the eurozone. But the real economy still is terrible, and the Germans have seen little impetus to do anything other than advise ongoing austerity and reform. If you want to know why Germans don't see much reason for concern, you just need to look at this chart. Things are great in Germany. Societe Generale But with the crisis ongoing, Germany's government is apparently changing its tone. German magazine Der Spiegel (via @spbaines) reports today that fiscal stimulus might finally be on the table. But a new way of thinking has recently taken hold in the German capital. In light of record new unemployment figures among young people, even the intransigent Germans now realize that action is needed. "If we don't act now, we risk losing an entire generation in Southern Europe," say people close to Sch√§uble. Berlin is making an about-face, even though it aims to stick to its current austerity policy. The German government has stressed budget consolidation and structural reform since 2010, when Greece was on the verge of bankruptcy. Berlin has been arguing that this is the only way to instill confidence among investors in the battered debt-ridden countries and help their ailing economies recover. Meanwhile, tomorrow Germany and France are expected to unveil a "new deal" to address youth unemployment, which is one of the most well-known sub-crises within the overall economic crisis. There have been several false dawns in Europe since the crisis began. But this might be another moment. Investors are getting excited about Greece. There are signs that the economy could surprise to the upside. And now there's talk of investment and stimulus out of Germany. Watch this space.
Editor's note: ¬†Last summer, two of our interns put together a great post on the biggest idiotic mistakes Wall Street interns make every summer.¬† Since the season officially starts tomorrow, we've decided to share this with you again.¬† Summer internships on Wall Street are about to start, so with a little¬†help from our friends at Wall Street Oasis, we created a list of possible offenses for interns, and we hope you aren't found guilty. ¬† Some of these mistakes are quite obvious, though others aren't. Either way, you'll thank us after, because your chances of landing a full time spot will probably rise. Plus, fewer co-workers will be laughing behind your back in the elevator.
Regardless of what you think about Bitcoin's viability as a currency that people actually use, it should be clear that one pre-requisite is price stability. Plunging exchange rates means nobody will want to hold the currency for any length of time. Surging prices means nobody will want to actually use Bitcoin for purchases, and instead just horde it for speculative purposes. And stability is exactly what Bitcoin has been displaying of late. After some major instability back in April, the month of May has been very quiet, with the price rising quietly and modestly throughout the month. Via Bitcoincharts, you must admit the month of May has been nice. Bitcoincharts.com
We mentioned earlier this morning that Japan had a very rough Monday session, falling over 3%. But things have gotten even worse. In post-close futures trading, the Nikkei has dropped by another couple hundred points, and has dropped below 14,000. Here's a nice chart going back a few months showing how the Nikkei has gotten absolutely smoked, giving up all of the gains for May in just the last few days. CME
REUTERS/Shohei MiyanoPart of the reason people are nervous about Japan is the potential for a disturbance caused by an increase in long-term government bond yields. The fear is that ultra-aggressive easing will create inflation, leading to an interest rise, creating havoc for banks who own so much government debt. And in the US, all the concern is about the so-called "Taper" the wind-down of QE that may begin this year. In an email to clients, SocGen's Kit Juckes writes: ¬†What we are seeing is a minor re-calibration in the cost of money in both the US and Japan, with a feed-through to the rest of the world. In both economies real yields are negative and¬† in both, attempts at reflation are under way. Can Japan survive a 1.5% 10yr yield? Can the US survive a 2.5%yield? Of course they can. That's not the issue. In Japan's case the question is what increased yields and increased vol to the p&amp;l of bank portfolios, and in the US the only question is what happens to asset markets pumped up by the hydrogen-like effects of sub-2pct 10yr yields. ... ¬†In the longer run, we'll re-calibrate to slightly higher (but still low) yields; we will go on watching mediocre growth, and low/no inflation. Equity folk¬† will doubtless go back to talking about the Great Rotation¬† into stocks. But even if you're a super-bull, that just means you should seriously consider stocks - and credit - in September. That's when they run the St Leger, after all.
From Morgan Stanley's latest FX Position tracker note, more confirmation that investors are getting crazy bullish about the dollar. USD long positioning surged into extreme territory over the past week. The move was broad based, with our clients, non-commercial IMM (international monetary market) accounts, Japanese retail, and global macro hedge funds all large buyers. The surging shaded blue bar shows how extreme long USD positioning has become. Morgan Stanley As for why the US dollar is so loved these days? It's a combination of Fed exit talk, the weakening yen, and cheapening commodities.
Fung Global InstituteThroughout the years, we've been citing the work of Nomura economist Richard Koo quite a bit. Koo is the author of "The Holy Grail Of Economics" which uses the great multi-decade Japanese malaise to flesh out his concept of a balance sheet recession, wherein monetary policy is largely impotent due to the fact that the private sector is seeking to reduce debt, and thus not response to lowering the cost of money. In such a situation, he's a big advocate of fiscal stimulus, so as to replenish private sector balance sheets. As such, he's become one of Japan's foremost economists, and his ideas have relevance in the Europe and the US, which also have balance sheet issues. But the "Abenomics" experiment is putting his theory to the test, and would seem to put a lot at stake for him professionally. While there is a fiscal aspect of Abenomics, the big mechanism is aggressive easing by the Bank of Japan, something that should theoretically be ineffective with rates near 0%. Nick Rowe, who blogs at Worthwhile Canadian Initiative, writes: This is not the "beginning of the end" of the Japanese economy. But it might be, and I hope it is, the beginning of the end of Japan's long recession. And if this is indeed the beginning of the end of Japan's long recession, it will also be the beginning of the end of Richard Koo's thesis that monetary policy is powerless in a balance sheet recession, and that only fiscal policy can offset private sector deleveraging. And we can only regret that Japan did not do this many years earlier, instead of wasting all those years and letting Japan's government debt/GDP ratio climb. Because that high debt/GDP ratio is the only reason why someone might want Japan's economic recovery but not want the higher interest rates that will accompany that recovery. Which is no reason to try to stop the recovery. Though it is one additional reason to regret not having done something like Abenomics a lot earlier. Meanwhile, Japan's market has gotten tremendously volatile lately, and we're still in the early moments of any real world recovery, so the question remains far from settled.
Who doesn‚Äôt want to invest like Warren Buffett? ¬†It‚Äôs easier than you think. ¬†You just have to follow these 7 easy steps: 1) ¬†Talk all sorts of smack about hedge funds but first spend the initial 10 years of your career running a hedge fund that charges 25% performance fees on top of 6% gains. 2) ¬†Amass enough capital (by charging massive fees) to buy multiple entire companies. ¬†Do it in a distressed debt/activist strategy, but later on spin it off as ‚Äúvalue investing‚Äù. 3) ¬†Use your insurance arm (from the company you bought in a distressed debt play) as a massive cash flow machine in which you‚Äôre essentially a leveraged covered call option writing operation. 4) ¬†Tell the world that they should just buy index funds and then spend most of your time building a portfolio around individual equities. 5) ¬†Tell the world that fixed income is dangerous while maintaining billion dollar positions in bonds. 6) ¬†Constantly refer to derivatives as ‚Äútime bombs‚Äù while maintaining billion dollar derivative positions. 7) ¬†Obtain a red phone to the US Treasury department so you can help them arrange a rescue plan that starts by rescuing your operation¬†when it looks like the economy is collapsing. See, it‚Äôs easy. ¬†Now go get started. ¬†You‚Äôre welcome.
APHere's a classic anecdote form Nomura's Hiromichi Tamura, who was just on a swing of European investors discussing Japanese equities. Whereas in January, when Tamura went out there, there was widespread bearishness towards Japan, this time (right as markets began to falter) everyone was bullish. Many investors have a bullish outlook for Japanese equities One of the main takeaways from our latest trip was that more investors were bullish about the outlook for Japanese equities than when we made our last visit to institutional investors in London, Boston and New York back in January this year. Most of the investors we met in January were bearish on the outlook. This time, several investors we met thought our forecast for the Nikkei Average to reach 16,000 by end-2013 was overly conservative. In the past, investors with the longest experience of investing in Japanese equities had been the most cautious on the outlook, but we now get the impression that nonresident institutional investors welcome the speed of government policy implementation under Abenomics.
Don Hankins via flickrFor the most part, it's likely to be a very quiet day, thanks to the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. But the big story is Japan once again, where stocks went out close to the lows. The index fell 3.2%. That follow last Thursday 7% crash and Friday's mediocre gain. The violent swings in the market is the world's biggest stories, as everyone anxiously awaits to see if a major unwind is really in place. Meanwhile, Europe is actually having a very nice day. Italy is gaining 1.25%. Germany is up 0.7%. So for the time being, Japan is not causing much in the way of ripple effects. Even elsewhere in Asia, things are quiet. Korea gained 0.3%.
