
Wikimedia CommonsA mockup of "Fat Man"Berkshire Hathaway's Q2 earnings are out. The massive conglomerate run by Warren Buffett earned a whopping $3.91 billion or $2,384 per share, up from $3.72 billion or $2,262 per share a year ago. One detail from Berkshire's filings we're always interested in is the value of Buffett's long-term derivative bets on the global stock markets.¬† In case you forgot, Berkshire had sold put options on the S&amp;P 500, FTSE 100, Euro Stoxx 50, and the Nikkei 225. Berkshire collected premiums when it sold these options.¬† Because they are put options, Berkshire is obligated to pay the option buyer should the indices fall below the exercise price.¬† It's important to note that these are European style options, which means they can only be exercised at maturity.¬† As a general rule, the value of these positions increase when stocks go up and vice versa. This bet was controversial because in his 2002 letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders, Buffett dubbed derivative securities as "financial weapons of mass destruction." In Q2, the value of these options climbed by $390 million.¬† Of course, these are just paper losses as Buffett expects to hold them until they expire. From Berkshire Hathaway's 10-Q (click to zoom): SEC Some details from the 10-Q filing: The equity index put option contracts are European style options written on four major equity indexes. Future payments, if any, under these contracts will be required if the underlying index value is below the strike price at the contract expiration dates. We received the premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates and therefore have no counterparty credit risk. We have written no new contracts since February 2008. The aggregate intrinsic value (which is the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled based on the index values and foreign currency exchange rates as of the balance sheet date) of our equity index put option contracts was approximately $3.2 billion at June 30, 2013 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2012. However, these contracts may not be unilaterally terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates which occur between June 2018 and January 2026. Therefore, the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be determined for many years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately 7.5 years at June 30, 2013. : ¬†
CBS and Time Warner Cable have failed to come to agreement regarding fees to retransmit content. So when Time Warner subscribers turn to CBS in New York City,¬† Dallas and Los Angeles, you get a blue screen with the following message from Time Warner, which calls CBS' demands "outrageous." "The second-largest U.S. cable company said CBS was asking for retransmission fees 600 percent higher than the network's affiliates in other markets receive for the same programming," reports Bloomberg's Alex Sherman and Edmund Lee. Showtime, TMC and a couple of other channels are also going dark. Bloomberg says more than 3 million subscribers will be affected. Rob WileCBS from Business Insider's headquarters.
Levo LeagueBerkshire Hathaway's Q2 financial results are out. Operating earnings came in at $2,384 per share.¬† This is up 5.8% year-over-year. This was also well ahead of the $2,166 per share forecasted by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock closed at $176,500 per share today. Berkshire Hathaway is the massive holding company of billionaire Warren Buffett.¬† Its portfolio includes insurance companies, railroad operators, utilities, and various retailers. Read the brief release at BerkshireHathaway.com.
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookThe U.S. added 162,000 jobs in July, missing analysts' expectations of 185,000. This is according to the new Bureau of Labor Statistics' jobs report. As the American labor market muddled along, the unemployment rate dropped to 7.4%, the lowest level in over four years.¬† July's job gains were led by retail employment, which added 47,000 jobs. Retail employment has risen over 350,000 over the past 12 months. The BLS broke down the job growth sector by sector in 21 charts.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidToday's big jobs report was disappointing across the board. Still, stocks exhibited remarkable resilience even while trading near all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Steven Perlberg, Business InsiderThis afternoon, on the place where all respectable throw downs get thrown down ó Twitter ó Bloomberg's Dawn Kopecki and CNBC's Kayla Tausche got into a tiff about which news organization broke a story first. The story in question was the news that the Department of Justice was suing Bank of America over more jumbo loan securitization from the financial crisis, but that's not really the point here. The point is ó who had it first? Each reporter was convinced their organization truly broke the story, and on Twitter, neither of them seemed like they were going to back down. Twitter As you can see, this needs to be settled once and for all. Now, according to CNBC's video, Tausche reported this story during Fast Money.  If you watch the video, it looks like Kayla is reporting this news close to 6:00 p.m., the video's time stamp on the web places it at 5:40 p.m. This screen shot from Bloomberg, though, timestamps the story breaking at 5:02 p.m.:Screenshot And to be fair, Tausche conceded that in her last tweet.  Way to be good sports, people. 
Levo LeagueBusiness leaders¬†didn't get to where they are today without a bit of wisdom guiding them along the way. Many of them cite books ‚Äî whether strategy guides or novels ‚Äî that inspired them or changed the way they think.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueTimothy Geithner is just like the rest of us¬†‚Äî he won't be the next Federal Reserve chairman and he has problems at the DMV. Just hours after the New York Times reported the former Treasury Secretary turned down the president's offer to consider him for top spot at the Fed, Geithner was spotted at a New York DMV trying to switch out his Maryland plates, the Journal News reports. It seems as though Geithner couldn't get out of the DC area fast enough. From the Journal News: "We‚Äôre having glitches,‚Äù said his wife, Carole Geithner, who was waiting patiently on a nearby bench as her husband spoke with the DMV agent. ‚ÄúEven though we brought every document known to man to do it, the bar code on his license was worn out, so that‚Äôs a problem,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúAnd now, I don‚Äôt know why ‚Äî with one of (the cars), they‚Äôre having trouble transferring it.‚Äù For Geithner, who now nets hundreds of thousands of dollars per speech, time spent at the DMV is money lost.
REUTERS/Alessia Pierdomenico  Yesterday, Silvio Berlusconi's luck ran out. Italy's highest court ruled that the decisions made by two lower courts in a tax fraud case were correct, and that the former Italian Prime Minister should serve jail time. In a mild note of appeasement, Rome's Court of Cassation decided that a ban on Berlusconi seeking public office for five years would need to be reviewed, but it seems likely that Berlusconi will be banned from office and face one year of house arrest. Many Italians were probably thrilled with the news. Italy's longest serving post-war prime minister had a reputation for corruption and debauchery, but he had never definitively been convicted of a crime. Finally, according to Italian law, Berlusconi was a criminal. However, this isn't good news for Italy. Berlusconi's center-right PdL party forms half of a coalition government with Prime Minister Enrico Letta's center-left Democratic Party (PD). The entire point of this uncomfortable coalition is to so the government can focus on fixing Italy's ailing economy. The smooth cooperation of both sides is key to keeping Italy on the straight and narrow. The verdict has clearly rocked the boat. The New York Times reports that opposition leaders are calling for Berlusconi to immediately resign from Parliament, while the Guardian reports that PD members are beginning to question their partnership with Berlusconi and his party. Also, Berlusconi's side won't go down without a fight. Despite this week's verdict (not to mention the underage prostitution case and the illegal wiretapping case), Berlusconi issued an angry video rant today that accused Italy's judicial system of trying to "take away my personal freedom and political rights." Now there are reports that his PdL allies are preparing to resign in a bid to force a presidential pardon. Berlusconi has reportedly told PdL party members there are only two options ó a push for judicial reform or new elections in Italy.
Fabrice Tourre, an ex-Goldman Sachs VP who made $2 million when he was just 28, was found liable for fraud after his lawyers used a strategy some legal experts called very risky. His lawyers didn't call a single witness to defend him in the SEC's civil case accusing him of misleading investors in a mortgage deal called Abacus 2007-AC1. The young Tourre, who was the only Goldman exec to go to trial over the deal, has been called a mere "cog" in the Goldman machine. Many lawyers predicted the SEC would lose the case. "Mr. Tourreís lawyers put on the Arthur Fonzarelli defense ó ìAaaayyî ó by resting without calling any witnesses. This is a high-risk strategy that tells the jury the opponentís case is so weak that the opponent need not deign to respond," law professor Peter Henning wrote in The New York Times on Friday. However, Tourre's lawyers ó a high-power team bankrolled by Goldman ó probably had some good reasons for deciding not to call a single witness. For one thing, the SEC's lawyers would have cross-examined any witnesses the defense put on the stand. "It is not unheard of that a defense witness does more harm than good for your case," white collar defense lawyer Barry Slotnick told Business Insider. The other reason Tourre's lawyers didn't call any witnesses is because Tourre himself was called to the stand by the SEC. The government can't force defendants to testify in criminal cases, but it can in civil ones like the fraud case brought against Tourre. Since he was technically the government's witness, Tourre's lawyers were able to make their case by "cross-examining" him, says Solomon Wisenberg, co-chair of the white collar defense group at Barnes &amp; Thornburg. "Obviously, they thought he was their best witness," Wisenberg told BI. It's impossible to know whether his lawyers' decision not to call any defense witnesses (Tourre was a prosecution witness) was to blame for the outcome of the case. "There is no question that the economic climate and the prevalent anti-business attitude played a part in the verdict," Slotnick says. "We expect an appeal." Because this is a civil case, Tourre does not face any jail time. He could be barred from the securities industry, though, and have to pay hefty civil fines.

2.†††††† The internals reflect continuing labor market fragility. This includes (i) the low participation rate (down 0.1 percentage points to 63.4%), (ii) the fall in weekly earnings (due to both of hours worked and average earnings), (iii) the persistently high share of long-term unemployment (37% or 4.2 million Americans), (iv) alarming joblessness among the young (24%, though improving by 0.3 percentage points in July), and (v) the large gap in unemployment rates between those with college degrees and those lacking a high school diploma (3.8% versus 11.0%, respectively, and a one-month widening of 0.4 percentage points). Against that, the unemployment rate for African Americans fell markedly (from 13.7% to 12.6%, its lowest since December 2008). 3.†††††† Fed officials will be disappointed by todayís employment report. This is particularly so for the group within the FOMC eager to start the ìtaperî next month ñ and especially those worried about the potential for collateral damage and unintended consequences of prolonged experimental monetary measures to support markets and the economy. 4.†††††† While the two political parties are putting a different spin on the latest job report, they should both internalize a simple message: the economy is not strong enough to absorb another self-manufactured blow from Congress ñ be it a renewed debt ceiling saga or a government shutdown.
Citi FX guru Steven Englander argues that "the meta-theme in currency markets is the underperformance of commodity currencies versus diversified [emerging market] currencies." This summer, emerging markets have been thrashed by (1) rising Treasury yields in the United States and (2) China's economic growth slowdown, which has negative implications for emerging-market economies that make their money exporting commodities to China. Naturally, in such an environment, those emerging markets that are relatively more reliant on commodity exports than their peers (i.e., those with "commodity currencies") will be worse off. Hence the "meta-theme" that Englander expresses in the trade charted below ñ a basket buying the Polish zloty, the Israeli shekel, the Mexican peso,†and the Phillipine peso while simultaneously shorting the Canadian dollar, the Russian ruble, the Aussie dollar, and the South African rand. Of course, the trade has been doing all right recently, and Englander highlights its consistency in a note to clients. There's also another key takeaway, though, according to Englander (emphasis added): The other feature we would like to highlight is how hard it is to hold a good position with a conventional stop loss in the current environment. Visually the line chart looks like a straight line up since August of 2012, but there have been 14 instances when the pullback versus the high of the recent two weeks has been greater than 1%, so good risk management and tight stops would have taken investors out of the trade at least temporarily. So even if the overall performance of the trade has not been affected by mood changes in asset markets, the cut-risk environment since mid-May may have led to an essentially correct position being stopped out of risk management concerns.† With a 2% stop-loss there would be no position cutting but is taking on much more [P&amp;L] risk. Keep in mind that in real time, no one knows that the trend will resume, so having witnessed the pullback, there is no guarantee that the underlying trend will resume, unlike the impression given by the chart. Our conclusion ñ even good positions are becoming increasingly difficult to hold. That doesn't apply just to emerging market currencies. Rising volatility in the U.S. Treasury market has spilled into other asset classes around the world as well, making this a problem for traders in a lot of different markets. The chart below shows the performance of Englander's emerging markets "meta-theme" basket. Citi/Steven Englander
 REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich: There Are 3 Key Difference Between Silver And Gold That Investors Need To Be Aware Of (Advisor Perspectives) While many investors look at silver as store house for value, just like gold, BlackRock's Russ Koesterich points out three key differences between the two. 1. "Silver tends to be more sensitive to economic variables, while gold is often more sensitive to monetary variables." This is because silver demand largely stems from industrial use, while gold demand is largely driven by investment and jewelry demand. 2. "Silver and gold come from different production sources, which can have an important bearing on their prices." 3. "Silver prices can be more volatile than gold prices, partly owing to silver‚Äôs lower ounce value and smaller market size."  Advisors Can Learn Lessons On Advising Clients From The Sequester (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors can learn lessons about budget cuts from the sequester, according to Patrick Ross, partner at California-based Haskell &amp; White. In a WSJ column he writes that it is important for advisor to talk to business owners about how to make these cuts early on. "When it comes time to cut the budget, rather than making large butcher cuts, advisers should help clients make smaller scalpel cuts in the areas that are actually losing money. Often clients will be afraid of touching the "sacred cows," departments that might be considered untouchable. We saw that with the government not being willing to touch entitlement programs such as Social Security. Advisers should help business owners recognize when their sacred cows should be subject to scrutiny as well. "It can be against the entrepreneurial spirit of small business to look for outside help, but advisers should encourage their clients to do so." Stock Market Correlations Have Collapsed To A Level That Puts Us At Risk For A Correction (Citi) Citi's Tobias Levkovich is out with a new chart that shows the collapse in stock market correlations has put investors at risk for a correction.¬† "Intra-stock correlation of the top 50 market cap names has plunged in the past month. Investors look to be at risk given the collapse of intra-stock correlation from 66% at the end of June to just 18% at the month's end in July which suggests that investors might be overly focused on stock picking and have begun to ignore broader influences such as Fed policy, market valuation, European growth trends, economic surprise indices and the like. "Very high readings on intra-stock correlation tend to generate an intriguing buy signal as seen in September 2011, while low levels suggest a degree of complacency that puts fund managers at risk for a correction." Citi Research A New Survey Shows Very Few Advisors Have Found Clients Through Social Media (FA Mag) A survey by Philadelphia based SEI showed that of the 200 advisors polled, only 13% said they found new customers on social media. Only 28% said they used social media to promote their business, FA Man reports. 21% said they were worried about regulators and compliance. Interestingly 29% said they had no social media presence, up form 19% last year. Sales Assistants Are Often Considered The Driving Force Behind Wealth Management Teams But They Can Also Be A Liability (Reuters) It is often argued that sales assistants are the most important people in wealth management. But Suzanne Barlyn at Reuters writes that six cases brought against sales assistants by FINRA since May shows what can go wrong. In these cases sales assistants failed to call clients back to confirm they wanted the firm to wire money from their accounts. Others involved assistants who forged signatures and embezzled money.¬†¬†¬†¬† "Sales assistants who break industry rules or make costly mistakes may expose brokers to problems with their employers and regulators, say lawyers. Even if the firm and the broker aren't held liable, the behavior can alienate clients," she wrote.
This morning Nanex, a Chicago-based market research firm, pointed out that Kemper Corporation's stock surged $318.89 at 9:36:44 a.m., and for a brief moment, it added $18 billion to the company's market capitalization. Check out the chart below: Nanex Naturally, this kind of thing doesn't happen every day, so we decided to look into it. According to a source close to the situation, the stock trades on the NYSE, but these particular trades were executed on the NASDAQ because the stock hadn't opened on the NYSE yet. It seems like someone submitted the wrong number and that's why this all went down. So no, this was not a buggy high frequency trading algorithm, it was an infamous "fat finger" mistake. The trades were later canceled (labeled "busted" trades) by *NASDAQ: 11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|43160|95|39.01000|300|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|43161|66|39.01000|300|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|43162|95|39.01000|200|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455079|66|39.01000|200|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|43163|95|45.45000|1900|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455082|66|45.45000|1900|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|43164|95|357.90000|100|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455085|66|357.90000|100|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455088|66|357.90000|3|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455090|66|357.90000|3|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455092|66|357.90000|3|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455094|66|357.90000|6|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455096|66|357.90000|2|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455098|66|357.90000|4|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455102|66|357.90000|2|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455105|66|357.90000|1|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455111|66|357.90000|3|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455118|66|357.90000|3|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455123|66|357.90000|1|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455126|66|357.90000|2|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455130|66|357.90000|3|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|43776|95|357.90000|400|||0|||11:22:49|eKMPR|NYSE|NQEX|Cancel;Busted;|11:22:49|455133|66|357.90000|400|||0||| But if you check out the stock's moving day range, it still reads from $34.80 - $357.90.
REUTERS/Brian SnyderThe biggest question facing the Federal Reserve right now is when it will start slowing down its pace of asset purchases, a process known in financial circles as "tapering" or "the taper." St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the central bank should wait for more economic indicators before deciding on whether or not to taper its asset purchases in a speech today. Bullard told a crowd in Boston that "it is important to wait to see if better macroeconomic outcomes materialize in the months and quarters ahead." Many have slated September as the time when the Fed would begin to slow down its $85 billion-a-month easing program, but Bullard's comments suggest he may not support that timeline. You can read a summary in this press release.
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesGeorge Clooney and Smokehouse Pictures partner Grant Heslov made a killing with "Argo," and are following up with "The Monuments Men" ‚Äî a risky film Clooney says Loeb wouldn't touch with a 10-foot pole.George Clooney, who yesterday sent his Smokehouse Pictures partner Grant Heslov to Hollywood to show¬†Sony¬†and Fox a first cut of their Oscar-season period film "The Monuments Men," has spent most of his career navigating the challenge of making provocative movies at studios obsessed with tent poles. While he‚Äôs won Oscars ‚Äî the latest the Best Picture prize he shared with Heslov and producer-director Ben Affleck for "Argo"¬†‚Äî Clooney is also the guy who kept a photo of himself as Batman prominently displayed on his office wall, as a cautionary reminder of what can happen when you make movies solely for commercial reasons. Working on post-production for his latest directing effort in Italy to ready for Sony‚Äôs December 18 release, Clooney spoke to me about his new movie and how it‚Äôs getting harder to make films like¬†"Monuments," "Argo"¬†and the Smokehouse-produced "August: Osage County." The discussion turned toward¬†recent critical comments made by Third Point LLC hedge fund head Daniel Loeb¬†and the pressure he is placing on Sony Pictures chiefs Michael Lynton and Amy Pascal, which is centered around the under-performing back-to-back summer films "After Earth"¬†and "White House Down." Loeb, whose fund controls 7% of Sony stock, is pressing for Sony to spin off its entertainment assets and likened those misfires to historic flops "Waterworld"¬†and "Ishtar." Though Clooney and Heslov base their Smokehouse Pictures banner at Sony, and Loeb‚Äôs influence is growing there, Clooney has never been shy about standing up to what he feels is wrong. So, buckle up. Said Clooney: ‚ÄúI‚Äôve been reading a lot about¬†Daniel Loeb, a hedge fund guy who describes himself as an activist but who knows nothing about our business, and he is looking to take scalps at Sony because two movies in a row underperformed? When does the clock stop and start for him at Sony? Why didn‚Äôt he include ‚ÄòSkyfall,‚Äô the 007 movie that grossed a billion dollars, or ‚ÄòZero Dark Thirty‚Äô or ‚ÄòDjango Unchained‚Äô?‚ÄúAnd what about the rest of a year that includes ‚ÄòElysium,‚Äô ‚ÄòCaptain Phillips,‚Äô ‚ÄòAmerican Hustle‚Äô and ‚ÄòThe Monuments Men‚Äô? You can‚Äôt cherry pick a small time period and point to two films that didn‚Äôt do great. It makes me crazy. Fortunately, this business is run by people who understand that the movie business ebbs and flows and the good news is they are ignoring his calls to spin off the entertainment assets.‚ÄúHow any hedge fund guy can call for responsibility is beyond me, because if you look at those guys, there is no conscience at work. It is a business that is only about creating wealth, where when they fail, they get bailed out and where nobody gets fired. A guy from a hedge fund entity is the single least qualified person to be making these kinds of judgments, and he is dangerous to our industry.‚Äù YouTube screenshotMatt Damon and Clooney on the set of "The Monuments Men." Why is he dangerous? ‚Äú[Loeb] calls himself an activist investor, and I would call him a carpetbagger, and one who is trying to spread a climate of fear that pushes studios to want to make only tent poles,‚Äù Clooney said. He continued: ‚ÄúFilms like ‚ÄòMichael Clayton,‚Äô ‚ÄòOut of Sight,‚Äô ‚ÄòGood Night, And Good Luck,‚Äô ‚ÄòThe Descendants‚Äô and ‚ÄòO, Brother Where Art Though‚Äô? ‚Äî none of these are movies studios are inclined to make. What he‚Äôs doing is scaring studios and pushing them to make decisions from a place of fear. Why is he buying stock like crazy if he‚Äôs so down on things? He‚Äôs trying to manipulate the market. I am no apologist for the studios, but these people know what they are doing. If you look at the industry track record, this business has made a lot of money. It creates a lot of jobs and is still one of the largest exporters in the world. To have this guy portraying it that Sony management is the bad stepchild and doesn‚Äôt know what it is doing and he‚Äôs going to fix it? That is like Walmart saying, let me fix your town, putting in their store, strangling all the small shops and getting everyone who worked in them to work for minimum wage with no health insurance. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs crazy he has weight in this conversation at all,‚Äù Clooney continued. ‚ÄúIf guys like this are given any weight because they‚Äôve bought stock and suddenly feel they can tell us how to do our business ‚Äî one he knows nothing about ‚Äî this does great damage than trickles down. The board of directors starts saying, ‚ÄòWait a minute. What guarantee do you have that this movie makes money?‚Äô Well, there are no guarantees, but if you average out the films Will Smith and Channing Tatum have made, you will take that bet every time, even if sometimes it just doesn‚Äôt work out.‚Äù Clooney also said he believes that down the line both films have a chance to be a wash. Clooney was particularly sensitive on the subject of job creation. ‚ÄúHedge fund guys do not create jobs, and we do,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúOn the movie we just made, we put 300 people to work every day. I‚Äôm talking about nice, regular people, and when we shot in a town, we‚Äôd put another 300 people to work. This is an industry that thrives; there are thousands of workers who make films. You want to see what happens if outside forces start to scare the industry and studios just to make tent poles out of fear? You will see a lot of crap coming out.‚Äù YouTube screenshotClooney says hedge fund guys are too scared to make risky movies like "The Monuments Men."Phew! Despite the Loeb rant, Clooney was in a good mood after completing a WWII period drama he said went well, despite what he called ‚Äúthe worst winter weather that Germany had in about 150 years.‚Äù Clooney and Heslov wrote the script for a fact-based film about how a crew of art historians and museum curators united in a race to uncover renowned art works that were looted by the Nazis. The ticking clock was, Hitler was going to destroy them as the Third Reich tried to cover the tracks of a murderous regime during the final chapter of Germany‚Äôs rule. Clooney and Heslov (both of whom produced) got a killer cast. Besides Clooney, the film stars Cate Blanchett, Matt Damon, Bill Murray, John Goodman and Jean Dujardin. Daniel Craig is also in the film, though not as prominently as was expected because he spent so much time making and promoting ‚ÄúSkyfall‚Äù that he told Clooney his wife, actress Rachel Weisz, would kill him if he didn‚Äôt go home. ‚ÄúAfter we wrapped ‚ÄòThe Ides Of March,‚Äô we were going through our slate to find what‚Äôs next and I asked Grant, what do we have that is not so cynical, and not questioning the rights and wrongs of the world,‚Äù Clooney said. ‚ÄúHe said, we don‚Äôt have anything like that. But he‚Äôd read this book ‚ÄòThe Monuments Men‚Äô at the airport. We thought it could be a really great old-fashioned number where you put a gang together to go after the greatest art archives in the world, these six million pieces stolen by Hitler, who serves as the ultimate bad guy. It was an untold story of World War II, and those don‚Äôt come around often. We pitched it to Sony and they came aboard right away, and everything along the way went smoothly, which never happens. It will come out two years after we first pitched it.‚Äù The film has a $75 million budget, and Clooney said it came in $5 million under and five days early. ‚ÄúThat means more money for music and CGI, because in post you always get surprised,‚Äù he said. There was plenty of good will on the set, and even pranks that are part and parcel of movie sets where Clooney and Damon dwell together. YouTube screenshotDamon rushed to lose weight for his role in "The Monuments Men."‚ÄúMatt was rushing to lose weight, and I‚Äôd have the wardrobe people take in his uniform every day, so that no matter how much he was losing, the clothes felt tight on him,‚Äù Clooney said. ‚ÄúThere was a real family feeling. I have known John Goodman since I was the seventh banana on ‚ÄòRoseanne‚Äô and to have him come over, and to work for the first time with Bill Murray, who‚Äôs a close friend, and Cate and Matt, was incredible. Jean Dujardin was great. I‚Äôd only met him at awards shows, when I told him early on that he might win the Oscar for ‚ÄòThe Artist‚Äô if he learned English, which maybe I shouldn‚Äôt have said [Clooney lost to Dujardin for his perf in ‚ÄòThe Descendants‚Äô]. Matt, Bill and John would often come to the set even when they weren‚Äôt shooting and when we had a snowstorm, they were right there, picking up camera cases and helping to move craft services.‚Äù Even though Clooney acknowledges that $75 million is generous for a studio-made film that isn‚Äôt based on a comic book, he feels they got a lot of bang for the buck with star power and staging a period film in Europe. Part of that is because he hasn‚Äôt taken an upfront salary forever, something that has become commonplace in the business and is evidence that Loeb‚Äôs criticism of fiscal irresponsibility at Sony isn‚Äôt recognizing the whole picture. IMDB / Warner Bros.‚ÄúThe last time I got paid full freight was 'The Perfect Storm,'" Clooney said.‚ÄúThe last time I got paid full freight was "The Perfect Storm," when I had no back end,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúFrom then on, I‚Äôve taken a minor partial upfront payment and gambled on the back end on all my movies. Some have underperformed, but they have never been designed for huge grosses. I‚Äôve gambled and invested as much as a studio; if they‚Äôre making a film for $15 million and I put my $7.5 million in the pot, we‚Äôre all investors who are staked in its performance. I‚Äôm comfortable with that.‚Äù Clooney noted how well that strategy worked for his pal Steven Soderbergh, who teamed with Channing Tatum to personally underwrite the budget of "Magic Mike." The film was a big hit, a sequel is in the works, and so is a Broadway musical. Soderbergh told me at Cannes that his wager should result in the biggest payday of his career. ‚ÄúWhat a way for Steven to go out, at the end of his movie career he hits the jackpot,‚Äù Clooney said. ‚ÄúI watched so many times as he gave back money and percentages to get actors. I applaud both Steven and Channing.‚Äù I reached out to Third Point, and if there is any response by Loeb to Clooney‚Äôs assessment, I will add it after Third Point has a chance to absorb the story.
The media is making a great deal of July's non-farm payroll numbers in the US. The situation is quite simple actually - we are seeing the same level of growth we've seen in the past couple of years - no more, no less. Part of the issue here is the noise related to seasonal adjustments. As the US job market composition changes, so do some seasonal patterns - which is what the Labor Department is having a bit of trouble with. Analysts in the highly seasonal energy industry often don't bother with seasonal adjustments. They simply compare each data point to the range for the same month during previous years. Focusing just on the private sector payrolls without the seasonal adjustments, here is what we get. No surprises, no seasonal adjustment magic. BLS/Walter Kurtz/Sober LookAnd this is what the July payroll number looks like through time. The post-2009 growth is nearly linear, adding on average 2.25 million private jobs per year. BLS/Walter Kurtz/Sober Look While this employment situation report surprised many analysts, it's actually quite ordinary once you remove the seasonal adjustment magic. Employment growth is following the same slow trend it has for some time. BLS/Walter Kurtz/Sober Look
As an international bon vivant, hopefully I have put something in here for everyone ‚Äì well almost everyone. ¬†If you‚Äôre going to a hockey game, it‚Äôs time to look for a new boss because it means he‚Äôs at the bottom of the food chain and there‚Äôs no point hitching your wagon to that star. ¬† Regular season hockey games are for analysts and sh---y brothers-in-law.¬† On a trading floor, it‚Äôs almost impossible to even give the tickets away.¬† But then again, we work in legitimate cities with real sports.¬† So if you are in Detroit, feel free to disregard.¬† But if that‚Äôs the case, you need a completely different set of survival tips right about now anyway. Going to a sporting event with your boss (and presumably clients and colleagues) is a complicated, nuanced, and often conflicting minefield to navigate. ¬†If it was so easy, then everybody would work at Goldman Sachs. To the point: 1. If it‚Äôs a weeknight, wear what you wore to the office.¬† If you show up in skinny jeans, you‚Äôre obviously not busy enough. ¬†If you are at a Miami Heat game, wear whatever you want because you don‚Äôt have a respectable, IRS-abiding job anyway. 2. No photos. No tweets. No Facebook posts. Act like you‚Äôve been there before. 3.¬†Bring a date, but not if she‚Äôs needy or insecure.¬† (Odds are that she is.)¬† First of all, most girls aren‚Äôt huge sports fans to begin with.¬† But more importantly, she‚Äôs going to feel like a 3rd¬†wheel when you‚Äôre talking with clients, colleagues, or your boss. ¬†And if you prioritize coddling her, you are going to look like an unprofessional d---head. 4. Stop checking your Blackberry. You both know that your boss is more important than you are, so if he‚Äôs not checking his, why the hell do you need to check yours?¬† It can wait. 5. Don‚Äôt wear a jersey‚Ä¶ unless it‚Äôs a f√∫tbol match. 6. If it‚Äôs a big game, and you‚Äôre on club/box level, do a lap. You never know who you might see‚Ä¶ unless it‚Äôs a Mets game; no one gives a f--k about Bill Maher or Keith Olbermann. 7.¬†If a work rival is there, get him wasted and convince him that the drinks girl working the suite wants to b--g him. 8. Remember, in 50 years, no one will watch baseball.¬† It was invented when there was absolutely nothing else to do.¬† So be mentally prepared to make 4 hours of conversation. 9.¬†While passion is a good thing, if you didn‚Äôt have a poster above your bunk bed as a kid, stay neutral.¬† No one likes a poser, and only Asian kids can get away with conveniently being ‚Äòdiehard‚Äô Manchester United or New York Yankees fans. 10. If it‚Äôs a cricket match (The Ashes?), don‚Äôt go unless you understand the sport. ¬†Chances are, if your boss is there, he loves it.¬† And not even Meryl Streep could pretend to enjoy that sport. 11. Clients come first. Keep it professional. Usually, they leave early, and if they don‚Äôt, it means they have a free pass for the night.¬† In which case, you are required to show them a good time.¬† Don‚Äôt bother saving the Flashdancers receipt (Matt Defusco?); just expense the next three ‚Äúdate nights‚Äù at Jean-Georges. 12. Bring a joke. But don‚Äôt use it unless someone else tells a joke first. 13.¬†Don‚Äôt be a sports d----e.¬† Nothing is worse than canned, feigned sports knowledge. ‚ÄúLampard saved the day, but I still don‚Äôt understand why Mourinho went with the 4-4-2.‚Äù ¬†F--k off. 14. If you‚Äôre at Wimbledon, do not drink Pimm‚Äôs. You don‚Äôt want to be that guy who passes out on the tube home with grass stains on his trousers. 15.¬†Check it out at GSElevator. 16. Talk about work when prompted, but otherwise, this is a chance to showcase your personality and find a connection. ¬†Seriously, it‚Äôs not that hard: travel, cars, wine, family, and sports. But drop the wannabe trader-speak and avoid saying ‚Äúyours‚Äù every time some d------bag (Vinay Jayaram?) mentions Duke. 17. If you are the office rock star, wear the latest outfit from the John Daly collection.¬† When you get to Arthur Ashe Stadium, tell everyone you thought it was the US Open at Bethpage. 18.¬†Check it out at GSElevator. 19. Don‚Äôt forget to tell any work rivals that ‚Äúeveryone is going to Wiggles in Rego Park after Serena loses.‚Äù ‚Äì Google it or ask Shahryar Mahbub. 20. Most importantly, your boss is always the benchmark of depravity.¬† If he‚Äôs sitting in first class on the plane to Hell, make sure you‚Äôre in the cockpit.
After the release of every monthly jobs report, we publish what we call "the scariest jobs chart ever," which highlights how long and painful the current labor market recovery has been following the 2008 recession versus recoveries following other historical recessions. One year from now, however, that scariest jobs chart ever may not look so scary anymore. The reason: at the current pace of payroll creation, the total number of employees on private sector and government payrolls in the United States will reach the peak levels achieved in 2008. "By a long stretch the ongoing recovery for employment is the longest on record for any recovery," says Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson. "The three-month pace of job creation of 175,000 through July if sustained would eliminate [by July 2014] the remaining 2.018 million jobs lost since payrolls peaked more than five years ago." Miller Tabak/Andrew Wilkinson That's not to say that America will have recovered the same jobs it lost. The next chart shows that while total payrolls may only be a year away from breakeven, the recovery in full-time employment still seems a way off. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The difference between the two series above is the surge in part-time employment since 2008, as the chart below illustrates. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg So, what's driving the surge in part-time employment? The blue line in the chart below shows the share of part-time employees who cite economic reasons for their part-time status (i.e., they can't find a full-time position). The red line shows the share of part-time employees who cite non-economic reasons (i.e., going back to work for fun, etc.) for their part-time status. After the recession, the share of those employed part-time for economic reasons rose, peaking at 33.8% in April 2010. Since then, that figure has slowly trended lower to 30.1% as of today's report, but still remains elevated well above January 2008's 19.9% level. Nonetheless, at present, 69.9% of those employed part-time in the United States are in those positions for non-economic reasons, according to the BLS survey. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
REUTERS/ Mike SegarAmerica's largest hedge funds have¬†$1.47 trillion in net assets and more than $1 trillion in debt, according to a new report from the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC issued the report ‚Äî¬†the first of its kind¬†‚Äî to Congress last week, according to Bloomberg.  Under Dodd-Frank, legislators directed the SEC to collect information from hedge funds and private equity firms. The new reporting rules require hedge fund managers with more than than $1.5 billion in gross assets to file quarterly with the SEC (and for each separate fund with more than $500 million, they have to further detail leverage and risk). We also get a better picture of liquidity from the report. From Bloomberg: Twenty-seven percent of their $1.47 trillion in net assets could be divested within a day, according to the SEC. Fifty-three percent of the net assets could be liquidated in a week or less, the large managers said, and 71 percent would take no more than a month to sell. Fifteen percent of assets would take more than six months to liquidate. Of the entire $1.47 trillion pool, investors could cash out about a quarter of their money within a month. Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
naotakem via FlickrThere's a grape shortage developing in the U.S., warns Citi's Gino Rossi and Craig Woolford. And the roots of this problem originate twenty years ago. "An excess of US vineyard plantings in the 1990s resulted in surplus wine grape supply through the 2000s," noted Rossi and Woolford.† "The excess supply of grapes over the last decade and Californian farmersí ability to switch to other crops has meant new plantings of vine in California have been low." But now the supply-demand dynamics are reversing. "[S]trong consumption growth in the US has meant that demand has eventually caught up to supply and the small harvest in 2011 caused many industry participants to panic," they add. "This sent grape prices higher, indicative of how nervous the industry is about a growing grape shortage." "On our estimates current vineyard plantings are insufficient to meet future demand for domestic wine." For now, this is a big win for foreign wine producers who are increasingly able to compete on price. Unfortunately, this problem can't be fixed overnight. "If growers planted new vineyards today, the shortage could be contained in three to four years," they add. "To meet future demand we forecast that acreage in California needs to increase by 2.5% p/a, or approximately 12,800 acres each year." "However, there are impediments to a quick industry response." Why? Because you can make way more money growing something else. "Using data from UC Davis and the Office of the Agricultural Commissioner, we estimate that in 2011 wine grape growers in San Joaquin Valley made a cash loss on wine grapes of -$170 per acre compared to a profit of $2,962 per acre with Walnuts and $1,483 with almonds," said the analysts. Here's a look at the collapse in grape plantings. Citi Research
REUTERS/ Nguyen Huy KhamHere's where the major markets stand in 2013 through the end of July (via Bank of America Merrill Lynch). As you can see by the YTD column, hedging activity or diversification of any kind with either treasurys, gold or vix options has cost many portfolios quite a bit. The key is to remember that this isn't always or even usually the case - it just so happens to be the case in 2013. Five months still to go, anything can happen... The Reformed Broker
Like dealing with grief, there's an emotional process most college graduates go through with student loan debt: denial, anger, depression, bargaining, and, finally, acceptance. Millions get trapped somewhere between steps one and four, tripped up by a weak job market, predatory private lenders, or out-of-control payment schedules. Others skip all that mess and head straight for step five. They suck it up and move back in with mom and dad. They rent out their spare bedroom and get a side gig. They live on boats or camp out in their van. And in the case of Jason Kasher, they turn their bodies into billboards and run 1,000 miles across the country. Beginning this September, the Temple University graduate will spend 183 days running in dozens of different cities in order to pay down his five-figure loan debt. "It's a pretty unique challenge," Kasher, 23, told Business Insider. "I was at work one day and I sat there asking myself, is this something I want to do consistently for five or 10 years? I came to the realization that it's not." He had toyed around with the idea of launching his own business in college but had only managed to pay down $6,000 of his loans in the year after graduation, leaving nearly $30,000 standing in his way. It wasn't until June that he started exploring the idea of a thousand-mile fundraiser. "I was actually getting to ready to purchase a plane ticket to fly down to Florida to visit family down there ... and the price of the ticket went up like $100 in three days," he said. "I remember thinking, I'd be better off just walking the thousand miles down there than paying this price. And I just made a connection."¬† In early July, he quit his job as an operations manager for a central Pennsylvania-based logistics firm, moved back in with his parents, and started work on Paidtorun.com.¬†¬† Photo: Courtesy of Jason KasherKasher graduated from Temple University in 2012 with $35,000+ in student loans.Six miles a day for six months straight: Kasher isn't the first person to sell their body for advertising, but he said his motives are much different. "The one thing that differentiates me from [other sites] is that what they're doing is based off the money aspect," he said. "I'm trying to achieve a personal goal for myself, running 1,000 miles." Each day of his challenge, Kasher plans on running six miles. If a company wants to buy ad time, they simply ship him an outfit of their choosing with their logo ("T-shirt, uniform, whatever, I'm not picky.") and he will wear it for the day. Rates start out dirt cheap at $1/mile the first day, but increase by $1 each day thereafter. If he manages to secure funding for every day of his challenge, he'll wind up raising close to $100,000 ‚Äì enough to cover his $29,500 loan bill three times over. Of course, that's part of the plan. Kasher plans on using any additional funds raised to pump into a startup he is working on with a friend. "Since I was a sophomore in college, I always thought about getting into entrepreneurship, but until now I never actually went full-force and did it myself," he said. Coming up with a game plan: Running six miles a day is routine for most marathoners, but Kasher admits he hasn't consistently run in more than a year. He's spent the better part of three months conditioning his body to handle the demand he plans on putting on it. If he runs into any injuries along the way, he has a couple weeks' worth of cushion in his schedule for time off. As for where he'll run, he has a few destinations in mind (New York, Philadelphia, and Miami, for example), all home to friends who will let him crash for free. "I don't have any set course right now," he said. "I'm talking to friends about where I should run and I think I'll [end up] couch surfing my way down South." Giving back along the way: Kasher is setting aside two days on his trip to raise funds for charities, Oct. l and Dec. 25. He'll donate 50% of those days' proceeds to the National Breast Cancer Foundation and The Children‚Äôs Hospital of Philadelphia, respectively. "It started off as a quirky idea to see if I could pay off my loans or make a little money on the side," he said. "I'm pretty much never going to have a better opportunity to do this in my life so I'm taking a shot." You can follow Kasher on his journey here.
We stumbled across "The Wolf of Wall Street" movie trailer in German and it's amazing. † The movie, which is an adaptation of former stockbroker Jordan Belfort's memoir, premieres in November.† Check it out:† 
Mike Nudelman, Business InsiderAn odd problem has developed in our economy. Some of our largest technology companies have become so fantastically huge and profitable that they literally don't know what to do with the cash piling up in their bank accounts. At the same time, these same companies are complaining that there aren't enough top-notch engineers to do the work they need done, on account of a big tech-talent shortage in the United States. And, of course, we have a massive unemployment, inequality, and under-investment problem in this country. So, I have a suggestion! Instead of whining about a tech-talent shortage while watching their mountains of cash grow ever higher, why don't these big tech companies do something about it? Specifically, why don't they invest some of their extra cash in educating and training more engineers? The companies could do this in several different ways. Before we get to those ways, however, let's review how much extra cash these companies have. We'll look at just five of the top tech companies--Apple, Google, Cisco, Microsoft, and IBM. There are plenty of others out there. APPLECash: $156 billionAnnual operating profit: $55 billion GOOGLECash:¬†$54 billionAnnual operating profit: $13 billion CISCOCash:¬†$51 billionAnnual operating profit:¬†$10 billion MICROSOFTCash:¬†$85 billionAnnual operating profit:¬†$22 billion IBMCash:¬†$29 billionAnnual operating profit:¬†$22 billion Add all that up, and here's what you get (for these five companies alone): TOTALCash: $375 billionAnnual operating profit: $122 billion That's a lot of money! And instead of just letting that money just sit around earning nothing in their bank accounts, the companies could invest it in ways that would help their businesses, their shareholders, the economy, and the country. How? Well, here are three simple ideas. 1. Create venture funds devoted to investing in technology education and training companies. The Silicon Valley innovation machine has recently turned its attention to education. Dozens of promising startups across a wide variety of disciplines are now exploring how technology can be used to make education and training more universal and efficient. Most of the companies above already have venture-capital arms. They could each take an additional $500 million or $1 billion apiece and dedicate it to investing in companies that are focused on the engineering-education problem. 2. Create formal, multi-year, in-house technology training schools. Each of the companies could allocate, say, $1 billion a year to building and funding what would amount to in-house universities. These schools--Apple University, Google University--could take promising undergrads and teach them everything they would learn at an excellent engineering school. The schools could hire great teachers and have some of their own employees teach courses. They could educate students for free, in exchange for multi-year work commitments (similar to the armed forces), or they could pay them a modest stipend or even charge tuition. Unlike actual universities, which often devote much of their curricula to theory or out-of-date skills, these in-house programs could focus on what the companies needed now and in the future. The operating budget for an excellent engineering school like Caltech is about $500 million a year (the affiliated Jet Propulsion Laboratory costs another $1.5 billion). Caltech's freshman class every year is about 250 students. If each of the companies above spent $1 billion a year, they could educate and train classes of ~500 students per year. 3. Donate funds to help create new independent engineering schools. Most private universities are founded on the backs of donations from rich benefactors--corporations and individuals. In addition to the fantastically wealthy corporations listed above, Silicon Valley is chock full of billionaires and centi-millionaires who have earned their fortunes on the strength of engineering talent. So, some of these folks could help increase the supply of future engineering talent by founding new universities dedicated to engineering. Caltech, which was recently voted the best engineering school in the country, has an endowment of only $1.8 billion. If each of the companies above donated $1 billion, and then committed to making additional donations for 5-10 years, a major new endowed engineering university or two could be launched. These schools could churn out hundreds of top-notch engineers every year. People don't start universities very often, and it takes a long time for a new school to build up the reputation, prestige, and alumni network of an established one. But money helps. As does branding. And it's not hard to imagine that, in 30 years, a Page University or Bezos Technology Institute could be every bit as prestigious as, say, Carnegie Mellon (which, of course, was founded in an earlier technology boom, by steel mogul Andrew Carnegie.) Silicon Valley prides itself on its ability to solve problems and change the world. Unlike some of the other problems that Silicon Valley is trying to solve, this one is relatively simple. If there aren't enough top-notch engineering graduates in America, we need to help create more of them. And our top technology companies and entrepreneurs have more than enough resources to do it. So stop whining about the tech-talent shortage, Silicon Valley! Start doing something about it!
Vittorio Zunino Celotto/Getty ImagesU.S. album sales totaled 4.68 million this week, the lowest print in Nielsen Soundscan history, Billboard's Ed Christman reports. This comes as digital sales are off -2.3% YTD, and fell -3.3% in Q2. Dave Bakula, a NielsenSoundscan analyst, said late July is historically a time of reduced sales in the industry, ¬†and expects demand to pick up in the fall when mega-artists like country star Luke Bryan and Justin Timberlake release new music. Timberlake's "20/20 Experience" is already the best-selling album of 2013 YTD at more than 2 million copies. But Christman notes there have already been nine weeks this year with 5 million or fewer in album sales, and the industry has gone sub-5 million. Christman says the biggest hit is coming from back-catalogue sales, which are off -8.8%. Physical CD sales are also way down at -14.1%. But the big question for labels is whether streaming is cannibalizing music sales. Christman: More recently, some industry executives began changing their tune about the possibility of streaming cannibalization after they saw digital song sales decline more in the second quarter than in the first at the same time that digital album sales slowed (see our mid-year Nielsen SoundScan report). Analysts have not yet found a way to measure cannibalization and are looking for new ways to measure whether or not it is occurring. As one analyst put it, just because he couldn't prove cannibalization through analysis, he couldn't definitively say it's not happening. Bakula says albums sales are no longer as reflective of the state of the industry as in past years, and that streaming and digital tracks comprise an ever-growing share of label revenue.¬†
Goldman Sachs / YouTubeEarlier today, we learned that U.S. companies added just 162,000 jobs in July, which was below the 185,000 expected.¬† Also, the June number was revised down. "The July employment report was on balance disappointing, as payroll jobs, income, and hours grew less than expected, and the larger-than-expected decline in the unemployment rate was partly due to declining participation," said Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. So, what happened? Among other things, the dreaded budget cuts tied to the sequester may have had some effects.¬† But they didn't come in the form of federal job cuts. Here's Hatzius: ...There continued to be little if any discernible sequester impact on federal jobs as federal ex-postal service employment was essentially unchanged on the month. However, there was a bit more weakness in private industries likely to be impacted by the sequester, including non-auto transportation equipment manufacturing‚Äïwhich incorporates aerospace and shipbuilding‚Äïdown 7k... Other economists have argued that Federal employment has held relatively steady due to furloughs and reduced hours. Either private companies are unable to do this, or they're getting hit harder than the public sector.
Reuters/Aly SongIf you visit Tianducheng, a day trip from Shanghai in China's Zhejiang province, you will be confronted by a 354-foot replica of the Eiffel tower. Development on this Paris replica in China began in 2007, but local media say it is a ghost town now. Everyone points to China's ghost towns as proof of malaise in China's property sector.† But some, like Stephen Roach, former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, have argued that these cities will become "thriving metropolitan areas" as China continues to urbanize. What's truly quirky about these ghost towns, however, is that some of them have been designed as replicas of Italian, German, English, and French towns. We drew on photos from Reuters photographer Aly Song to give you a peek at Tianducheng.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTobias Levkovich, CitiCiti's top equity strategist Tobias Levkovich has published his August 2013 Chart of the Month. It looks at the correlation of the 50 largest stocks in the S&amp;P 500.¬† This is the degree to which these stocks move with each other. The fact that correlations have collapsed recently may be a warning sign for investors. Here's Levkovich (emphasis added): Intra-stock correlation of the top 50 market cap names has plunged in the past month. Investors look to be at risk given the collapse of intra-stock correlation from 66% at the end of June to just 18% at the month's end in July which suggests that investors might be overly focused on stock picking and have begun to ignore broader influences such as Fed policy, market valuation, European growth trends, economic surprise indices and the like. Very high readings on intra-stock correlation tend to generate an intriguing buy signal as seen in September 2011, while low levels suggest a degree of complacency that puts fund managers at risk for a correction. "Macro concerns should never dominate the discussion, but they should not stop mattering either," he added. Levkovich also explained that some investors have felt the need to invest more aggressively in stock with high beta.¬† But he thinks that now's the time to be dialing back risk. "[I]investors might prefer large caps and less Diversified Financials exposure in the near term," he suggested. Citi Research
Flickr/smokeghostToday's July jobs report was disappointing. We learned that U.S. companies added just 162,000 payrolls, missing expectations for a 185,000 gain. ¬† But it's this morning's ISM New York report that really stole the show¬†‚Äî the index exploded to 67.8 from 47. The magnitude of the jump is the biggest in the two decade history of this report. "New York City business activity expanded at the fastest rate in over two years," noted the analysts at ISM.  The employment sub-index jumped to a four-month high of 54.1.¬† And future optimism as measured by its six-month outlook index also spiked. ISM
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithJune factory orders data are out. Orders rose 1.5% in June after advancing an upward-revised 3.0% in May, missing expectations for a larger 2.3% rise. Below is a summary of the data from the release: New orders for manufactured goods in June, up four of the last five months, increased $7.6 billion or 1.5 percent to $496.7 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau reported today. This was at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis in 1992 and followed a¬†3.0 percent May increase. Excluding transportation, new orders decreased 0.4 percent. Shipments, down three of the last four months,¬†decreased $2.0 billion or 0.4 percent to $481.8 billion. This followed a 1.0 percent May increase. Unfilled orders, up four of the last five months,¬†increased $21.5 billion or 2.1 percent to $1,029.9 billion.¬†This was at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis and followed a 1.2 percent¬†May increase. The unfilled orders-to-shipments ratio was 6.38, up from 6.23 in May. Inventories, up six of the last seven months, increased $0.7 billion or 0.1 percent to $627.7 billion. This was at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis and followed a 0.1 percent May decrease.¬†The inventories-to-shipments ratio was 1.30, unchanged from May. Click here for the full release &gt;
Former Credit Suisse intern/Washington University St. Louis finance major Justin Blau (a.k.a. 3LAU) recently released his new electronic song "Escape" with Paris &amp; Simo featuring Bright Lights.† Check it out:† 
APHere is how far apart two factions of the Republican Party are on the possibility of a government shutdown this October over the issue of defunding the Affordable Care Act.¬† One side has dubbed the other "The Surrender Caucus" ‚Äî the ones who have given up hope on defunding and repealing the law. If that's the case, they're happy to "surrender." The other side, they say, doesn't have a plan, can't get "anything off the runway," and is playing with fire to boost enthusiasm and fundraising. "Dr. Coburn applauds and shares their desire to dismantle the health care law, but the idea has zero chance of getting off the runway," said an aide to Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), who has been one of the main conservative opponents of the strategy.  "We‚Äôre better off highlighting the president‚Äôs desire to violate spending levels he agreed to." But most Republicans acknowledge that this effort is, so far, a small GOP operation led by the "wacko bird" conservative firebrand coalition of Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) ‚Äî along with Sen. Marco Rubio, who continues to move right after his role in helping to pass the Senate's immigration bill.¬† They are backed by conservative organizations like Heritage Action, the Club for Growth, and FreedomWorks. One of those groups, Heritage, is ramping up pressure by hosting town halls this month in nine U.S. cities ‚Äî and Cruz will make an appearance in Dallas. In total, 12 Republican senators have signed a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, saying they will not vote to advance any continuing-resolution bill that provides funding for the health-care law.¬† "The important thing is that we spend the next two months talking to people about why we need to defund Obamacare," said Dan Holler, the communications director at Heritage Action. "If we do it right, what you do on Oct. 1" after a possible shutdown is worried about then. There are two problems "The Surrender Caucus" sees with this strategy. The first, and most obvious, is that the politics of a shutdown aren't great for the GOP. Polling is clear ‚Äî Republicans are not viewed favorably by the majority of Americans, and they'd likely be blamed in the case of a shutdown.  According to a Wall Street Journal/NBC poll released last week, 56% say the GOP is "too inflexible." By a 3-to-1 margin, people are more likely to say Republicans are "too partisan" (67%) than "unifying" (22%). The second, and less obvious, is that stripping the appropriations bill of funding for Obamacare might not solve Republicans' problems. That was the argument advanced by the¬†Washington Examiner conservative columnist Byron York last week. The difference, he wrote, comes in how Obamacare is primarily funded: The far bigger portions of the program, including the billions and billions of dollars in subsidies that will start going to Americans on Jan. 1, are mandatory spending, an entitlement funded by an automatic appropriation which is written into law and runs without further congressional action. To change that, Congress would have to change Obamacare. And to change Obamacare in that fashion would require 67 votes. Even Cruz has admitted that his effort doesn't have the 41 votes in the Senate right now that would be required for a filibuster of the CR bill.¬† But even though some of the party's most conservative have come out in vocal opposition ‚Äî and the number of senators signing the letter to Reid have dwindled from 17 to 12 ‚Äî advocates of the plan to defund Obamacare believe that a long, hot five-week stretch at home will build pressure on the holdouts.¬† They point to the Tea Party-affiliated town halls that have popped up¬† since the beginning of President Obama's time in office, which helped shift what was then an ongoing debate over how to reshape the nation's health care laws. Fox NewsKrauthammer says conservatives are "nuts" on this one.  "There are a lot of folks who already seem to know how this is going to play out," Holler said. "But we know when Congress goes back home, their constituents are going to say, 'Hey, why aren't you fighting?' ... There's a lot of momentum building for this approach." But heading into Congress' break, even the most conservative aren't latching on. In a scathing column on Friday, Washington Post columnist Charles Krauthammer ripped Cruz and Lee as "nuts." Those who fancy themselves tea party patriots fighting a sold-out cocktail-swilling establishment are demanding yet another cliff dive as a show of principle and manliness. But there‚Äôs no principle at stake here. This is about tactics. If I thought this would work, I would support it. But I don‚Äôt fancy suicide. It has a tendency to be fatal. This is why, as Krauthammer points out, Obama is practically "goading Republicans into trying" their shutdown tactic. Democrats, meanwhile, are dumbfounded. They point to GOP leadership for what it now views as a problem, saying it has given too much free reign to the young Cruz and Lee. "They can't keep the wacko birds in the loony bin," said one senior Democratic Party official. Thus far, neither Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell nor House Speaker John Boehner has ruled out including a measure to defund Obamacare in any potential continuing resolution bill. Further complicating items include the fact that McConnell is now facing a primary challenger in a tough 2014 election bid that will serve, in part, as a referendum on his conservative credentials. It also means that this will likely drag on as long as Cruz and Lee want to keep talking it up. "McConnell has been totally silent on this. Even Boehner has at least signaled that he‚Äôs against the Tea Party path to shutting down the government," said one Senate Democratic aide.  "McConnell‚Äôs lack of ‚Äòprofile in courage‚Äô is giving the Rubio/Lee/Cruz faction a reason to believe that their theater on this is worthy of attention, when in fact it‚Äôs just so obviously a distraction that has no chance of succeeding."
CEO Michael Dell and his group have reached a deal with the Dell Special Committee on voting rules to take the company private ‚Äî the actual vote, however, will not take place until September 12th, says Bloomberg. What all that means is that Carl Icahn, the billionaire hedge fund manager attempting to take over the company for himself, may be completely out of luck. The voting rule Michael Dell wanted to change was one that counted absentee shareholder votes as "no" votes to his deal. There has a been a serious lack of shareholder participation in this vote (thus the delays) and so that rule was really working in Carl Icahn's favor. Yesterday, Icahn sued Dell and his group to stop them from changing the rule, but apparently so far that isn't making an impact. To get this change Michael Dell and his partners (specifically private equity firm Silver Lake) agreed to up their offer for the company to $13.88 a share including a special 13 cent dividend for shareholders. We'll keep you updated.
The July jobs report just came in well below consensus estimates, and markets are staging some big moves this morning in the wake of the report. Gold is up around $34 an ounce just since 8:30 AM, when the jobs report was released. Taken alongside the big surge in Treasuries and the plunge in the dollar against the euro and the yen, it appears that markets are busy pricing in reduced chances that the Federal Reserve will begin to taper bond purchases at the conclusion of the central bank's FOMC policy meeting in mid-September. The chart below shows the big move in gold. Thinkorswim
The U.S. economy added just 162,000 jobs in July, missing expectations for 185,000 new jobs.¬† To make things worse, the June jobs number was revised down to +188,000 from last month's estimate of +195,000 jobs. And as the labor force participation rate fell, the unemployment rate ticked down to 7.4%. All of this reminds us that despite the upticks in jobs, the overall jobs market remains anemic four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
pedrosimoes7 via Compfight ccThe July nonfarm payrolls report was just released, and it came in below expectations. The American economy added 162,000 nonfarm payrolls in July after creating a downward-revised 188,000 in June. Economists were looking for 185,000 new payrolls in this report. Despite the lackluster job growth, the unemployment rate still managed to tick down two notches to 7.4% in July from 7.6% in June. Part of the reason: the labor force participation rate, which fell to 63.4% last month from 63.5% the month before. The civilian labor force decreased by 37,000 to 155.80 million in July, while those not in the labor force rose by 240,000 to 89.96 million.
REUTERSAccording to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' household survey, part-time jobs jumped by 174,000 to 28,233,000 in July. Full-time workers climbed by 92,000. Full-time workers are down from the May jobs report while part-time workers are up for the same time period. Workers are generally considered to be "full time" if they work over 30 hours per week. Some economists have speculated the shift from full time to part time derives from the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act. Under the legislation, employers will be required to offer health insurance or face penalties (though the White House will delay enforcement until 2015). As a result, many companies have threatened to reduce full-time staff to below the 50-employee threshold for the mandate or scale back hours. But the effect of the employer on today's part-time figures remains unclear. In fact, some economists were more optimistic when part-time workers surged last month, arguing that the ratio of part-time to full-time was seasonal and expected.
REUTERS/Jason ReedThe jobs report missed expectations, sending futures lower immediately after the release. There were 162,000 jobs created in July, below expectations for 185,000. June's number was revised lower and unemployment fell to 7.4%. Dow futures are down 0.06% The S&amp;P futures were down 0.1% immediately after the report. Nasdaq is up 0.2%, but pared earlier gains. Meanwhile, gold is up to $1,307.50. Ahead of the jobs report gold was down 1.9% to $1,299.
The July nonfarm payrolls report just came in well below expectations. 162,000 nonfarm payrolls were created in July, versus Wall Street's consensus estimate of a 185,000 gain. In the wake of the release, buyers are flocking to Treasuries, sending yields plunging. Yesterday was the worst day for the bond market since the release of the June nonfarm payrolls report nearly a month ago, but the surge immediately following today's release has already made up for all of yesterday's losses. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 8 basis points lower from yesterday's close at 2.63%. The chart below shows the move in 5-year U.S. Treasury futures. Thinkorswim
REUTERS/Octavian CantilliSheila Shirah, 17, the 2011 Miss Silver Spurs, rides around the arena during a prayer at the start of the Silver Spurs Monster Bull rodeo event held at Osceola Heritage Park in Kissimmee, February 11, 2012.The July jobs report is out, and the U.S. posted average hourly earnings growth of 1.9%, missing analyst expectations of 2.2% Though all eyes are surely on the general employment figures, we're looking at wages. As we've¬†pointed out, average hourly earnings growth has been moving in the right direction for the first time since the end of the crisis.
Flickr/anitakhart The July jobs number is out, and it's not pretty. Just 162,000 new jobs were created in July. That's below expectations of 185,000, and well below "whisper" numbers over 200,000. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate fell to 7.4% from 7.6%. Markets are off a bit, post number. Meanwhile, last month was revised downward. Not horrible by any stretch, but kind of meh. According tot he household survey, about two thirds of the jobs created were part-time. Equity markets aren't moving too much on the news, but gold has spiked, interest rates have fallen, and the dollar is weaker, which implies a belief that Fed tapering has been delayed. The full press release is here.
Getty Images/China PhotosIncome missed¬†expectations, while spending came in in line, the BEA said. Income increased 0.3%. Spending gained 0.5%. Income was expected to climb by 0.4%. Spending was expected to climb by 0.5%. In chained 2009 dollars, disposable income actually declined -0.1% in June. More: Private wages and salaries increased $38.0 billion in June, compared with an increase of $19.1 billion in May. Goods-producing industries' payrolls increased $5.9 billion, compared with an increase of $5.0 billion; manufacturing payrolls increased $4.2 billion, compared with an increase of $1.8 billion. Services-producing industries' payrolls increased $32.0 billion, compared with an increase of $14.2 billion. Government wages and salaries decreased $0.5 billion, in contrast to an increase of $0.3 billion. Last month's personal income was revised to 0.3%, while personal spending was revised to 0.2%. Consumption growth has been basically flat since mid-2010, while disposable income has seen more fluctuations.
FlickrThe average†Twitter†prediction for today's non-farm payrolls report is 206,000. The median estimate is 205,000. The standard deviation from the mean is 42,000. These figures are based on 111 Twitter submissions using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 8:15 AM ET. Wall Street economists forecast today's headline non-farm payrolls number will come in at†185K new jobs. We will have the jobs data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET &gt;
REUTERS/Eric ThayerDeutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna is the most optimistic toward today's jobs report of the 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg: he predicts 225,000 nonfarm payrolls were created in July, compared with the consensus estimate of 185,000. On the back of a strong ISM manufacturing report, LaVorgna upgraded his forecast to 225,000 from 200,000, and knocked his projection for the unemployment rate down to 7.4% (the unemployment rate stood at 7.6% in June). Even before Thursday's forecast revision, though, LaVorgna's prediction was above consensus. Following Wednesday's ADP employment release, which reported private payroll growth well above expectations, LaVorgna wrote: ADP employment rose +200k in July after the prior month was revised up +10k to +198k. Since last October, when Moody's took over from Macroeconomic Advisors, the average forecast miss from the initially reported private payroll number and the initially reported ADP figure has been just +9k. The standard deviation has been +44k. These are relatively small numbers and such ADP has done a pretty good job predicting monthly employment (at least relative to all other indicators). Also released on Wednesday were Q2 GDP figures, including benchmark revisions to GDP data going back to 1929. On the gap between GDP growth and employment growth, LaVorgna wrote: Over the past three quarters, real GDP growth has averaged just +1.0% while nonfarm payroll gains have averaged 204k per month. This is the best nine month performance since April 2006 when payroll gains averaged 206k per month, and real GDP growth averaged +3.3% from Q4 2011 through Q2 2006. Hence, the latest discrepancy between GDP and employment is puzzling to us, especially with the performance of tax receipts corroborating the job improvement. Two factors might be at play: One, productivity growth is even weaker than what we had thought. Two, real GDP growth is still understated despite the data having gone through comprehensive benchmark revisions. "The fact that the unemployment rate has been fallingódown 2.4% since its peakódespite aforementioned lackluster GDP growth strongly suggests that full unemployment (i.e., NAIRU) is higher than what many Fed officialsóin particular the dovesócurrently believe," said LaVorgna. LaVorgna also highlighted the stability in recent nonfarm payroll readings in a note Thursday. He doesn't believe it's bound to last long, but the question is whether payrolls break to the upside, or to the downside. "Given what we are seeing in housing and other cyclically-sensitive sectors of the economy, such as autos, the ISM and jobless claims, our best estimate is that employment is more likely to accelerate rather than decelerate," he writes. "We will see if that happens [Friday], as we are projecting an above-consensus gain in jobs."
Library of CongressI've always hated the idea that we need labor unions. Why? Several reasons. And all those are indeed negatives. But we've now developed a bigger problem in this country. Namely, we've developed inequality so extreme that it is worse than any time since the late 1920s. This inequality contributed to the Occupy protests a couple of years ago, and it's fueling the fast-food workers' strikes now. And it is exemplified by fantastically profitable companies like McDonald's choosing to pay employees so little that they have to live in poverty. Contributing to this inequality is a new religion of shareholder value that has come to be defined only by "today's stock price" and not by many other less-visible attributes that build long-term economic value. Like many religions, the "shareholder value" religion started well: In the 1980s, American companies were bloated and lethargic, and senior management pay was so detached from performance that shareholders were an afterthought. But now the pendulum has swung too far the other way. Now, it's all about stock performance ó to the point where even good companies are now quietly shafting other constituencies that should benefit from their existence. Most notably: Rank and file employees. Great companies in a healthy and balanced economy don't view employees as "costs." They don't try to pay them "as little as they have to to keep them from quitting." They view their employees as the extremely valuable assets they are (or should be). Most importantly, they share their wealth with them. One of the big problems in the U.S. economy is that America's biggest companies are no longer sharing their wealth with rank and file employees. Consider the following two charts: 1) Corporate profit margins are at an all-time high. Companies are making more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 2) Wages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low. This is closely related to the chart above. One reason companies are so profitable is that they're paying employees less than they ever have before. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed When presented with these charts, many people invoke one of two arguments. First, technology is making employees irrelevant. Second, low-skill jobs command low pay. Both of these arguments miss key points: Technology has been making some jobs obsolete for 200+ years now, but it is only recently that corporate profit margins have gone through the roof. Just because you can pay full-time employees so little that they're below the poverty line doesn't mean you should ó especially when retention is often a problem and your profit margin is extraordinarily high. More broadly, this†narrow view of "shareholder value" has led companies to put "maximizing profits" ahead of another critical priority in a healthy economy: investing in human and physical capital and future growth. If American companies were willing to trade off some of their current profits to make investments in wage increases and hiring, American workers would have more money to spend. And as American workers spent more money, the economy would begin to grow more quickly again. And the growing economy would help the companies begin to grow more quickly again. And so on. But, instead, U.S. companies have become so obsessed with generating near-term profits that they're paying their employees less, cutting capital investments, and under-investing in future growth. This may help make their shareholders temporarily richer. But it doesn't make the economy (or the companies) healthier. And, ultimately, as with any ecosystem that gets out of whack, it's bad for the whole ecosystem. So, for the sake of the economy, we have to fix this problem. Ideally, we would fix it by getting companies to voluntarily share more of their wealth with their employees. But the "shareholder value" religion has now been so thoroughly embraced that any suggestion of voluntary sharing is viewed as heresy. (You've heard all the responses: "The only duty of a company is to produce the highest possible return for its owners!" "If employees want to make more money, they should go start their own companies!" Etc. Beyond basic fairness and the team spirit of we're-all-in-this-together, what these responses lack is any appreciation of the value of personal loyalty, retention, respect, and pride in the workforce. People love working for companies that treat them well. And they'll go to the mat for them.) Anyway, it would be great if companies would start sharing their wealth voluntarily. But, as yet, with a couple of notable exceptions (Apple recently gave its store employees a raise it didn't need to give them), they've shown no signs of doing that. So if companies can't be persuaded to do this on their own, maybe it's time to do one of two things. First, as my colleague Josh Barro suggests, increase the minimum wage. And/or second, rethink our view of labor unions. Although correlation is not causation, the chart below suggests that labor unions might be able to help induce companies to share their wealth, at least in some industries. This chart is from EPI. It is based on the work of Piketty and Saez (the deans of inequality research). The chart shows the correlation between the share of the national income going to the to 10% of earners with membership in labor unions.† What it suggests is that, as unions have declined, income inequality has soared. EPI, Felix Salmon Again, right now in this country, we have the painful juxtaposition of the highest corporate profit margins in history, combined with one of the highest unemployment rates in history. We also have the lowest wages in history as a percent of the economy. That's not good for the economy ... because rich people can't buy all the products we need to sell to have a healthy economy (they can't eat that much food or drive that many cars, for example). And it's also just not right. Healthy capitalism is not about "maximizing near-term profits." It is about balancing the interests of several critical constituencies: It's time more of our business leaders started to understand that.
REUTERS/Chris WattieGood morning! Here's what you need to know.
Toyota said on Friday net profit almost doubled to a record $5.64 billion for the three months to June, and said it was on track to produce over 10 million vehicles worldwide this year. The world's biggest automaker has ramped up its bid to tap emerging markets while key US demand has also been on the upswing, helping Toyota to book ever-increasing profits over the last year. The Camry and Corolla maker tripled its net profit in the past fiscal year with a slump in the yen helping Japanese manufacturers' bottom line. The yen, which has lost about 20 percent of its value on the dollar since November, has boosted Japanese firms' competitiveness overseas and jacked up the value of their repatriated foreign income. However Toyota's domestic rivals Nissan and Honda posted mixed results in the quarter, with Honda's earnings slipping 7.0 percent as it hiked spending on a major expansion, while Nissan's net profit jumped 14 percent in the April-June quarter. Nissan, Japan's number-two automaker, said sales in North America soared, but it also warned that demand in China, the world's biggest car market, tumbled while recession-riddled Europe was also weak. On Friday, Toyota said it also saw its European market decline in the quarter as Asian sales slipped. But North America helped make up the shortfall along with strong demand in emerging markets in Central and South America as well as Africa, it added. Toyota said it earned 562.19 billion yen ($5.64 billion) in the quarter on sales of 6.25 trillion yen, which were up 13.7 percent from a year earlier. Profit "increased due to the impact of foreign exchange rates and our global efforts for profit improvement, through cost reduction activities," Managing Officer Takuo Sasaki said in a statement. Looking forward, Toyota said it expected to pump out a record 10.12 million vehicles this calendar year, after it overtook General Motors in 2012 to regain the title of world's biggest automaker. Toyota did not specifically address China, but sales in the country were dented in the wake of a flare-up in a territorial dispute between Tokyo and Beijing last year which sparked a consumer boycott of Japanese brands in China. Despite the China troubles, Japanese industry has benefited from the big-spending and easy-money policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, with huge monetary easing measures from the premier's hand-picked team at the Bank of Japan helping push down the yen. The nation's manufacturers are eyeing a pickup in domestic demand ahead of planned sales tax hikes that would double the rate to 10 percent over the next couple of years. However, Abe's government is mulling whether to go ahead with the plan amid fears it could hurt his economy-boosting efforts. Also Friday, Toyota said it expects a net profit of 1.48 trillion yen for the fiscal year to March on sales of 24 trillion yen. That was up from an earlier forecast of a 1.37 trillion yen profit on sales of 23.5 trillion yen. Toyota shares closed up 3.37 percent to 6,430 yen in Tokyo on Friday before its results were released. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Blair GableIt raised quite a few eyebrows last November, when the Bank of England announced that it would be poaching Mark Carney from the Bank of Canada. Mark Carney had earned the reputation as one of the world's best central bankers, and the UK seemed desperate for new economic leadership. Uninspired action from the Bank of England, and the austerity regime of the David Cameron government had people talking about a triple dip recession. Could Mark Carney save the day? At the Bank of Canada he was something of an innovator when it came to using forward guidance to ease monetary policy, and there were high hopes that he could break new ground at the BoE. And he still might, but before he's even really done anything (he only assumed office on July 1), things are turning around in the UK. Today the UK reported a stellar construction number. Yesterday a UK manufacturing index hit a 28-month high. UK retail sales growth just hit a 6-month high. UK joblessness just fell at its fastest pace since 2010. You get the picture. Mark Carney has been in office for barely over a month, and all the economic data is looking bright. The history books will show a remarkable rebound right as he assumed office. Brilliant timing.
This is a chart that we haven't run in a little while, but it's still fantastic. It shows initial jobless claims (in red, flipped upside down) vs. the S&amp;P 500 (in blue). Yesterday, initial jobless claims fell to their best level since the crisis ended. And the stock market hit an all-time high. Any time someone says the market is just being juiced by the Fed, show them this relationship as evidence that what really matters is the real economy. It keeps getting better, and the market is following along. FRED
Here's another datapoint to add to our big-picture story about Western economies experiencing a "moment". The UK Construction PMI ‚Äî a measure of UK construction companies ‚Äî just blew the freakin' door off. The index surged from 51.0 to 57.0. Anything above 50 is growth. This was WAY above expectations. All UK data has been looking solid lately, and when you see construction companies humming like this, that's a real strong datapoint in favor of recovery. Here's the data summary and a chart. www.markiteconomics.com www.markiteconomics.com
I donít want to downplay what could be the most important economic report of the month, but I do want to downplay the analysis surrounding it. †Pundits will all come out saying the number is ìbetter than expectedî or ìworse than expectedî. †They will guess whether it is above consensus of 175K or below. †The reality is that no one knows. †This is one of the most unpredictable data points we get. †So, what do we know? I donít know what this morningís employment report will say. †It might be lower than 175K or it might be higher. †But the overall data is telling a very clear story ñ the employment situation is improving (at worst, certainly not deteriorating). †I know itís not ideal, but a big beat or a big miss isnít going to change the multitude of factors confirming a moderately strong labor market.
REUTERS/Tim WimborneGood morning from New York City! It's the best day of the month: Jobs day! Today at 8:30 AM ET, we get the monthly Non-Farm Payrolls report. Economists are looking for 175K new jobs, and for the unemployment rate to fall to 7.5% from 7.6%. Japan had a gigantic night in the market, with the Nikkei soaring over 3%. US futures are up modestly. Gold is tanking. The yellow metal is back below $1290, as another slew of strong economic data removes gold's relevance.
