The new issue of TIME Magazine has what appears to be a bullish cover. However, the feature actually argues that the recovery of the past five years has been a sham and that we're vulnerable to another crash. Stock market watchers¬† like to say that a mainstream magazine cover about Wall Street and the stock market is a contrarian indicator. In other words, you should do the opposite of what it seems the magazine is telling you to do. Unfortunately, the actual data doesn't seem to support that belief. Market historian Laszlo Birinyi reviewed past TIME covers. "Over the last 65 years TIME Magazine has featured the picture of a bull on its cover multiple times," wrote Birinyi. "According to market lore, this event is generally regarded as negative for the market. However, analyzing the Birinyi Clippings¬†database, we've gone back and pulled the historical TIME Magazine covers and have found that the myth has been mostly incorrect. " From Birinyi: Laszlo Birinyi
flickr/walmartcorporateSometimes it's not what's said on an earnings call that tells you how a company is doing, but who gets to talk. Firms that "cast" their conference calls by calling disproportionally on bullish or friendly analysts do worse in the future, according to a new NBER working paper. They experience more negative earnings surprises, and are more likely to restate earnings in the future. The authors argue that firms engage in "casting" when they have sort of negative information to hide. They call on more favorable analysts because they're less likely to ask probing questions or press them for more details.† The negative performance comes when that negative information leaks out. † Firms have more information than analysts and shareholders, and they will only cast when it's to their advantage.† The authors thought of three possibilities. Firms might be managing earnings and don't want to be probed, they might have just met or exceeded expectations (which has been shown in earlier studies to indicate a greater likelihood of earnings manipulation), or they may be about to issue equity or engage in insider sales, giving them incentive to keep the stock high.† There was evidence for each of them. "Firms with higher discretionary†accruals, firms that barely meet/exceed earnings expectations, and firms about to issue†equity are all significantly more likely to cast their calls," the authors write. Additionally, the firms that engage in this sort of behavior are the ones that are more likely to get away with it, those with fewer analysts and institutional owners.† Casting's not something firms do many quarters in a row, they'd be unlikely to get away from it or see any benefit. They usually just do it once, likely when they want to hide something. This chart shows how often casting episodes last. It's usually just one quarter: NBER When earnings calls are particularly friendly, it might not be because all is well, but because there's something fishy going on.†
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke takes his seat prior to delivering his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress before the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 17, 2013.Wall Street expects the Federal Reserve to announce the first reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing (QE) program at the conclusion of its FOMC monetary policy meeting Wednesday. Right now, the Fed buys $45 billion in U.S. Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities each month ñ $85 billion of bonds in total ñ in a bid to stimulate the American economy. The consensus on the Street is that the Fed's first "tapering" of QE will consist of a $10 billion reduction in monthly purchases, bringing the monthly total to $75 billion. The Fed has maintained ever since the tapering discussion began early this year that its decision to begin this process of winding down QE is "data-dependent" ñ in other words, as long as the economic data continue to show improvement in the health of the American economy, the Fed's plans for tapering remain on track. Yet the data ñ especially in the labor market, where the Fed's focus lies ñ have been disappointing in recent months. The U.S. economy added only 169,000 workers to nonfarm payrolls last month, below consensus estimates for 180,000. July payroll growth was revised down to 104,000 from 162,000. In reality, the Fed may have several reasons to begin scaling back QE that have little or nothing to do with improvements in the labor market, despite what the central bank says. One is the risk of financial instability resulting from asset bubbles created by over-accommodative monetary policy. FOMC members flagged this as a potential issue in their April 30-May 1 meeting, according to the minutes from that meeting. "At this meeting, a few participants expressed concern that conditions in certain U.S. financial markets were becoming too buoyant, pointing to the elevated issuance of bonds by lower-credit-quality firms or of bonds with fewer restrictions on collateral and payment terms (so-called covenant-lite bonds)," read the minutes. "One participant cautioned that the emergence of financial imbalances could prove difficult for regulators to identify and address, and that it would be appropriate to adjust monetary policy to help guard against risks to financial stability." Concerns over asset bubbles, in turn, could be changing the risk-reward tradeoff of further QE, given that the economy remains soft despite continued bond buying. Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius believes this may be the case, calling it the number-one driver of the coming reduction in QE. "The main reason for this shift [away from QE], in our view, is that Fed officials now see asset purchases as less†effective (and perhaps a bit more costly) than when they started the QE3 program," says Hatzius. Current Fed chairman Ben Bernanke's term at the head of the central bank expires in January, and at the White House, the search is on to find his replacement. Bernanke is the Fed chairman responsible for introducing for first introducing QE as a policy tool to begin with ñ back in late 2008, when the banking system was in crisis and financial markets were in freefall. QE has been something of a controversial policy from the start, and given the evolving views inside the Fed toward the risk-reward tradeoff of continued bond buying, Bernanke likely wants to be able to take credit for setting the central bank on a definitive course to reverse it before he leaves office. "The announcement of 'taper' has NOTHING to do with the economy; it has everything to do with Mr. Bernanke's legacy," says Credit Suisse managing director Harley Bassman. "By stopping out the over-levered traders who were trying to monetize the 'Bernanke put', the FED has mitigated a 1994 or 1998 or 2007 scenario ... Mr. Bernanke does not want a Greenspan redux where a financial calamity occurs soon after his departure and he takes the blame." UBS economist Drew Matus offers an argument along those same lines: "A move to taper QE in the fourth quarter would allow Bernankeís successor to simply continue existing policy rather than having to 'own' the move. The net result would be to minimize the policy uncertainty which typically taints markets during a transition." The Fed has done a lot in the past few months to prime markets for this initial reduction in the size of QE. As a result, a tapering announcement at the conclusion of this week's FOMC meeting on Wednesday is now the consensus call on Wall Street, and markets have arguably priced in this scenario. "There is probably something like a 'Keynes beauty contest' phenomenon here, whereby the market and the Fed may each try to guess what the other is guessing," says JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli. "With expectations cementing around $10-15 billion, the Fed is likely to deliver a taper of that size." If the Fed fails to deliver this week, it could create additional uncertainty in markets as participants recalibrate expectations, with perhaps an eye toward a tapering announcement at one of the next two FOMC meetings in October and December, both of which would likely be more problematic given upcoming budget battles in Washington and the ongoing Fed chair selection process. Regardless of how the budget battles in Washington play out, one thing is certain ñ the federal budget deficit is projected to continue shrinking, which means the Treasury will be issuing less and less debt to cover government spending needs as time goes on. Federal Reserve purchases of government debt via quantitative easing already account for an overwhelming majority of new issuance from the Treasury, and if the central bank doesn't reduce the amount of bonds it is buying as the Treasury reduces the amount of bonds it is issuing, the Fed purchases will account for an even larger share of the market than before. This, in turn, would necessarily mean a reduced supply of Treasuries available to other market participants. Because Treasuries ñ one of the few remaining AAA-rated financial assets on the planet ñ are used as collateral in a host of transactions throughout the financial system, continued Fed purchases at the current monthly pace as issuance declines could weigh on the financial system's ability to lend and lead to an increased risk of further destabilization in the Treasury market.
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith Five years after the housing market fell apart, the federal government is still pushing banks to issue mortgages with as little as 3.5% down. No really. That's the guideline for mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration, which accounted for 27% of all home purchase mortgages issued in 2011. It's completely nuts. The reason we faced such economic damage from the events of 2007-8 was that both borrowers and lenders had unreasonable expectations about real estate prices (i.e., they could only go up) and they made very high leverage investments based on those expectations. To prevent a similar crisis from happening again, we should impose higher capital requirements on banks. But we also need higher capital requirements on homeowners: That is, higher minimum down payments, so homeowners are less likely to end up with a house that's worth less than the mortgage balance on it when house prices fall. And yet, it is still the policy of the Obama Administration to encourage people of limited means to take all the money they have in the world and put it in a highly leveraged real estate investment. We see that not only in the continuation of very-little-money-down FHA mortgages. It also shows up in the Qualified Mortgage Rule, which sets out standards for what kind of loans banks can make without fear that the government will come back and say they were taking unreasonable risks or abusing borrowers. This rule prohibits certain features like balloon payments and high upfront fees. It also sets a maximum ratio of debt to borrower's income. It does not set a minimum down payment. Somehow, the Administration has come up with a guideline about loan soundness that doesn't even address leverage. Both banks and left-wing "housing advocates" wanted it this way. The banks wanted a free hand to be able to make loans without government repercussions. Housing advocates want it to be easy for people who can't really afford to buy homes to get credit. The losers from this agreement are everybody else, who will be left to face the fiscal and economic costs of another foreclosure crisis driven by high leverage. This is why it's infuriating when people frame the financial crisis as a morality play. No, homeowners who overextended themselves do not bear the principal moral culpability for the crisis of 2008. But just because your behavior wasn't immoral doesn't mean it need not change. Our national inability to admit that some people can't afford to own and it's OK to rent means the next burst housing bubble will cause similar pain to the last one.
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoSolar powered houses are pictured in Ota, 80km northwest of Tokyo, October 28, 2008FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Location Isn't Just Important In Real Estate, It Also Plays A Key Role In Tax Management (Vanguard)  In tax management, like in real estate, location is key, according to Vanguard's Maria Bruno and Joel Dickson. "The general rule of thumb is to place tax-inefficient investments, things that generate a lot of income that may be subject to taxes, within tax-advantaged accounts and hold tax-efficient investments in taxable accounts," said Bruno. "Things like broad market index funds, for instance, or municipal bond funds, those that have‚Äîthey may be more tax efficiently managed or are not subject to income taxation in taxable accounts."¬† While Dickson thinks asset location is important, it's not as important as "maximizing the tax deferred opportunities," he says. "And where it matters most is the closer that you are to a 50/50, for example, stock/bond split of your portfolio and a 50/50 split between assets held in tax- deferred accounts and taxable accounts. That‚Äôs where you sort of maximize the benefits from asset location." Two Of The Biggest Names In Wall Street Social Media Have Launched Their Own Investment Firm (Business Insider)¬†  Wall Street social media giants Barry Ritholtz, who blogs on The Big Picture, and Josh Brown, who writes The Reformed Broker blog, have teamed up to start Ritholtz Wealth Management. The investment advisory firm is registered with the SEC and has over $100 million in assets under management (AUM). "We've been kicking around for a long time," Ritholtz told Business Insider. "This is something you always kind of think about... 'What if we could make all the decisions?' Everything we're doing is essentially the same, only now we have the opportunity to really reinvest in the firm. There's just so many things you can do for clients but they all cost money. Now we can reinvest all our capital into running the business." There Will Be Even Fewer Financial Advisors In 2017 (Investment News)  As advisors continue to retire, the industry will lose 25,000 advisors by 2017, according to a new report from Cerulli. The industry peaked in 2005 and now has about 280,000 advisors. "A good number of advisers are coming up on retirement," Cerulli analyst Sean Daly told Investment News. He said it isn't clear though whether some will continue to work beyond the typical retirement age. He also pointed out that financial firms need to do more to attract new talent as the number of retiring baby boomers grow and the number of advisors available to help them shrink. This Dart Board Suggests It's A Great Time To Buy Stocks (Citi) Looking at 73 years worth of next-12-month returns for the S&amp;P 500, on various levels of the price-to-earnings ratio, Citi's Tobias Levkovich found that the best time to buy stocks is when the P/E is below 8. The next best time to buy stocks were when the P/E was at 14 to 16. This chart shows that strangely returns can be higher even when the market looks more expensive. Citi Research Women Should Get More Involved In Financial Planning Well Before A Divorce Could Occur (FA Mag) Women need to be more involved in the financial planning process so they are better prepared in the event of a divorce, Laura Pilz at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management told FA Mag. Often these women are saddled with debts like property loans that they didn't know they had. "What a lot of women do not know is that they may be entitled to spousal benefits through their ex-husbands, who may be the higher earners. Advisors should always counsel women to take advantage of these benefits if they have the opportunity," Pilz said.
Leroy W. Demery Jr.Mandarin Oriental just announced it†plans to open a 1,300-foot skyscraper hotel in Shenzhen. The fact such a development was barely noticed is truly amazing ó because not so many years ago, Shenzhen used to barely have hotels, let alone skyscrapers. In 1979, Premier†Deng Xiaoping named Shenzhen a Special Economic Zone, meaning it would be immune from the strict Communist regime governing the rest of the country and would instead would be permitted to pursue private enterprise. At the time,†the city had about 30,000 people. Today, there are more than 3 million pumping out 500 billion RMB worth of GDP,†according to the Asia Society. "Has any urban area on Earth ever grown so rapidly and changed so dramatically in such a short time as Shenzhen?"† That's the arguably rhetorical question posed by transportation expert and amateur photographer Leroy W. Demery Jr. in a photoset he has†posted†to flickr documenting his journey to the city in the 1980s. With his kind permission, we reproduce the photos here. Here is his own introduction: I traveled China for three months in 1983, and managed to visit, or "pass through," every province except Tibet, Hainan (part of Guangdong Province back then), Fujian and Taiwan (which I visited in 1980) †However, I made my "first visit" to China on 1980 July 17. I joined a half-day "cross-border" tour operated by China International Travel Service (CITS), Hong Kong. Booking was easy and the price was very reasonable. †Bao'an County, which had a settlement history dating back nearly 1,700 years, was renamed Shenzhen City in January 1979. At this time, the total population was stated at 300,000. The population of the urbanized area was stated at 20,000 - that's "twenty thousand" - and the urbanized land area was stated at 3 km2. Establishment of the Special Economic Zone was approved in August 1980 - that is, roughly one month after these photos were taken. I saw virtually no sign of the amazing changes that were soon to begin. †Travel guidebooks published during the early 1980s state that China began admitting unescorted foreigners in 1981. However, our Hong Kong-based CITS guide said that there was a "new arrangement:" one could obtain a visa to visit Beijing and Shanghai in three days. You simply applied for the visa, she said, "and on the third day, you go." So I might have visited (at least) Beijing and Shanghai in 1980, three years before I actually did.
Fueled by a burgeoning economy, shoppers have slowly but surely rekindled their love affair with plastic. A new¬†MasterCard analysis shows that in 2012, U.S. credit card volume grew by $172 billion year-over-year, an increase of 8.4%. We've pretty much done a complete 180 since the onset of the recession. Back in 2008, Americans shifted more than $140 billion from credit to debt card spending.  You could say consumers are simply feeling more secure about their ability to handle credit card bills these days. But looking closer at the study, we found two dangerous signs that we could be getting in over our heads again. More than half of credit users say they continuously carry a balance on their accounts and 54% of consumers say they use credit for rewards, up a full 9 points from 2008. Credit lenders are incentivizing overspending and consumers are clearly taking the bait.  Already, we can see the effect rewards are having on credit use. The average credit card transaction is only $93, signaling that consumers are leaning on credit even for everyday purchases in order to get rewards.¬† Warning Signs Credit perks are all well and good if you're planning on paying your card down each month. But what's the point in cashing in credit rewards if you're dragging your credit score down and running the risk of paying late payment fees in the process? There's real danger in relying on credit cards just for a few extra cashback points. First of all, carrying balance on your credit card is one of the easiest ways to lower your credit score. You're basically telling lenders that you're willing to rack up charges without having the means to pay them off in quick fashion. "The amount of debt a consumer carries tends to be highly predictive of future credit performance because the amount a person owes has a direct impact on her or his ability to pay all their credit obligations on time each month," says Barry Paperno, consumer operations manager for myFICO.com. "While having debt doesn't automatically put someone in a high-risk category, as balances increase, the probability of having difficulty making payments on time each month increases." In an ideal world, everyone would pay down their credit card balance in full each month. Realistically speaking, most experts recommend keeping your total debt load at one-third of your available credit limit. We'd recommend going even further. A recent FICO report found that people with the highest credit scores typically carried debt loads less than 7% of their total limits.¬† A good rule of thumb: If you're about to use a credit card, just ask yourself if you'd be making that purchase if you were using cash instead. If the answer is no, chances are you're better off keeping that card parked in your wallet.
It doesnít get uglier than the infamous black candlestick. This is especially the case at or around important resistance. And weíre seeing them showing up in the S&amp;P500, Russell2000, MidCap400, and even in the MSCI Emerging Markets. To make matters worse, the Nasdaq100†tried†to put in a big black candlestick, but failed to stay positive putting in a long red one instead. NastyÖ. For some of you newcomers, we like to use Japanese Candlestick charts because each individual candle tells a story. In the case of this evil black one, it indicates exhaustion, followed by some selling pressure. You see, after a nice advance (as has been the case in equities), a black candle like this can foreshadow a reversal or key turning point. Hereís what these guys look like:†††The Japanese tell us that the longer the black candlestick, the worse the implications are for the security in question. So letís think about the psychology for a minute. Forget todayís news, letís just focus on price. The market gaps higher at the open, gets everyone excited, but then fizzles as the day goes on to close at or near the lows. After a nice advance, the market is just tired. The bulls saw their chance to sell and jumped all over it. Those who didnít are caught holding the bag. And thatís why a candlestick like this appears at or near turning points. Think of it like an omen of sorts. Last time I wrote a blog post about something like this was†last summer. We started to see the black candlesticks showing up in both US Dollars and US Treasuries. At the time, it seemed like the entire world was bearish equities and using these ìsafeî assets as a hiding place. Well, as it turned out, the black candles did indeed provide us with a heads up that something was changing. Those black candles marked highs in both the US Dollar Index and US Treasury Bonds that we havenít seen ever since. Ignore the black candles if you want. But when they show up, I pay attentionÖ. So how does this get worse?†and†How does this get better?†These are the questions we should all be asking ourselves. In my opinion, a gap lower Tuesday in these averages leaving this one black candle standing alone is probably the worst case scenario. This would create an island reversal of sorts, another bearish pattern, which would confirm Mondayís action and would probably lead to a fast and violent sell-off. How do we invalidate the black candle? I think if we have an inside day Tuesday and kind of chill out for a few days before eventually taking out Mondayís highs, that would be really constructive. Careful out thereÖ.
Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen is now the favorite to become President Obama's nominee for Chairman. This is according to the WSJ's Carol Lee, Damian Paletta, and Jon Hilsenrath who cite "people familiar with the process." From their report: The process for selecting a nominee isn't starting over, senior administration officials said Monday, and no new candidates for the position have been added to the mix. The only difference now is that Mr. Summers is no longer being considered. An announcement won't happen this week, officials said. On Sunday afternoon, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers unexpectedly withdrew his name from the running to become the next Chairman of the Fed.† "I have reluctantly concluded that any possible confirmation process for me would be acrimonious and would not serve the interest of the Federal Reserve, the Administration or, ultimately, the interests of the nation's ongoing economic recovery," Summers wrote in a letter to President Obama. Considered the favorite by many, Summers was seen as someone who would be more hawkish than Yellen. In other words, economists expected him to reverse the course of the Fed's easy monetary policy more quickly and aggressively than Yellen potentially would. "Could Obama's tone-deafness on the Fed steer him toward a choice other than Janet Yellen?" wrote Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere this morning.† "He has virtually no option ó she's now the clear favorite ó and the markets will get a more predictable policymaker than Summers would have been."
REUTERS/Fred Prouser Brazilian Eike Batista, chairman and CEO of EBX Group, gestures as he is introduced as one of the world's wealthiest men, prior to the "Global Overview: Shifting Fortunes" lunch panel discussion at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California April 30, 2012. For months Eike Batista has been silent. The erstwhile billionaire has had more important things to do than maintain his strong presence on Twitter ‚Äî he has had a Brazilian commodities empire to save. But to keep us updated, yesterday Batista, who reportedly lost $2 million a day last year, broke his silence to the Wall Street Journal. If anyone expected him to strike a conciliatory tone for his failures, especially the ones that have negatively impacted the Brazilian stock market, they'll be disappointed.¬† Eike says he'll rise again, and that rise is starting now. It's on his astrological map, actually. June, when the news broke that his oil wells would not produce as promised, was also mapped as a dark period for him (from WSJ): "If you look at my astrological map, this period wasn't favorable for me," Mr. Batista said during the interview, pausing and staring into space for a moment. "The good period? It has already started, literally this month," he added. According the WSJ Eike has been working tirelessly to raise $1 billion selling some of his oil drilling equipment. He looks it too ‚Äî tired abd "bleary eyed." "I am the biggest loser in this. I tried to create wealth for all of us. That was the reason we raised all the money‚Äîto create wealth and share it," said Mr. Batista late Friday in his office overlooking one of Rio de Janeiro's bays. "I believed in it. Living in a country that has these gigantic oil discoveries, why shouldn't I have been blessed with one?" The managers that found oil for Batista were not as good as extracting it, he said. And there was only so much he, as the overseer of the entire empire, could do about it's 6 moving parts ‚Äî the six companies under Batista's EBX holding company umbrella ‚Äî and how those parts were managed. During the interview he kept mentioning Elon Musk and how Musk once said that starting a business was like "eating glass." "I am eating glass," said Batista. Click here to read the full article at the WSJ&gt;&gt;
And Chris Krueger of Washington Research Group: ‚ÄúThere are very few options for Obama to regain some stature and popularity with his liberal supporters in the House and Senate. The easiest and most obvious would be naming Yellen as the next Fed Chair.¬†It is about as close to a political no-brainer as you can get.‚Äù But is the deal really sealed? Lots of bad blood right now surrounding the Summers-Yellen rivalry. The Friends of Larry in the White House are furious. That includes the president. As the Wall Street Journal reported, ‚ÄúMr.¬†Obama angrily¬†defended Mr. Summers at a closed-door meeting with lawmakers.‚Äù¬†Maybe Obama will go with a non-Yellen to show he can‚Äôt be rolled by his fellow Democrats, especially after the Syrian fiasco. Here briefly are the cases for and against some of the ‚ÄúAnybody but Yellen‚Äù scenario candidates: 1. Timothy Geithner.¬†Pros:¬†Known quantity to POTUS, crisis tested, understands financial regulation, consensus builder.¬†Cons:¬†Not a monetary economist or any kind of economist, former Obama Treasury secretary creates Fed independence issue, might be seen as too close to Wall Street, old tax troubles, liberals would scream. 2. Donald Kohn.¬†Pros:¬†Former Bernanke right-hand man, brings continuity, extensive monetary policy experience.¬†Cons:¬† Was a George W. Bush appointee, 70 years old, liberals would scream. 3. Christina Romer.¬†¬†Pros:¬†Economist with pro-growth, market monetarist views, would be first woman Fed chair, known to White House, excellent communicator, liberals would not scream.Cons:¬†Known to White House, a vocal Yellen supporter. 4. Gregory Mankiw.¬†Here is what I wrote in¬†my new National Review column: Obama does have a unique opportunity to foster much-needed bipartisan spirit in Washington. There is growing consensus among economists on the left and right that monetary policy should be rule-based rather than discretionary and that the rule should involve targeting a certain growth in the economy‚Äôs nominal output ‚Äî real GDP growth plus inflation ‚Äî each year. To broadly generalize, right-leaning economists like the rule-based aspect, while left-leaning economists like that it would result in aggressive monetary stimulus when growth is weak and inflation low. So why not nominate a Republican economist, such as Harvard professor and former Romney economic adviser Greg Mankiw, who advocates nominal-GDP targeting? Not only would such a Fed nominee be apt to win broad approval and create some bipartisan momentum in Washington, but he would help depoliticize a major element of U.S. economic policy. The Summers implosion doesn‚Äôt have to be the political disaster that it‚Äôs currently shaping up to be. Democrats are yelling for Yellen, but maybe Obama will turn a deaf ear.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueOfficials listen as U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at the White House in Washington June 17, 2009.Markets were happy to get rid of a little uncertainty. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
APEven wealthy families need help meeting college costs these days. One good tool: 529 plans. If you have the money, you can sock away a lot without a federal tax bite ñand in some places even get a state tax break. Children of high-income earners rarely qualify for needs-based financial aid, and surging costs of higher education drive many families to look for more†bang for their college bucks. Investing a large lump sum in a 529 using a special five-year election offers such substantial tax savings that President Barack Obama, according to his 2007 tax return, did just this for his own children. Current tax law allows a person to give up to $14,000 in cash, securities or property without having to file a gift tax form. Married couples get to double dip on this annual exclusion. If Grandma and Grandpa Jackson have 10 grandchildren, for example, they can each open a 529 benefitting each grandchild, for a total of 20 accounts. This allows them to maximize their gifts and contribute up to $280,000 ($14,000 times 20 accounts) to 529s without filing a gift tax return. If they write the checks from a joint account, however, they must file a gift tax return (IRS Form 709) to make clear they elect to split the contribution. Going over the $14,000 annual exclusion isnít that bad. Other than filling out extra tax reports, you donít start paying any gift taxes until you exceed the†lifetime gift tax exemption†of $5.25 million, which is doubled for couples. Most prefer to keep their gifting below $14,000 to avoid having to track their unused exemption for the rest of their life. You can also pay directly for someoneís qualified college expenses or pay their medical bills of any size without going over the annual gift exclusion. Unsurprisingly, lawmakers include political contributions in this list of gifts exempt from any limits. Those treating a large 529 contribution as if it were made over a five-year period are another exception. To continue with our example, the Jacksons can each contribute $70,000 ñ representing five years of $14,000 contributions ñ at once to each beneficiaryís account. This allows a wealthy couple to contribute up to $140,000 per beneficiary. Since the Jacksons have 10 grandchildren, they can contribute up to $1.4 million to 529s without using a cent from their lifetime gift exemption. Any time you consider maximizing 529 contributions, be careful to note that you have fully used up the exclusion for the year. Any other gifts for birthdays or graduations will have tax administration consequences. Many states offer helpful tax incentives†for contributing to a 529. Pennsylvania, one of the most generous states, offers a $14,000 state tax deduction, $28,000 for couples. In Virginia, those under age 70 may deduct $4,000 per beneficiary per donor, meaning that if a husband and wife each opened separate accounts, they could deduct up to $8,000 combined per child and any unused deductions get an unlimited carry forward. Those over age 70 have no limit. The Jacksons, for example, could deduct the full $1.4 million from their state taxes and carry this forward until itís used up. Most gifts that leave your estate also leave your control. Not so the 529, contributions to which allow you to maintain control of the asset without counting it as part of your estate. Also, you may give to the next generation 529 funds your children or grandchildren do not use up. Gift tax limits apply to this second transfer, but I expect a large window of opportunity will help create an educational inheritance passed along to three generations or more. And as long as these assets go to qualified expenses including tuition, room and board and books or other required materials for classes, the taxman leaves the money alone. Follow AdviceIQ on Twitter at†@adviceiq.† Matthew Illian, CFP, AIF, is a wealth manager for Marotta Wealth Management Inc. He is based in Richmond, Va.,†providing fee-only financial planning and wealth management†at†http://www.emarotta.com/†and blogging at†http://www.marottaonmoney.com/.
After news broke Sunday afternoon that former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers was withdrawing his name for consideration as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, stocks and bonds got a nice boost when futures markets re-opened for the week in the evening. Many consider Summers ‚Äì who was the frontrunner for the position ‚Äì to be a more "hawkish" candidate than Fed vice chair Janet Yellen, implying that his appointment to the post would be less market-friendly, because perhaps he would be quicker to withdraw Fed stimulus than a "dovish" candidate like Yellen. In the past few hours, however, stock and bond markets have taken a sharp turn lower, and the "Larry Summers" rally that began Sunday evening is already evaporating. Right now, S&amp;P 500 futures are up only 0.5%, trading around 1690, after hitting a high of 1703.75 (up 1.3%) last night. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note, meanwhile, has risen 9 basis points from its low of 2.78% this morning to current levels at 2.87% as futures continue heading lower. The chart below shows S&amp;P 500 futures. Thinkorswim The next chart shows 10-year Treasury futures, which follow a similar pattern. Thinkorswim
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVBarry Ritholtz and Josh Brown, two Wall Streeters known for their massive social media followings and razor-sharp insight, have started their own investment firm, Ritholtz Wealth Management. "We've been kicking around for a long time," Ritholtz told Business Insider. "This is something you always kind of think about ... 'What if we could make all the decisions?' Everything we're doing is essentially the same, only now we have the opportunity to really reinvest in the firm. There are just so many things you can do for clients, but they all cost money. Now we can reinvest all our capital into running the business." Ritholtz and Brown, who write the blogs¬†The Big Picture, and The Reformed Broker¬†respectively, have spent years writing about the lack of transparency and conflicts of interest that run rampant on Wall Street. They consider this new venture a chance to manage money with integrity. Brown will act as CEO and Ritholtz will act as CIO and Chairman of the firm. It's registered with the SEC, which means Ritholtz Wealth Management has over $100 million AUM and can serve clients nationally from its Park Avenue office. "We're doubling down on wealth management," said Brown.¬† Ritholtz and Brown started talking about striking out on their own around Memorial Day of this year. After saying goodbye to their former employer, Fusion Analytics, and setting up a seamless transition with vendors and clients ‚Äî all the duo's Fusion clients are heading to Ritholtz Wealth ‚Äî the firm is ready to launch. And where some Wall Street CEOs see 'uncertainty' that gives them pause in our current post-crisis economy, Ritholtz sees only opportunity. "We're saying 'hey, if you don't want to do it, we're happy to do it,'" said Ritholtz. "Now when everyone's confused and doesn't know what's going on, that's when there's tremendous opportunities." Congrats gentlemen*.¬† *DISCLOSURE: Several of us have hung out with both Brown and Ritholtz socially over the years, and consider both to be friends. Hence we hope to see them succeed..
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThe NASDAQ MarketSite in New York's Times Square.Options trading briefly froze today after the Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA) saw a system glitch. Nasdaq, the CBOE, Bats and NYSE Euronext all ceased trading. "NASDAQ Options Market (NOM) has halted trading in a issues A¬†thru M¬†as of 13:35:33, N thru Z as of 13:35:47¬†due to OPRA system issues," Nasdaq issued in a system status message. The new issue comes only weeks after a Nasdaq malfunction caused a three hour halt in stock trading.
Flip Schulke / EPA (via archives.gov)The biggest effect of Obamacare is obvious: Starting this winter, it will make it easier for tens of millions of Americans without health insurance to get it. But Obamacare will also lead to big changes for workers who do have health insurance and for the firms that employ them. Workers will find it easier to change jobs, and to enter and leave the labor force at will, without worrying that doing so will cause them to lose access to health insurance. In other words, Obamacare will tilt power in the labor market away from employers and toward employees. This is a big deal, and it's a sleeper issue that animates the left-right fight over Obamacare even though it is rarely discussed in the open. Conservatives concerned that we are turning into a nation of "takers" see employer-provided health care as one of the few remaining forces that keeps Americans working. Liberals don't just want health coverage for all; they want workers to be able to press their employers for higher wages and better conditions, which they can more easily do if they're less afraid of losing health insurance if they lose their jobs. That change in the balance of power will affect the economy in a few ways, some good and some bad, but the effects look likely to be more favorable to workers than employers. 1. Obamacare might lead to fewer people working. As the Congressional Budget Office noted in a report months before Obamacare passed, "Increasing the availability of health insurance that is¬†not related to employment could lead more people to¬†retire before age 65 or choose not to work at younger¬†ages." There's been a lot of discussion of the effects on the employer side under Obamacare. Will businesses decline to hire so they can remain eligible for favorable rules under Obamacare for small businesses? Will they shift workers to part time to avoid coverage mandates? Will small business owners facing tax increases due to Obamacare be less inclined to invest? But these effects on the employee side are also important: Workers who aren't dependent on a job for access to health insurance should be less inclined to take job offers, more willing to quit, and more likely to demand higher wages. 2. Freed from the search for health insurance, people might do better and more productive work. Economists call the current phenomenon "job lock": People decline to take more appropriate job opportunities or start their own businesses because they do not wish to lose their current health coverage.  It's unclear how important this effect is: Some studies find that workers without alternative access to health coverage are much less likely to change jobs, while others find no effect. (Brigitte Madrian's 2006 paper provides a good overview.) Here is a key observation for understanding the debate over Obamacare: Point (1) describes a way the law might hurt the economy, and (2) describes a way in which it might help. But both (1) and (2) are bad for employers, and will force them to work harder to attract and retain workers. That helps explain why employer complaints about Obamacare don't necessarily mean that it is bad for the overall economy. 3. Early retirement may become more prevalent. Some employers that currently provide health coverage to retirees under age 65 are talking about dropping that coverage. These include large private firms like Time Warner and IBM, and governments such as Chicago, Detroit, and Rhode Island. Obamacare's exchanges and subsidies will make it suddenly much easier for retirees under 65 to get their own coverage, making it less economical for employers to provide it. But most workers currently do not have access to pre-Medicare retiree health benefits through work. Only about 20% of private-sector employees currently have access to such benefits; in the public sector, the figure is likely about two-thirds. For the majority without such generous employers, Obamacare will be a boon, making it easier to retire before Medicare age, or to shift into a different kind of work that doesn't come with health insurance. The question is how many will do so. In 2008, the CBO analyzed a proposal to let people aged 62 to 64 buy Medicare coverage at full price, and they thought the effects would be tiny: just 20,000 added retirements out of a population around 10 million. But Obamacare's offering to young retirees is much more generous: Prices would be lower, because Obamacare's premium structures favor older people, and many retirees would be eligible for subsidies that further cut the price they pay. Even if retirement behavior doesn't change that much, the change in who pays for health care will matter a lot to taxpayers. State and local governments have over a trillion dollars in accrued and unfunded liabilities for retiree health care. Unlike pension benefits, they usually are not guaranteed, so elected officials can change their terms at will. Cities like Chicago are realizing that Obamacare provides an opportunity to offload much or all of those liabilities onto the federal government. 4. Work and health care will be severed. Uncertainty about future employer and employee behavior is a source of uncertainty in the overall cost estimates for Obamacare. If more employers than expected drop insurance coverage and send employees to buy subsidized coverage in the exchanges, the law's costs will rise. If union-sponsored Taft-Hartley multi-employer plans lose their rationale, and many of their 20 million participants shift to buying subsidized plans though exchanges, the law's costs will rise. If easier availability of health insurance outside work further reduces labor force participation, the law's costs will rise. One of the key problems with Obamacare's design is that it tries to simultaneously get health insurance to lots of people who don't have it while discouraging employers from dropping the (very expensive) plans they currently offer. Once we have separated the availability of health insurance from employment, it is likely to prove untenable to expect employers to keep offering it. That shift will be a mixed bag for employers: They'll be relieved of rising health insurance costs, but they'll have to pay added taxes and they'll lose power over their employees. But for workers, the added freedom should be mostly positive.
It takes¬†money¬†to make¬†money.¬†That's the easy conclusion to draw when looking at the actions of the nation's top hedge fund managers. Many of them have amassed theirwealth¬†by putting tens of millions into play on any given¬†investment, as they identify 50% or even 100% potential¬†gains.Take corporate¬†raider¬†Carl Icahn. He can buy a huge chunk of a company and then rattle some¬†cages¬†until the company is forced to make value-unlocking moves such as anasset¬†sale¬†or a big¬†stock¬†buyback. Or look at George Soros. He earned more than 1 billion British pounds in 1992, simply by wagering that the pound would soon lose value.¬† Yet a number of other¬†hedge fund¬†billionaires have earned their fortune the old-fashioned way: through savvy¬†stock¬†picking. Even mainstream investors like us can¬†profit¬†by learning from their approaches. Here's a look at four unique approaches they've employed to build their stock¬†marketriches.¬† Still, it's been said that Buffett's favorite length of time to hold a stock is "forever." Buffett tends to stick with his best¬†investment¬†ideas for the long haul, making him a true¬†buy-and-hold¬†investor. More than half of his firm's portfolio remains invested in¬†Wells Fargo¬†(NYSE:¬†WFC),¬†Coca-Cola (NYSE:KO),¬†IBM (NYSE:¬†IBM)¬†and American Express¬†(NYSE:¬†AXP). He started buying these¬†stocksyears ago and has rarely sold a share since.¬† And Buffett's definitely not alone in his love of "Forever Stocks." My colleague Elliott Gue -- editor of StreetAuthority's¬†Top 10 Stocks¬†newsletter -- is such a believer that he spent¬†six months and $1.3 milllion worth of research trying to find the best stocks to¬†buy and hold¬†forever.¬†Click here to see his 10 favorites that he found.2. Seth KlarmanYou may not know billionaire¬†hedge fund manager¬†Seth Klarman, but you should. He's considered a guru among value investors, thanks to two key traits: great stock-picking and remarkable amounts of patience. Klarman, who runs the Boston-based Baupost Group, is perfectly content to wait years for the right¬†investments¬†to come along. In fact, in any given¬†year, up to half his portfolio may simply be parked in¬†cash.Klarman often speaks about a concept that few investors think about: "margin¬†of error." He only buys companies that are unlikely to drop in value, even if his basic investment premise is wrong. After all, he hates losing¬†money¬†just as much as he likes making money.Klarman loves to go against the tide, seeking companies that are deeply out of favor. Here are two recent examples. In the aftermath of the oil spill crisis in the Gulf of Mexico, energy firm¬†BP (NYSE:BP)¬†was widely reviled. Some investors mistakenly assumed that BP would be¬†put¬†out of business by the countless number of lawsuits it faced. Klarman was one of the first to realize that BP could absorb legal blows and emerge in solid financial shape.In a another case, Klarman aggressively bought¬†shares¬†of beleaguered insurance companyAmerican International¬†(NYSE:¬†AIG)¬†after it became apparent that the company would not be forced into¬†bankruptcy. AIG is now on the mend and has generated vast profits for Klarman and other gutsy investors.3. Ray Dalio Dalio's Bridgewater Associates isn't a household name like Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway -- and Dalio prefers it that way. Even as his firm manages $120 billion in assets, making it the largest hedge fund on the planet, Dalio maintains a decidedly low profile on¬†Wall Street.It's not because Dalio is shy. Instead, he wants to make sure that he -- and his legion of¬†analysts¬†-- steers very clear of the¬†groupthink¬†that can overtake Wall Street. Dalio's success is based on his desire to formulate his own view of the macro-economic forces driving the stock,¬†bond¬†andcommodity¬†markets. He then seeks investment opportunities that are tailored to his conclusions.This may sound like too much for an individual investor, but the basic concept is one we should all follow. Turn off the TV, ignore the pundits, pursue your own line of thinking about how the world -- and the global¬†economy¬†-- is changing, and develop your own set of investment choices.¬†4. Paul Tudor JonesThe first three men profiled here are considered to be savvy investors. Paul Tudor Jones is a legend among folks who would rather trade than invest. His idea of a profitable opportunity may only be in place for a matter of days, weeks and months, and certainly not the many years that folks like Warren Buffett tend to focus upon.Like many traders, Jones likes to¬†profit¬†from major "events," whether it's a market-shaking economic report or a change in Federal Reserve policy. Even in the absence of any major events, Jones¬†willwatch any of his trading positions like a hawk. If the trade isn't working, he's quick to cut his losses.Jones also believes that average investors mistakenly focus on stocks, ignoring other opportunities such as options contracts. That's why he has worked with the¬†Futures¬†Trading Association to launch an educational effort to help individual investors trade like the pros. These days, like many hedge fund billionaires, Paul Tudor Jones is better known for his philanthropic efforts, primarily in the field of education.The¬†Investing¬†Answer:¬†Investors have a¬†lot¬†to learn from these and many other top¬†fund¬†managers. It's also worthwhile to examine the secrets behind the success of other hedge fund billionaires such as: T. Boone Pickens, David Tepper, Carl Icahn, Leon Cooperman and William Ackman. Each one of these fund managers pursued a distinct path, and combining the best traits of many of them can bolster your chances of success.
One of the most basic measures of stock market value is the price-earnings (P/E) ratio. Generally speaking, when the P/E is low, stocks are considered cheaper. Citi's Tobias Levkovich examined 73 years worth of next-12-month returns for the S&amp;P 500 based on various levels of the the P/E. He found that based on this measure, the best times to buy stocks were when the P/E was below 8. Interestingly, the next best time to buy stocks were when the P/E was at 14 to 16. The average 12-month return at this level is 12.6%. These returns are better than when the P/E is between 10 and 14. The P/E was just one of nine valuations methods Levkovich considered when he published his call that the S&amp;P 500 would rally to 1,900 by the end of next year. Now the choice of a dart board to illustrate this seems a bit random. But it illustrates the randomness of the market, which often offers higher returns when it looks more expensive. Citi Research
For the 20th year in a row, Bill Gates has been named the richest man in America, according to the¬†Forbes annual list, which was published Monday. Despite his praiseworthy work as a philanthropist and a promise to give away most of his wealth, he's still getting richer all the time. And Microsoft is not the source of most of that wealth. Gates is worth $72 billion, with Microsoft accounting for one-fifth of that, reports Forbes. Microsoft did help out in August, when Steve Ballmer announced he would resign. Shares ticked up to over $36 on that news and are still trading at over $32. But the bulk of his money comes from other companies. His investment firm Cascade owns a big chunk of tractor-maker Deere &amp; Co., as well as Canadian National Railway and Mexican Coke bottler Femsa. Diversifying from Microsoft was certainly smart. Gates is $9.8 billion richer since the start of 2013, according to Bloomberg's Billionaire Index. Plus, at the start of 2013, he was $7 billion richer than he was at the start of 2012. Gates was one of the founders of something called the Giving Pledge, where wealthy people vow to give away the majority of their wealth. By some accounts, Gates has given at least $28 billion away to charitable causes between 2007 and 2012, but clearly his wealth is still growing faster than he's giving it away.
One of the most deceptive ideas continuously sounded by the Right (and its fathomless think tanks and media outlets) is that the ìfree marketî is natural and inevitable, existing outside and beyond government. So whatever inequality or insecurity it generates is beyond our control. And whatever ways we might seek to reduce inequality or insecurity ó to make the economy work for us ó are unwarranted constraints on the marketís freedom, and will inevitably go wrong.† By this view, if some people arenít paid enough to live on, the market has determined they arenít worth enough. If others rake in billions, they must be worth it. If millions of Americans†remain unemployed or their paychecks are shrinking or they work two or three part-time jobs with no idea what theyíll earn next month or next week, thatís too bad; itís just the outcome of the market. According to this logic, government shouldnít intrude through minimum wages, high taxes on top earners, public spending to get people back to work, regulations on business, or anything else, because the ìfree marketî knows best.In reality, the ìfree marketî is a bunch of rules about (1) what can be owned and traded (the genome? slaves? nuclear materials? babies? votes?); (2) on what terms (equal access to the internet? the right to organize unions? corporate monopolies? the length of patent protections? ); (3) under what conditions (poisonous drugs? unsafe foods? deceptive Ponzi schemes? uninsured derivatives? dangerous workplaces?) (4) whatís private and whatís public (police? roads? clean air and clean water? healthcare? good schools? parks and playgrounds?); (5) how to pay for what (taxes, user fees, individual pricing?). And so on.†These rules donít exist in nature; they are human creations. Governments donít ìintrudeî on free markets; governments organize and maintain them. Markets arenít ìfreeî of rules; the rules define them.† The interesting question is what the rules should seek to achieve. They can be designed to maximize efficiency (given the current distribution of resources), or growth (depending on what weíre willing to sacrifice to obtain that growth), or fairness (depending on our ideas about a decent society). Or some combination of all three ó which arenít necessarily in competition with one another. Evidence suggests, for example, that if prosperity were more widely shared, weíd have faster growth. The rules can even be designed to entrench and enhance the wealth of a few at the top, and keep almost everyone else comparatively poor and economically insecure.†Which brings us to the central political question: Who should decide on the rules, and their major purpose? If our democracy was working as it should, presumably our elected representatives, agency heads, and courts would be making the rules roughly according to what most of us want the rules to be. The economy would be working for us; we wouldnít be working for the economy.† Instead, the rules are being made mainly by those with the power and resources to buy the politicians, regulatory heads, and even the courts (and the lawyers who appear before them). As income and wealth have concentrated at the top, so has political clout. And the most important clout is determining the rules of the game.† Not incidentally, these are the same people who want you and most others to believe in the fiction of an immutable ìfree market.îIf we want to reduce the savage inequalities and insecurities that are now undermining our economy and democracy, we shouldnít be deterred by the myth of the ìfree market.î We can make the economy work for us, rather than the other way around. But in order to change the rules, we must exert the power that is supposed to be ours
Wikimedia CommonsMore than a fourth of Americans think the best long-term investment is money in the bank. How tragically wrong they are. This preference for bank deposits is the rather discouraging finding of a July¬†survey¬†by Bankrate. One of its questions was, ‚ÄúFor money you wouldn't need for more than 10 years, which one of the following do you think would be the best way to invest the money?‚Äù Cash was the top choice at 26%, followed by real estate at 23%. And 16% of the respondents chose precious metals, such as gold. Only 14% would put their long-term investment into the stock market and just 8% thought bonds were the best choice. That thumping sound you hear is me banging my head on my desk. I assume those who opted for cash did so because keeping money in the bank seemed to be the safest choice. For long-term investing, however, that safety is an illusion. The best and safest place to put your nest egg for the future is not in the bank, but in a well-diversified portfolio with a variety of asset classes. Here's why: Bank savings accounts and certificates of deposit are safe places to store relatively small amounts of cash that you expect to need within the next few months or years. The funds are protected by federal insurance. You know exactly where your money is, and you can get your hands on it any time you want. This short-term safety does not make the bank a good place for money you require for retirement or other needs 10 years or so into the future. It may seem like safe investing because the amount in your account never goes down. You're always earning interest. Yet over time, that interest isn't enough to keep pace with inflation. The purchasing power of your money decreases, which means you're actually losing money. It just doesn't feel like a loss because you don't see the loss in value. In contrast, the stock market fluctuates. The media reports constantly that ‚Äúthe Dow is up‚Äù or ‚ÄúNasdaq is down,‚Äù as if those day-to-day numbers matter. This fosters a perception that investing in the stock market is risky. Combine that with the scarcity of education about finances and economics, and it's no wonder that so many people are afraid of the stock market and view investing almost as a form of gambling. Wise long-term investing in the stock market is anything but gambling. Instead of trying to buy and sell a few stocks as their prices go up and down, wise investors neutralize the impact of market fluctuations by owning a vast assortment of assets. This is accomplished with a two-part strategy. The first is to invest in mutual funds rather than individual stocks. With just one mutual fund that invests in an index of stocks, you might own thousands of different companies. Your hard-earned fortune isn‚Äôt dependent on the performances of just a few companies. The second component is asset class diversification. An asset class is a type of investment, such as U. S. and international stocks, U. S. and international bonds, real estate investment trusts, commodities, market neutral funds, Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities and junk bonds. Ideally, a diversified portfolio should include nine or more asset classes. By holding small amounts of a great many different companies and asset classes, you spread your risk so broadly that the inevitable fluctuations are small ripples rather than steep gains or losses. As some types of investments decline in value, other types gain value. Over the long term, the entire portfolio grows. In the long term, investing in this way is usually safer than money in the bank. Follow AdviceIQ on Twitter at¬†@adviceiq.¬† Rick Kahler, CFP, is president of¬†Kahler Financial Group¬†in Rapid City, S.D.
Google ImagesForbes is out with its latest list of American billionaires. It's always a strange group, because many of the wealthiest billionaires were essentially born into the list. So we wanted to dig in and figure out who actually came furthest to be counted among the country's richest. We call it the Horatio Alger Index,†after the early-20th century author whose fictional tales of rags-to-riches success stories helped give rise to the notion of "the American dream." We think it provides a rough estimate of who has made it the furthest based on where they started. We start out by calculating something we're calling family income proxy value. This is designed to approximate both the wealth (or lack thereof) into which an individual was born, and how developed his neighborhood would have been growing up (and so what resources he or she may have had access to that helped advance their wealth). But we gave the most weight to whether one was a first-generation American or a minority. Our list is not exhaustive. We worked mostly from the top 50. For some, there was inadequate information, or they declined to provide it, so some deserving of our list may have been left out. Here's how our formula breaks down. Family income proxy value: We assigned or deducted five points based on their home area's income positive or negative order of magnitude differential from the national average in the Census year closest to their 16th birthday. For anyone born after 1940, the differential order of magnitude unit is approximately $2,300. So for instance, Jeff Bezos received zero points because Dade, Fla., his home county, had a median family income of $31,238 in 1979; while the national average was $33,374. Meanwhile Howard Schultz' home county of Kings, NY had a median family income of $27,881 in 1969; while the national average was $30,169. County median family income is not available prior to 1959; so for those born prior to 1940 we used state-level per capita personal income data from the BEA. Minority: 3 points First generation American: 5 points† Did not attend college: 3 points Attended school on scholarship: 2 points Enrolled in college in their home state: 1 point Dropped out of college: 1 point Second generation American: 0.5 points per parent Not raised by biological parents: 0.5 points per parent
AP ImagesT. Boone Pickens certainly has a way with words and a knack for telling it like it is. ¬† In fact, the 85 year-old energy tycoon/author of ¬†"The First Billion Is The Hardest"¬†has a ton of catchy/easy to remember phrases about life and business. They're affectionately referred to by his family and staff members as "Boone-isms."¬† We've compiled some of his business Boone-isms in the slides that follow from his website¬†boonepickens.com.¬† These and other verbal gems are often posted through his Twitter account @BoonePickens.¬†
Markets are exploding higher today. The Dow is up 170 points or 1.1%. At 1,704, the S&amp;P 500 is up 16 points or 0.9%. It's all-time high is 1,709.6. This bullish move is coming in the wake of Larry Summers' withdrawal from the race to become the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve. "Larry Summers‚Äô withdrawal from the race for Fed chair will likely be interpreted by markets as bullish for US interest rate curve trades, duration more generally, and risk assets (including credit and equities)," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian in a post for Business Insider. "It may also impact the manner in which the outcome of this week‚Äôs important Fed policy meeting is interpreted by markets." For the most part, experts think this is a one time thing. "[W]e do not think that the Fed‚Äôs policy stance is likely to change significantly as a result of a new Chair being elected, whoever is appointed," said Capital Economics' Jessica Hinds who says the positive market reaction may not last.¬† "We‚Äôre not convinced that Yellen, if she is selected, will take a much more dovish approach than Summers might have done."
Goldman Sachs analysts Hugo Scott-Gall and Sumana Manohar surveyed summer interns at Goldman and put together six charts on their habits, presented below. Goldman Sachs Fortnightly Thoughts intern survey, 2013 Goldman Sachs Fortnightly Thoughts intern survey, 2013 Goldman Sachs Fortnightly Thoughts intern survey, 2013 Goldman Sachs Fortnightly Thoughts intern survey, 2013 Goldman Sachs Fortnightly Thoughts intern survey, 2013 Goldman Sachs Fortnightly Thoughts intern survey, 2013
REUTERS/David McNew Energy entrepreneur T. Boone Pickens takes part in a panel discussion titled "The End of Energy Scarcity?" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California April 30, 2013. Today we learned that Pickens is no longer a billionaire ‚Äî he¬†only¬†has $950 million to his name, according to Forbes. And last week, Pickens responded¬†to a Sports Illustrated alleging various NCAA infractions occurred at Oklahoma State University, to which Pickens is the largest donor. At least one pundit thinks T. Boone Pickens has had a rough seven days. This morning, ESPN's Darren Rovell couldn't resist calling him out on Twitter. Pickens was swift to respond: .@darrenrovell¬†Don't worry. At $950 million, I'm doing fine. Funny, my $1 billion charitable giving exceeds my net worth.¬†@Forbes¬†@RMac18 To be sure, some of that charity has gone to OSU's athletic program, though Pickens has not been accused of any wrongdoing.¬† But the Pickens Foundation website confirms that those donations represent just one portion of what he's given. Thus, a worthy response.
Five years after the unofficial start of the financial crisis, one of the new additions to the Forbes 400: Definitive Ranking of the Richest Americans (out this morning) made his fortune refinancing underwater homes. William Erbey is the founder of Ocwen Financial Corporation. In 2010 the company came up with a new way to refinance mortgages called the 'Shared Appreciation Modification model.' The way Ocwen refinances, homeowners get 5% equity in their underwater homes, rather than negative equity. Erbey figured this would incentivize homeowners to really keep up with their payments. When the home is sold, however, Ocwen gets 25% of any profits from the sale. That model made the 64 year-old Erbey $2.3 billion. Check out Erbey's profile here Forbes&gt;
Specifically we said: What is one supposed to do with this data? For the overly aggressive out there, and those who are tired of watching paint dry, one option is to create an equal-weighted basket of the 20 most hated names, and hope for the arrival of the one catalyst that forces a massive squeeze. No doubt one or more companies in this list will file for bankruptcy and end up without any value: after all they are shorted for a reason. Yet, all it takes is for one name of 20 to jump tenfold in order to offset the full wipe out of half the names in the basket. Are we saying this will happen, or any one company will perform as suggested? Of course not: we are not Cramer. This is simply the math. And since fundamentals don't matter in a world where Austrian monetary theory rules (i.e., the only thing that matters is the amount of liquidity entering or leaving the market at any moment), taking advantage of people who still naively believe that there are traces of rationality and efficiency in a market that is broken beyond any salvage value and short the worst names out there, may be one of the few "strategies" that work, besides of course predicting with 100% accuracy what side of the bed Mario or Ben will wake up on. Since then two things happened: i) a week later the Fed unleashed open-ended QE(ternity), which one year later has (once again) failed to spur any notable recovery in the economy (trailing GDP a year ago was higher than it is now, and full-time worker substitution with part-time jobs was only a phenomenon suggested here instead of being conventional knowledge), however it led to the latest stock market bubble reflation, where even as corporations have failed completely at growing their bottom lines, the PE multiple has expanded to grotesque levels and has pushed the S&amp;P to new record highs. ii) more importantly, the most shorted names have massively outperformed the broader stock market as day after day, week after week, those "hedging" long positions with hedge fund hotel shorts, got blown out of the water and were forced to cover shorts leading to the only significant "alpha" generating strategy available in this broken, centrally-planned market.  This is confirmed by the chart below showing the outperformance of the "Most Shorted Basket" compared to the overall market. Zero Hedge So in a world in which nothing has changed from a year ago, and where fundamentals still don't matter, what is one to do to generate an outside market return? Simple: more of the same and punish those who still believe in an efficient, capital-allocating marketplace and keep bidding up the most shorted names. After all, it was in December when Herbalife was trading in the mid-20s that we warned of an epic short squeeze potential in the name. It just hit a new 52 week high of $71.25/share. Below, just like a year ago, we present the most shorted Russell 2000 names (those where one tweet from iCahn or an unexpected Microsoft announcement can lead to a 50% surge higher on absolutely nothing), those whose outperformance relative to the broader S&amp;P is likely to continue until such time as the Fed is removed (perhaps by force) from micromanaging the risk of the overall market, and fundamentals once again do matter. Until then, if it isn't unbroken, why unfix it. CapIQ, Zero Hedge
LinkedInFrank Mazzola of Felix AdvisorsSometime in the next several weeks or months, Twitter is going to go public.† Before that happens, Twitter will publish, in a series of public SEC filings,†in-depth information about its business. All this information will help investors figure out whether or not Twitter is a healthy company worth investing in.†We'll learn how much money it brings it, how it spends its money, and how much it is profiting, if it at all. We'll learn if those numbers are shrinking or growing, and how fast. Not everyone is waiting to get all that information before placing their bets. Frank Mazzola is a man who wants to make money off these kinds of speculators. Mazzola runs a Wall Street firm called Felix Advisors.†Felix raises funds from "accredited investors," (people who make $200,000+/year) and uses the money to buy stock in private companies. Last Friday, Mazzola sent out an email pushing a Twitter fund on his clients. The email pushes hard. In it, Mazzola says he is selling Twitter at $31/share, valuing the entire company at about $16 billion. (Judging from other reports, Twitter's share count is about 530 million.) Then he writes Twitter "will be in my opinion a $30+ billion company day one and $100+ billion company in the not so distant future." He says, "Opportunities like this do not come around every day so we are pounding the table." Then Mazzola says his clients should also look into buying stock in several other companies:†Bloom Energy, Palantir, ZocDoc, Badgeville and oDesk. "They are must own opportunities in my opinion and they also have a very limited shelf life in that we do not have much stock and we expect major events for all of them in the short-term." Keep in mind, neither Mazzola nor his clients have any on-the-record data from any of those companies about how their businesses are performing. What could go wrong?† People could lose a lot of money, is what.†Many investors in pre-IPO Facebook, Groupon, and Zynga stocke got totally clobbered. Over the phone, we told Mazzola it seems a little sketchy to us that he's telling potential investors Twitter is going to double (or more than double) it's valuation ñ without having any real information to back that up. "That's my opinion," Mazzola responded. He noted that Business Insider has "beat him" over this kind of thing for some time now. He said, "in Facebook our investors did incredibly well. In LinkedIn our investors did incredibly well. One day someone's going to write that we make our clients a lot of money. There's a reason our business continues to grow." Here's the email: With a tweet, Twitter kicks off next big tech IPO http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/business/2013/09/12/twitter-ipo-filing/2806703/† † Needless to say I feel like I just hit the lottery I have so many friends which I never knew I had before twitterís filing.† They are obviously all begging for whatever twitter stock they can get and for good reason.† We have stock at $31 that I am offering out to investors.† Whatever is left at the end of the day we are buying for ourselves.† This will be in my opinion a $30+ billion company day one and $100+ billion company in the not so distant future.† Opportunities like this do not come around every day so we are pounding the table which we have been for some time telling our investors to take advantage of it as we intend to do so ourselves. The same goes for Bloom Energy, Palantir, ZocDoc, Badgeville and oDesk.† They are must own opportunities in my opinion and they also have a very limited shelf life in that we do not have much stock and we expect major events for all of them in the short-term.† As I have said numerous times we are in the middle of one of the most prolific times in history to be investing.† Fortunes will be made and lives changed if you believe and act.† We have access to the hottest companies all of which in my opinion are the next big thing. If you are interested in twitter or any other of our opportunities I mentioned let us know. Best, Frank
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke delivers his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress before the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 17, 2013.UBS economist Drew Matus says that now that former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers has withdrawn his name for consideration as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, all of the other potential candidates' odds have gone up ‚Äì including current Fed chairman Ben Bernanke's (emphasis added): Although Summers‚Äôs withdrawal from the race for the Federal Reserve Chair increases the odds that Vice Chair Yellen will get the nod from the President (which has been the UBS economics call from the start), it is by no means a guarantee. His withdraw also increases the odds of a compromise candidate such as former Fed Vice Chair Ferguson (a money manager, PhD Economist and a JD who may be better able to manage the new regulatory powers the Fed possesses) or former Fed Vice Chair Kohn (a career Fed official who has ‚Äúseen it all‚Äù). Alternatively the President could look to Christina Romer (former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors and, perhaps more importantly, a political ally) or even look to former Treasury Secretary Geithner, who is reportedly advising on the search process (but who may want to continue on the lecture circuit). It also increases the odds that the President may ask Chairman Bernanke to stay on (although it seems unlikely that Chairman Bernanke would appreciate being asked to forestall his departure). Another Bernanke term is not a scenario you hear many people talking about. Markets, Matus writes in a note to clients, still prefer Yellen the most, though. "However, this has always been the case and the President was willing to ignore the ‚Äúobvious‚Äù choice to place an ally at the helm of the Federal Reserve," says Matus. "It is unclear to us whether the President will choose to heed the market (and Democratic Senators‚Äô) call for Yellen or whether he will now move beyond the two candidates to avoid choosing the candidate he initially did not prefer." Regardless of who President Obama chooses to nominate, implications for the market may not be all that different from candidate to candidate. "Perceptions of hawkish or dovish tendencies of the new Fed Chair may overstate the actual importance of a Fed Chair‚Äôs desires in the new framework Bernanke has crafted," says Matus. "Assuming we are correct and the initial tapering of quantitative easing is announced on Wednesday, the new Fed Chair will take office only after four months of tapering have occurred. Once seated, they will still face constraints regarding future policy decisions from the FOMC‚Äôs threshold guidance around unemployment and the first interest rate hike."¬†
Dr. Ed's BlogDuring the summer, the currencies of many emerging market economies (EMEs) took a dive. In addition, their bond yields spiked because capital inflows dried up as a result of all the tapering talk by Fed officials, which drove yields higher in the advanced market economies (AMEs) as well. Yet the Emerging Markets MSCI stock price index rebounded from a decline of 11.1% ytd on June 25 to a decline of only 1.2% on Friday. This 11.2% rebound was mostly attributable to mounting signs that Chinese economic growth was picking up after slowing down earlier this year. The latest confirmation of that appeared in the 9/11 WSJ in an article titled, ìChina's Steel Industry Gains Steam.î The increase in economic activity has boosted demand for steel and concrete. A sudden surge in China's demand for iron ore has helped push the Baltic Dry Index, a measure of global shipping freight rates, to the highest level in more than 18 months. However, there are mounting concerns, as I noted last week, that the government is resorting to the same old tricks of financing too many unnecessary infrastructure projects with too much debt. Total social financing, a broad measure of new credit in the economy, measured 1.6 trillion yuan ($261 billion) in August, nearly double July's 808 billion yuan. It may be that Chinese government spending is having less bang per yuan on the economy. However, for now, itís clear that like many other policymakers around the world, the ones in China will do whatever it takes to stimulate growth and avoid a recession. If China can grow fast enough again to lift commodity prices, then the rally in the EME MSCI stock price index will continue. There is a very strong correlation between this index (and its forward earnings) and the CRB raw industrials spot price index. So far, the commodity index continues to flat-line, as it has been doing since the spring. †Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Cover Curse. (1) Which team are you on? (2) Cover bull. (3) Ideal scenario for stocks. (4) Fall in the fall? (5) Q3 earnings season could be challenging for financial and global companies. (6) Another soft patch ahead. (7) Another fiscal fistfight ahead. (8) Taper Lite and more Yellen ahead. (9) German court to rule on OMT soon. (10) Euro zoneís weak production doesnít jibe with regionís strong M-PMI. (11) Commodity prices yet to confirm rally in EME stocks. (12) Syria deal could be a big deal if it is serious. (13) It all adds up to neither boom nor bust, which is good for stocks. (14) Focus on market-weight-rated Consumer Discretionary Retailers. (More for subscribers.)
REUTERS/ David MoirFormer Barclays CEO Bob Diamond has remained relatively silent since last summer's Libor scandal unceremoniously ousted him from the British banking giant. But five years after the financial crisis, Diamond is joining the cadre of other former and current bank CEOs chirping in on whether the system is still prone to catastrophe. Writing in the Financial Times, Diamond admits that "bank leverage ñ which was, we can now see, too high in the boom years ñ is now 50 per cent lower than it was pre-crisis." Consumer protections and standardization in the derivatives market should also allay some fears, Diamond notes. Still, on the buzz worthy too big to fail problem, Diamond says a threat remains. From the FT: Political leaders, regulators and banks need to collaborate on the core issues in an internationally-co-ordinated effort to establish a robust resolution regime.†Why is finding a solution to this problem so important?†Without an international plan to wind down an important bank in an orderly fashion, political and regulatory leaders are compelled to create more rules ñ often to protect national and regional markets and economies. So, first and most important, we must establish a global resolution regime that is rigorously tested ñ with ironclad protocols and agreements for implementation. Regulators across borders must have clear responsibilities and be prepared to act on them. "Avoiding the next Lehman and solving 'too big to fail' is well within our reach," Diamond concludes, "If regulators put in place a robust resolution regime, strong capital liquidity and leverage rules, and ensure consistency with other key regulations, including cross border derivatives and bank and market structure rules." Read Diamond's full op-ed at the FT†ª
APNew York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has helped broker an end to the Democratic half of the New York City mayoral race.† According to multiple reports, Former City Comptroller Bill Thompson is set to concede Monday, securing the nomination for Public Advocate Bill de Blasio. The two will appear at a "unity" press conference on Monday with Cuomo, in which Thompson will concede, the New York Post reports. Thompson's public schedule was just updated to include an 11 a.m. event in which he will make "remarks on his 2013 mayoral race" at City Hall. According to Cuomo's schedule, he is in New York City on Monday.† Neither Thompson nor de Blasio's spokespeople returned immediate requests for comment. Thompson's apparent concession will wrap up the Democratic nomination for de Blasio and avoid a month-long runoff battle. It will set up a general election between the Democrat de Blasio and Republican Joe Lhota, the former chair of the MTA.† Though officials were still in the process of counting votes, de Blasio's vote total had stood above 40%, which would have avoided a runoff anyway.
Energy magnate T. Boone Pickens once challenged rapper Drake to imagine how hard it is to make your fist $1 billion. Now, according to Forbes, he also knows how it feels to lose it. For the first time since 2005 Pickens has fallen off the 'Forbes 400: Definitive Ranking of the Richest Americans.' He's graces the list with 33 other individuals including, 5-Hour Energy drink creator Manoj Bhargava and Washington Redskins owner Dan Snyder. This isn't to say that Pickens is poor. Though he told MSNBC he "lost his ass" in the wind energy business, Forbes estimates that Pickens is still worth $950 million. The 84 year-old Oklahoma native made his fortune acquiring energy companies throughout the 1980s, eventually forming his hedge fund, BP Capital Fund in 1997. Most recently he's been a¬† vocal advocate for American energy Independence. Check out the full list of Forbes 400 drop offs here&gt;&gt;
APGene Sperling, the director of the National Economic Council at the White House, warned against the dangers of another debt ceiling crisis on Sunday. Sperling told reporters on a conference call that, according to business leaders who have shared their thoughts with the White House, the 2011 debate over raising the debt ceiling hurt consumer confidence on a level comparable with "Pearl Harbor or 9/11." "When the president met often with business leaders afterward, a couple of major companies came in and showed him ... what 2011 meant to business," Sperling said.† "Consumer confidence, from their perspective, was among the worst things they had seen [to consumer confidence] ... things like Pearl Harbor or 9/11. This was when the default didn't ultimately take place." In a push centered on the five-year anniversary of the financial crisis, the White House has warned against the possibility of a drawn-out debate over raising the debt ceiling.† President Barack Obama said Sunday that he would not negotiate with Congressional Republicans over a debt-limit increase like he did in 2011. He cast it as dangerous, unprecedented policy ó threatening default over policy disagreements. "If you take a look, what has never happened in the past was the notion that, in exchange for fulfilling the full faith and credit of the United States, that we are wiping away ó let's say major legislation, like the health care bill," Obama said on ABC's "This Week" with George Stephanopoulos. "That's never happened before. And when it comes to budgets, we've never had the situation in which a party said that, you know, 'Unless we get our way 100%, then we're going to let the United States default.' That's never happened." Obama is speaking in the Rose Garden Monday morning reflecting on the fifth anniversary of the crisis, during which he will mention the ongoing budget battles. And the White House also released a report on Sunday night to mark the five years that have passed since the U.S. economy was initially thrown into turmoil. It noted the progress that has been made over the past few years, but it delivered a terse warning on the debt-ceiling and government shutdown debates. "Thanks to the grit and resilience of the American people, weíve cleared away the rubble from the financial crisis and begun to lay a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth," the report said. "And the last thing we can afford right now is a decision from Congress to throw our economy back into crisis by refusing to pay our country's bills or shutting down the government."
APIndustrial production climbed 0.4% in August, slightly missing analyst expectations. Economists expected that industrial production ‚Äî¬†which includes ¬†manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities¬†‚Äî¬†would climb 0.5% after a 0% print in July. August purchasing managers' indices generally improved in August and employment data showed that aggregate hours worked in manufacturing also rose,¬†Wells Fargo's John Silvia wrote to clients. Here is the full report.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidEver since news broke yesterday that Larry Summers had withdrawn his name as a candidate for Federal Reserve chair, all the chatter has centered around the other contenders to replace Ben Bernanke. Dennis Gartman, editor and publisher of The Gartman Letter thinks Janet Yellen continues to be the best choice.† He argues in favor of her even though he thinks some see her as "damaged goods": "Concerning the possible replacement candidates, as noted above Dr. Yellen, the current Vice Chairman, has to be the front runner, although certainly she may be seen by some as ìDamaged goodsî given that she was already relegated to second-tier stature by the fact that the President had apparently chosen to pass her by as his nominee. "Nonetheless, Dr. Yellen clearly has the expertise and is well enough liked within the structure of the Fed to fill this role very well indeed. Despite the ìDamaged goodsî problem, she has to be considered the front runner if for no other reason than she had to go through a Senate confirmation hearing when she was posted to the Fed as its Vice Chairman in October of í10. "Helping Dr. Yellenís cause is the simple fact that she did a much, much better job of forecasting the problems that were to beset the USí... and the global... economy in í07- 09 than did many other ranking officials on the Fed. Simply put, she got it right where most others missed the collapse entirely. And finally, of course, she is a woman and although the country is past this sort of consideration it is a real consideration nonetheless. Were we betting folks here at TGL, we'd have to consider Dr. Yellen as the prohibitive favorite." Gartman for his part makes no bones about the fact that he didn't support Summers. "Simply put, Mr. Summers is a rather unlikeable fellow, but who almost certainly is the 'smartest guy in the room' in whichever room he enters, but he has proven, shall we say, 'difficult' at very best," Gartman writes. He called his decision to step down a gentleman's decision. Gartman thinks other candidates include Tim Geithner, former Fed vice chairman, Roger Ferguson, and former Bank of Israel governor Dr. Stanley Fischer.
REUTERS/Gary Hershorn The Empire State manufacturing survey for September is out and the headline number fell to 6.29 in September, from 8.24 the previous month.  This would suggest that manufacturing conditions in New York deteriorated from August. But the number continues to show growth. "The September 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey suggests that conditions for New York manufacturers improved modestly for the fourth straight month. The general business conditions index edged down two points but, at 6.3, remained in positive territory. The new orders index inched up two points to 2.4, while the shipments index jumped nearly fifteen points to 16.4‚Äîits highest level in considerably more than a year. The prices paid index was little changed at 21.5, while the prices received index climbed another five points to 8.6. Labor market conditions were mostly steady; the index for number of employees retreated three points to 7.5 and the average workweek index edged down to a neutral reading of 1.1. Indexes for the six-month outlook revealed increasingly widespread optimism about future business activity. The future general business conditions index rose for the third straight month, climbing three points to 40.6, its highest level since the spring of 2012. "In response to a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers reported that their selling prices had risen by a little less than 1 percent, on average, over the past year, and they predicted an increase of 1.5 percent, on average, over the next twelve months. These increases roughly matched those reported in last September‚Äôs parallel survey. When asked a separate question about the probability of specified price changes over the next twelve months, the average respondent cited a 44 percent chance that selling prices would remain within 2 percent of current levels and a 43 percent chance that they would rise by 2 percent or more, but just a 3 percent chance that they would rise by at least 8 percent. For more details, see the full supplemental report." Click here for the full release ¬ª
REUTERS/Jason ReedDonald Kohn, then Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, speaks at the Symposium on Interest Rate Risk Management in Arlington January 29, 2010. The big news of the day is Larry Summers' withdrawal from the race to become the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve. With the former Treasury Secretary out, economists see Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen as a shoe-in. Of course, some continue to point to others who still have a strong chance of being nominated. One name that advanced after Summers pulled his name was former Vice Chair Don Kohn. But first, here's some commentary from Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere, one of the more connected political analysts in D.C.: FIRST, A WORD ON SUMMERS:†† We never understood why Barack Obama wanted still another fight this fall; the budget crisis will be more than enough. Even Summers realized this -- but not, apparently, the White House.† Could Obama's tone-deafness on the Fed steer him toward a choice other than Janet Yellen?† He has virtually no option -- she's now the clear favorite -- and the markets will get a more predictable policymaker than Summers would have been. This is interesting because Valliere is very close to Kohn. IN FACT, Kohn works as a senior strategist for Potomac Research Group. Hmm...
Wikimedia CommonsEmerging markets have found themselves in hard times. Economic growth has slowed and their currencies have been getting walloped.¬†¬† So much so, that Morgan Stanley identifies the Indonesian rupiah, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian real, the Turkish lira, and the South African rand as the 'fragile five.'  With everything that's going on Morgan Stanley's Manoj Pradhan identifies "the seven deadly" characteristics of past emerging market crises.
APFive years ago yesterday, Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy, closing the doors on a 158 year-old business. All the while, its CEO, Dick Fuld, seemed incredulous that disaster had fallen on his watch. Perhaps he should not have been. In 1985 New Yorker writer Ken Auletta published his book Greed and Glory on Wall Street: The Fall of the House of Lehman.¬†At the time it was notable for chronicling the story of two massive egos at the bank whose, clash ultimately led to it getting swallowed by Shearson/American Express in 1984. Working tirelessly in the background of this story is a trader named Dick Fuld, the man who would ultimately become CEO of Lehman Brothers after it was spun off ¬†from American Express in the 1990s. At the time of Auletta's writing, Fuld was the head of trading at Lehman, and Auletta's characterization of him as a selfish, tone-deaf, inept manager in the 1980s eerily foreshadows the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in 2008. On page 158, for example Autletta recounts a board meeting in which Fuld was asked, simply, how the bank's trading operations had made money over the previous five years, and how they were expected to do so over the next five years.¬† Fuld couldn't answer, and that naturally upset the board.¬† "I seemed that Dick didn't respond to the question and maybe didn't have handle on the business," said one board member. Another feared Fuld had been thrust into a management position to early. More worried that he had no strategy. Lehman's co-CEO at the time, Lew Glucksman, the man that had elevated Fuld to head of trading, blamed Fuld's¬†poor communication skills saying, "Very few board members could understand Dick when he was talking." It only gets worse later in the book. As the fateful merger with Shearson/American Express approached, Lehman started losing money on its trading operations. Specifically, Auletta writes, from October 1983 to March 1984 Lehman's traders lost $30 million.¬† Auletta says he came to that number by examining Lehman's books, but Fuld told him it was off the mark. "Maybe $5-$10 million were trading losses," Fuld said, "Most of it was due to no generation of income." Auletta figures that by Fuld's "novel logic" managers didn't need to take overhead costs or reduced revenues into account when calculating the profitability of a bank's trading operations. It was about all the trades themselves. "I take it as a personal failure to lose money," Fuld told Auletta. Pick up¬†Greed and Glory on Wall Street: The Fall of the House of Lehman here, or read Auletta's shortened version of the story from a 1985 issue of New York Times Magazine here.¬†Both of them are pretty epic.
mikebaird via www.flickr.com creative commons NEW YORK (Reuters Health) - Over the last decade, U.S. kids and teenagers have started getting slightly more exercise and reduced their television watching, a new study suggests. Using surveys conducted in middle and high schools, researchers also found increases in the number of days youth reported having breakfast each week and in how often they ate fruits and vegetables. Those trends have corresponded to a leveling off in obesity rates, but not a decline, the study showed. "I would like to believe that all the public health efforts focusing on increasing physical activity and increasing fruit and vegetable consumption are having an effect, because that seems to be a pattern," Ronald Iannotti, the lead author on the study from the University of Massachusetts Boston, said. "The fact that (obesity) is leveling off, that's a surprise and a major change from the steady increase that we've seen over time," Iannotti, who worked on the study while at the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in Bethesda, Maryland, said. "This is great news." He and co-author Jing Wang analyzed surveys given to a nationally-representative sample of students in sixth through tenth grades in 2001-2002, 2005-2006 and 2009-2010 as part of the Health Behavior in School-aged Children study. Each survey period included responses from between 9,000 and 15,000 adolescents. The researchers found "encouraging" trends on measures of most diet and lifestyle habits. For example, the number of days each week that kids reported being physically active for at least 60 minutes increased from 4.3 in 2001-2002 to 4.5 in 2009-2010, with similar trends among boys and girls. Likewise, youth reported eating breakfast on three school days each week on the first survey and 3.3 days on the last. The average number of hours students spent watching TV each day fell from 3.1 to 2.4, with drops in both weekday and weekend viewing. Frequency of fruit and vegetable consumption also rose slightly over time - although it remained at less than one daily serving of each, on average - and consumption of sweets and soft drinks fell. However, the proportion of survey participants who were overweight or obese, based on their own height and weight reports, did not decrease, the researchers wrote Monday in Pediatrics. Rates of obesity - defined as body mass index, a measure of weight in relation to height, in the 95th percentile or higher - rose from 10.3 percent in 2001-2002 to 12.7 percent in 2005-2006, then held steady through the final survey. "This is encouraging, because at least it looks like things have kind of stabilized, and at least they're not going in the wrong direction," Marian Huhman, who studies health communication and health campaigns at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said. "Maybe it just takes a few years for the outcomes of obesity changes to follow from the behavioral changes," she added. Huhman, who wasn't involved in the study, pointed to the "effort on many, many fronts" that may have led to the positive changes in physical activity, sedentary behavior and diet - such as walk-to-school programs and campaigns targeting food marketing. However, adolescents "are still largely not meeting the recommendations for amount of screen time, amount of physical activity (and) amount of fruit and vegetable consumption," she said. Iannotti echoed that concern. "Although they're increasing, the recommendation is five servings of fruits and vegetables per day. And we're looking at one or two," he told Reuters Health. "There's still vast room for improvement." SOURCE: http://bit.ly/cxXOG Pediatrics, online September 16, 2013.
REUTERS/ Jim YoungFormer National Economic Council Chairman Larry Summers and former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner in December 2010.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Citi ResearchWe still have three and a half months before the year ends. But Wall Street's top stock market strategists are already publishing their new 12-month and 2014 year-end forecasts for the S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. Today, we heard from Citi's Tobias Levkovich in his new 10-page Monday Morning Musings note. Here's his call: Establishing year-end S&amp;P 500 targets are always challenging but various indicators argue for continued gains in 2014. The analysis used to calibrate next year‚Äôs index view involves nine different methods, including a normalized earnings yield gap approach, the P/E Bulls-Eye, currency measures, and consumer confidence, which supports a 1,900 year-end result for the S&amp;P 500 - 4% above the previously released June 2014 expectation of 1,825. Moreover, it represents roughly 12%-13% further upside from current levels. In conjunction with the S&amp;P 500, a DJIA forecast for year-end 2014 has been set at 17,100. Based on data since 1940, a P/E in the 14x to 16x range has been followed by an average 12.6% return over the next 12 months. Levkovich¬† now sees the S&amp;P 500 ending 2013 at 1,650, up from his long-time target of 1,615. But he also cautions against getting too excited. Indeed, 1,650 is below Friday's close of 1,687. From his note: We stress that some near-term caution is appropriate given the market‚Äôs run and our revised 2013 target is still below current S&amp;P 500 levels. Intra-stock correlation is not sending a tactical buy signal and the economic surprise index also argues for some wariness. The percentage of NYSE stocks at or below 52-week highs often needs to dip to around 50% to signal a new bull run while a basket the most shorted stocks in the Russell 1000 has run up to almost two standard deviations of outperformance of late suggesting an overbought condition. Hence, we would be reluctant to take part in the current bull chase, but the Raging Bull Thesis remains in place as we look towards the next year. U.S. stock futures are currently pointing to strong gains for the day.
Depending on who you ask, you'll get a different assessment of the economy. "Our visit with West Coast investors this week revealed most clients have a more cautious economic outlook than we currently forecast," wrote Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in a new note to clients. "Most hedge fund and mutual fund clients expect growth will disappoint and is likely to be in the 2.0%-2.5% range." More from Kostin: ...Goldman Sachs economics research forecasts US GDP growth will accelerate during the next several quarters to a pace above 3%. We expect annual GDP growth will average roughly 3% during 2014, 2015, and 2016. The key drivers of the stronger growth include moderating fiscal drag (the fading of the impact of higher payroll taxes, government spending cuts, and the Sequester, all of which first hit in 2013). A falling savings rate will provide an additional tailwind to consumer spending in the next few years. With this in mind, Kostin's team is recommending the stocks of companies that have high operating leverage. These are the companies that would see earnings growth amplified as more revenue passes to the bottom line via a fixed operating cost structure. In other words, marginal increases in sales translate into accelerating gains in profits. From Kostin: Our top near-term recommendation is for portfolio managers to own stocks with high operating leverage. A key part of our investment thesis is that the US economy will accelerate but profit margins will remain flat as they have during the past several years. Accordingly, operating leverage becomes essential to generate EPS growth. Within their respective sectors, companies such as AMZN, R, RHI, LUV, NFLX, PXD, EOG, BRCM, BSK, and MRK have a high degree of operating leverage and are constituents in our basket. We calculate degree of operating leverage as the ratio of revenue after variable operating costs to revenue after variable and fixed operating costs. "We expect the S&amp;P 500 will trade at 1750 at yearend 2013 (+4.0%) and 1825 in 12 months (+8.4%)," writes Kostin.
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are rallying around the world, and some emerging markets are looking particularly strong. Thailand's SET surged 2.5%. Indonesia's Jakarta Composite jumped 2.6%. Market pundits are pointing to the U.S. dollar, which is sliding in the wake of news that former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers pulled his name from the running to become the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve. Many emerging markets have been watching their currencies tank as U.S. interest rates surge and investors pull their money from these markets. "Summers, a former Treasury secretary, would tighten Fed policy more than Janet Yellen, who was his main rival to replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll last week," reported Bloomberg's Harry Suhartono.
REUTERS/Brian SnyderThe Winklevoss TwinsFormer Treasury Secretary Larry Summers has withdrawn himself as a candidate to become the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve. "All those people who didn't know who Summers was don't need to bother finding out now," tweeted the Wall Street Journal's Katie Martin. This is unfortunate because Summers' incredible intelligence was often overshadowed by his reputation for being arrogant and brash. Many will remember Summers as the Harvard University president who had to deal with the Winklevoss twins during their widely-publicized battle with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. This made for a funny scene in "The Social Network," aka the Facebook movie. Summers was asked to address his interactions with the Winklevoss twins during Fortune's 2011 Brainstorm Tech conference. Here's an excerpt from the transcript: MR. ISAACSON:† So was that scene in The Social Network true? DR. SUMMERS:† I've heard it said that I can be arrogant. DR. SUMMERS:† If that's true, I surely was on that occasion.† One of the things you learn as a college president is that if an undergraduate is wearing a tie and jacket on Thursday afternoon at three o'clock, there are two possibilities.† One is that they're looking for a job and have an interview; the other is that they are an asshole. DR. SUMMERS:† This was the latter case.† Rarely, have I encountered such swagger, and I tried to respond in kind. Here's video of the interview: 
Flickr / LarryChicken MakhaniWholesale-prices jumped 6.1% year-over-year in August, accelerating from 5.79% in¬† July. Economists were looking for prices to decelerate to 5.7%. All of this comes as India's rupee, while up this month, continues to be one of the world's worst performing currencies this year. Food inflation surged 18.1%, the fastest pace in three years. "Late planting and disruptions in supplies of vegetables and onions due to heavy summer rains have fueled food inflation," reported Reuters' Rajesh Kumar Singh. "Onion prices jumped 51 percent between July and August."
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannGlobal stock markets are surging to start a new week. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.8%. France's CAC 40 is up 1.0%. Germany's DAX is up 1.2%. Spain's IBEX 35 is up 1.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.0%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.4%. Japan is closed for a holiday. U.S. stock index futures are up over 1%. Societe Generale's Olivier Korber and Sebastien Galy sum up the two market-moving weekend headlines in their FX Daily note: Risk appetite back with a vengeanceBy far the two most important overnight news are: 1) Summers withdrew his name from the Fed race. On Friday betting websites were giving 85% probability of him replacing Bernanke; he was seen as relatively hawkish. 2) Russia and the US struck a deal, where Syria will reveal its chemical stockpile in a week, and the weapons will be eliminated by mid 2014. S&amp;P futures up by more than 1%. Dollar weak across the broad. Later this week, the Fed holds its two-day FOMC meeting, which is when economists expect to hear that the Fed is tapering its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage-backed bonds.
