APThis morning, Janet Yellen sat down in front of the Senate Banking Committee to begin her confirmation as the next chair of the Federal Reserve. Coming out of that meeting, many expect that the veteran economist will indeed be appointed replace Ben Bernanke as head of the central bank. Here are three things you need to know about her, based on her testimony today. 1. She understands the weight of her role I ¬†approach this task with a clear understanding that the Congress has entrusted the Federal Reserve with great responsibilities. Its decisions affect the well-being of every American, and the strength and prosperity of our nation. That prosperity depends most of course on the productiveness and enterprise of the American people, but the Federal Reserve plays a role too, promoting conditions that foster maximum employment, low and stable inflation, and a safe and sound financial system. Yellen began her opening remarks with this statement. Many people have noted that if Yellen were appointed, she would usurp German Chancellor Angela Merkel as the most powerful woman in the world. Considering that¬†Forbes¬†magazine recently cited soon-to-be-former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke as the seventh¬†most powerful person in the world, she would be in elite company. Moreso than her own elevated status, I think what Yellen is truly getting at in the quote above is the importance of the Federal Reserve. Note that she says "its¬†decisions," not "my¬†decisions." Already serving as the central bank's vice chairwoman, Yellen has supported and will continue to promote a more transparent and open Federal Reserve that is clear in its expectations and actions. Her understanding of the power that the American institution holds shows that she will approach her role with extreme diligence and care as she seeks to continue to keep the economy on track. 2. She believes the financial system is safer since the recession -- but big banks could face changes The crisis revealed weaknesses in our financial system. I believe financial institutions, the Federal Reserve, and our fellow regulators have made considerable progress in addressing those weaknesses. Banks are stronger today, regulatory gaps are being closed, and the financial system is more stable and resilient. One of the key roles of the Federal Reserve is to ensure the soundness, safety, and stability of the nation's financial system. This was clearly demonstrated in the recent financial crisis when the Federal Reserve undertook extraordinary actions to help avert an even more catastrophic meltdown. Coming out of the crisis, an immense amount of scrutiny was rightly directed toward the biggest banks, and changes were demanded to ensure the threat they posed was less severe. To their credit, the banks have made changes. Based on the most recent data from the World Bank, banks have been raising their capital balances (which will insulate against losses) in each successive year since 2008: Source: World Bank As you can see, Yellen was right in asserting that things are quantitatively more safe, and we have seen successive improvements with each passing year. However, Yellen cautioned: We have made progress in promoting a strong and stable financial system, but here too important work lies ahead. I'm committed to using the Fed's supervisory and regulatory role to reduce the threat of a financial crisis. I believe that capital and liquidity rules are important tools and strong supervision are important tools for addressing the problem of financial institutions that are regarded as too big to fail. For anyone worried that Yellen might take a more relaxed stance on the banks that were at the heart of the financial crisis, like¬†JPMorgan Chase¬†(NYSE:¬†JPM),¬†Bank of America(NYSE:¬†BAC), and¬†Citigroup¬†(NYSE:¬†C), this should ease concerns. For investors in these banks, it is important to see that regulatory changes mandated coming out of the financial crisis are here and are here to stay. Yellen supporting continued efforts to ensure we have a safer and secure financial system is a good thing. 3. She believes the U.S. economic outlook has improved, but work remains We've made good progress, but we have further to go to regain the ground lost in the crisis and the recession. Unemployment is down from a peak of 10%, but at 7.3% in October, it is still too high, reflecting a labor market and an economy that is performing far short of their potential. Yellen rightly noted that since the depths of the financial crisis, the nation's economic situation has improved considerably. The private sector has added 7.8 million jobs, while construction, home prices, and home sales are all on the mend, and the auto industry is almost back to pre-crisis levels. We are clearly on the road to recovery. Yet while improvements have been made, it was encouraging to see that she believes that we are by no means where we should be. Many have speculated that the current state of the U.S. economy is the "new normal," with high unemployment and paltry economic growth here to stay. But Yellen clearly recognizes that there is still ample room for improvement, indicating that she will not be content with this new normal and will do all in her power (which is certainly significant) to ensure the U.S. recovery continues. In her own words: Our country has come a long way since the dark days of the financial crisis, but we have farther to go.
Say what you want about the long-term viability of Bitcoin, the digital currency that's been going crazy lately. Bitcoin has been incredibly lucrative for Sam Cole, Marcus Erlandsson¬†and Andreas Kennemar. Because of Bitcoin, they generated $3 million in revenue in just four days. Their company, KnCMiner, doesn't own Bitcoins or trade them. They make the special computers that allow people to "mine" Bitcoins from cyberspace. From November 7 to 10, 2013, while Bitcoin prices were climbing wildly, Stockholm-based KnCMiner sold out of its newest Bitcoin computer, selling 5,000 units. These computers cost $7,000 a piece (and yes, they take Bitcoin as payment). At one point, the computers were selling so fast that KnCMiner generated $600,000 in less than five minutes, it said. That's because there's basically three ways to get a hold of a Bitcoin. You can buy them. You can take them as payment for products or services. You can go out into cyberspace and create them, otherwise called "mining." KnCMiner Andreas Kennemer, cofounder, KnCMiner Mining a Bitcoin is hard for a typical computer to do. A computer has to solve a series of difficult cryptography problems and most computers don't have the computational power to do that. So companies like KnCMiner developed special Bitcoin computers using custom computer chips. (Such chips are called ASICs which stands for "Application-Specific Integrated Circuit.") These computers do only one job: mine Bitcoins. We asked cofounder Andreas Kennemer about the business of Bitcoin computers. Business Insider: How is a Bitcoin "mined"? Andreas Kennemar: Bitcoins are built from calculating an algorithm (or encryption problems) called SHA-256. By using the processing power from your ASICs or graphic cards, you try to solve the algorithm (called "solving a block") to create new Bitcoins. If you succeed in solving the algorithm, your result is verified by the other processing ‚Äúcomputers‚Äù in the Bitcoin network. If you are the lucky first to solve a block you get rewarded with Bitcoins, currently 25 per block. The algorithm also keeps track of how many Bitcoins are allowed to be created. If the creation exceeds more than 3600 Bitcoins a day, the difficulty to create Bitcoins increases. This means that it gets harder for the computers to solve a block and the amount of Bitcoins that can be created remains the same. BI: What's different about a Bitcoin computer from a regular PC, like a high-end MacBook pro? Or a "supercomputer"? AK: A Bitcoin computer has an ASIC chip specifically designed for calculation of the Bitcoin algorithm (SHA-256). This computer has only one task and can only perform that task. Because it is specifically designed for that purpose, it can calculate the Bitcoin algorithm extremely fast compared to a [regular computer] CPU or a graphic card. We have spoken to Chinese engineers running the world‚Äôs strongest supercomputer¬† in China. If that supercomputer were to calculate the Bitcoin algorithm, it would be the equivalent of 40 of our Jupiter models [550 gigahashes per second, gh/s, or 550 billion computations per second] to be equal in performance.¬† BI: How fast can one of your top computer mine bitcoins? AK: Current average mining speed of our fastest model (Jupiter) is 0.6 coins a day per device. BI: Are serious Bitcoin minors also using supercomputers to mine? AK: No, those computers can‚Äôt compete with our devices. The ASICs are specifically designed for calculation of the SHA-256 algorithm and the cost-per-Gigahash (calculation power) is much lower.
REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin Chinese President Xi JinpingFaced with a devastating typhoon a mere 700 miles away, Chinese President Xi Jinping this week pledged financial support for the Philippines, as did nearly every other industrialized nation. Australia offered $30 million; the Europeans $11 million; the United Arab Emirates promised $10 million. China offered $100,000. The media backlash was immediate. Within days, an embarrassed Beijing upped its pledge to $1.6 million. That's still less than a sixth of the total offered by Japan, China's main regional rival. In 2010, China overtook Japan as the second-biggest economy in the world. What gives ‚Äî or doesn't give, as the case may be? Why is an economy so big, a government so willing to invest abroad, and a country so eager to win favor in the region stiffing a neighbor in need? Because China is still a new enough power that it has no tradition of shelling out helpings of foreign aid ‚Äî and because the Philippines is not China's favorite country at the moment. And despite its successes, China is actually still a poor country. Its per capita income finally topped $9,000 last year, which ranks China about 90th in the world, depending on the exact measure. Nearly 130 million of its people live on less than $1.80 per day. With a renewed sense of urgency to tackle the country's many economic reform challenges, China has far too many pressing needs at home to be cutting big checks abroad. At least, that's what its less-advantaged populations might well think. In 2008, nearly 70,000 people died in China when an earthquake struck outside the central Chinese city of Chengdu. And this year, nearly 200 died when a quake rattled the country's southwest. This is a country that struggles with its own domestic disaster relief. Let's remember, too, that the Philippines is a former American colony. There are already hundreds of U.S. troops on the ground helping with the relief effort. There is also the small matter of the South China Sea, which the Chinese, as documented in the New York Times Magazine a few weeks ago, want for themselves. For China, offering huge sums of money to a foreign community ‚Äî especially one with which China has a beef over maritime borders ‚Äî is a nonstarter. It's easy to think that the typhoon relief effort is an opportunity to break that impasse. But just because that's how the U.S. uses foreign aid ‚Äî as a tool with which to change public opinion abroad ‚Äî doesn't mean China thinks the same way. It has virtually no infrastructure to push aid abroad ‚Äî there's no equivalent of USAID or American nonprofits like Habitat for Humanity. The mandate of China's diplomatic corps is largely determined by the work its state-owned companies do abroad. China courts favor by investing, not giving. A rising China will lead to a radically different international response to crises over time. China says it wants a de-Americanized world, and the U.S. has lately stepped back from its traditionally activist foreign policy. But where will the world turn for disaster relief when a still-poor China has become the world's largest economy? After the shooting in Newtown, Connecticut a year ago, a quote from legendary TV kids show host Mr. Rogers went viral: "When I was a boy and I would see scary things in the news, my mother would say to me, ‚ÄòLook for the helpers. You will always find people who are helping.' To this day, especially in times of ‚Äòdisaster,' I remember my mother's words, and I am always comforted by realizing that there are still so many helpers - so many caring people in this world." What happens when the largest economy is a country that doesn't want to do the things we expect the largest economy to do? That's a problem that extends well beyond typhoons, earthquakes and aid. (The author is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own)
REUTERS / Brendan McdermidMoody's has downgraded the credit ratings for notes issued by Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, and BNY Mellon, citing updated views of government support and issues within the banks themselves. The agency also lowered†the standalone baseline credit assessments of BNY and State Street Bank and Trust. The ratings outlooks for the firms remain stable. Moody's said its new ratings reflect the belief that if a firm's finances start to head south, support would now likely come from the firm's creditors, not the government: "Moody's view of support probabilities for these firms remains unchanged because we believe the disorderly failure of one of them would create the risk of contagion to the broader financial system and the economy.  "What has changed is the source of this financial support. With the single point of entry receivership (SPE) framework more fully developed, Moody's believes that if support were to be provided, it would be derived not from a bail-out by the government, but, in most instances, from the bail-in of holding company creditors.  "That is, a systemically important bank would still likely be supported, but the FDIC would largely shift the cost of supporting one of these firms from the public sector to the private sector." Basically, the government would impose losses on the bank's largest creditors to preserve the units most important to fundamental operations. Moody's did not discuss the "standalone" issues at Goldman, JPM or Morgan Stanley. It said the downgrade of Bank of New York Mellon and State Street's baseline credit stemmed from "profitability pressures." "Specifically, protracted low interest rates and the challenging global operating environment have exposed vulnerabilities in the trust and custody banks' business models and revealed the mispricing of their largest custody relationships."† Moody's confirmed the senior holding company ratings of Bank of America, Citigroup, State Street, and Wells Fargo.
Texan hedge fund manager Kyle Bass has piled into the Herbalife trade.† During the third quarter ended September 30, Hayman Capital Management held 436,371 shares of Herbalife, according to a 13F filing. †The fund also had 1,300,000 in call options and 500,000 in puts, the filing shows.† Hedge fund manager Stan Druckenmiller, who runs family office Duquesne, also got into Herbalife in Q3. †He bought a little over 79,000 shares, his fund's 13F filing shows.† Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products. The company's stock has been at the center of a huge hedge fund war.† Late last year, Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, publicly declared he's shorting $1 billion worth of the stock with a price target of $0. †Ackman believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people, particularly from the Hispanic population.† After Ackman announced his short, a bunch of hedge fund managers, most notably his arch-nemesis Carl Icahn, bet against him. †Icahn said on CNBC that he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."† Hedge fund managers George Soros and Richard Perry are both long Herbalife. Daniel Loeb of Third Point was long during the first quarter. He called Ackman's pyramid scheme claims "preposterous" in a letter to investors. †Loeb exited Herbalife after a few weeks for a nice profit.†
Business Insider VideoFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jim Rogers: I Have Learned To Know That Change Is Coming (Birch Gold Group)  Speaking to Birch Gold Group, Jim Rogers said one of the things he's learned over the years is to not think like the crowd. "...No matter what we all know today, it‚Äôs not going to be true in 10 or 15 years. You pick any year in history and go back and then look to see what everybody thought was true in that year, 15 years later the world had changed enormously. Enormously. And yet in that particular year everybody was convinced that this is the way the world was. "‚Ä¶I have learned, for whatever reason, to know that change is coming, to know to think against the crowd, that the crowd is nearly always wrong and to try to think for myself. Now, I certainly make plenty of mistakes and have made plenty of mistakes in my life, but these are some of the things that I have learned, to try to think around the corner, try to think to the future if you want to be successful." 'Diversification Is The Closest Thing To A Free Lunch In The Marketplace (Advisor Perspectives) "When diversification is out of favor, it may the right time to bet on its potential financial health benefits," writes Jeff Hussey of Russell Investments in a new Advisor Perspectives column.¬† For those wondering why investors should keep away when the U.S. stock market has had a great run, Hussey writes that "diversification is the closest thing to a 'free lunch' that the marketplace has to offer." He also reminds us that diversification is the cheapest way to manage portfolio volatility. And that it doesn't just expand exposure to different assets but to different regions. Gold Is Flowing From The Western World To The East (World Gold Council) Gold is moving from western markets to the east, according to the latest report from the World Gold Council. "The recent dynamics of the gold market have worked to ensure that lower prices (caused, in part, by ETF outflows) boosted Asian demand to an extent sufficient to absorb the gold flowing from western markets. This trend continued in Q3 as ETF redemptions were again outweighed by demand from Asian and Middle Eastern consumers. "Gold continued to work its way through the supply chain, to be converted from London Good Delivery bar-form, via the refiners, into smaller, Asian consumer-friendly denominations of kilo-bars and below" World Gold Council Mutual Funds And Other Investment Companies That Suggest Safety In Their Name, Should Change It (SEC) The SEC has told mutual funds and other investment companies to consider changing their names if they suggest protection from loss, if the fund does expose investors to market or other risks.¬† "We believe that the terms ‚Äúprotected,‚Äù ‚Äúguaranteed,‚Äù and similar terms, when used in a fund name without some additional qualification, may contribute to investor misunderstanding about the potential for loss associated with an investment in the fund. "As a result, in the disclosure review process, the staff recently requested that some existing and new funds change their names. The staff took this action in response to an increase in the use of the term 'protected' in fund names in situations where that term was used without a qualification that would adequately describe the nature and limits of any protection offered by the fund." Here Are The Assets That Hedge Funds Love And Hate (Societe Generale)  A look at hedge fund positions shows that they would be "exposed" in the event the Fed announces an early taper to its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. Hedge funds are positive on Nasdaq, 30-year Treasury bonds, crude oil and natural gas. They are fairly negative on corn, the 10-year Treasury notes and the yen. SocGen
David Tepper's Appaloosa Management picked up a small stake in embattled retailer JC Penney last quarter, according to filings with the SEC.  Specifically, the fund picked up 737,800 shares of JCP ó the stock is up slightly in after hours trading. Appaloosa also added slightly to its stakes in JP Morgan and Citigroup. Not all the financials were a buy, however.† Appaloosa reduced its stake in Bank of America ó going from 6,344,607 shares to 2,219,607 shares.
We've noticed a handful have snapped up new stakes in FedEx. George Soros' family office hedge fund Soros Fund Management disclosed¬†a new position in FedEx. Soros held 1,515,730 and¬†375,000 shares in call options, the filing shows.¬† On Tuesday, at the Dealbook Conference activist investor Daniel Loeb revealed that he had snapped up a new position in FedEx and that he met with the CEO, Fred Smith, recently. His 13F filing shows that his fund bought 2 million shares in the third quarter. John Paulson also bought a new position in FedEx during the third quarter, according to the securities filing. He held 646,800 shares during the quarter ended September 30.
This week at the New York Times Dealbook Conference, Dan Loeb said he'd picked up a stake in FedEx. Now that 13Fs are coming out, it's clear he's not the only one. John Paulson's hedge fund, Paulson and Co. picked up 646,800 shares of the company last quarter, according to its 13f filing. Another few things to note ‚Äî Paulson upped its stakes in Family Dollar slightly from 7,443,600 shares to 11,265,600 shares and its Aetna from 6,506,600 shares to 7,997,107 shares.
Grey Wolf1 / FlickrU.S. homes are selling 30 days faster now than they were a year ago, according to a new report from Zillow.  This September, home listings spent an average of 86 days on Zillow. Tight inventory was the main reason for this, according to Zillow chief economist Stan Humphries:  "The inventory constraints we‚Äôre seeing are a big factor, which are caused by the imbalance of supply and demand between buyers wanting to enter the market to take advantage of low mortgage rates, and would-be sellers that are stuck underwater and unable to list their homes. Almost every market we track is seeing less inventory this year relative to last year. "New construction is also ramping up more slowly than demand because builders have largely consumed their ready-to-build parcels and are having to entitle new land which can be a lengthy process, particularly with fewer municipal staff in permitting and related offices than during the boom years." The best performing metros were Sacramento, Las Vegas, and¬†San Antonio, where the number of days spent as a listing declined by 43, 44, and 37 days respectively.  "Relative to peak levels, home values are still down more than 30% in Sacramento and down almost 50% from peak in Las Vegas," Humphries told Business Insider in an email. "Investor demand in Sacramento and Las Vegas has also driven up both prices and demand in these areas, helping homes to sell much faster than in markets where investors may be less attracted." San Antonio, on the other hand, is benefiting from a jump in employment and people moving in for jobs. The region's employment rate, at 6.4%, has been much lower than the national average.¬† The survey looked at the 30 largest metro areas covered by Zillow. 
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganBerkshire Hathaway's latest 13-F filing is out. According to the filing, Warren Buffett's conglomerate picked up 40,089,371 shares of Exxon Mobil in the third quarter. Exxon has 4.37 billion shares outstanding, so the Berkshire stake amounts to about 1% of the oil giant. Shares of Exxon Mobil are moving a bit higher in after-hours trading. At today's closing price of $93.22, a 40,089,371-share stake in Exxon would be worth $3,737,131,164.62. The stock fell 10.5% between late July and early October before rebounding 9.5% to today's levels. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Trash is piling up in Madrid as garbage collectors hold firm on a strike. Collectors who work in Madrid's public parks have been striking since Nov. 5 in protest of pay cuts and a planned layoff. On Wednesday, Madrid's city council said it will end its municipal cleaning contracts with private companies if the strike continues. Here's what it looks like in Madrid. REUTERS/ Sergio PerezREUTERS/ Sergio PerezREUTERS/ Sergio PerezREUTERS/ Sergio Perez APAPAP
johntrathome via www.flickr.com creative commons Like a cartoon character whose legs continue to pump even after he has run off a cliff, Hong Kong's house prices have remained buoyant even as purchasing activity in the real-estate sector has crashed to levels not seen since the slump at the start of the millennium. The situation cannot continue indefinitely: sooner or later prices will follow sales down. Property prices more than doubled in Hong Kong between end-2008 and end-2012. Policymakers have taken several steps to try to cool the market, including tightening restrictions on mortgage loan/value ratios and increasing stamp duty in late 2012 and early 2013. However, according to the Hong Kong Rating and Valuation Department (RVD), property prices in September 2013 were still 7.8% higher than in December 2012. Nevertheless, the sector is not in rude health. Figures from the Land Registry show that there were only 3,426 residential units sold in October, a drop of 60.7% year on year and of 7.1% compared with September. On a rolling three-month basis, the number of all types of building units being sold is at its lowest level since March 2001. Over the last two decades, slumps in sales activity have usually been temporary, but the current downturn has been unusually long-lasting-and there are few signs that it will end in the near future. That is largely a reflection of the fact that prices continue to levitate, despite the sharp contraction in demand. The strength of prices is partly a reflection of high levels of liquidity, a phenomenon that is linked both to rapid credit growth in China (a major source of demand for property in the territory) and to the extraordinarily loose monetary policy being adopted in the US. Hong Kong's interest rates are linked to those in the US through the exchange-rate peg. However, given that demand is slumping, liquidity no longer seems to be the primary driver of local property prices. Instead, the key factor behind recent trends appears to be the reluctance of homeowners and developers to put properties up for sale in such a weak market, which has resulted in a relatively tight supply of new properties. Similarly, sellers have, overall, been reluctant to slash prices in order to clear the market. They have been supported by developments in the rental market, where prices have remained buoyant. Nevertheless, pressures for a more substantial readjustment are beginning to build. Although private residential rents were still up by 5.6% year on year in September according to the RVD, this growth has slipped from a rate of 14.2% in February. The coming months are likely to see some confusing data. Anecdotal reports suggest that demand in some parts of the market may be picking up again. Developers have sought to offset government policies by offering incentives, including stamp-duty rebates. This can result in a considerable reduction in the overall transaction price for higher-end properties-and one that does not filter through into property price indices, thus avoiding potential declines in "property prices" as reported by the media that might spook potential buyers. However, it is an expensive tactic that hits the margins of developers. Other buyers are reported to be trying to make purchases before higher interest rates make mortgage borrowing significantly more expensive. In the longer run, the current level of house prices is unlikely to be sustainable. Our current expectation is that local interest rates will rise in line with those in the US in 2015-16. Higher borrowing costs will increase the pressure on developers to clear inventory, even as they deter buyers, suggesting that they will be the trigger for a broader correction in the Hong Kong housing market. However, a shadow tightening could occur before 2015, as the US winds down its quantitative easing programme, pushing up market interest rates even as policy rates remain stable. It is also hard to determine how well confidence will hold up among property owners. A serious price decline could thus begin in 2014. The drop in prices, whenever it comes, could be substantial. Although it is unlikely to match the 66.2% slump in residential house prices that occurred in Hong Kong between October 1997 and July 2003, it will almost certainly be in double digits, and could be as high as 30-40% for some types of property. Policymakers could reverse the recent curbs imposed to rein in house prices, but we do not believe that such a step would succeed in halting the slide in prices. Indeed, it is not clear that the chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, who campaigned on a platform of tackling the issue of housing affordability, would be keen to prop up prices, even if he could. Although a dramatic property crash will have negative effects on the economy, the risks to the financial sector are not as high as they would be if such a decline occurred in another developed economy. Loan/value ratios for home loans in Hong Kong are low, at around 56% in recent months, and negative equity is virtually non-existent. Consequently, the banking sector will face any price correction from a robust base. Its experience of handling the massive slump in house prices in 1997-2003 with few problems also suggests that it should be able to handle the downturn. The biggest impact on the economy is thus likely to stem from negative wealth effects (as house prices fall) and the loss of employment that tends to accompany a downturn in the real estate sector. These will be significant, but given that the external trade sector is expected to be strengthening at the same time, the overall economy should continue to expand, even through the property downturn. If the effects on domestic demand are stronger than we expect, the government's fiscal position is more than strong enough to provide additional stimulus. This would probably be channelled through income supplements rather than public investment. The government already has an extensive programme of infrastructure "megaprojects", such as the Macau-Zhuhai-Hong Kong bridge, under way that would be hard to ramp up at short notice. The real-estate sector's troubles will be unnerving, and will cause economic hardship for many individuals, but the territory is well prepared for the volatility that lies ahead. The looming clouds will also come with a silver lining. Hong Kong's sky-high housing and office costs are a notable weakness in the city's otherwise stellar business environment. A fall in rents could, in the longer run, serve to boost investment in the city. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
REUTERS/Jason ReedA member of the audience takes a picture as Janet Yellen, President Barack Obama's nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to testify at her U.S. Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing in Washington, November 14, 2013. The stock market closed at fresh record highs today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The Dubai Air Show kicks off next week, and Reuters is predicting a "$100 billion Boeing order bonanza" by Middle Eastern carriers like Etihad, Emirates, and Qatar Airways. Why such high expectations for a region that accounts for just 8% of the world's revenue passenger miles? It's because Middle Eastern airlines are young and growing fast. And unlike other booming regions, they have an appetite for big, expensive aircraft. In a statement today, Boeing VP of Marketing Randy Tinseth said one key is location: The Gulf region benefits from a unique geographic position that enables one-stop connectivity between Europe, Africa, Asia and Australasia. Additionally, over the last decade, we've seen a rise in low-cost carriers that have benefitted from a large youthful population, large migrant workforce and trends toward market liberalization. Boeing predicted that "long-range, twin-aisle airplanes ó such as the Boeing 777 and 787 Dreamliner ó will continue to dominate the Middle East's order books."† The advantage to selling the wide-body aircraft is clear. In 2013, the most expensive 737 jet ran for $109.9 million. The cheapest 777 cost more than double that ($261.5 million). So a region that's more interested in wide-bodies than narrow-bodies a major opportunity. To drive home the importance of the Middle East to both Boeing and its archrival Airbus, we've pulled a few charts from their most recent market outlook reports. Lets' start with the rate of growth in the region, compared to the rest of the world: Boeing The region isn't on track to be a world leader in traffic, but it's 20-year growth rate is the world's highest: Airbus Now let's look at the Middle East's taste for large aircraft. It's the only market that wants more twin-aisle than single-aisle planes. Airbus Boeing has slightly different numbers from Airbus, but it gets to the same point. In the rest of the world, wide-body planes make up just 24% of orders. In the Middle East, that rate is over 50%. Boeing †So as the Dubai show kicks off, get ready to see a lot of big orders for big planes come in.
Business Insider/ Mike NudelmanTiger Global, the tech-oriented hedge fund run by Chase Coleman and Feroz Dewan, has filed its 13F with the Securities and Exchange Commission.¬† During the quarter ended September 30, Tiger Global disclosed a new position in Yahoo!. ¬†The hedge fund held 8,000,000 shares in Q3, the filing shows.¬† Tiger Global also revealed a new position in Twenty First Century Fox. ¬†The fund held 15,925,000 shares in Twenty First Century Fox during Q3, according to the 13F.¬† The hedge fund added to its Netflix position during the quarter, too. The fund held 440,000 shares in Q3 versus 315,000 in Q2.¬† Tiger Global closed its positions in Qualcomm and News Corp during the third quarter.¬† As a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these filings.¬†
Flickr/Bex.WaltonThe New York Department of Financial Services has announced it will hold hearings in the coming months to discuss regulating Bitcoin. Among the topics they'll discuss is whether to begin issuing what they're calling "BitLicenses" to businesses deemed in compliance with a possibly new set of financial statutes created solely for digital currencies like Bitcoin. "Our public hearing will review the interconnection between money transmission regulations and virtual currencies," the release states. "Additionally, the hearing is also expected to consider the possibility and feasibility of NYDFS issuing a ‚ÄòBitLicense‚Äô specific to virtual currency transactions and activities, which would include anti-money laundering and consumer protection requirements for licensed entities."¬† Much of the popularity of Bitcoin seems to hinge on its status as an unregulated, decentralized unit of transaction, and¬†we've previously discussed the paradox of how the mainstreaming of Bitcoin could actually cause its value to decline. As Bloomberg View's Timothy Lavin wrote, "Almost all the advantages Bitcoin has -- it's cheap, somewhat convenient, anonymous, free from centralized authority -- derive from the fact that governments haven't taken it very seriously."¬† Many Bitcoin proponents dismiss that argument, however, noting that even if demand slips in Western countries, there remains a healthy interest abroad, especially in countries where the government sets exchange rates. Indeed, a surge in Chinese Bitcoin users seem to have driven much of the recent climb in value.¬† In August, representatives from Bitcoin firms¬†met with officials in Washington to answer questions about the cryptocurrency, which can now be used to purchase virtually anything on the web. Bitcoin's value has climbed more than 70% in the past month to about $430 on the Mt. Gox exchange. Here's the NYDFS full release:¬† In August 2013, the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) issued a public notice that it has launched an inquiry into the appropriate regulatory guidelines for virtual currencies.¬†In that notice, we wrote that it is important for regulators to balance both allowing new technologies and industries to flourish, while also working to ensure that consumers and our country‚Äôs national security remain protected.NYDFS launched its inquiry in part because of evidence that the cloak of anonymity provided by virtual currencies has helped support dangerous criminal activity, such as drug smuggling, money laundering, gun running, and child pornography. Indeed, the same week that NYDFS issued its public notice, a national magazine published an interview with an alleged key figure in the black market drug website ‚ÄúSilk Road,‚Äù who cited the virtual currency Bitcoin as a key ingredient in the site‚Äôs efforts to commit illegal acts. Law enforcement authorities have subsequently taken action in the Silk Road case. ¬†¬†Virtual currencies may have a number of legitimate commercial purposes, including the facilitation of financial transactions. That said, NYDFS also believes that it is in the long-term interest of the virtual currency industry to put in place appropriate guardrails that protect consumers, root out illegal activity, and safeguard our national security. Failing to do so would not only threaten the virtual currency industry as a legitimate business enterprise, but could also potentially expose virtual currency firms to extraordinarily serious criminal penalties.¬†As the next step in our inquiry, we are providing notice that NYDFS intends to hold a public hearing on virtual currency regulation in New York City in the coming months at a time and location to be determined. We will announce logistical details for the hearing in the near future.¬†This upcoming public hearing is part of an ongoing fact-finding effort informing NYDFS‚Äôs determination regarding the appropriate regulatory guidelines for virtual currencies. As part of its August 2013 notice, NYDFS stated that it was concerned that certain virtual currency firms may be engaging in money transmission, which is an activity that is licensed and regulated by our Department. However, we also said that we were considering whether to issue new regulatory guidelines tailored specifically to the unique characteristics of virtual currencies.Our public hearing will review the interconnection between money transmission regulations and virtual currencies. Additionally, the hearing is also expected to consider the possibility and feasibility of NYDFS issuing a ‚ÄòBitLicense‚Äô¬† specific to virtual currency transactions and activities, which would include anti-money laundering and consumer protection requirements for licensed entities. Among the issues related to the potential issuance of a BitLicense that we are considering include but are not limited to the following: What specific types of virtual currency transactions and activities should require a BitLicense?Should entities that are issued a BitLicense be required to follow specifically tailored anti-money laundering guidelines?¬†Should entities that are issued a BitLicense be required to follow specifically tailored consumer protection guidelines?Should entities that are issued a BitLicense be required to follow specifically tailored regulatory examination requirements?To be clear, NYDFS has not made a determination at this point about the necessary regulatory guidelines for virtual currencies. Our Department is currently engaged in a broad-based inquiry on virtual currency. The virtual currency industry represents a new frontier in electronic commerce, and it is important that regulators obtain the necessary information ‚Äì through a rigorous, deliberate fact-finding effort ‚Äì to set appropriate guardrails for this industry.¬†Indeed, it is not clear at this point whether virtual currencies will become a long-term, prevalent fixtures of the electronic commerce world. But given the increased demand from consumers and investors, as well as demonstrated concerns regarding money laundering, regulators would be remiss if they turned a blind eye to virtual currencies. We have a responsibility to take a hard look at these issues.We look forward to continuing to work with the virtual currency industry as our inquiry proceeds.
Cisco's stock is getting pounded this morning after it delivered a solid quarter (though it didn't meet analysts hopes on revenue) and then offered an abysmal outlook: It says revenues will decline 8% to 10% year-over-year next quarter. Until CEO John Chambers gave that warning, analysts were expecting revenues to grow next quarter. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Tal Liani calculated that this drop in revenue is the biggest drop in 13 years, except for January 2009, "and at that time the world was about to collapse," Liani said during the quarterly conference call. Chambers said on that conference call that Cisco was struggle in emerging markets, particularly China, where he had "never seen" such a falloff in orders. The top five emerging markets "declined 21% with Brazil down 25%, Mexico down 18%, India down 18%, China down 18%, and Russia down 30%," he said during the quarterly conference call.  While he said the NSA spying scandals was impacting Cisco's sales in China a little, the true culprit, in his mind, was a sluggish U.S. economy, he told Maria Bartiromo on CNBC's Closing Bell. The U.S. is "looked upon" as the world's economic engine, he said, and it needs to help cash "flow back into those countries ... then you begin to get more growth," he said. Analysts don't blame the U.S. economy for Cisco's woes. Some of them think that Cisco hasn't come up with a good plan to address a new, game-changing way to build networks called software-defined networking (SDN). Cisco is known as the Cadillac of network equipment providers, high performance, high margins, and high price tags. That doesn't fly as well in cost-conscience emerging markets. SDN will help them save money. It takes features out of network hardware and puts it in software. Companies need less network hardware and less-expensive models. They can buy it from competitors like Juniper, HP, or Huawei. The SDN software can come from market leader VMware, startups like Big Switch Networks, or competitors like HP. Cisco this month introduced its SDN product, but it's complex and requires customers to rip out their current Cisco network gear and buy new stuff that could be equally (or more) expensive. VMware's Nicira doesn't require that they replace their current network hardware. Analysts like Cantor Fitzgeraldís Brian White wrote in his research note,†reports Barron's Teresa Rivas: "Cisco is crying the blues over emerging markets. We wonder if this is indicative of a broader economic downturn on the horizon, a backlash toward U.S.-based IT vendors in light of the NSA fallout, or Ciscoís fault?î" Wedbush Securitiesí Rohit Chopra downgraded Ciscoís rating from Outperform to Neutral and offered this stinging commentary, Despite a bottom-line EPS beat, fundamentals at Cisco are deteriorating as evidenced by the Q1 revenue miss and a surprisingly weak Q2 guide. Unfortunately, the decline in momentum is due to a combination of macro, execution, competitive and product transition challenges that we think will last for several quarters ñ with no visibility on improvement. We believe the challenges Cisco faces with SP [service provider] product transitions raise concerns about the companyís ability to manage one of the more evolutionary changes in networking with the new SDN switching platform, which is likely to create long pauses over the next several quarters. Given the duration and magnitude of these challenges, we see ongoing risk to the story and think the stock will remain range-bound, unable to outperform the group. We advise investors to move to the sidelines.î Other analysts that have downgraded Cisco include Deutsche Bankís Brian Modoff† (Buy to Hold), S&amp;P Capital IQís James Moorman (Buy to Hold), Wedbush Securitiesí Rohit Chopra (outperform to neutral). A host of other analysts did not downgrade the company, but lowered their price targets for the stock. Cisco is down nearly 12% today to about $21.†
REUTERS/Edgar SuStore employee Jeffrey puts his hand on a gold and porcelain Buddha statue that the store had valued at S$38,888 ($34083) at a Cash Converters used goods store in Singapore, August 30, 2013.Thailand saw a 57% year-over-year rise in Q3 gold jewelry demand, and a 126% YoY rise bar and coin investment, according to the World Gold Council's latest report. "Thailand staged the most impressive rally, more than doubling from year-earlier levels," the report said of the surge in Thailand's investment demand for gold. Gold demand was boosted by concerns that the Thai baht might be devalued. "The prospect of a devaluation of the Thai baht boosted demand among domestic investors as a means of storing wealth. The increasing prevalence of small gold bars within jewelery retailers across the Asian region supported demand." But this wasn't the only reason. "This was in no small part due to Thailand being used as a route to channel gold into other markets, notably India and Vietnam." Earlier this year India moved to suspend gold imports from Thailand. India had a 1% duty on the import of gold jewelry from Thailand at the time, compared with 10% on other countries.¬† Indian officials believed gold imports from Thailand originated elsewhere and that Thailand was taking advantage of the bilateral free trade agreement between the two nations. Thailand's consumer demand for gold was 35.6 tonnes and paled in comparison to 148.2 tonnes in India, and 209.6 tones in mainland China. But the year-over-year-growth demand has been huge. Here's a look at total bar and coin demand in tonnes: World Gold Council Meanwhile, here's a chart that shows the percent change in jewelry demand: World Gold Council
The path to residency and eventual citizenship has always been paved with money. The more money, the smoother the path. But now in the EU, citizenship (and a passport, one of the most prized in the world) is moving into the realm of not only the super-rich but the run-of-the-mill well-off. EU citizenship has become just another product that strung-out debt-crisis countries can sell in a competitive market by undercutting each other. And Malta just started a price war. The tiny EU member with a¬†population¬†of 417,000 spread over three islands lies 50 miles south of Sicily, 175 miles east of Tunisia, and a little over 200 miles north of Libya. It‚Äôs convenient for foreigners, with English being one of the two official languages. If you‚Äôre from Russia or China or Venezuela or Mali and become a citizen of one of the 28 EU countries, you‚Äôll get a country-specific EU passport, which allows you to establish residency and do business anywhere in the EU. Large international money transfers are less of a hassle. There are all sorts of offshore benefits. And travel around the world is a breeze. But EU citizenship, though a hot product for those who don‚Äôt have it, is not normally considered for sale. You have to invest lots of money in your chosen country. Every country has its own priorities: in Hungary, iffy government bonds; in Ireland, public projects such as education; in Portugal, property. These investments will make you eligible for residency, after which you may or may not be able to get citizenship, similar to programs available in the US. In Austria, where citizenship is almost impossible to get for normal foreigners, the super-richare sought after. The government, through paragraph 10, section 6 of the Citizenship Act, can confer citizenship ‚Äúbecause of the services already provided by the foreigner and the extraordinary achievements still to be expected of him in the special interest of the Republic.‚Äù A Saudi hotel investor and the Russian singer Anna Netrebko reportedly received Austrian citizenship (and passport) in this manner. Few succeed: none in 2012 and only 23 in 2011. But nowhere in the EU could you actually just go and buy citizenship off the shelf. Cyprus got close. In 2012, as it was veering toward bankruptcy, it offered citizenship through a¬†‚Äúfast-track‚Äù scheme¬†to anyone willing to plow at least ‚Ç¨10 million in direct investment into the country, which is a lot of money for the average rich guy, just to get a travel document and EU residency. There were also some other onerous criteria, and it wasn‚Äôt seen as a good deal. By April 2013, Cyprus was desperate. Depositors in its collapsed banks were treated to high and tight haircuts. Its offshore financial industry, the mainstay breadwinner, had cratered. Cyprus needed money badly. So President Nikos Anastasiades, in office for only a couple of months, announced that¬†the price of citizenship¬†would be slashed to ‚Ç¨3 million, but it would still be tied to investment in Cyprus. It was in part an olive branch he held out to Russians who‚Äôd stashed their money in the cesspools of corruption that were the Cypriot banks: they too would be eligible for citizenship if they‚Äôd lost at least ‚Ç¨3 million. But that era of tying citizenship to investment and residency is now over in the EU. Malta put it up for sale at 78% off! And you can buy it off the shelf and leave. The Parliament of Malta¬†passed legislation¬†that set the price for Maltese citizenship at ‚Ç¨650,000 for any non-EU applicant. It‚Äôs not linked to any residency or investment requirements. People can just come by, jump through some minor hoops, pay, get their citizenship and passport, and then settle in Germany or wherever. Simon Busuttil, leader of the opposition Nationalist Party, warned that Malta could end up being compared to shady tax havens in the Caribbean. Prime Minister Joseph Muscat admitted that the deal was designed to sell the product. Malta is struggling. It needs the money. He claimed that about 45 people would end up buying citizenship during the first year, for about ‚Ç¨30 million in revenues. No big deal?¬† Henley and Partners, an international consulting group, was awarded the contract to run the program. The firm¬†specializes¬†‚Äúin residence and citizenship planning,‚Äù for ‚Äúwealthy individuals and families, as well as their advisors worldwide.‚Äù CEO Eric Major claimed that the program would be transparent. But unlike the Prime Minister, Mr. Major estimated that Malta would sell between 200 and 300 citizenships per year. Hence, at the upper range, nearly ‚Ç¨200 million in annual revenues ‚Äì not bad for a little bit of paperwork. And a lot of money for such a small place. And if the product really takes off? The price point is advantageous, given what Cyprus charges, and there are hundreds of millions of well-to-do but not super-rich Chinese, Indians, and others who would like to establish an escape route. This could be Europe‚Äôs next big thing. It could be HUGE!¬† But it‚Äôs competitive out there, as Cyprus found out. The Maltese government said that other EU countries were also considering the outright sale of citizenship. This can mean only one thing: downward pressure on prices. Will Greece offer citizenship for ‚Ç¨599,000 each? Perhaps,¬†no questions asked, to be even more competitive? It‚Äôs going to be what the bailout Troika and everyone else have been looking for: a phenomenally profitable export product with minuscule input costs and unlimited potential. If it sold 1 million citizenships over the next three years at this price, it would be able to pay off¬†all¬†its debts, bail out its banks properly, allow politicians and tycoons to syphon off ‚Ç¨100 billion for personal gain, and still have some cash left to buy some German tanks and frigates. Debt crisis solved! Unless Slovakia jumps in and cuts the price to ‚Ç¨399,000 a piece.... Despite a miraculous economic ‚Äúrecovery,‚Äù EU-wide youth unemployment hit 24%.¬†New records were set in Spain (56.5%), Greece (57.3%), and other countries. The warnings from history are clear: governments that allow youth unemployment to escalate, do so at their own peril. Read.... ¬†No Country For Young¬†Men Read more posts on Testosterone Pit ¬ª
hattiesburgmemory/FlickrKohl's stock price is down on news that the retailer's sales declined in the third quarter.† The company also reported a less-than-stellar outlook for the holiday seasons.† The problems at Kohl's mirror those of other middle-class stores like Wal-Mart and JCPenney. Consumers are increasingly concerned about money, and are unwilling to shell out for apparel.† But there are also problems within the company, especially how stores are laid out, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, told us. "Kohlís stores are laid out in a 'racetrack' format,'" Sozzi says.†"Basically, you enter a one level store and stay on the yellow brick road to pop in and out of departments." He illustrates some problems that could be hurting sales at Kohl's.† 1. The stores appear cluttered with a wide array of merchandise. "This hurts the shopping experience, you feel overwhelmed and want to leave the store," Sozzi said.† Here's a photo Sozzi took inside a suburban New York store illustrating how a typical aisle looks:† Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  2. The cosmetics section is less advanced than competitors like Target.†"Customer service is absent andTarget has now put beauty consultants in its cosmetics department to improve sales," Sozzi writes.† At Kohl's, the cosmetics counter doesn't include assistants:† Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  3. There are no try-outs for toys. Other department stores, like Macy's, let customers try out merchandise. At a time when customers are wary of taking risks, it's crucial to let them do some research, Sozzi said.† Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  4. The home department doesn't display how products can be used and appears cluttered. Without good displays, customers are less likely to relate to products, Sozzi said.† Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  5. Kohl's doesn't have the hot jewelry brands consumers want. The brand has done a good job attracting big names like Jennifer Lopez and Vera Wang in apparel, and they should try to get hotter brands for the jewelry department, Sozzi said.† Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors 
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz For seven straight Sundays, a cadre of Romanian expats have been protesting outside John Paulson's 28,500-square-foot Manhattan apartment, New York Magazine's Kristen French reports. What do they have against the legendary hedge funder? French explains: ...To demand that the billionaire withdraw his investment from Gabriel Resources. The Canadian company has been trying†for fourteen years†to get the Romanian government to green-light its development of Europeís largest open-pit gold mine in a picturesque and historic town called Rosia Montana. (Hundreds of lawsuits from NGOs over the years have held it up.) Paulson drew the protestorsí ire because he is the biggest financial backer of Gabriel, with a†16 percent stake. Then they discovered his wife, Jenny Zaharia, is Romanian. ìThat was another slap on our faces, so to speak,î said Simona, an educational therapist who works with special needs kids and is a regular at the Sunday protests. Paulsonís hedge fund Paulson &amp; Co. has made big bets on gold in recent years but†unloaded†some of its holdings this summer as prices tanked. Still, Paulson has said he remains long-term bullish on gold. Protestors are passing out literature and sporting "Paulson, hands of Romania" and "GTFO" signs. Read the full report at New York Magazine†ª
It's the bane of some wealthy parents ‚Äî how do you get your children to have a more diverse and healthy diet when their nanny doesn't "know the difference between quinoa and couscous"? A recent story in The New York Times' Style section answers that very question. According to the piece, by Caroline Tell, they should turn to marc+mark, a nanny-consulting service that teaches the caretakers of affluent families how to cook for their children. The company was founded by Marc Leandro and Mark Boquist, the former private chefs of J. Crew chairman Mickey Drexler and footwear tycoon Steve Madden, respectively. Their goal is to teach nannies who serve wealthy parents in New York, Los Angeles, Seattle, and San Francisco how to do everything from saut√©e kale to select the freshest produce. They even custom-design a "menu portfolio" of 20 to 30 recipes based specifically on the child's eating habits, dietary restrictions, daily schedule, and what their parents want them to try. The cost? $2,500, plus the cost of food during instruction. ‚ÄúIn our experience, so many city kids already eat an interesting diet, and we want to make it better,‚Äù Leandro told The Times. ‚ÄúBut if a kid is in a mac-and-cheese phase, we also want to help them out of it.‚Äù Head over The New York Times to read the complete feature.
Infinity is a powerful concept. Philosophers, artists, theologians, scientists, and people from all walks of life have struggled with ideas of the infinite and the eternal throughout history. Infinity is also an extremely important concept in mathematics. Infinity shows up almost immediately in dealing with infinitely large sets ó collections of numbers that go on forever, like the natural, or counting numbers: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and so on. Infinite sets are not all created equal, however. There are actually many different sizes or levels of infinity; some infinite sets are vastly larger than other infinite sets.† The theory of infinite sets was developed in the late nineteenth century by the brilliant mathematician Georg Cantor. Many of Cantor's ideas and theorems sit at the foundation of modern mathematics. One of Cantor's coolest innovations was a way to compare the sizes of infinite sets, and to use this idea to show that there are many infinities. To see how Cantor's theory works, we start out by saying that two sets are the same size if we can make a one to one correspondence, or pairing up, of the elements of the two sets. We can start small ó the sets {a, b, c} and {1, 2, 3} are the same size, since I can pair up their elements: Business Insider This is a little overcomplicated for comparing two small finite sets like these ó it is obvious that they both have three elements, and so are the same size. However, when we are looking at infinite sets, we cannot just look at the sets and count up the numbers of elements, since the sets go on forever. So, this more formal definition will be very helpful. Our baseline level of infinity will come from our most basic infinite set: the previously mentioned natural numbers. A set that is the same size as the natural numbers ó that can be put into a one to one correspondence with the natural numbers ó is called a countably infinite set. A surprising number of infinite sets are actually countable. At first glance, the set of integers, made up of the natural numbers, their negative number counterparts, and zero, looks like it should be bigger than the naturals. After all, for each of our natural numbers, like 2 or 10, we just added a negative number, -2 or -10. But the integers are countable ó we can find a way to assign exactly one integer to each natural number by bouncing back and forth between positive and negative numbers: Business Insider If we continue the pattern suggested above, we end up assigning exactly one integer to each natural number, with each integer assigned to a natural number, giving us the kind of one to one pairing that means the two sets are the same size. This is a little freaky, since the natural numbers are a subset of the integers ó each natural number is also an integer. But even though the natural numbers are fully contained in the integers, the two sets actually do have the same size. The rational numbers are those numbers that can be written as a fraction, or ratio, of two integers: 1/2, -5/4, 3 (which can be written as 3/1), and the like. This is another infinite set that looks like it should be bigger than the natural numbers ó between any two natural numbers, we have infinitely many fractions. But as with the integers, we can still make a one to one pairing, assigning exactly one natural number to each rational number. Start by making a grid of the rationals: each row has a particular natural number in the bottom part of the fraction ó the denominators of the first row are all 1's, and the 2nd row all 2's. Each column has a particular number in the top part of the fraction ó the numerators of the first column are all 1's, and the second column all 2's. This grid covers all of the positive rational numbers, since any ratio of two positive integers will show up somewhere in the grid: Business Insider We get our correspondence between the rationals and the naturals by moving in a zig-zag pattern through the grid and counting. Fractions like 2/2 and 4/6 that are just alternate representations of numbers we have already seen (2/2 is the same as 1/1, and 4/6 is the same as 2/3) are skipped over: Business Insider So, the first rational number is 1/1, the second is 2/1, the third is 1/2, the fourth is 1/3, we skip 2/2 since this just reduces to 1/1, the fifth is 3/1, and so on. Continuing like this, every rational number will be assigned a unique natural number, showing that, like the integers, the rationals are also a countably infinite set. Even though we have added all these fractions and negative numbers to our original basic natural number set, we are still at our first, baseline, level of infinity. Now we consider the real numbers. The real numbers are the collection of numbers that can be written out with some kind of decimal expansion. The real numbers include the rational numbers ó any fraction of two integers can be divided out and turned into a decimal. 1/2 = 0.5 and 1/3 = 0.3333..., with the latter continuing on with 3's forever. The real numbers also include irrational numbers, or decimals that go on forever without settling into a repeated pattern or ending. p is irrational ó its decimal expansion starts out with the familiar 3.14159... but keeps going on forever, its digits veering around wildly. We were able to come up with clever correspondences with the natural numbers for the integers and the rationals, showing that they are all countably infinite and the same size. Given that, we might think that we can do something similar with the real numbers. This is, however, impossible. The real numbers are an uncountably infinite set ó there actually are far more real numbers than there are natural numbers, and there is no way to line up the reals and the naturals so that we are assigning exactly one real number to each natural number. To see this, we use an extremely powerful technique in mathematics: proof by contradiction. We will start out by hypothesizing that the opposite of our claim is true ó that the real numbers are countably infinite, and so there is a way to line up all the reals with the naturals in a one to one correspondence. We will see that it doesn't matter exactly what this correspondence looks like, so let's say that the first few pairs in the correspondence are the following: Business Insider Our big assumption here is that each and every real number appears somewhere on this list. We are now going to show that this is in fact wrong by making a new number that does not show up in the list. For each natural number n, we look at the corresponding real number on the list, and take the digit n places to the right of the real number's decimal point. So, take the first digit of the first number, the second digit of the second number, the third digit of the third number, and so on: Business Insider From our first real number we get a 5, our second number a 3, and our third number a 1. We make a new number by taking each of these digits, and adding 1 to them (flipping around to a 0 if my original digit is 9), giving us the number 0.64207..., continuing on for all the other numbers on our list. This new "diagonal" number is definitely a real number ó it has a decimal expansion. But it is different from all the numbers on the list: its first digit is different from the first digit of our first number, its second digit is different from the second digit of our second number, and so on. We have made a new real number that does not show up on our list. This contradicts our main assumption that every real number appears somewhere in the correspondence. We mentioned before that the details of the correspondence did not matter. This is because, no matter what alignment we try between the real numbers and the natural numbers, we can do the same diagonal trick above, making a number that does not show up in the correspondence. This shows that the reals are not countably infinite. No matter what we try, there is no way to make a one to one pairing up of the natural numbers and the real numbers. These two sets are not the same size. This leads to the profound and somewhat uncomfortable realization that there must be multiple levels of infinity ó the natural numbers and the real numbers are both infinite sets, but the reals form a set that is vastly larger than the naturals ó they represent some "higher level" of infinity.

blmurch/flickrAlfa Romeos on display in Buenos Aires.The currency black market is hot in Latin America. We recently told you that wealthy Venezuelans are procuring U.S. dollars abroad and dumping them on the local black market to arbitrage the artificially low official exchange rate. Now, Bloomberg¬†has two eye-opening follow-ups detailing this trend in Argentina.¬† Camila Russo reports people are flipping dollars for as much as 9.7 pesos on the local black market, compared with the official rate of 5.9, and living like moguls. On of the more prominent displays of this: locals now enjoy 39% discounts on Porsches and other luxury cars. As a result, she says, auto sales are heading for a record 930,000 this year, with imported cars accounting for 60% of that figure. At 170% growth, Tata's Land Rovers saw the largest jump in sales, Russo says, with¬†Alfa Romeos, BMWs and Porsches also seeing growth of at least 75%. ‚ÄúThey just come and leave with a new car because it‚Äôs become a very good deal with the gap in the exchange rates," a local BMW sales exec tells Russo. Meanwhile, Bloomberg's Eliana¬†Raszewski caught up with a visiting French doctor fresh off visiting a local currency flipper (they're called "Arboletos" because they're a "fixed part of the landscape." ) in Buenos Aires. As he "stuffed pesos in his pocket," he explained how he and his family¬† were taking a three-week vacation and planned on touring Argentina's Malbec country. "I know the risks, but so far I‚Äôve never had problems, I try to be careful...Changing dollars in the streets is worth it,‚Äù he said. The scheme has blown a hole in Argentina's dollar reserves: Russo says they've plummeted by¬†$10.6 billion in 2013, the¬†steepest decline¬†since 2002 (which was one year after Argentina's infamous default). The current level of $32.7 billion is the lowest in seven years. The country is also tapping dollar reserves to pay off its debt, default protection on which is now the most expensive in the world. Argentine officials are trying to address the problem, with amusing results: car importers are now forced to export Argentine-made products to help compensate for the dollar declines they're fueling. So now, the local Porsche unit is shipping wine, Mitsubishi is exporting peanuts and Subaru is selling chicken feed to Chile. Click here (for Russo) and here (for Raszewski) to read the full stories on Bloomberg.
REUTERS/Pascal Lauener Gold demand fell 21% year-over-year to 868.5 tonnes in Q3 2013, according to The World Gold Council's latest report. That was worth $37 billion.¬† Outflows from exchange traded funds (ETFs) weighed on gold demand, even though the pace was slower than Q2. ETFs witnessed a net outflow of 119 tonnes. "Tactical investors in western markets exited their positions as they began to speculate on the early tapering of US quantitative easing amid signs of apparent improvement in the US economy. "By the end of September, ETFs had seen outflows to the tune of almost 700t, with the bulk of this coming through in the second quarter as the gold price fell sharply. The pace of the outflows slowed during the last three months as momentum waned following the sharp Q2 washout." But it wasn't just ETFs.¬†Indian consumer demand was down 32% on the year. India, which is one of the world's largest gold markets, put in place measures to stem gold demand as it struggled to narrow its current account deficit. "With higher excise duties and import payment restrictions having had limited impact on the market in the second quarter, the government took a different approach in July. On top of a total ban on the import of gold coins, tight restrictions were imposed on gold bullion imports, tying them to a fixed level of exports. The 80:20 rule now in place stipulates that 20% of all gold imported must be exported before further imports can be made. The confusion over the complex new regulation hampered the market.¬† "So, too, did a sharp depreciation of the rupee, which pushed up local gold prices to near record levels, and the seasonal inauspicious period of Shradh (from mid-July and mid-August) during which gold purchases are typically postponed. "Imports, already at a low level in July, all but disappeared in August and September as the market struggled to adapt to the new parameters. Gold entering the country unofficially through India‚Äôs porous borders helped to meet pent-up demand, together with an influx of recycled gold that was drawn out by higher prices and promotions offered by retailers." Central banks continued to be net buyers of gold and consumer demand in China was up 18% in the third quarter.
Business Insider / Steven PerlbergKen Gross, far left, wants to keep doing stand-up comedy as a hobby. Caliph Scott (second from the right) took home the grand prize.By day, Ken Gross is a 61-year-old financial advisor at a major insurance firm. But last night he was "Kenny G," a stand-up comedian with a long career of financial knowledge to inform his act. "We used to be the kings of New York. We had the money, we had the power, the restaurants," Gross bellowed to the audience at Gotham Comedy Club's "Funniest Person in Finance" competition. "It was all skimmed off your 401(k). I don't know if anyone said thank you, so thank you!" The crowd howls. It helps that Gotham hosted a pretty friendly audience of bankers, advisors, and hedge funders. No hecklers. During the financial crisis, this room lost bonuses, not homes. Maybe second homes. Gross ó who finished fourth in the competition ó entered after taking a stand-up class at Gotham. Now he thinks he'll continue the hobby. He's accumulated plenty of material over 35 years. "I just think about life in finance," he told Business Insider. This one sure killed: "I've got a stock tip for you, but first I'd like to give a little shout-out to my compliance department," Gross pauses and then launches the middle finger. Roars again from the audience. Oh man, these guys have†been there. Other jokes hit home too. One dilettante performer cracked one about how he wanted to make a "ticker" for everything in his life ó for bathroom breaks, fast food consumption, and masturbation. "My neighborhood is very rough," former Bank of America trader (and winner of the semi-final round) Raj Mahal said. "Half of the kids are in jail... for insider trading!" "Miss America is Indian," Mahal quipped in one of the more hackneyed jokes of evening. "Even†that job is outsourced." "He's charming-funny," said one friend there to support Mahal. Caliph Scott took home the grand prize, a free stand-up comedy class at Gotham. Scott won the crowd and judges over with a bit about his life across the Holland Tunnel in "Jersey Shitty." When his white friends hang out with him there, Scott joked, they feel safer. But: "I'm a black guy afraid of black people... We exist!" It wasn't all talking shop, with the performers ó who won gift certificates at Oceana, Molyvos, and other consolation prizes ó veering between finance and non-finance jokes. Gross had one about how if Washington would get off Wall Street's back, the subsequent hiring of strippers and prostitutes would help boost job growth. And there was, importantly, a great "liquidity crisis" poop joke. You can use your imagination.
REUTERS/Jason ReedJanet Yellen, President Barack Obama's nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to testify at her U.S. Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing in Washington November 14, 2013.Federal Reserve chairman nominee Janet Yellen testified at a confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee this morning. The full text of her prepared remarks¬†was released Wednesday. Yellen was careful to avoid revealing anything substantive on the future course of monetary policy, and markets did not respond much to her testimony. Really, she sounded like her predecessor (current Fed chairman Ben Bernanke) in that she largely reinforced notions Fed-watchers already heard. Below is a live blog of the hearing. ------------- 10:18 AM:¬†Janet Yellen says unemployment remains high, a disproportionate share of that unemployment is made up of long spells of unemployment, which are particularly painful for households. "I consider it imperative that we do what we can to promote a very strong recovery. We're doing that by continuing our asset purchase program, which we put in place with the goal of assuring a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market. We are taking into account the costs and the efficacy as we go along. At this point, I think the benefits exceed the costs." 10:21:¬†Yellen says there are dangers to both ending QE too early and dangers in keeping it in place too long. 10:24:¬†Yellen says her personal assessment is that QE has made a meaningful contribution to economic growth. "Lower interest rates have been instrumental" for the housing sector. 10:27:¬†"I would agree that this program cannot continue forever," says Yellen. She cites potential risks to financial stability, which she says the Committee takes very seriously. "The longer this program continues, the more we will need to worry about these risks." 10:28:¬†"What the Committee is looking for is signs that we have growth enough to sustain continued progress," says Yellen. The Committee expects continued progress going forward. 10:32: "At this point, I don't see a risk to financial stability, although there are limited signs of a reach for yield," says Yellen. 10:33: Yellen says the FOMC does spend a good amount of time monitoring prices of various assets. "By and large, I would say I don't see evidence in major sectors of price misalignments" of the size that would pose risks to financial stability. 10:43: Yellen says the objective of Fed policy "is to broadly benefit all Americans, especially those who are seeing harm come to them and their families from high unemployment in a recovery that's taken a long time and frankly, disappointing." Fed policy tends to affect interest-sensitive areas of spending like housing and autos, but ripple effects from that move throughout the economy. 10:46:¬†Yellen says addressing too-big-to-fail banking is among the most important areas of reform to focus on in the post-crisis era. Dodd-Frank legislation, once implemented, should make a "very meaningful difference." 10:56:¬†Yellen says she strongly supports transparency and openness at the Fed. "We are one of the most transparent central banks in the world." What she would not support is a requirement that would diminish the independence of the Federal Reserve in deciding on and implementing monetary policy. "I believe [Fed independence is] critically important to the economic performance of this country." 11:04:¬†Yellen says the economy has suffered substantially over the last year from the drag from fiscal policy, citing CBO estimates. Yellen says taking into account that fiscal drag, the economy is growing and shows greater momentum. If there is less fiscal drag, she believes the economy will pick up. 11:10:¬†Yellen says she hasn't seen a lot of models that are successful in predicting gold prices. 11:13:¬†Yellen doesn't think equity prices are in a bubble, cites equity risk premium and P/E ratios. 11:21: Yellen says Fed policy has boosted stocks "to some extent," and the boost to home prices has been "broadly beneficial." 11:24:¬†Yellen says the Fed is not a prisoner of the markets, and she continues to feel that we are seeing an improvement in the labor market, which was the goal of the program, and the Fed will continue to evaluate incoming data going forward. 11:30: Yellen says the Fed and other central banks are trying as hard as they can to communicate clearly about monetary policy goals, both intentions and how they carry out programs. "It is a work in progress, and sometimes miscommunication is possible ... we certainly want to diminish volatility," but the Committee's views about the economy naturally change over time, and thus one would expect to see market responses to those changing views. 11:47: Yellen says reductions in fiscal spending have made it harder for the Fed to get the economy moving. 11:49: Yellen says a default on U.S. debt would be "catastrophic." She says there were signs that markets were taking pre-emptive actions to protect themselves against such events in the run up to the temporary debt-ceiling extension in October. 11:54:¬†Yellen says private investors are coming in to invest in U.S. housing markets, often in all cash. "I'd say we have to watch this very carefully, but I don't see that as an asset bubble. I see that as a very logical response of the market to generate a recovery in very hard-hit areas." 12:16:¬†Hearing concludes.
Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) just finished questioning prospective Fed Chair Janet Yellen, and all of her questions boiled down to one idea ó would Yellen's Federal Reserve be willing to elevate policing Wall Street to the level of importance of its dual mandate? What Warren is suggesting is something like a new Fed Trinity ó a tripartite mandate. She wants Yellen to add regulatory tenacity to the Fed's commitment to stabilizing prices and maximum employment. As Warren opened her line of questions, she said she was concerned that, in the past, the Fed Board of Governors had not taken Wall Street regulation "seriously." "Even now after the biggest financial crisis in generations ... The Board seems willing to delegate regulatory activities," said Warren, adding that supervisory and regulatory meetings should be made more regular. Basically, Yellen agreed with that. "We need to devote just as much time and attention ... to regulatory policy as we do to monetary," said the likely Fed Chair.† BUT (and there always seems to be a "but") Yellen also said that the Fed faced certain restrictions on its ability to discuss regulatory issues together ó "our ability to do so outside of open meetings is limited," she said. To deal with that, Yellen explained, Board members have been meeting in small groups and using committees to handle specific areas of regulation. Those committees then make recommendations to the Board. Warren seemed pleased with that answer, and said she hoped that Yellen would be confirmed, but that didn't mean she wasn't going hold back on her last question. "Do you think the Fed's lack of attention to regulatory and supervisory responsibilities helped lead to the crash of 2008?" Rough. "I think in the aftermath of the crisis we've tried to look back ... at what we should've done differently," Yellen answered carefully "We've massively revamped our supervision, particularly of the largest institutions." Now, for example, the Federal Reserve System works jointly on reviews of big banks instead of leaving that to regional reserve banks, ended Yellen. Warren got in the last word, saying "engaging in the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities that help keep our financial system safe ó that can't just be an afterthought but a primary effort on your part." If Warren thinks it is, it's certain Yellen won't be hearing the end of it any time soon.
APSnapchat boss Evan Spiegel.The Twittersphere was in a tizzy yesterday after news broke that a new social network and communications tool called Snapchat had turned down a $3 billion all-cash offer from Facebook. After all, Snapchat is only two years old. And it has no revenue. And $3 billion cash for a company that is two years old and has no revenue is, in anyone's estimation, a boatload of money. The instant consensus from the Twittersphere, not surprisingly, was... "Insane!" "Crazy!" "Moronic!" The news was also instantly held up as proof that technology is in a massive bubble and that this is just the 1990s all over again. Well, before we get to that discussion, let's acknowledge that the Twittersphere's reaction to the Snapchat news is exactly the same reaction that Twitter always has to news like this. And let's point out that this reaction is often dead wrong. Many of the same people who were howling and ridiculing Snapchat's obvious stupidity yesterday are the same people who were howling about the absurdity of Twitter's multi-hundred million†valuation five years ago (It's worth $20+ billion now), Facebook's multi-hundred million valuations in 2005-2006 (It's now worth $100+ billion now), and Facebook's decision to pay $1 billion for Instagram last year (The Instagram buy was one of the smartest and boldest acquisitions in history). In other words, these folks always howl and rant and cry "bubble!" every time a big valuation is placed on an early stage company, especially one with no revenue. And although these folks are sometimes right ó sometimes investors and acquirers DO overpay for things and live to regret it ó they are also often just giving voice to a knee-jerk opinion held by lots of clueless people who don't spend much time trying to understand the growth dynamics of some kinds of Internet companies. † Wait, what? Could Snapchat ever be worth MORE THAN $3 billion? Of course it could. Snapchat is one of the fastest growing digital services in history. In only two years, it has amassed a user base of tens of millions of people who use it to send hundreds of millions of messages per day. It also has a powerful network effect: If you want to communicate with people on Snapchat, you have to use Snapchat. And it has many obvious avenues for eventual monetization. (Advertisements, for example. Or add-on services like those sold by the Japanese messaging company Line. And many others. As we pointed out in our "FUTURE OF DIGITAL" deck, attention is monetizable. And Snapchat has plenty of attention). There is a lot of precedent for companies like Snapchat that initially have "no revenue" going on to be worth tens or hundreds of billions of dollars in relatively short order. And Snapchat is actually growing faster than any of those companies. Nothing is guaranteed, and dozens of things could go wrong, but in a few years the world may look back on this as a "duh" decision, just the way the world looks back on Facebook's decision not to sell itself to Yahoo! for $1 billion, and Google's decision not to sell itself to Yahoo for $1 million, and so on. That said, $3 billion is, by any measure, a lot of money. It's not just the dime-a-dozen "tens of millions" or "hundreds of millions" that many Joe Schmo successful founders and investors in Silicon Valley pocket after big-ticket exits. This is†billions of dollars, which is significantly more rare. So Snapchat decision did make even sophisticated Valley veterans open their eyes wide and say, "Wow." But it's not "insanity." It's just a very bold bet. SEE ALSO: Here's The Future Of The Internet! [SLIDES]
One of the many frustrating things about holidays is traveling home and back. With Thanksgiving just around the corner, we took a look at departure delays for the days around Thanksgiving at the nation's ten busiest airports. The chart below shows the percentage of flights that departed late from each airport on each day from the Saturday before Thanksgiving to the Wednesday after, averaged over the years 2008-2012. We took this data from the Bureau of Transportation Statistics' Airline On-time Statistics database, an amazingly comprehensive collection of information on air travel delays for the largest airlines. The data suggest some useful travel tips: Bureau of Transportation Statistics/ Business Insider
Flickr/Gerry DincherThe FT's Izabella Kaminska flagged an important nugget in this morning's Schork Report from oil markets guru Stephen Schork. It explains why massive oil discoveries like American Shale seemingly come from nowhere. Schork recounts how his group was meeting with a prospective client in Vienna, home of OPEC, in 2008, when U.S. crude contracts had hit $147 a barrel. The fund manager was convinced oil prices were going to stay high forever. Schork was not, and called him a "fool" for believing so.¬† They ended up not getting manager's business ‚Äî but it was probably for the best, since he'd clearly missed a central tenet of how markets work: "Our expressed skepticism was (and still is) based on common economic sense that high prices are indeed the cure for high prices. The mirror of this economic axiomatic is‚Ä¶ low prices are the cure for low prices, which in the case of our Viennese fund manager, led him to the false messiah of peak oil. The reason why no new significant oil deposits were discovered in the 1980s and 1990s is because‚Ä¶ at $20 a barrel it did not make any economic sense to go out and try and discover new oil.¬†In hindsight, you drive oil to $147 barrel and lo and behold, five years hence the world is swimming in oil. It really is that simple." Earlier this week, we told you that the IEA is saying the world appears to be unprepared to deal with the steep production decline rates of shale wells. But the takeaway from Schork's anecdote is that, if prices do begin to rise, the industry will likely be able to come up with a way to increase the wells' productivity. And there's a third lesson: to address climate change, the price of emitting carbon dioxide will have to be raised. And we shouldn't think ‚Äî the Obama Administration, after all, did just make new coal plants 56% more expensive by imposing new emissions rules on them.
AP Photo/Dolores OchoaLawyer Steven Donziger, right, speaks to Huaorani women during this first day of the trial against Chevron-Texaco, in Lago Agrio, Tuesday, Oct. 21, 2003.A plaintiffs' lawyer named Steven Donziger is under attack for allegedly committing fraud and witness tampering in a huge environmental case against Chevron, The New York Times reports. Donziger represents villagers in Ecuador who say that Texaco (now part of Chevron) sickened them by polluting the rain forest for decades. An Ecuadorean court handed down an $18.1 billion judgment against Chevron. But now Chevron is suing Donziger in Manhattan federal court, accusing him of using dirty tricks to extort billions from the oil giant. And, during the past month, witnesses who include his former allies have come forward to testify against him, according to The Times. Donziger admits he hasn't handled the case perfectly. "I did make errors along the way," Donziger said in a draft of his court testimony quoted by The Times. Perhaps the most serious allegation against Donziger is that he offered Ecuadorean Judge Nicolas Zambrano $500,000 in exchange for a favorable judgment. Donziger says he never bribed the judge. The other main allegation against Donziger is related to a report written by court-appointed expert Richard Cabrera about groundwater pollution that allegedly made villagers sick. Donziger is accused of having a consulting firm ghost-write that report. While Donziger acknowledges that "others" drafted the executive summary and annexes of that report, he says that Cabrera used his own judgment when he signed off on it, according to The Times. He acknowledges he hid his ties with Cabrera, though, and that he paid the supposedly independent expert "outside the court process," The Times reported. Donziger claims that the way the report was created was consistent with Ecuadorean law, but the way that report was drafted rubbed one lawyer on Donziger's team the wrong way, Reuters reported last month. Jeffrey Shinder, a New York lawyer, was retained to work on Donziger's Ecuador case back in 2010 but quit after just eight days for "ethical reasons," according to Reuters. Shinder testified that he left the case so abruptly because he learned that a consulting firm had written the expert's report. "I wanted no part of it," Shinder testified in federal court. Donziger, a Harvard-educated lawyer, filed the action against Chevron in an Ecuadorean court in 2003.The lawsuit also included a media campaign against Chevron in the United States, according to Bloomberg Businessweek. That campaign reportedly led to the filming of the 2009 documentary "Crude," which showed villagers who had birth defects and cancer they say resulted from Texaco's drilling.
Gold is moving out of western markets and into eastern markets, a new report from the World Gold Council highlights. "The recent dynamics of the gold market have worked to ensure that lower prices (caused, in part, by ETF outflows) boosted Asian demand to an extent sufficient to absorb the gold flowing from western markets," according to the report. Here's how it works: Gold continued to work its way through the supply chain, to¬†be converted from London Good Delivery bar-form, via the refiners, into smaller, Asian consumer-friendly denominations of kilo-bars and below. This process is borne out by recent trade statistics. Data from Eurostat show exports of gold from the UK to Switzerland for the January ‚Äì August period grew more than tenfold, to 1,016.3 t. Consumer demand in China and India dwarfs the rest of the world. Check out the chart: World Gold Council
The New York Fed just published its latest Quarterly Report On Household Debt And Credit. "In Q3 2013 total household indebtedness increased to $11.28 trillion; 1.1% higher than the previous quarter," said the NY Fed in a press release. "Overall consumer debt remains 11 percent below the peak of $12.68 trillion in Q3 2008. ‚ÄúThis quarter, we observed an increase of household balances across essentially all types of debt,‚Äù said NY Fed economist Donghoon Lee. ‚ÄúWith non-housing debt consistently increasing and the factors pushing down mortgage balances waning, it appears that households have crossed a turning point in the deleveraging cycle.‚Äù Here are some of the highlights via the NY Fed: Here's the NY Fed's chart: New York Fed
So far, Janet Yellen's hearings are being seen as dovish. Probably because she said there are risks to removing QE too soon. Gold just spiked. Kitco
Last night Fairholme Capital Management announced that it had a proposal for buying Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's entire mortgage-backed security business, bringing in $52 billion in new private capital. This morning, the fund's CEO, Bruce Berkowtiz, was on CNBC explaining its plan. "We don't have to be greedy, we don't need federal support," he told CNBC's David Faber. "We can give the president what he wants, we can give Congress what it wants... It seems pretty obvious." Berkowitz is known for his "communication gift", and for taking a significant role in the restructuring of Bank of America and AIG in the aftermath of the financial crisis. He's also known for having had a wild ride over the last few years. In 2010 Morningstar named him 'The Mutual Fund Manager of the Decade." In 2011, investors were redeeming their money in droves after the fund had a miserable year. But now Berkowitz is back on the upswing. At the beginning this year Fairholme closed funds to new investors, later reopening in August. Now here's what we know about Fairholme's Fannie/Freddie plan ‚Äî The fund would raise $34.6 billion in exchange for preferred stock. The fund also wants $17.3 billion from preferred stock holders in a rights offering. For the first five years of Fairholme's ownership of the insurers, it would pay no dividends or distributions with new, locked in capital. It may also decide to scrap the names Fannie and Freddie. As Faber pointed out in the CNBC interview, it is unclear if the government would approve of this plan. At the same time, there is a desire in Washington to unwind Fannie and Freddie and change the way housing is insured in this country entirely. "This proposal is about the future," Berkowitz said, later adding, "We are apolitical, we will do it any way government wants." Both Fannie and Freddie's stock are up 7% on the news.
Janet Yellen is giving testimony in front of The Senate today as part of her confirmation process to be the next chief of the Federal Reserve. We're liveblogging the hearings here. Yellen is not expected to face much difficulty in getting confirmed, but the hearings still matter. In fact, they're crucial. Here's why: We live in a world where monetary policy is dominated by forward guidance and expectations. In normal times, the Fed raises and lowers interest rates, and that's pretty much that. But interest rates are basically at zero today, so the Fed has to conduct monetary policy in large part by jawboning and signaling what it will do in the future. The implications of this are huge. Yellen's words should not just be followed for the hints they will provide about what she will do as Fed chair. Yellen's words should be followed since words are the core tool that the Fed possesses, and thus anything she says is actually exercising monetary policy.
Flickr/OneLuckyGuyToday's U.S. trade report was¬† disappointing. The deficit widened more than expected to -$41.8 billion in September, an 8% MOM increase. The consensus was for -$39 billion. Exports declined by $0.4 billion. Imports climbed $2.7 billion. As a result, analysts are saying this means Q3 GDP estimates need to come down. The latest data translates to "a deterioration in the real trade in goods deficit to $50.4bn from $47.4bn, a weaker net trade position than the BEA had assumed in its initial estimate of Q3 GDP," writes Barclays' Peter Newland. "As a result, our Q3 GDP tracking estimate declined by 0.2pp to 2.6%." Here's Newland's tracking table showing his current estimate based on available Q3 data: Barclays Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth also revised down his Q3 GDP forecast, to 2.5%. "Looking at the assumptions the BEA made for trade when constructing the first estimate of third-quarter GDP, the statisticians were correct about imports, so that won't be revised. However, they were too optimistic about goods exports. They assumed a 4.7% q/q¬†annualised¬†gain when it actually came in at 2.4%. The upshot is that GDP growth should be revised down to about 2.5% in the second estimate, from the first estimate of 2.8%." Not everyone was so gloomy. TD Securities' Millan Mulraine says the data is more a reflection of overseas weakness and a stronger dollar. "Despite the disappointing headline print, the underlying tone of this trade report paints a fairly encouraging picture on domestic activity, with the broad-based gains in imports reflecting continued buoyancy in domestic demand. However, the softening in export activity reinforces the narrative of an unsupportive global backdrop and reflects the drag on export activity from the strengthening US dollar". The next big economic data point is the
Janet Yellen testifies this morning at 10 AM ET before the Senate Banking Committee as the first step in the process for confirming her as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve. The one question we want to ask the woman who is about to become one of the most powerful people in the world was posed in a Bloomberg View column by Matthew C. Klein this morning. It's actually a two-part question ‚Äî Klein writes: "Before the crisis, most central bankers and economists thought bubbles should be ignored until after they burst. Is your view the same as it was then? How should the Fed evaluate the¬†hypothetical trade-off¬†of slower growth during the good years in exchange for a lower likelihood of financial crisis during the bad years?" This question is important on a number of levels. The first part is important because the answer governs a big part of the interaction between the central bank and market participants, something we've seen play out in a pretty dramatic fashion over the course of 2013. In June, market participants were led to believe that the costs of the Fed's bond-buying stimulus program known as quantitative easing were beginning to outweigh the benefits. They then positioned for a tapering down of QE at the FOMC's September meeting, and were completely caught off guard when the Committee elected not to taper. If market participants knew the answer to the question "should bubbles be ignored until after they burst," then this confusion likely would have been avoided, and the Committee's intent would be more clear. BLS, Haver Analytics & DB Global Markets ResearchJob growth is actually faster now than it was before the recession when you strip out government employment and bubbly sectors like construction and the financial sector.But the second part of the question, which follows naturally from the first part, is perhaps even more important because it gets to the heart of the debate surrounding the value of quantitative easing, regardless of your opinion on the mechanisms by which QE is supposed to stimulate the economy. Why? Because we exist in a slow-growth environment now, and returning to the pre-crisis norm would likely require parts of the economy that many view ex-post as having been in a bubble before the crisis to reflate again. So, how does the FOMC see it? What's the plan?

Societe Generale has a new report on hedge fund positions. Included are these two charts of long and short exposures to various asset classes based on standard deviations from historical averages. As you can see, hedge funds are liking the Nasdaq and oil, but they don't care much for corn or the yen. SocGen¬† ¬†
Getty Images/Ethan MillerJohn ChambersShares of Cisco are down 13% in the first few minutes of trading. The tech behemoth announced better-than-expected fiscal Q1 earnings after the closing bell on Wednesday.¬† However, revenue was weak and its fiscal Q2 guidance was ugly. "Overall, Asia-Pacific, Japan and China was down 10%," said CEO John Chambers on the earnings conference call. "China continued to decline as we and our peers worked through the challenging political dynamics in that country." Chambers is referring to the revelations of recent leaks related to spying by the National Security Agency. "Every one of our top 10 emerging countries missed their forecast and was off by a fair amount," said Chambers. "So it wasn't just that it was down, the last couple of weeks, they kept dropping and dropping." "As we look to Q2 FY‚Äô14, we do not anticipate material improvement in our order growth. This is impacting our revenue guidance for Q2." Here's what Cisco sees in Q2: "We suggest you model revenue conservatively," warned Chambers. Here's a look at the premarket chart from MarketWatch: MarketWatch
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. President Barack Obama announces his nomination of Janet Yellen to head the Federal Reserve at the White House in Washington, October 9, 2013.After the closing bell on Wednesday, the Federal Reserve published the prepared remarks of Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, which she will give during her confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee today. Markets instantly jumped after the remarks came out, which appears to mean markets are interpreting it as particularly dovish. Rashique Rahman, Morgan Stanley's Co-Head of Global FXEM Strategy, thinks that investors should be selling this rally as it is likely to be short-lived. Fade the dovish Yellen Fed. Dovish comments from Yellen at tonight‚Äôs confirmation hearing could cause a short-lived kneejerk rally in EM risk. After all, price action and sentiment have been poor recently and long USD positioning has, to some extent, built up again. However, there are plenty of reasons why dovish comments from the (expected) incoming Fed Chair Janet Yellen are unlikely to prove a catalyst for a sustainable rally in EM risk and we continue to take a cautious stance on the market ‚Äì particularly EM credit and FX. First of all, the market is expecting her comments to be dovish, and the risk may be that she does not surpass these expectations in the Q&amp;A session of tonight‚Äôs confirmation hearing. Second, we have never believed that dovish Fed policy was enough to spark a sustained rally in EM risk ‚Äì particularly when it comes to FX. Without a macro recovery, and preferably one led by a recovery in exports, it will be difficult for EM to sustain gains on the back of dovish Fed policy alone. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, should the Fed decide to change the way in which it applies any given level of stimulus that it thinks is appropriate, and focus on forward guidance instead of asset purchases, then this could still spell bad news for EM. This is in spite of whether the Fed becomes much more dovish, given the possible implications of this on longer end of the US Treasury curve. In short, we recommend fading any rally inspired by a dovish Fed. In addition to those currencies held back by large external deficits, we are currently focused on long USD/RUB positions and expect the cross to test highs around 33.50 before year-end. Yellen's confirmation hearing starts at 10:00 a.m. ET.
JP Morgan's PR team is heading "back to the drawing board" after feeling Twitter's sweet trollish justice for six hilarious hours. Wednesday afternoon, JP Morgan's "Ask JPM" hashtag ‚Äî which the bank thought would make for a good live Q&amp;A session ‚Äî was hijacked by reporters, pundits, and the bank's many critics. "Do you like puppies? If you had a puppy, what would you name him?¬†#AskJPM," joked Bloomberg's Matt Levine. "What's it like working with Mexican drug cartels? Do they tip? #AskJPM," asked Salon's David Dayen. "Who does #2 work for?! #AskJPM," wondered Twitter user Rob Bartenstein. Answer, JP Morgan: Tomorrow's Q&amp;A is cancelled. Bad Idea. Back to the drawing board.
The U.S. trade deficit widened more than expected in September, to $-41.8 billion, an increase of 8%. It's the largest deficit in four months. Imports reached their highest level since November 2012. The import average price per barrel of oil, at $102, was the greatest since May 2012 (recall, however, that this data is two months old). Imports of cars and related parts reached a record. Expectations were for a -$39.0 billion print, from a revised -$38.7 billion. Analysts seem to be of two minds on the data. But others are saying this is pointing to a downward revision in GDP. "Looking at the assumptions the BEA made for trade when constructing the first estimate of third-quarter GDP, the statisticians were correct about imports, so that won't be revised," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. "However, they were too optimistic about goods exports. They assumed a 4.7% q/q¬†annualisedgain when it actually came in at 2.4%. The upshot is that GDP growth should be revised down to about 2.5% in the second estimate, from the first estimate of 2.8%." Here's the tale of the tape: FRED Click here for updates ¬ª
TBIThe Department of Labor's latest tally of initial unemployment claims is out. Claims fell to 339,000 from last week's 341,000 reading. This was worse than the 330,000 expected by economists. Also, last week's number was revised up from 336,000. The four-week moving averag was 344,000, down from last week's 349,750. "We found this week to be particularly difficult to forecast as our models may have overestimated the seasonal rise in the number of claims," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio ahead of the release. "The reason is due to the fact that the survey week marks the one-year anniversary of the spike in claims associated with Hurricane Sandy, and our¬† models heavily weight recent years of activity."
REUTERSPresident Clinton is applauded by members of his White House staff engaged in budget negotiations in the White House Rose Garden (May 16, 1997). UPDATE: The U.S. Senate confirmed Janet Yellen to become the 15th chair of the Federal Reserve on Monday, Dec. 6, 2014. It's looking increasingly likely that Ben Bernanke will no longer be the Chairman of the Federal Reserve at this time next year. In an interview Monday, President Obama said Bernanke has¬†"already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to." When asked about his intentions regarding plans for the future, Bernanke has not said much, though the Fed chairman has decided to skip this year's Jackson Hole summit of world central bankers in August, where he would normally be responsible for delivering the keynote address. In recent years, the Jackson Hole keynote has been an important stage for signaling big shifts in U.S. monetary policy, a key driver of economic dynamics not only in America, but around the world. This year, the most important signal from the keynote may not be in the contents of the speech, but in who is delivering it in Bernanke's place: Federal Reserve Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen, who is widely tipped as the frontrunner to replace Bernanke when his term expires in January. If Obama does select Yellen to replace Bernanke, she will become the first woman ever to chair the Federal Reserve, putting her in arguably the most powerful policy-making role in the world. And of course, unless you follow the Fed, you've probably never heard of her. (Global financial markets have reinforced the notion that the Fed chair is all-powerful in recent weeks: as fears that the Fed will begin slowing the pace of its monetary stimulus have seeped into the marketplace, U.S. government debt has sold off dramatically, causing major reverberations in virtually every market around the world. Because U.S. monetary policy is so influential, economist David Beckworth, for example,¬†has referred to the Fed as a "monetary superpower.") By every account, Yellen is a thoughtful and brilliant economist, which has allowed her to rise to where she is today. "Ms. Yellen climbed the Fed ranks by being methodical rather than iconoclastic," writes Wall Street Journal reporter Jon Hilsenrath in a recent profile of the Fed vice-chairman. "She shows up at policy meetings with carefully crafted statements. Those who work with her say she arrives at the airport hours early." "[Yellen]¬†is very low-key, but impresses people quickly with the depth of her understanding and the sincerity of her views," said fellow Berkeley professor Andrew Rose¬†in 1994, describing her as "collegial, persuasive and effective." She has also worked with the academic elite of the economics sphere her entire career. Her mentor at Yale, where she received her Ph.D. in 1971, was Nobel-Prize winning economist James Tobin, whose legacy is enshrined in today's economics textbooks.¬†After graduating from Yale, she taught at Harvard for five years.¬†Then, she did a two-year stint (1976-1978) as a staff economist at the Federal Reserve, where she met her husband, fellow economist and future Nobel Prize winner George Akerlof. After the Federal Reserve, Yellen was faculty at the London School of Economics for two years. Then, in 1980, she accepted a position at the University of California, Berkeley, where she stayed until her appointment to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in 1994 by President Bill Clinton. Months before his April 1994 nomination of Yellen, Clinton had selected one of Yellen's long-time colleagues at Berkeley's Haas School of Business, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, to chair the Council of Economic Advisers (making Tyson his top economist at the White House). According to an L.A. Times report on Clinton's 1994 nomination of Yellen, Tyson was "deeply involved in the selection process for filling the Fed vacancies." The report went on to assert that "Yellen, who would succeed Republican Wayne Angell on the board, also fulfills the Administration's desire to name a woman or a minority to offset the appointment of [Alan] Blinder, a white male, to be Fed vice chairman." (Tyson herself was reportedly tapped by Clinton over then-World Bank economist Larry Summers because Summers and Clinton's vice president, Al Gore, didn't see eye-to-eye on issues related to environmental economics.) So began Yellen's long career in monetary policy-making, which has already been momentous in reshaping the directives that have emanated from the central bank and driven major changes in the global economic landscape. One of the defining moments for Yellen that crystallized both her economic views and her character traits came two years into her tenure on the FOMC. In a recent profile of Yellen, New York Times correspondent Binyamin Appelbaum tells the story: In July 1996, the¬†Federal Reserve¬†broke the metronomic routine of its closed-door policy-making meetings to hold an unusual debate. The Fed‚Äôs powerful chairman, Alan Greenspan, saw a chance for the first time in decades to drive annual inflation all the way down to zero, achieving the price stability he had long regarded as the central bank‚Äôs primary mission. But¬†Janet L. Yellen, then a relatively new and little-known Fed governor, talked Mr. Greenspan to a standstill that day, arguing that a little inflation was a good thing. She marshaled academic research that showed it would reduce the depth and frequency of recessions, articulating a view that has prevailed at the Fed. And as the Fed‚Äôs vice chairwoman since 2010, Ms. Yellen has played a leading role in cementing the central bank‚Äôs commitment to keep prices rising about 2 percent each year. Inflation has become one of the biggest stories in economics recently as annual inflation rates have been declining and seem stuck persistently below the Fed's 2.5% threshold for tightening monetary policy. Today's consumer price index release revealed that core price inflation remained stubbornly unchanged at 1.7% in May. Persistently below-target inflation readings have provided support for the argument that the Fed should continue with its controversial bond-buying program aimed at providing monetary stimulus to the economy. As arguably the most dovish member of the FOMC ‚Äì meaning she tends to focus on unemployment concerns rather than keeping inflation at bay ‚Äì Yellen has undoubtedly had a big role in shaping the course of current policy. Yet Yellen's record shows that she has not always argued for easy monetary policy and higher inflation, despite her dovish tilt. Later in 1996, the economy was expanding, labor markets were tight, but core inflation was on a steady downward trend. At the September 1996 FOMC meeting, though, Yellen argued, "I¬†conclude that the risk of an increase in inflation has definitely¬†risen, and I would characterize the economy as operating in an¬†inflationary danger zone." While Yellen ultimately supported then-Chairman Alan Greenspan's decision to leave interest rates unchanged, she couched her decision by saying, "I find myself very close to the margin and¬†would also have been quite willing to support an upward adjustment of¬†25 basis points today, had you proposed that." In 1996, Yellen's argument rested on the thesis that the labor market was too tight. To be sure, things are much different now ‚Äì the unemployment rate remains stubbornly elevated around current levels at 7.6%, and concerns over inflation appear to be all but dead at this point. And given the Fed's current policy stance ‚Äì committed to unprecedented monetary easing until signs of improvement in the labor market re-emerge ‚Äì perhaps it's just as accurate to say that Yellen has already become the most powerful woman in history. Taking over the chairmanship in January would cement it.
Casey Research / YouTubeRichard RussellRichard Russell, author of the Dow Theory Letters, has been one of the more vocal long-term bears on stocks. More recently, he has warned that he's actually bullish on stocks. In his latest communique, Russell warns stocks could go parabolic in the near-term. Here's some of his commentary via King World News: I continue to think that this bull market will end in an upside explosion.¬† I believe it is fated to go higher than anybody now believes.¬† A wise move here might be buy the farthest out calls as possible on the thesis that the sellers are convinced they will never be hit.¬† Wise heads are now warning that this market has now passed all sane appraisals, and as such it is highly dangerous.¬† Nevertheless I believe that this market is fated to go higher than even the most bullish practitioners can conceive.¬† This is not to say he's a long-term bull now. He still expects stocks to eventually get punished. "This bull market will not end with the usual and obvious technical indications," he said. "It will end with an extreme of bullishness from the crowd." Nomura's Bob Janjuah, another famous bull, sees things similarly. "I still see end Q4 2013, through to end Q1 2014, as the window in which we see a significant risk-on top before giving way, over the last three quarters of 2014 and through 2015, to what could be a 25% to 50% sell-off in global stock markets," warned Janjuah. Even John Hussman thinks we could see a "vertical pre-crash blowoff." Ironically, many of the bulls are warning of a correction before the next leg of the rally.
Daniel Goodman for Business Insider Karlie Kloss models a psychedelic costume in the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, which taped November 13.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Earnings came in at $1.14 per share, which was a bit higher than the $1.13 expected. Revenue climbed 1.6% to $114.9 billion. This was a bit lower than the $116.8 billion expected. Walmart's comparable U.S. store sales fell 0.3%. "The retail environment, both in stores and online, remains competitive," said Mike Duke, CEO of Wal-Mart Stores. "Walmart has aggressive plans to help our customers enjoy the holiday season, and there is no doubt that we plan to win for our customers and shareholders throughout the holidays." The company bought back 23 million shares during the quarter for $1.7 billion. Management expects to earn $1.50-$1.60 per share in Q4 and $5.01-$5.11 for the full year. Here's an instant reaction from retail guru Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors: At investor day in October, this Wal-Mart stat stuck with me: 300 or so Wal-Mart U.S. stores were producing negative same-store sales of around 7%. Check out what Wal-Mart offered today.† Not only did it present its financial overview in a new (some misleading way designed to showcase the positive inside of the U.S. business) manner, but it suggests the core of the business (giant retail stores in rural America) continue to struggle. "Walmart U.S. comp sales declined 0.3 percent in the 13-week period ended Oct. 25, 2013. Comp sales for the Neighborhood Market format rose approximately 3.4 percent." Below is a breakdown of Walmart's comparable store sales metrics: Walmart
Youtube/VolkswagenBERLIN (Reuters) - Volkswagen is beset with a large global¬†vehicle¬†recall as¬†Europe's biggest carmaker steps up efforts to surpass Toyota and General Motors in the quest for the top sales spot. Wolfsburg,¬†Germany-based VW is recalling almost 1.7 million¬†cars, sport-utility¬†vehicles¬†and pick-up trucks worldwide, about half of which are in¬†China, the carmaker's biggest market. The company's¬†China¬†division said on Thursday that 640,309¬†vehicles¬†will be recalled from November 25 to change the oil in a number of 7-speed double-clutch gearboxes, without specifying the models affected. The recall comes a day after¬†China's quality watchdog announced that 207,778¬†Tiguan¬†compact SUVs, one of VW's three best-selling models globally this year, will be pulled off the world's biggest car market. "We sincerely apologize to our customers for any inconvenience caused,"¬†VW Group China¬†said. "We will do our utmost to serve our customers efficiently and in the shortest time possible." VW has been pushing rapid growth in¬†China¬†where it aims to double manufacturing capacity to over 4 million¬†carsper annum by 2018, the year it wants to snatch the global sales crown. Separately,¬†VW's German headquarters¬†said on Thursday that about 800,000 Tiguans assembled between early 2008 and mid-2010 are being recalled for¬†risks of a partial malfunctioning¬†of lights. The multi-brand group also said on Thursday that it's recalling 239,000¬†models of its Amarok pick-up truckworldwide for possible leaks in fuel lines. The action affects models built between 2010 and June 2013. VW doesn't sell the¬†Amarok¬†in¬†China, a spokesman said. At the heart of VW's global aspirations is a strategy to expand modular production to boost the proportion of parts that can be shared among models and brands, allowing the company to build¬†cars¬†more rapidly and at lower costs. Analysts have said the strategy isn't without risk and could expose VW to the threat of massive recalls if a single part, used in millions of¬†cars, fails. China's quality watchdog said the recalls will include VW's imported¬†cars, such as¬†Scirocco, Golf Variant, Golf Cabriolet and the Beetle, as well as those made at its two Chinese joint ventures with FAW and SAIC Motor Corp. FAW will recall the¬†Bora, Golf,¬†Sagitar and Magotan¬†and¬†Shanghai Volkswagen¬†will recall the¬†Touran, Lavida,Superb,¬†Octavia,¬†Passat¬†and Polo. (Reporting by Andreas Cremer and¬†Shanghai¬†newsroom;Editing by Elaine Hardcastle)
REUTERS/Aly SongIBM Chairman and Chief Executive Sam Palmisano gestures during a meeting in Shanghai June 2, 2010. SINGAPORE (Reuters) - U.S. technology companies including Cisco Systems Inc and IBM Corp are facing unprecedented difficulties selling their goods and services in¬†China, as fallout from the U.S. spying scandal starts to take a toll. Cisco said on Wednesday that its revenue would drop 10 percent this quarter, and continue to contract until the middle of 2014, in part due to a backlash in¬†China¬†against revelations about¬†U.S. government¬†surveillance programs worldwide. "The¬†U.S. government¬†isn't doing any favors for Cisco," said Evercore Partners analyst¬†Mark McKechnie, after the company's shares fell 10 percent in late trade. In June, former¬†National Security Agency¬†contractor¬†Edward Snowden¬†revealed the spy agency had hacked network backbones around the world to gain access to sensitive information. The leaks provoked a storm in the Chinese media and added urgency to¬†Beijing's efforts to use its market power to create indigenous software and hardware capabilities, analysts and businessmen say. "This is all about¬†China¬†using its own technology, and¬†China¬†building leading technology companies," said¬†James McGregor, chairman for Greater¬†China¬†at consultancy APCO Worldwide. In a call with analysts, Cisco Chairman John Chambers said Cisco "and our peers" were facing "challenging political dynamics" in¬†China. One of those peers, IBM, reported in October a 22 percent drop in¬†China¬†revenue, leading to a decline of 4 percent in third-quarter profit for the world's biggest technology services company. IBM Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge attributed the company's problems to the "process surrounding¬†China's development of a broad-based economic reform plan", which caused state-owned enterprises and governments to delay purchasing. The company subsequently reassigned the head of its growth markets unit. IBM declined to comment for this story. Beijing¬†has long mistrusted foreign technology companies,¬†China¬†executives said, and the Snowden revelations have exacerbated those concerns. Although¬†Beijing¬†has not prohibited state firms from purchasing Western-made technology services and equipment, the government has sent a clear message to chose Chinese-made equipment first,¬†China-based executives say. "While a formal document hasn't been issued, in the future we will try to buy IT equipment from domestic brands, such as Lenovo," said a person familiar with technology purchases at one of¬†China's four big state-owned banks. "The government's signal is pretty clear - they want to rely less on U.S. products, such as IOE (IBM, Oracle and¬†EMC¬†Corp," said a former¬†China-based telecommunications executive. Beijing¬†is especially focused on security for government, energy, transport, and finance networks. In August, the¬†National Development and Reform Commission,¬†China's top economic planning body, published a statement setting cyber-security standards for financial institutions, cloud computing and big data, information system secrecy management and industrial controls. Four domestic software and hardware makers, including¬†China National Software &amp; Service Co., announced this month they have received a "top-tier" rating from the¬†Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. China National Software's share price has gained nearly 250 percent since Snowden first revealed the existence of the NSA's clandestine¬†data mining¬†program in June. "We hope and demand that relevant foreign companies respect¬†China's laws," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said on Thursday, when asked about Cisco's woes. "At the same time, as the¬†Chinese government¬†we of course have an obligation, a responsibility, to protect the country's security." Cisco's problems in¬†China¬†have been particularly severe due to the¬†San Jose,¬†California-based company's longstanding rivalry with Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, which has faced stiff political opposition to selling equipment and buying companies in the U.S. telecom market. In October 2012,¬†Mike Rogers¬†and Dutch¬†Ruppersberger, the chairman and ranking member of the¬†House Intelligence Committee, urged U.S. companies to stop doing business with Huawei, the world's second-biggest telecom equipment maker, and a second Chinese vendor,¬†ZTE¬†Corp, citing security concerns. Snowden's revelations have reverberated in other big emerging markets such as¬†Brazil,¬†Mexico¬†and¬†India. Chief Financial Officer Frank Calderoni said¬†China¬†was where Cisco was most affected by a political backlash, but noted that it was difficult to quantify how much of its revenue shortfall was due to politics versus macroeconomic trends. "Between economic and political issues that are occurring in emerging markets we had a significant impact," Calderoni told Reuters in an interview. China-based executives say that the impact of¬†China's localization drive was expected to be uneven in the months and years ahead. For telecommunications equipment, for example, domestic carriers will look to buy products from Huawei and¬†ZTEover¬†Sweden's Ericsson or Cisco, the former telecoms executive said. Huawei, too, is making rapid progress in its server business, with shipments jumping 258 percent in the second quarter. IBM saw its market share shrink to 13 percent, from 18 percent, during the same period, according to Jefferies LLC. Huawei now is the second-biggest server vendor in¬†China's double-digit growing market, behind Dell Inc, which retains a market share of 23 percent but is growing at a rate beneath the market's 15.4 percent pace. For other hi-tech products, including chips and database solutions,¬†China¬†will need more time before its products will be competitive. "Everyone is feeling the heat from the NSA revelations," said a former employee at a major multinational technology firm. The important point, however, was that companies like IBM don't have competitors for their high-end equipment, the expert added. "If they don't buy from IBM they can't buy from anyone else." (Additional reporting by Sinead Carew in New York, Michael Martina in¬†Beijing, Jeremy Wagstaff and Lee Chyen Yee in Singapore and¬†Beijing¬†newsroom; Editing by Alex Richardson)
Kancelaria Premiera on flickrIn order to "promote its standing in China," JP Morgan paid a $75,000-a-month contract to a tiny consulting firm run by the daughter of former Chinese prime minister Wen Jiabao, the New York Times reports. In August, federal investigators learned of JP Morgan's "sons of daughters" program and began investigating whether the bank violated antibribery laws by hiring the children of China's ruling elite. Now, David Barboza, Jessica Silver-Greenberg, and Ben Protess have unearthed this monster story. From the Times: For Ms. Wen‚Äôs consulting firm, Fullmark Consultants, the JPMorgan deal was lucrative. While many Hong Kong investment bankers were earning as much as $250,000 a year, JPMorgan paid Ms. Wen‚Äôs firm $900,000 annually from 2006 to 2008, records show, for a total of $1.8 million. JPMorgan appeared to benefit from the relationship as well. Fullmark claimed in a confidential letter to the bank that it ‚Äúintroduced and secured‚Äù business for JPMorgan from the state-run China Railway Group, a construction company that builds railways for the Chinese government. The bank was an underwriter in the company‚Äôs 2007 initial public offering, which raised about $5 billion. It is not known whether Ms. Wen‚Äôs father, Wen Jiabao, played any role in that deal. But as prime minister, he would have had ultimate responsibility for state-owned companies and their regulators. The bank has already faced massive legal fees and bad PR in recent months. Read the full report at the New York Times¬†¬ª
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith U.S. foreclosures in October were up 2% from the month prior, according to a new report from RealtyTrac. Foreclosure starts ‚Äî properties that began the foreclosure process ‚Äî were up 2% as well but still down 34% from a year ago. ‚ÄúThe backlog of delayed judicial foreclosures continues to make its way through the pipeline, with many of these properties now being scheduled for the public auction after starting the foreclosure process last year or earlier this year,‚Äù Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac, said in a statement. In 15 states, bank repossessions increased from last year, "including Oklahoma (up 59 percent), Maryland (up 54 percent), Virginia (up 47 percent), Ohio (up 30 percent), and Washington (up 30 percent)," according to the report. ‚ÄúLenders are likely moving these properties more rapidly to the public auction given that there is strong demand from institutional buy-to-rent investors at the auction and that rising home prices mean more of the loan losses can be recouped, either by selling to an investor at the auction or by repossessing the property and reselling as bank owned," Blomquist¬†said.¬†

REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJanet Yellen (L), nominee to be the next chairperson of the U.S. Federal Reserve, prepares to meet with Senate Banking Committee member Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL) (R) in his office on Capitol Hill in Washington, October 31, 2013. Republican Senator Shelby, a critic of the U.S. Federal Reserve, said on Thursday he was not committed to supporting Yellen as the next Fed chair. Federal Reserve vice chairwoman Janet Yellen has been nominated by President Obama to succeed Fed chairman Ben Bernanke when his term expires in January. At 10 AM ET, the Senate Banking Committee holds a confirmation hearing, and it will mark the first time since April that Yellen has spoken publicly about monetary policy. The full text of Yellen's prepared remarks was released Wednesday afternoon. Gold and Treasuries rose when her comments hit the tape, suggesting they were slightly more dovish than market participants had expected. Of course, everyone wants to know when the Fed will announce the initial tapering of its $85-billion-a-month quantitative easing program. Last week, the consensus was that tapering would not be announced before the March FOMC meeting, but a strong October jobs report released Friday by the BLS has Fed-watchers believing the probability of a tapering announcement in December or January has gone up, and Treasuries have sold off as a result. "A strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to reduce its monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional policy tools such as asset purchases," said Yellen in her prepared remarks. "The 'ultimately' can be read as saying 'not immediately' and that is what the market is jumping on," says Steven Englander, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Citi.†"Right now the market is fixated on the tapering schedule and anything that implies slightly slower timing is slightly dovish. However, there is nothing in the comment that is so committal that she could not back off. For example, if she says†tomorrow†in Q+A that tapering is not tightening we would probably see yields back up and the USD strengthen." On one hand, most agree that Yellen will not try to "break any new ground" with respect to monetary policy in her confirmation hearing tomorrow. On the other hand, many also acknowledge the potential for market volatility arising from the event. Why? Yellen is known as a policy dove (an advocate for aggressive stimulus in an environment of high unemployment and low inflation), so, on balance, anything less than a "dovish" take from Yellen Thursday could go against expectations. "The goal of the nominee would be to keep enough centrist Republicans in a supportive position to overcome any possibility of a filibuster," write BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategist Priya Misra and Shyam Rajan in a note to clients. "At the margin, the market may be disappointed given that expectations are likely skewed dovish from her prior speeches." Citi's Englander provides a quick cheat sheet for what to watch for in the market's reaction to Yellen's testimony in a note: As a shorthand, the U.S. dollar will strengthen in both G-10 and emerging markets if 10-year and 2-year [Treasury] yields rise, irrespective of what the equity market does. This is true of both EM and G-10, probably because this is viewed as signaling tighter money, irrespective of whether equities like it or not. If yields are down, EM and G-10 are far more likely to rally if equities are rallying ñ presumably this looks like a risk-positive yield drop ñ so this would be a dovish†Yellen†surprise. If equities are down and yields are down, it is more negative for the USD in G-10, but remains positive for USD vs. EM. The interpretation is that this is probably risk-negative, ok for low-beta G-10 to rally against USD, but damaging to high-beta EM. The hearing starts at 10 AM ET and goes until noon. Follow the whole thing LIVE on Business Insider ª
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi2011 Jeffrey Gundlach co-founder and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of DoubleLine speaks at the 16th annual Sohn Investment Conference in New York May 25, 2011. (Reuters) -†Jeffrey†Gundlach, co-founder of†DoubleLine Capital, said the U.S. stock market is the "only game in town" as the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 closed at record highs on Wednesday, though he would be hesitant to add new money because "I don't like buying high." Gundlach†is best known as the new King of Bonds, but he has made a series of prescient calls on the global equity markets. He oversees roughly $53 billion of assets. Gundlach†told Reuters in an interview that he believes the Japanese stock market looks like it might head higher again after its consolidation in recent months.†Gundlach's DoubleLine is still invested in the Nikkei, which has posted returns of more than 40 percent this year. "That's the one market I am watching closely,"†Gundlach†said. In April, the†Bank of Japan†pledged to inject about $1.4 trillion into its flagging economy in an effort to end two decades of stagnation. The monetary easing, coupled with pro-growth policies championed by†Japan's Prime Minister†Shinzo Abe, sent stocks rallying and the yen tumbling.†Japan†emerged from recession in 2012. Gundlach†agrees with†Ray Dalio, chairman and chief investment officer of†Bridgewater Associates, one of the world's largest hedge funds with $150 billion in assets under management, who recently said that the Japanese economy will need another big round of stimulus to boost sluggish growth. As for U.S. equities,†Gundlach†said they are in a "momentum phase" and it is running high in the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 though he'd be reluctant to put new money to work here: "It's just really high. I own some equities. I wish I owned more." The Dow Jones industrial average rose 70.96 points, or 0.45 percent, to end on Wednesday at 15,821.63, a record close. The Dow also hit an all-time intraday high of 15,822.98. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index gained 14.31 points, or 0.81 percent, to finish at 1,782.00, which was both a record closing high and an all-time intraday high. The†Nasdaq Composite†Index climbed 45.66 points, or 1.16 percent, to close at 3,965.58. Gundlach, who bought Apple shares at around $405, said he still has exposure to Apple as it is a "good diversifier." Many scoffed when†Gundlach†said at an April 2012 finance luncheon in New York that investors should "short" Apple, then trading around $560, because it was going to $425. Soon after, that's what it did, with Apple breaking below $400 earlier this year after peaking at $700 a share in September of 2012. Apple is now trading at $520 a share. (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Andrew Hay and Jan Paschal)
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets around the world are up. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.8% France's CAC 40 is up 0.9%. Germany's DAX is up 0.8%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.6%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.3%. Asian markets closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 2.1%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.8%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX up 0.6%. Later today, Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen heads to Washington for her confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee. Based on her prepared remarks, economists believe her message will be a dovish one. "A strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to reduce its monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional policy tools such as asset purchases," she said. "I believe that supporting the recovery today is the surest path to returning to a more normal approach to monetary policy."
Reuters/Charles PlatiauPARIS/BERLIN (Reuters) - France's economic recovery fizzled out in the third quarter of the year and German growth slowed, indicating just how far the euro zone has to go to put years of crisis behind it. The French economy contracted by 0.1 percent, snuffing out signs of revival from robust growth in the previous three months. It had been expected to post quarterly growth of 0.1 percent and has now shrunk in three of the last four quarters. German growth slowed to 0.3 percent, from a robust 0.7 in the second quarter, but Europe's largest economy clearly remains in much better shape. Its performance matched forecasts. The euro zone as a whole emerged from recession in the second quarter and figures due later are forecast to show further tepid growth of 0.2 percent. France is becoming a focus for concern within the currency bloc. The Bank of France predicts the economy will expand by 0.4 percent in the last quarter of the year but the government's labor and pension reforms are widely viewed as too timid. A report on French competitiveness by the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development warned that it is falling behind southern European countries that have cut labor costs and become leaner and meaner. "To reduce the economic lag and lost time, France needs to keep up structural reforms," OECD chief Angel Gurria said. The report will be hard for the government to ignore since it was commissioned by President Francois Hollande. German growth was fuelled by domestic demand. Exports faltered, another indication of the malaise gripping the rest of the euro zone. "Positive impulses came exclusively from inside Germany," said the German Statistics Office. The European Commission forecasts the currency area will shrink by 0.4 percent over 2013 as a whole before growing by a modest 1.1 percent in 2014. However, with unemployment in the bloc running above 12 percent and one in two young people out of work in Greece and Spain, talk of recovery rings hollow. Compounding the French gloom, private sector payroll data showed some 17,000 jobs were destroyed in the third quarter, while inflation slowed in October to 0.7 percent, the weakest level in four years, when France was emerging from a deep recession. PERIPHERY PAST THE WORST? Italy matched France's performance, shrinking by 0.1 percent. The Netherlands eked out 0.1 percent growth. A senior Italian official told Reuters this week that the euro zone's third largest economy would return to growth in the last three months of the year, expanding by as much as 0.5 percent and ending nine quarters of slippage. &lt;ID:L5N0IX3V6&gt; The government is forecasting growth of 1.1 percent next year but most analysts are less upbeat. The median forecast of economists polled by Reuters pointed to 2014 growth of just 0.5 percent. Spain reported last month that it had pulled clear of recession in the third quarter, albeit with quarterly growth of just 0.1 percent, putting an end to a recession stretching back to early 2011. &lt;ID:L5N0IQ28J&gt; Portugal is still struggling with austerity as part of its bailout plan yet managed to grow by 0.2 percent in the third quarter following stunning 1.1 percent expansion in Q2. Unlike other embattled euro zone states, unemployment has started to fall there too. Doubts about an unsteady Italian coalition government's ability to push through economic reforms remain a major concern for the euro zone. But France is climbing the worry list fast. Both Spain and Portugal have had the outlook on their credit ratings raised to stable in recent days while Standard &amp; Poor's cut France's rating to AA from AA+, still well above its Iberian neighbors but narrowing the gap. The European Central Bank surprised markets with an interest rate cut last week, although that was more to do with evaporating inflation. On Wednesday, ECB chief economist Peter Praet raised the prospect of the bank starting outright asset purchases if things got too bad. Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann took the opposite tack, saying rates should not stay at record lows for too long. "ECB interest rates are far too low for Germany. Germany will probably grow significantly more strongly than the euro zone," said Joerg Kraemer, chief economist at Commerzbank. "Early indicators point to similar growth in the fourth quarter." (Additional reporting by Gavin Jones in Rome. Writing by Mike Peacock, editing by Jeremy Gaunt)
REUTERS/Vivek PrakashA vendor accepts money from a customer at his vegetable stall at a wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Mumbai, April 14, 2013.NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's headline inflation accelerated to an eight-month high of 7.0 percent in October, mainly driven by higher fuel and manufactured goods prices, government data showed on Thursday. The wholesale price index's annual rise compared with a 6.90 percent rise estimated by analysts in a Reuters poll. Wholesale prices, India's main inflation measure, had risen 6.46 percent in September. Food prices rose 18.19 percent year-on-year in October, slower than an annual rise of 18.4 percent in September. The WPI inflation reading for August was revised to 6.99 percent from 6.1 percent. (Reporting by Manoj Kumar; editing by Matthias Williams)
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoPeople look at the prices of tickets outside a ticket shop at the Ginza shopping district in Tokyo, October 31, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economy slowed less than expected in July-September and is expected to pick up pace in the current quarter as consumers spend now to beat a tax rise next year, but business investment came in sharply below market forecasts. The 0.5 percent expansion in July-September compares with the median estimate for a 0.4 percent increase and followed 0.9 percent growth in April-June, data showed on Thursday. It was a fourth successive quarter of growth, the best run for the world's third-largest economy in three years. A tighter labor market and signs of rising wages should bolster consumer spending in coming quarters, economists said. Retail sales are likely to pick up before a sales tax rise in April and stimulus spending should help growth, which bodes well for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's push to foster self-sustaining growth and end 15 years of mild deflation. However, capital expenditure growth slowed to 0.2 percent in July-September, well below a median estimate of 0.8 percent and suggesting companies remain reluctant to deliver the increased investment needed to secure a sustained recovery. "Economic growth is expected to accelerate in the final quarter of this year. Despite the soft headline figure today, there's no need to be pessimistic about the outlook," said Junko Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities. "The government's stimulus package is likely to help boost capital expenditure. The ball is in the government's court so I don't think the Bank of Japan will come under pressure for further monetary easing any time soon." Annualized third-quarter growth was 1.9 percent, higher than the median forecast of 1.7 percent, Cabinet Office data showed. Private consumption, which makes up about 60 percent of the economy, grew 0.1 percent in July-September, matching the median estimate and following a revised 0.6 percent growth in April-June as falls in Japanese shares weighed on consumer sentiment. External demand subtracted 0.5 percentage point from GDP in July-September, more than the median estimate for a 0.4 percentage point subtraction. That follows a revised 0.1 percentage point contribution in the previous quarter. Exports to Southeast Asia weakened as large capital outflows from the region slowed growth. However, economists expect exports to improve going into next year as overseas economies stabilize. Inventories contributed 0.4 percentage point to GDP in the third quarter, after detracting 0.1 percentage points in the previous quarter. Abe's plan is to combine fiscal spending, economic reforms and monetary stimulus to pull Japan out of a decades-long economic slump. ($1 = 99.2400 Japanese yen) (Additional reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by John Mair)
