Tomorrow is jobs day, and everyone will be interested in seeing if the unemployment rate drops, and whether we surpass 200K monthly new jobs. And all that will be interesting. But we're also eager to see what's going on with wages. Our friend Ed Bradford (@fullcarry on Twitter) has been pointing out that average hourly earnings growth is, for the first time since the crisis ended, really breaking out (a phenomenon, not coincidentally, coinciding with the first real rise in interest rates). If this trend continues, it should assuage any concerns about deflation, and would vindicate Bernanke, who has been saying that the recent bout of disinflation is "transitory". It would also represent great news for workers. Anyway, with the jobs report, we'll get an update to this chart, which is very exciting. FRED
Nasa Earth Observatory Everything goes in cycles, but here's what you can say about this moment in the economy: It's the Western, developed economies that are on the upswing, while Asian economies (developed and emerging) are faltering. During the crisis, and in the immediate aftermath, there was a lot of talk about how the future belonged to Asia, and the strength of the Chinese economic model. No country plowed as much into stimulus as China did. But if you take one look at today's PMI data, you can see a brand new story. Asian economies are looking sickly. Europe and North America on the rise. Sam Ro summed it up this morning: ...we've learned that most of Asia is either decelerating or contracting. Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Indonesia all reported deteriorating numbers in July. China's official PMI number climbed, but its unofficial HSBC PMI number fell. The global economic tides appear to be turning. Economic data in recent weeks have shown that China's hot economy is slowing quickly. Meanwhile, the beleaguered eurozone economies have been showing signs of life.¬† Italy, France, Germany, and Greece all reported notable improvements in activity. The U.S. economy seems to be heading in the right direction.¬† The ISM and PMI surveys both showed significant gains. Why has this shift happened? There are a few things going on. For one thing, the US has made extraordinary strides in deleveraging, and working off the burdens that the economy faced before, during, and in the immediate aftermath of the crisis. Here's a great series of charts demonstrating exactly that. Meanwhile, China, whose growth drives much of Asia (and commodity exporting emerging markets in general) is seen as slowing for both cyclical reasons (working off the excess capacity it built up in responding to the global slowdown) and structural reasons (the great demographic dividend seems to be coming to an end). Things always go in waves, but for now that's the story. And it's a good reminder that when everyone is convinced that one country has it figured our, and provides a new model for how an economy managed, if you just give things some time, a new story will probably emerge.
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonIt's jobs day tomorrow. Goldman predicts we'll see 200K new jobs, which is a bit above consensus. Here are the three reasons why, from economist Sven Jari Stehn: 1. Manufacturing survey employment indices. The manufacturing ISM employment index jumped almost 6 points to 54.4 in July, the highest level since June 2012. The regional Fed surveys also point to an improvement in manufacturing employment, with gains in the Empire and Philly Fed employment indices, and no change to the Richmond employment component.¬† 2. Consumer confidence. Household perceptions of job availability continued to improve in July. The Conference Board's measure of the difference between respondents viewing jobs as "plentiful" vs. "hard to get" improved to -23.3, the highest level since September 2008.¬† 3. ADP. While we have not found the ADP index to be a very reliable indicator, the 200,000 increase in ADP employment in July was also a positive sign. The report points to a pickup in construction employment growth but another weak manufacturing employment gain. Meanwhile, here's the most optimistic scenario for tomorrow.
REUTERS/Sean YongJuly auto sales are in, and major manufacturers posted major gains despite Detroit's "Big Three"¬†falling below analysts' expectations. Ford sales climbed 11% from the month a year ago, with a 22.6% increase in the F-Series pickup. Total U.S. new vehicle sales slipped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 15.6 million. However, Wards Auto reported that Ford couldn't even keep key models like the Focus and Escape from flying off the lots.
U.S. GDP expanded 1.7% in Q2. As usual, Advisory Perspectives' Doug Short has published a chart breaking it all down. First the particulars, from the BEA: And now, the chart: Advisor Perspectives
BIThe New York Times Company did the world of journalism a big favor today. The company finally disclosed the exact revenues of its digital business. The numbers were impressive. And they made clear that no one ever needs to fret about the future of journalism again. Specifically, the New York Times reported that the revenue of its digital business is now about $360 million a year. That's composed of about $200 million of advertising revenue, which is basically flat, and another $150 million of digital subscription revenue, which is growing nicely. Assuming the digital subscription revenue continues to grow as the company rolls out new subscription products, which it will start to do next April, the New York Times Company should soon have a $400 million digital business. Why does that mean we never have to worry about the future of journalism again? Because a $400 million digital business is a healthy business, one that will support a large, talented newsroom. Even if the New York Times' print paper, which still generates most of the company's overall revenue of about $2 billion a year, were to shut down tomorrow, the company would still be able to fund an excellent newsroom. Specifically... If one assumes that a digital news business should produce at least a bit of profit--say, a 15%-20% operating profit margin--the economics of the New York Times' digital business could look like this: REVENUE: $400 millionNEWSROOM EXPENSES: $130 million (33% of revenue)TECH, SALES, and MANAGEMENT EXPENSES: $200 million (50% of revenue) OPERATING PROFIT: $70 million† $400 million of revenue and $70 million of operating profit... that's a nice business! And, importantly, it's a nice business that can comfortably fund $130 million in annual newsgathering and production expenses. A $130 million annual newsroom budget could produce a hell of a lot of super high-quality digital journalism. It could support many international news bureaus, for example. And extensive national and political coverage. And war coverage. And deep investigative reporting. And video. And photography. Specifically, a $130 million annual newsroom budget could fund a newsroom of ~850 writers, editors, producers, videographers, and photographers who make an average of $150,000 a year all-in (salary, bonus, benefits, office, and T&amp;E costs). 850 journalists! That's a wonderful future. And the New York Times digital news business, of course, will be only one of many successful digital news businesses around the world. So the future of journalism is very bright indeed. But wait. You're pointing out that the New York Times currently has a newsroom of 1,100 journalists? Yes, that's true. The New York Times's digital news business will not support a newsroom the size of the New York Times' current newsroom. As the New York Times' print edition continues to shrink, therefore (and it's shrinking at an alarming rate), the New York Times will have to continue trimming the size of its current newsroom. This chart is two years old. But the trends are continuing...But we knew that already. We have known for years that the New York Times digital business would not support the economic infrastructure of its shrinking print business. (SEE: "Digital Journalism Secrets Revealed!") If you work for the New York Times print edition, and you're worried about your future, this realization is obviously unsettling (the print ship is sinking, and there aren't enough digital lifeboats). But the good news is there will be plenty of other places to work. Bloomberg and Reuters, for example. Or the digital operations of TV news companies, which are still rolling in cash. And lots of digital news startups. But the future of the New York Times print edition is a very different thing than the future of journalism, or, for that matter, the future of the New York Times. The future of the New York Times print edition--and some of the current New York Times newsroom budget--looks dim. But the future of journalism looks excellent.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid(Reuters) - American International Group Inc &lt;AIG.N&gt; announced its first capital return since its 2008 bailout, through a dividend and share buyback, sending its shares up 6 percent after the bell. The insurer, which was almost wiped out by its derivative bets in the crash five years ago, reported a quarterly profit that handily beat Wall Street estimates, along with a quarterly dividend of 10 cents and a share buyback of up to $1 billion. The insurer has not paid dividends since receiving the first portion of a U.S. taxpayer-funded bailout in 2008 that eventually topped $180 billion. AIG finished paying back those funds early this year. "AIG is a fundamentally different, simpler company than it was three years ago," Chief Executive Robert Benmosche said in a statement. Net income rose to $2.73 billion, or $1.84 per share, in the second quarter, from $2.33 billion, or $1.33 per share, a year earlier. On an operating basis, AIG earned $1.12 per share. Analysts on average expected the company to earn 86 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. AIG's property casualty unit reported operating income of $1.09 billion in the second quarter, up from $936 million a year earlier. AIG said the capital returns were approved without assuming the pending sale of its airplane leasing unit International Lease Finance Corp (ILFC). "A lot of people thought that ILFC had to be sold first.. the capital plan was approved without the sale and that gives a lot of credence to the capital position," BMO Capital Markets analyst Charles Sebaski told Reuters. AIG shares, which closed at $47.07, were trading at $49.69 in trading after the bell. (Additional reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Maju Samuel)
REUTERS/Fred ProuserPeople search for jobs on computers at the Verdugo Jobs Center, a partnership with the California Employment Development Department, in Glendale, California.Tomorrow, we get the first look at how the labor market is progressing in the second half of 2013 with the release of the July jobs report at 8:30 AM ET. The July data are notable for two reasons. First, many economists across Wall Street see the second half of 2013 (starting with July) as something of a "moment of truth" for the economy, so it will be important to see what the all-important nonfarm payrolls report has to say about the sort of second-half start the labor market is getting off to. Second, and perhaps more applicable to financial markets, is the proximity of the July jobs report to the September FOMC meeting, upon conclusion of which Wall Street expects the Federal Reserve to announce a reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing (QE) program. If the numbers come in better than expected tomorrow, the bond market could be in for another rough day, as traders price in heightened chances that the Fed will actually begin to taper QE in September. So, what's expected tomorrow? Market economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict... Earlier this week, ADP's monthly employment report estimated that 200,000 private payrolls were created in the American economy in July. The number beat the consensus estimate of 180,000, and represented a slight increase from June's upward-revised 198,000. Below are excerpts from various previews of tomorrow's jobs report. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Brian Jones: Several factors point to yet another above-consensus payroll print. The mean number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits dipped by 3,000 to 346,000 over the four weeks heading into the July canvass, hinting at a slight reduction in pink-slipping from June. Consistent with improved hiring, the total number of persons on all state and federal benefits rolls likely contracted by 180,000 between reference periods ñ the largest decline since February. Real business conditions indeed improved between the June and July establishment surveys, with the Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti (ADS) Business Conditions Index moving into positive territory for the first time since December. We expect weather conditions to have little impact on the upcoming report. While temperatures remained warmer than normal in July, we expect the number of persons unable to work because of bad weather to be in line with the 31,000 average posted over the past five years.† BofA Merrill Lynch economics team: The public sector is likely to continue to gradually shed jobs; we forecast a decline of 5,000 public sector workers. In contrast, the private sector should add 185,000 jobs. Job growth recently has been driven by leisure and hospitality as well as retail trade ó two of the sectors with the lowest paying jobs and fewest working hours. This has sparked concern about a poor composition of job growth. However, it has not seemed to reduce the aggregate work week nor lead to a decline in average hourly earnings. We did see a spike in part-time hiring last month, but the data tend to be noisy and it is the first month we have seen a decisive move higher. Elsewhere, we expect an increase in construction and manufacturing jobs; the latter had declined for the prior four months. The manufacturing surveys suggest a pickup in activity and hence job growth in the sector.† Credit Suisse economics team: Technical issues should be behind the slightly slower pace of job creation. The biggest swing should come from leisure and hospitality, which added the most jobs for any major industry in June (75K). The pace of recent gains in this sector seems unsustainable, in our view, especially in the amusements/gambling/recreation sector. Fundamentals continue to support solid employment expansion throughout the service and construction sectors, with the exception of manufacturing. Good readings from jobless claims, the better June ISM Non-Manufacturing Employment index, and the improving trend in ADP employment through June all provide support. UBS economics team: The strong trend in employment growth probably continued into July, consistent with the improved assessments of the labor market reported by consumers. In July, the University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey reported the lowest proportion of consumers hearing unfavorable news on unemployment since July 2007. Gains in total payrolls have averaged roughly 200,000 during the last three, six, nine and 12 months. The trend in payrolls has been strong enough to further reduce the unemployment rate. We expect that the unemployment rate fell to 7.5% from 7.6% in July, 7.8% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 8.7% in the fourth quarter of 2011. Wells Fargo economics team: We expect that nonfarm payrolls added 190,000 jobs in July. Initial jobless claims continued to decline on a four-week moving average basis, and manufacturing employment likely improved relative to the prior month. However, weaker gains in services are likely to push the headline number slightly lower. Despite the labor market improvement, the unemployment rate held steady at 7.6 percent in June, though we expect it to fall to 7.5 percent in July. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider at 8:30 AM ET ª
Touchstone/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Understanding Family Dynamics Could Give Advisors An Edge (Investment News) Ellen Eichelbaum, a gerontology consultant, told Investment News that advisors that take the time to understand family dynamics will likely come away winners.¬† She says advisors should watch for favoritism, or an adult child that feels like he/she bears most of the burden of care and address such issues before they explode. "You would be the best financial adviser in the world if you ask the right questions," Eichelbaum told Investment News. "You would get the client, as well as their children after they see that you've taken good care of their mother." How Investors Can Incorporate Alternative Investment Strategies Into Their Portfolios (PIMCO) Jennifer S. Bridwell and Sabrina C. Callin at PIMCO think investors should consider alternative investment strategies. This is an environment in which returns from more traditional asset classes are expected to be lower and more volatile. In a Q&amp;A published on PIMCO's website both explain how investors can implement these strategies in their portfolios.¬† Bridwell: Hedge funds and other alternative strategies can be employed to help investors limit risk or volatility and preserve returns in their portfolios, while private equity strategies can offer a significant opportunistic liquidity premium. As we have said, though, strategy and manager due diligence is very important and has been ramped up significantly by clients globally, much to the benefit of investors, we would argue. Callin: Alternative strategies are quite heterogeneous. There are a wide variety of approaches, risk exposures and target returns and risk. The key to realizing the important diversification benefit that alternatives offer is understanding the risk exposures, both systematic and variable, and how they will likely correlate to the dominant risk exposures in one‚Äôs existing portfolio, especially during periods of stress.¬† Bank Of America's Plan To Raise Merrill Fees Has Upset Its Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) Bank of America plants to raise its fees for customers with managed accounts at Merrill Lynch's brokerage unit, according to the WSJ. ¬†These clients could end up paying 50% more a year and advisors are worried that this may cause clients to jump ship. "The increases come amid a $100 million platform overhaul at Merrill that is designed to make it easier for advisers to manage their clients' accounts and build portfolios, according to the firm," reports Corrie Driebusch at the Wall Street Journal. "As part of that change, which brought together five separate platforms, Merrill also unified its fee structure, setting minimum fees based on the amount of money a customer has invested with the firm." Advisors have to change their fees by the end of 2015. Two Men Arrested For Running $100 Million Ponzi Scheme (Newsday) The FBI has charged Brian R. Callahan and Adam J. Manson in a 24-count indictment each with conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud, according to Newsday. The two are accused of running a $100 million Ponzi scheme and using the funds to buy the Panoramic View Hotel &amp; Residence in Montauk, other homes and luxury automobiles. Some of the money was also reportedly used to pay back some investors.¬† "The defendants used one of Long Island's landmarks, the Panoramic View Resort, to perpetuate a wide-ranging fraud," Eastern District U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in a statement cited by Newsday. "Callahan gave his word that he would invest his clients' funds safely and responsibly in established vehicles. Instead, he simply stole the funds to prop up his partner's failing investment." SEC Adopts Rules To Increase Protection For Investors That Have Assets With Broker-Dealers (SEC) The SEC has adopted stricter broker-dealer custody rules. This is intended to "substantially increase protections" for investors who have invested with broker-dealers that are registered with the SEC.¬† "These rules will provide important additional safeguards for customer assets held by broker-dealers," said Mary Jo White, Chair of the SEC in a press release.¬† "These rules will strengthen the audit requirements for broker-dealers and enhance our oversight of the way they maintain custody of their customers‚Äô assets." Broker-dealers are expected to start filing new quarterly reports with the SEC and annual reports with Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) by the end of the year.
If your money is managed by Bank of America's brokerage arm, get ready to pay more for the service. BofA plans to jack up fees for thousands of Merrill Lynch customers as part of a¬†$100 million "platform overhaul ... designed to make it easier for advisers to manage their clients' accounts and build portfolios," the Wall Street Journal's Corrie Driebousch reports. With the new platform, unofficially called Merrill Lynch One, customers will be charged minimum fees based on the size of their investment. The move comes as big brokerage firms struggle to make up for lost assets during the recession. ¬†Advisors have until 2015 to adopt the new pay scale, and if they agree to use the new platform, some investors could see their fees increase by up to 50%. "This change will transform the investment advisory business as it makes it more client- and advisor-friendly ‚Äì breaking down historically burdensome relationship barriers to allow for much simpler and efficient ways of doing business," Susan McCabe, a BofA spokesperson, told BI.¬† Even so, some in Merrill Lynch's 14,000-strong fleet of advisors aren't all that thrilled. They say the fee structure will only limit their pricing flexibility (for example, giving a good customer a discount) and could drive some customers away. But McCabe insists that new platform fee structure will be optional. "There is no automatic fee change," McCabe said. "Clients have the option of using the new single platform and will sign a new agreement that will include an agreed upon fee. That fee will reflect the full value the client places on the overall advice and service delivered by the advisor and firm."  Read about what to expect from the new fee structures over at¬†the Journal &gt;
REUTERS/Eric ThayerCape Canaveral, FloridaWe got a massive wave of July economic data today, and overall it was good. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Reuters/Lucas JacksonFormer Goldman banker Fabrice Tourre 'The Fabulous Fab' has been found liable of 6 of 7 counts of securities fraud surrounding the bank's notorious $1 billion Abacus subprime mortgage CDO deal, Bloomberg reports. Goldman, for its part, has already settled charges related to this case for $550 million. The bank neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. Tourre was accused of setting up a trade that was meant to fail, and of misleading investors about the nature of hedge fund manager John Paulson's involvement and position in the deal, among other things. Tourre has yet to be sanctioned in the civil case, but it's likely that the SEC will seek to bar him from the securities industry for the rest of his life. Here's the statement from the SEC: ìWe are gratified by the juryís verdict finding Mr. Tourre liable for fraud. We will continue to vigorously seek to hold accountable, and bring to trial when necessary, those who commit fraud on Wall Street. As shown by this verdict, we proved that Mr. Tourre, as a Goldman Sachs Vice President, put together a complicated financial product that was secretly designed to maximize the likelihood that it would fail, and marketed and sold it to investors without appropriate disclosure."
Revenue and EPS were above expectations. The stock was volatile after-hours. As of right now, it's up over 4%. Click here to refresh this post. Here are the numbers: Here's the full Q3 2013 guidance from the company: Revenue is expected to range between $367 million and $373 million. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to range between $81 million and $83 million. The company expects depreciation and amortization in the range of $38 million to $40 million, and stock-based compensation in the range of $49 million to $51 million. The second quarter proved to be successful for LinkedIn. The company grew its membership to 238 million,¬†as growth accelerated to 37% year-over-year. LinkedIn says this membership growth was driven by: product optimization, and represents the first membership growth acceleration since the third quarter of 2011. CEO Jeff Weiner said that the acceleration in growth was a by product of a number of different optimizations that the growth team has put into place that are now coming together and having compounding effects. There were some mature regions where the company expected growth to not increase as much as it did like southern Europe.¬† Weiner said that LinkedIn's long-term goal is to create economic opportunities for the 1.3 billion person global workforce. The company wants to continue to scale its platform and provide, "the kinds of products and services that will generate opportunities for those people." Besides membership growth, LinkedIn also added big-named professionals to its Influencer Program. These experts in their field included,¬†Bill Gates, Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Jamie Dimon, and Burberry CEO Angela Ahrendts. Investments for this quarter that will trickle into future quarters include: data centers, the company's pulse team, and expanding its footprint. Here's the earnings press release:¬†  Also, here is a look at the company's condensed consolidated balance sheets:  Stay tuned, we'll update this post with more information shortly.
The battle for who will control Dell is supposed to be settled on Friday, but Dell's board has given Michael Dell one more chance to get the vote delayed, and possibly win the war. This even though he lost the biggest battle yet on Wednesday. Wednesday, Dell's board refused to change a rule on how shareholder votes are counted. Shareholders are being asked to vote on a deal that allows Michael Dell to take his company private, backed by venture capitalists Silver Lake Partners (and a $2 billion loan from Microsoft, too). Dell had offered to increase his offer by 10 cents per share, to $13.75, if the board agreed to the rule change. As the rule stands now, shareholders had to own stock on June 3 and vote in favor of the Dell/Silverlake buyout in order for it to pass. That means that stockholders who do not vote at all will be counted as a "no" against the buyout. As of last count, about 23% of shareholders didn't vote. Dell wanted shares that were not voted to be taken out of the tally, meaning that the only votes that would count would be the ones cast. When Dell proposed the rule change, he wrote an open letter to shareholders in which he said, "The decision is now yours. I am at peace either way and I will honor your decision." Clearly, however, that's not how he feels since the remainder of the letter strenuously argued that shareholders should take his offer. But, even as the board refused to change the rule, it gave him one more chance to win. The board said that if Dell is still willing to offer $13.75 a share, the board will delay the vote again (it was originally scheduled for July 18). It could also possibly let shareholders who purchased shares after the June 3 cutoff date to vote on the buyout. If Dell won't keep the extra 10 cents a share on the table, the vote will proceed on Friday and Dell isn't favored to win. Billionaire activist Carl Icahn, who is fighting Michael Dell for control of the company doesn't like it. In a letter to shareholders, he wrote:  "Let the vote happen on Friday. Michael Dell has said he is ìat peace either wayî. We are glad to hear it! It is time to let the proposed freeze-out merger die." While the board focuses on the merger vote, it has delayed announcing the date for the annual meeting where shareholders can vote on Icahn's proposed replacement board members. If Icahn gets his choice of board members, Michael Dell would be fired from the CEO job. Icahn and his supporters "fear" that by pushing off the annual meeting, Michael Dell will use the time to buy up more shares of Dell to "keep Dell under his control if and when his freeze-out merger is finally allowed to be rejected." He is urging the Dell board to go so far as to "prevent Michael Dell from buying votes by buying shares."
Google FinanceWith under two hours to go for the day, U.S. stocks are right near all-time highs. This comes in the wake of strong U.S. manufacturing data and a drop in U.S. jobless claims. The ISM's closely followed manufacturing index unexpectedly surged to 55.4 in July from 50.9 in June. This was much stronger than the 52.0 expected by economists. PMI reports from around the world confirmed the slowdown in Asia and the green shoots of an economic recovery in Europe.
REUTERSAn employee works inside a silk factory in Neijiang, Sichuan province, July 3, 2013. China's economy is expected to grow 7.6 percent in the second half of 2013.China is slowing significantly as its policymakers try to rebalance the economy as one driven by consumption rather than exports. This is taking a toll on its manufacturing sector. Earlier today, the HSBC PMI survey confirmed that manufacturing was indeed contracting. But China's manufacturing sector is still gargantuan. Earlier this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's David Cui published a report titled Not So Trivial Facts, which provides some stunning facts about the amount that China produces. NOTE: A version of this article was first published in February.
U.S. home prices are on the rise.¬† This week, we learned from S&amp;P/Case-Shiller that home prices jumped 12% year-over-year. The New York Federal Reserve has released a map (actually using CoreLogic data, which shows the same rate) showing May year-over-year price gains for all major U.S. counties. And just because we could, here's a GIF showing the last nine years of May price changes: NewYorkFed.org/William Wei, Business Insider
Carl Icahn is suing Dell Computer CEO Michael Dell and his group for attempting to thwart Icahn's takeover of the embattled PC maker, Reuters reports. Icahn is trying to block Dell from setting a new record date ahead tomorrow's shareholder vote for control of the company. In his lawsuit, he also included a list of demands , said Reuters, one being that CEO Michael Dell and his group not be able to vote any shares issued after February 5th, the day the deal was announced. Last week, the Dell shareholder vote was postponed at Michael Dell's request. He offered to raise his bid for the company by ten cents if shareholders would change the rule that counted absentee votes as "no" (to his buyout offer) votes. Shareholders refused. After that drama, Icahn published an open letter to Dell shareholders yesterday, urging them to help him put this battle to death. Read it below: CARL C. ICAHN ISSUES OPEN LETTER TO STOCKHOLDERS OF DELL New York, New York, July 29, 2013 ‚Äì Carl C. Icahn and his affiliates today issued the following open letter to stockholders of Dell Inc. Dear Fellow Dell Stockholders: In their Merger Agreement, Michael Dell/Silver Lake agreed with the Dell Board that they would purchase Dell if, and only if, a majority of the outstanding shares held by unaffiliated stockholders voted in favor of the transaction. In that Merger Agreement, the Dell Board agreed with Michael Dell/Silver Lake that none of the current stockholders would be allowed to own shares in the newly formed company ‚Äì they would be frozen out. Further, the Dell Board agreed, wrongly in my opinion, to let Michael Dell/Silver Lake purchase the stock at what I view is a very undervalued price. Even though the Dell Board and Michael Dell/Silver Lake agreed that a majority of the outstanding stock held by unaffiliated stockholders would be required to approve the transaction, and even made that provision of the Merger Agreement non-waivable, this required vote has not been achieved. Reports have indicated, and it is clearly the case, that Michael Dell/Silver Lake did not have sufficient stockholder support at either the July 18 or July 24 meetings. Instead of accepting defeat with dignity, Michael Dell, in his interview with The Wall Street Journal, complained that the Merger Agreement he negotiated is unfair. This is the very Merger Agreement that Michael Dell/Silver Lake agreed to, and ironically, Michael Dell, not the stockholders, initiated this proposed transaction. Is it Michael Dell‚Äôs alter ego who keeps whining about the unfairness of an agreement that he himself asked the Dell Board to accept? I might be able to understand the actions of Michael Dell, who does not wish to lose a golden opportunity, but I cannot understand the actions of the Dell Board. The Dell Board approved a merger at what I believe to be a very undervalued price but they at least made it clear that an affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding unaffiliated shares would be required to accept the Michael Dell/Silver Lake proposal, first at a meeting on July 18, and then again, on July 24. But reports indicate that Michael Dell/Silver Lake did not have the necessary stockholder support to approve their proposed transaction at either of the scheduled meetings. The stockholders have spoken. Additionally, millions of shares of Dell stock have been traded since the Dell Board signed the Merger Agreement which included the non-waivable stockholder approval requirement -- a provision that Michael Dell now wishes to change. What about the stockholders that purchased and sold shares of Dell stock based on this provision? Why does the Dell Board continue this travesty? Why do they make a mockery of what little is left of corporate democracy at Dell? In The Wall Street Journal interview, Michael Dell criticizes the fact that Icahn was not a stockholder when the process started. In effect, he seems to be saying that Icahn has no right to meddle with Michael Dell‚Äôs ‚Äúsuper Dell‚Äù deal. I am also confused by Michael Dell‚Äôs statement that ‚Äúafter one of the most thorough processes in history the highest price that any of the parties was willing to pay was $13.65‚Äù? But what about our proposed Dell self tender offer, which we believe has a total value to tendering stockholders of approximately $15.50 to $18 per share?* I guess Michael Dell believes a bid doesn‚Äôt count if it is made by someone who didn‚Äôt own the shares when the process began. Michael Dell should remember that it was he, not us, who put a value on the company, thereby placing it in auction, and Michael Dell and the Dell Board would do well to understand that in an auction, even a Dell auction, anyone has the right to bid. Michael Dell spent many months crafting a merger agreement that would not only ‚Äúfreeze out‚Äù all unaffiliated stockholders but would also make it nearly insurmountable for anyone to make a competing bid. Michael Dell is correct when he says the Merger Agreement that he and the Dell Board agreed to is unfair. I believe it is unfair to the stockholders because of its effect on anyone who wishes to make a competing bid. Because of the inclusion of matching rights in favor of Michael Dell/Silver Lake, a competing bidder carries significant risk that their bid would just be topped by Michael Dell/Silver Lake, in which case they would have paid sizeable fees for financing commitments yet be without a deal, a situation we believe is unfair. If a competing bidder is effectively used as a stalking horse against the Michael Dell/Silver Lake transaction, it is reasonable to expect that the Merger Agreement should permit the company to enter into an arrangement with the competing bidder to receive a break-up fee to cover its financing expenses. I guess Michael Dell and his army of advisors did not count on anyone being willing to put up $3 billion of their own money in order to put forth an alternative proposal to Dell‚Äôs offer -- but miracles do happen. Conclusion Concerning The Wall Street Journal Interview Where Michael Dell Shows His True Colors Throughout the interview Michael Dell makes statements such as ‚Äúmy focus throughout has been to our company‚Äôs customers and partners.‚Äù He states again ‚Äúmy focus first and foremost has been on the company and our employees, customers and partners‚Äù. Except in the context of having his deal pushed across the finish line, Michael Dell barely mentions the company‚Äôs stockholders. I guess he loses focus when the stockholders come into view. Michael Dell states that ‚Äúwe could do what we needed to do better and faster as a private company.‚Äù He has, therefore, for the good of the company, determined he must deny all stockholders the right to participate in the possible good fortunes of Dell in the future. The interview neglected to ask, or possibly Michael Dell refused to answer: ‚ÄúDid you ever once offer, or did the ‚Äúindependent committee‚Äù ever ask you to offer, your stockholders a contingent value right or warrant so that they might also be able to participate in the good fortune that might result from you taking Dell private?‚Äù Why I Am Involved Our system of corporate governance in this country is dysfunctional. In my opinion, boards are empowered to do ridiculous and even inconceivable things to take advantage of stockholders. I have railed against this fact for years. But no one would believe, and with good reason, that I would risk $3 billion because I am outraged at the treatment of stockholders at Dell. While I am enraged, the major reason I am involved is that I believe the Michael Dell/Silver Lake transaction undervalues the company. I have spent many hours discussing Dell with experts, and there are many reasons to believe Michael Dell/Silver Lake‚Äôs proposal materially undervalues the company. Perhaps the most important reason is Dell has a major liability that can be easily removed and that I believe would make the company a great deal of value. It is the CEO, Michael Dell. If Dell can replace Michael Dell, I think that the company would be worth far, far more. I do not say this facetiously. I fully expect to be able to identify a first class person to run Dell if our slate of directors are elected at the annual meeting. Icahn has a history of bringing in strong new CEO‚Äôs that have gotten good results (for example, consider our activities in Biogen and Motorola, to name a few) and Icahn and Southeastern are beginning to see success in replacing top management at Chesapeake Energy. Bringing in a new CEO, unhampered by Michael Dell and the old regime, is in my opinion, both effective and necessary when attempting to turn a company around. It has often been my experience that removal of an underperforming CEO will allow a company to become more productive, more competitive and more profitable and has helped create billions in stockholder value for the companies that I have been involved with. If my past record is any indication, I believe you will be happier and richer if you join me in voting against the Michael Dell/Silver Lake deal. Finally, I can't help but note that Michael Dell has fared much better selling over 62 million shares in the $32 to $40 range over different periods in the past 10 years. Unfortunately for stockholders, he seems to be a much better market-timer than a CEO. It is time for Michael Dell and the Dell Board to go. Sincerely, Carl C. Icahn Icahn Enterprises LP ¬†
REUTERS/Remo Casilli  Italy's top court has confirmed a lower court's decision to sentence former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi to jail time, the Local reports. Berlusconi's sentence of four years of jail time in a tax fraud case was upheld, the first clear conviction against the media tycoon and center right politician. Another decision by the lower court that would have seen Berlusconi banned from public office will be reviewed. The verdict is less drastic than it sounds. While Berlusconi is technically sentenced to four years in prison, three of these years will be null due to an amnesty and Berlusconi's age (76), which means that he is likely to be placed under house arrest rather than go to a prison. Today's decision by Rome's Court of Cassation should be Berlusconi's last chance to overturn the fraud conviction from last year. The case revolved around a plan by Berlusconi's Mediaset company to purchase the rights to broadcast U.S. movies on Berlusconi's private television networks. The defendants had allegedly used a series of offshore companies to avoid paying taxes. The price of the films was then inflated as they were sold internally. The difference was pocketed by the defendants, and reportedly amounted to 250 million euros ($320 million). Perhaps counter-intuitively, this may be bad news for Italy. Reuters notes that Italy's coalition government, featuring†Prime Minister Enrico Letta's Democratic Party and Berlusconi's PDL might fall into crisis, with serious fallout across the†euro zone.
The recession may be over, but a record number of millennials are riding out a still-weak economy under their parents' roofs.¬† In 2012, 21.6 million young adults aged 18-31 lived at home with their parents, up from 18.5 million just before the recession, according to a new Pew Research Center analysis.¬† "This is the highest share in at least four decades and represents a slow but steady increase over the 32% of their same-aged counterparts who were living at home prior to the Great Recession in 2007 and the 34% doing so when it officially ended in 2009," the report says. So, what's their deal? Are these a bunch of 'failure to launch' drop-outs or college graduates shut out of a still-weak job market?¬† As many as half of home-dwelling millennials are college students, Pew found, most of whom (56%) ¬†haven't hit their 25th birthday yet. Just 16% of adults aged 25-31 live at home.¬†Men are more likely than women to return home (40% vs. 32%). A sparse job market doesn't tell the whole story, however. On top of weak job opportunities, many more young adults are choosing to enroll in college these days and they are also delaying marriage longer than ever.¬† In March 2012, 39% of 18- to 24-year-olds were enrolled in college, up from 35% in March 2007. And just 25% were married, down from 31% before the recession.¬† But there's another factor that could be driving young people home that Pew doesn't take into account ‚Äì student debt loads. With the average college graduate heading out into the real world with $27,000 worth of loans to pay off, who can blame them for cooling their heels with Mom and Dad while they come up with a game plan?¬† On the whole, moving back home may be a dire sign for our job market, but better to be at home saving money than funding the lifestyle people think 20-somethings "should" have on plastic instead.

All of the attention on George Soros' Herbalife investment has been on the legendary hedge fund manager himself. But according to Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino and the New York Post's Michelle Celarier, the Soros Fund Management portfolio manager who worked on the Herbalife investment was Paul Sohn.† CNBC's Scott Wapner reported yesterday that Herbalife constituted one of the top three positions for Soros, according to sources.† Herbalife is the stock that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is famously short because he believes it's a pyramid scheme.† So far, that bet hasn't played out well for Ackman, and other hedge fund managers, most notably his rival Carl Icahn, piled on by snapping up long positions.† According to the New York Post's report, Sohn, 35, was going around and telling other fund managers that "George Soros broke the Bank of England" and that "George Soros can break the back of Ackman." We wanted to find out more about this fund manager, so we did a little digging.† Sohn graduated from Yale University in 1999 with a bachelor's degree in economics with honors. † He was a star defensive player for the Bulldogs lacrosse team. †While at Yale, he was also on the†board of directors of the Yale College Student Investment Group.† When he was 28, he was named one of Trader Daily's "30 Under 30."† He joined Soros Fund Management right after college. Then he was hired by Stanley Druckenmiller's Duquesne to manage a tech stock portfolio. †He then worked at Kingdon Capital Management before returning to Soros, according to Trader's Daily.† Outside of work, it appears that he†volunteers with non-profit LIFT ó a†movement that aims to combat poverty and expand opportunity for all people in the United States.† His wife's name is Sarah. You can see photos of them on Patrick McMullan.
India is growing at its slowest pace in ten years, and the rupee has crumbled below the psychological level of 60 rupees to one dollar. Despite this there has been little foreign selling of Indian stocks. In a new report to clients, Goldman Sachs' Sunil Kaul and his team downgrade Indian stocks to underweight. "The investment case for India has turned less favorable," Kaul writes. "Growth recovery looks elusive, macro vulnerabilities are rising and positioning remains extended. Here's a quick look at some of the macro factors that motivated the downgrade: First, economic growth has been sluggish. Goldman Sachs Second, there are "no signs of a pick up in investment demand." Goldman also sees further risks to economic growth and in an earlier report downgraded their 2014 GDP forecast to 6%, from 6.4%. Goldman Sachs Third, "the external funding environment has become more challenging over the past few months as markets began to price ‚ÄúQE tapering‚Äù concerns and rising US yields." And India's current account deficit is adding to its vulnerability. Goldman Sachs Fourth, the Indian rupee has weakened against the dollar and is expected to "continue to face depreciation pressures." This chart from Google Finance shows how the rupee has weakened against the dollar over the past five years. Google Finance Fifth, they expect the Reserve Bank of India to keep monetary policy tight to help support the currency. "Our economist thinks that given the vulnerabilities on the external balance of payments, a reversal in policy stance to liquidity easing over the next 3-6 months is a low probability event. We even think that there is a greater probability of the RBI keeping liquidity tight even beyond 6 months, and hiking policy rates as well, rather than cutting them." Finally, they expect political risk to increase ahead of the 2014 general elections. Goldman points out that foreign investors haven't heavily sold Indian stocks, but the risk of outflows is high. Indian bonds have however seen foreign selling. "¬†Foreign selling has been more pronounced in Indian bonds which saw outflows of US$ 7bn since early June ‚Äútaking out‚Äù almost all of inflows over the past one year." Goldman Sachs "We see further earnings cuts and limited room for re-rating," adds Kaul. "We downgrade India to underweight and recommend investors to stay selective. We favor exporter-facing sectors, strong balance sheet companies and thematic ‚Äúalpha‚Äù trades."
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderWe all have some book ¬†we love so much that we keep re-reading, one that resonates with us for years to come after we finish it. The editors and reporters at Business Insider selected the books that changed our lives in some way, whether it made us re-evaluate something, think deeply about something of importance, or it left a lasting impact ‚Äî even if that was just to make us laugh or cry. From nonfiction books that taught us how to manage finances or study in school, to novels that altered our views on life, here are the books that changed our lives.
flickr/corrine klugThe third quarter of 2013 is here, and this week, we're getting the first look at how the economy is faring so far in the second half of the year. This is the moment economists across Wall Street have been waiting for. "Our economists had long predicted weakness over Q2, and expect data to strengthen this summer," wrote Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale head of forex and rates strategy Vincent Chaigneau in a note previewing this week's data releases. "That should start as early as this week, with the manufacturing PMI seen in the 53 region (a level not seen over the past four months) and [nonfarm payrolls] at 200,000." So far, so good ‚Äì Markit's U.S. manufacturing PMI survey headline index advanced to 53.7 in July from 51.9 in June, exceeding expectations for a smaller advance to 53.2. (Tomorrow, we get the July nonfarm payrolls report too.) "If there is an investment theme shaping up for Q3 2013, it would appear to be 'Go big or go home'," says ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas. "Yes, that means being maxed out long U.S. stocks, but how broad a net do you cast?" In a note to clients today, BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett builds on that theme, calling the second half of this year "the moment of truth" for the U.S. economy: [The] moment of truth for the economy will arrive in the second half of this year. If ever the US were finally to achieve ‚Äúescape velocity‚Äù it must be now. Significant monetary stimulus, the end of fiscal austerity, a booming housing market, a cheap dollar, and record corporate cash balances mean the US economy should meaningfully accelerate in coming quarters. Our own Ethan Harris looks for 2.0% GDP growth in Q3, 2.5% in Q4 and 2.7% in 2014.  Our investment strategy remains predicated on that outcome. In coming quarters we expect PMI‚Äôs to accelerate, job growth and bank lending to improve, higher interest rates to coincide with higher bank stock prices, and US dollar appreciation. We favor assets (such as financial stocks) and markets (such as Europe) that have lagged in the ‚ÄúHigh Liquidity-Low Growth‚Äù world of recent years.¬† One caveat, though, writes Hartnett: But structural equity bulls like ourselves should be careful of what we wish for. When the real economy finally stands up, the central bankers will start to stand down. At that point it seems inconceivable that the combination of the end of a 30-year bull market in bonds, the end of a 7-year liquidity boom and a change of leadership at the Fed will not give the markets some serious withdrawal symptoms. The dollar and volatility will be the last assets to surge as the era of Deleveraging closes and an era of Normalization begins. The next big signal is tomorrow with the release of the July nonfarm payrolls report at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict 185,000 jobs were created in the American economy last month, down from 195,000 the month before. As always, follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ¬ª
Yesterday, I described one of the big reasons America's economy is so crappy: The people who control and run America's big corporations have gotten so greedy that they're taking an unprecedented percentage of the country's wealth and income for themselves. America's big corporations have the highest profit margins and profits in history. But instead of taking some of these extraordinary profits and investing them in their people and the future, the corporations are paying their senior managers more and/or hoarding cash or giving it to investors. This greed on the part of a small percentage of Americans, unfortunately, is crippling the U.S. economy and clobbering all other Americans. Why? Because the cash that America's senior managers and investors are taking for themselves might otherwise become revenue for other companies and, thus, help the overall economy grow faster.¬†One company's wages and investments, after all, soon become other companies' revenues (when employees spend it). Business Insider, St. Louis FedAmerican companies have the highest profit margins in history.If American companies were making only average profits, or were sharing an average amount of their wealth with the folks who generate it (employees), we wouldn't be having this conversation. But the companies aren't doing this. As the accompanying charts show, American companies are 1) making the highest profits in history and 2) paying the lowest wages in history. Investors and senior managers, meanwhile, are 3) running off with the highest percentage of America's income in history. When you point this out to folks who are benefitting from this trend--senior managers and investors--they often react with outrage. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAmerican companies are paying the lowest wages in history.First, they call you a "socialist," even though the government has nothing to do with this.¬†Corporate and investor greed is a private-sector problem, not a government problem. The government could do something about it, but let's hope it doesn't come to that. Let's hope, instead, that America's senior managers and investors finally realize that they are just being greedy and decide to share more of the value their companies create with the people who create it. Next, senior managers and investors claim that one tenet of capitalism is that employees are just "costs" and should be paid as little as possible (except for senior management employees.) This, of course, is bunk. There is no "law" of capitalism that employees should be paid as little as possible, that a handful of winners should share as little as possible with the folks who actually do the work. When a wildly profitable corporation such as McDonald's or Walmart decides to pay its employees so little that they must live in poverty, this is a choice, not a law. But you can understand why senior managers and investors like to pretend that it is a law. Because then they won't be held responsible for choosing to skim off most of the country's wealth while shafting everyone else. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed, Bureau of Labor StatisticsThe share of national income going to the people who do the work ("labor") is at the lowest level in history. Investors and senior managers, meanwhile, have never had it better.Lastly, senior managers and investors scream that, if American companies shared more of their profit with their employees, their stocks might drop! That this point is made with the aim of ending the conversation--that it would obviously be unthinkable for any corporation to ever do anything that might make its stock drop--tells you a lot about how deeply investor greed has become an accepted part of our culture. Great companies, of course, create many different kinds of "value," of which cash flow and stock performance are only two (Great companies create great products, for example. And they create excellent jobs that pay a living wage. Both are very valuable.) And the truth is that companies can have very high stock prices even when they don't scrimp on investing, obsess about "maximizing profits," and dance to Wall Street's every whim and desire. How do we know that companies can create excellent financial returns for shareholders without "maximizing quarterly profits?" We can just look at the stock performance of one of the best companies in the world, Amazon. From the moment Amazon was founded more than 15 years ago, Amazon's management has chosen to invest aggressively in the long-term future, instead of fretting about maximizing quarterly profits. As the chart below shows, for more than 15 years, this decision has reduced, deferred, and even eliminated near-term profits.¬†And yet, over the past 15 years, Amazon's stock has delivered extraordinary returns. Business Insider/Ben Evans Yahoo Finance Why does Amazon's stock keep hitting new highs while the company (as critics love to point out) continues to generate almost no profit? Because Amazon's management has stated very clearly that the company is going to invest aggressively in the long-term future instead of worrying about near-term profits. And Amazon's management has demonstrated, again and again, that it can make smart-enough investments that, over the long haul, the investments can produce even greater returns. ¬† Importantly, investors who are smart enough to understand that intelligent investing today can produce even bigger profits tomorrow want Amazon to continue to invest this way. Amazon's investments, the investors understand, stand a good chance of being worth much more in the future than they would get from a ever-growing pile of cash earning nothing in the bank.¬† So don't let anyone tell you that American companies have to "maximize quarterly profits" or else their stocks will drop. It just isn't true.
This is for all of the gentlemen out there with the too-wide shirts that billow out in the front like a sheet (bad). This is also for the guys with the too-tight-over-the-chest-shirts where the buttons look like they're about to burst (even worse). Hugh and Crye is a D.C.-based men's clothing company with a distinct way of sizing their shirts. With two questions on their site they take into account a guy's height and body type to find a more precise fit from a range of 12 sizes (you can check out their sizing chart below). Dress shirts are priced at $85, blazers come in at $245. Founders Pranav Vora and Philip Soriano launched the company in 2010 for the same reason their clients go there ó they thought the shirts they were buying in stores could fit better. "There's typically too much fabric around the chest and waist, and through the sleeve. The other end of the spectrum is 'custom', which is often made-to-measure - an unfulfilled promise," said Vora. "The fit of most made-to-measure/custom shirts can be inexact, take a lot of time to fix and can be costly. We noticed that guys were generally just dealing with the options offered to them." Yes, this is all a part of what everyone's saying about men's fashion ó it's getting better, more stylish. But style falls to pieces if it isn't grounded in fit. Neither Vora nor Soriano had backgrounds in fashion when they started Hugh and Crye. Vora went to grad school at the London School of Economics and worked in consulting while Soriano worked at a non-profit. After about a year of research and development, though, the duo set up an online store. The first clients were friends and family, and then little pockets of buyers started popping up. There was even one in Wheeling, West Virgina, where it was clear one guy was telling all of his friends about the business. "We had little clues along the way to tell us we were on the right track," said Vora and Soriano. "When we were working out our sizing (3 different heights with 4 different fits which result in 12 sizes), a world-renowned pattern maker told us we were doing things with the fit that she had never seen in menswear, but that it could be revolutionary." When Hugh and Crye customers wanted to start trying shirts on, Vora and Soriano and† set up a storefront in Georgetown. The guys say they get their inspiration from pictures of grandfathers, uncles, fathers and other fresh looking gentlemen of old that knew they had to buy quality clothes and accessories that lasted for life. In short: Sure, there are trends, but this is men's fashion, stick to the classics. And of course, stay away from a few massive no-nos. "Hem your pants and denim, gentleman," Pranav said. "Triple breaks aren't a thing, and probably never were. Hate seeing guys wearing cuff links without a jacket... Stay fit. Being in shape is the best way to look fantastic, no matter what you're wearing." Soriano's fashion don't? ó he actually has a few: "The collar of a shirt is the most noticeable part of a wardrobe when you're talking to someone one-on-one. Two pet peeves: 1) When the collar flops down 70s style. 2) When the collar of the undershirt doesn't coincide with the way a guy is wearing his dress shirt. I often see guys wearing a crew neck undershirt when they have the top button of their dress shirt open. Or they wear a v-neck undershirt when they wear a dress shirt with a tie ó you can see the V-neck through the dress shirt. Both are very noticeable and look tacky." Don't be tacky. Check out the Hugh &amp; Crye fit chart below: Hugh & Crye † †
Google EarthWhen you're raking in millions ‚Äî or billions ‚Äî of dollars each year, it's not an exaggeration to say that any home on the market is within your reach. We're talking multi-acre estates in the Hamptons, triplexes in the wealthiest buildings in Manhattan, and massive dream homes from coast to coast. We found the 25 most expensive homes in the U.S. owned by the kings of finance.¬†To estimate the approximate current value of the homes, we looked at recent sales and public assessors' records, and spoke to expert realtors and appraisers in these homes' markets.
In June, we told you how the amount of power generated by solar in 2013 is set to crush all previous years. Yesterday, we get more evidence that solar is exploding. The EIA has released a round-up of all new industrial electric generating units in 2013, and new solar installations outnumber those of natural gas 42 to 37. Here's the full count: EIA Unfortunately the average capacity for the new solar units was 10.41 megawatts, compared with 127.28 megawatts for natural gas. But we know solar is catching up.
Flickr/Minnesota Historical SocietyWe just finished up PMI day. Thousands of companies around the world are surveyed for these monthly Purchasing Manager Index releases, so this is essentially the first look at the complete global manufacturing picture for the second half of 2013. JPMorgan's global composite manufacturing PMI was just released, and the headline index advanced to 50.8 from 50.6 in June. Any PMI index reading above 50 indicates expansion, whereas any reading below 50 indicates contraction. Thus, the advance in the global composite PMI in July suggests that the pace of expansion in global manufacturing picked up last month, but expansion remains somewhat subdued. The U.S. PMI showed a robust advance to 53.7, up from 51.9 in July. In Europe, Spain was the only company to see a drop in manufacturing PMI ‚Äì to 48.8 from June's 50.0 reading, dipping back into contraction. The eurozone composite manufacturing PMI, however, advanced to 50.3 from 48.8, reflecting broad-based gains in national indices across the currency area and suggesting a transition from a contraction in June to expansion in July. In China, the data were mixed. The official PMI released by the Chinese government showed an increase to 50.3 from 50.1, but the China PMI compiled by HSBC fell to 47.7 from 48.2. And in Japan, PMI fell to 50.7 from 52.3, indicating continued but slowing expansion.
Natural gas prices were off as much as 2.8%¬†a bearish Department of Energy report. Here's the chart ‚Äî they've since come back up slightly: Investing.com The DOE logged +59 bcf in injections against Bloomberg consensus of 56 bcf and Citi consensus 53 bcf.
Construction spending missed expectations falling 0.6% in June. One of the notable drags on construction was the decline in spending on religious constructions, which was down 6.8% on the month, and 12.2% on the year. A further breakdown, shows that private religious construction spending was down 7.3% on the month and 12.7% on the year. But construction spending on religious institutions has been on a long-term, secular decline for some time now. St. Louis Fed/Business Insider
APJuly U.S. vehicle sales are rolling in, and the Detroit's "Big Three" all missed expectations despite posting gains. Ford sales climbed 11% from the month a year ago, weaker than the 17% expected. Sales were aided by a 22.6% increase in the Ford F-Series pickups Chrysler sales also rose 11%, below the 16% estimate. Though, it was the group's best July since 2006 (and the 40th consecutive month of sales growth). Finally, General Motors sales were up 16%. The estimate there was 20%. But GM said pickup sales were up 44%, the best July number since 2007.
Today is turning into a repeat of yesterday in the bond market. We had a few better-than-expected economic data releases this morning, and Treasuries are taking a hit. Initial jobless claims fell to their lowest level since January 2008, with only 326,000 filed this week. Economists expected initial claims to rise to 345,000. The release at 8:30 sent bonds lower, but analysts caution that the numbers look better due to irregular summer schedules at auto plants. Markit's U.S. manufacturing PMI index advanced to 53.7 from 51.9 in July, beating expectations for a rise to 53.2. Meanwhile,¬†ISM's monthly manufacturing index surged to 55.4 in July from 50.9, also beating expectations for a smaller rise to 52.0. The two reports suggest that the pace of expansion in American manufacturing ramped up significantly last month, and gets the second half of the year off to a good start in terms of economic data. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is up 10 basis points from yesterday's close to 2.67%. The chart below shows the big drop in 5-year U.S. Treasury futures this morning. Thinkorswim
Robert Paul PropertiesCurbed's Rob Bear reports that former Harvard Management portfolio manager Philip Dubuque¬†has put his waterfront estate on the market for $14,750,000.¬† The¬†7,762 square-foot 9-bedroom Osterville, Massachusetts home sits on 2.76 acres overlooking the Nantucket Sound.¬† Robert Paul Properties has the listing.¬† It's definitely a summer dream home, so check it out.¬†
ISMUPDATE: ISM's monthly report on manufacturing is out. The headline index rose to 55.4 in July from June's 50.9 reading. The advance beat economists' estimates for a smaller increase to 52.0. The increase in the index suggests that the pace of expansion in the American manufacturing sector accelerated significantly in July. The production sub-index led the gains, rising 11.6 points to 65.0 from the previous month's 53.4 reading. The employment sub-index also posted solid gains, rising into expansionary territory at 54.4, up from the contractionary 48.7 reading registered in the June report. In other words, whereas American manufacturers were paring back employees in June, they were hiring again in July. At right is a breakdown of the various sub-indices in the report. Below is color on what respondents to the survey are saying: Click here for the full release &gt;
Reuters/Mike BlakeConstruction spending fell 0.6% month-over-month in June. This missed expectations for a 0.4% rise. But construction spending was up 3.3% on the year. Meanwhile, May's construction spending was revised up to show a 1.3% rise, form an initial reading of 0.3%. Private residential construction was flat on the month, and up 18.1% on the year. Investors watch this number because it offers insights into the housing market and into homebuilder stocks. It also helps gauge the health of the economy as companies and the government invest in new infrastructure when they are feeling confident about the economy. It will be interesting to see how higher mortgage rates and their impact on housing demand also impact construction spending.
Early yesterday morning, the big news of the day was that Pershing Square Capital Management, the $12 billion hedge fund managed by Bill Ackman, snapped up a $2.2 billion, or 9.8%, stake in Air Products. The stock rose about 4% in the pre-market on the news that the well-known activist investor had amassed a long position.¬† People have been wondering for a couple of weeks now which "simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow -generative" company Ackman's new single-stock investment vehicle was going to pick.  But before noon, his thunder was completely stolen. Around 11 a.m., CNBC's Scott Wapner reported that legendary hedge fund manager George Soros had bought a large long position in Herbalife.¬† The nutrition product seller's stock surged on the news. It was the talk of the Street. Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, is the stock that Ackman is famously short and has called a "pyramid scheme." ¬†Back in December, he publicly declared that he was shorting more than 20 million shares of the stock and has a price target of $0. ¬†In other words, he believes the company will be shut down. Since then, Herbalife's stock has been at the center of an epic clash of hedge fund titans full of drama. ¬† Ackman's big rival billionaire investor Carl Icahn purchased a massive stake in the company and said that he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."¬† Icahn told Bloomberg TV's Trish Regan that afternoon that he didn't know if Soros was a shareholder or not.¬† "It would be great if someone of¬†George Soros'¬†credibility would be a large stockholder," Icahn told Bloomberg TV's Regan.¬†¬† According to Fox Business Senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino, Ackman's lawyers are pressing the SEC to look at possible market manipulation around Soros' Herbalife investment.¬† Soros,¬†who reportedly asked to pull hundreds of millions of dollars¬†from Pershing Square earlier this year, actually works in the same building as Ackman at 888 Seventh Avenue. And just when it seemed like things couldn't get any worse for Ackman, JCPenney's shares collapsed in late trading after the New York Post's James Covert published an article about CIT clamping down on credit for the retailer. (The retailer's stock was up in the pre-market today. ¬†CIT Group is not bailing on the company, according to CNBC.) Ackman's Pershing Square owns a¬†17.74% stake¬†in JCPenney, according to the latest 13F regulatory filing for the fund. ¬† Here's a report card of how these holdings did yesterday:¬†
Warren Buffett dropped in on the New York premiere of†Breaking Bad's final season last night, walking the red carpet and posing for photos with actor Aaron Paul. Buffett told a Buzzfeed reporter that it's his "number one show, by far." "Not only is the story compelling ó itís a really an interesting story ó but the acting is superb," he told BuzzFeed. And the 82-year-old billionaire even binge-watches the series on Netflix, just like you. This isn't the first time Buffett has hung out with Paul and his co-star Bryan Cranston. Earlier this year, he filmed a sketch with the duo that was used at the yearly Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting. Read the full report at BuzzFeed&gt; Below, check out more bromance between Buffett and Paul (via CNBC's Carl Qunitanilla): How great is this? @WarrenBuffett with @aaronpaul_8 at the @breakingbad_amc premiere last nite pic.twitter.com/HyUJXhYDsl
Getty Images/Andrew H. WalkerThe S&amp;P 500 just broke above 1700 for the first time ever at the opening bell. The index has made a series of new all-time highs this year, and is currently up 19.3% year-to-date. This morning, the S&amp;P 500 is trading up 0.9% from yesterday's close, right at 1701.

APHal RogersHouse Republicans' latest fiasco confirms the suspicion: The GOP loves the Paul Ryan budget in theory, but even Republicans can't get it to work in practice. That was the result of a seemingly nonchalant debate over a†bill to fund the Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, which blew up in House Republicans' faces on Wednesday.  The THUD bill was, well, a thud, and it was pulled from the House floor amid the realization that it did not have close to the 218 votes of GOP support it needed.†Republicans couldn't garner the votes while abiding by their standards ó billions in cuts on top of the levels of spending under sequestration.† House Majority Leader Eric Cantor said that the House will return to appropriating the bill after Congress' August recess. But a furious†House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said that was "bleak at best," and other GOP sources said there's little chance of that, as well.† What happened here? This bill to fund the THUD served as Republicans' starting point in negotiations with Democrats. The GOP used the Ryan budget ó which it passed more than four months ago ó as a blueprint for the cuts they would need to make. But the problem with Ryan's budget is that it works in abstractions, and is never binding. And Republicans learned that, for the sake of saving face while going back to their districts, the heavy cuts projected in the Ryan budget just weren't workable.† In†a scathing statement, the normally measured Rogers blasted his colleagues.† "With this action, the House has declined to proceed on the implementation of the very budget it adopted just three months ago," Rogers said. "Thus, I believe that the House has made its choice: sequestration ñ and its unrealistic and ill-conceived discretionary cuts ñ must be brought to an end." That last sentence is what Democrats have been saying since sequestration took effect in March. Predictably, House Democrats seized on the news, with Budget Committee ranking member Chris Van Hollen using Rogers' statement as proof of validation for Democrats.† Talking Points Memo's Brian Beutler explains†how this latest failure could affect the coming battle over the fight to fund the government with a complete continuing-resolution bill: If House Republicans canít establish a position of their own, then the Senate will drive the whole process (its Transportation/HUD bill will probably pass on a bipartisan basis this week) and appropriations will be extended past September one way or another on the strength of Democratic votes.† It also suggests that the GOPís preference for permanent sequestration-level spending, particularly relative to increasing taxes, is not politically viable. If they want to lift the defense cuts, theyíre going to have to either return to budget negotiations with Democrats, or agree to rescind sequestration altogether. Republicans passed the unspecific outlines of the Ryan budget earlier this year, because they look good in abstraction. But when it comes to specifics, the knife cuts too deep. Meanwhile, the Senate will move Thursday to the next step in its version of the THUD bill.
REUTERS/David Gray The world's biggest economies have been rolling out their July manufacturing PMI reports. And this is our scorecard. So far, we've learned that most of Asia is either decelerating or contracting. Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Indonesia all reported deteriorating numbers in July. China's official PMI number climbed, but its unofficial HSBC PMI number fell. The global economic tides appear to be turning. Economic data in recent weeks have shown that China's hot economy is slowing quickly. Meanwhile, the beleaguered eurozone economies have been showing signs of life.¬† Italy, France, Germany, and Greece all reported notable improvements in activity. The U.S. economy seems to be heading in the right direction.¬† The ISM and PMI surveys both showed significant gains. PMI At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan, and several other major data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the manufacturing¬†purchasing managers index (PMI) for countries around the world. Read more about it at Markit. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- July 30 (All Times ET) July 31, August 1
Markit EconomicsMarkit's final July reading of U.S. PMI is out. The headline index increased to 53.7 in July from 51.9 in June, exceeding the flash estimate of 53.2 published by Markit last week. At right is a breakdown of the various sub-indices in the report. "Buoyed by the strongest increases in output and new orders since March and January respectively, the goods-producing sector is on course to see an improvement in the third quarter following second quarter softness," said Markit economist Mark Wingham in the release.¬†"Nevertheless, the rate of manufacturing growth remains weaker than at the start of the year. In particular, employment is generally rising at a¬†disappointingly weak pace and, despite growing at the fastest rate in 2013 so far, the increase in new export orders could be payback from declines in the previous two months." Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr/Happy KrissyInitial jobless claims plunged to 326,000 this week, the lowest level since early 2008.† And this was much lower than the 345,000 expected by economists. The weekly claims report by nature is already quite volatile. But today's report should be taken with particular caution. Here's TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg (emphasis added): ...While the Labor Department noted no special factors influencing the claims data, they did cite ëtypical July volatilityí as the basis for the stronger claims reading. Unadjusted claims tend to perform quite positively during this time of the year, leading to less supportive seasonal adjustment factors. The latest weekís unadjusted claims fell by a very large 60K, taking the unadjusted reading 19K lower. We suggest taking the latest reading with a grain of salt as the Labor Department may be having some trouble seasonally adjusting the data. Maybe a couple weeks down the road we'll get a better sense of where claims really are.
REUTERS/Peter AndrewsRoyal Dutch Shell said it would perform a "strategic portfolio review" on its North American shale holdings after it reported a more than $2 billion charge this morning, the company reported in its earnings release today.† The impairment figured into a YOY fall in profits of 20% for the quarter, to $4.6 billion.† The Angl0-Dutch firm said exploration and drilling has become costlier. It has holdings in plays like the Eagle Ford in Texas and Marcellus in Pennsylvania. The FT quoted CFO Simon Henry that "the production curve is less positive than we originally expected." And there was more bad news on production targets, Ft's Guy Chazan wrote: The company had said it was aiming to increase oil and gas output to 4m barrels a day by 2017-18. This has now been ìretiredî, Mr Voser said. In its earnings release, Shell†said it expects "further focus and divestments there." We've been reporting on 'Saudi America'†for awhile as improvements in drilling and exploration have allowed the U.S. and Canada to exploit vast reserves of oil and gas contained in shale rock. But there's been debate over just how long the phenomenon can last as production rates slow†and drillers are forced to move into more expensive plays.†
bytemarks / FlickrJobless claims fell to 326,000. It's the lowest print since January 2008. Analysts expected 345,000. Last week's figure was actually revised to 345,000. The four-week moving average declined -4,500 to 341,250. Here's the full report ¬ª
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas European Central Bank President Mario Draghi attends the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC) meeting during the Spring Meeting of the IMF and World Bank in Washington, April 20, 2013.The ECB's monthly interest rate decision is out. As expected, the central bank left¬†the benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.5% and the deposit rate unchanged at 0%. At the press conference, Draghi reiterated the forward guidance introduced at last month's press conference and said that it was unanimously confirmed at this month's Governing Council meeting. However, the Council did not discuss tying the guidance to specific numerical thresholds, as other central banks like the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan have done in recent months. Draghi also said that euro area growth risks remain on the downside, while euro area inflation risks remain broadly balanced. With regard to fragmentation of the eurozone banking system, Draghi asserted that on the bank deposit side, fragmentation is over, whereas on the bank lending side, there is still more that needs to be done. Draghi came out this week in support of publishing the minutes from ECB meetings, which the central bank currently does not do. However, when asked about the minutes in the press conference, Draghi said the discussion over the decision on the Governing Council is only in the early stages, and that the board would present a proposal on the minutes sometime in the fall. Below is the full text of Draghi's introductory statement at today's presser. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------¬† Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on the outcome of today‚Äôs meeting of the Governing Council. Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided to keep the¬†key ECB interest rates¬†unchanged. Incoming information has confirmed our previous assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time, recent confidence indicators based on survey data have shown some further improvement from low levels and tentatively confirm the expectation of a stabilisation in economic activity. Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by the outlook for price stability and promoting stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a gradual recovery in economic activity in the remaining part of the year and in 2014. Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary. The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time. This expectation continues to be based on an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we will monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the outlook for price stability. Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting with the¬†economic analysis. Following a six-quarter economic contraction in the euro area, recent confidence indicators based on survey data have shown some further improvement from low levels and tentatively confirm the expectation of a stabilisation in economic activity at low levels. At the same time, labour market conditions remain weak. Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and to 2014, euro area export growth should benefit from a gradual recovery in global demand, while domestic demand should be supported by the accommodative monetary policy stance as well as the recent gains in real income owing to generally lower inflation. Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen since last summer appear to be gradually working their way through to the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal consolidation. This being said, the remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity. Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilise and recover at a slow pace. The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the downside. Recent developments in global money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker than expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries. According to Eurostat‚Äôs flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 1.6% in July 2013, unchanged from June. Annual inflation rates are currently expected to temporarily fall over the coming months, owing particularly to base effects relating to energy price developments twelve months earlier. Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying price pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the recovery. Medium to long-term inflation expectations continue to be firmly anchored in line with price stability. The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger than expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker than expected economic activity. Turning to the¬†monetary analysis, underlying money and, in particular, credit growth remained subdued in June. Annual growth in broad money (M3) decreased in June to 2.3%, from 2.9% in May. Moreover, annual growth in M1 decreased to 7.5% in June, from 8.4% in May. The annual rate of change of loans to the private sector weakened further. While the annual growth rate of loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) remained at 0.3% in June, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year, the annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) was -2.3% in June, after -2.1% in May. Weak loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets. The bank lending survey for the second quarter of 2013 confirms that borrowers‚Äô risk and macroeconomic uncertainty remained the main factors restraining banks‚Äô lending policies. At the same time, the degree of net tightening of credit standards for loans to non-financial corporations remained unchanged in the second quarter of 2013, compared with the first quarter, and declined for loans to households. Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps for establishing a Banking Union will help to accomplish this objective. To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line with price stability over the medium term. A¬†cross-check¬†with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture. As regards¬†fiscal policies, in order to bring debt ratios back on a downward path, euro area countries should not unravel their efforts to reduce government budget deficits. The emphasis should be on growth-friendly fiscal strategies which have a medium-term perspective and combine improving the quality and efficiency of public services with minimising distortionary effects of taxation. To reinforce the overall impact of such a strategy, Member States must step up the implementation of the necessary¬†structural reforms¬†so as to foster competitiveness, growth and job creation. Removing rigidities in the labour market, lowering the administrative burden and strengthening competition in product markets will particularly support small and medium-sized enterprises. These structural reform measures are essential to bring down the currently high level of unemployment, in particular among the younger citizens of the euro area. We are now at your disposal for questions.

U.S. stock market futures are rallying ahead of the Thursday trading session. Dow futures are up 109 points. S&amp;P futures are up 11 points. Nasdaq futures are up 20 points. The positive numbers come in the wake of a mix of economic data, including manufacturing PMI reports from every major economy in Asia and Europe. The message is clear: emerging Asia is slowing across the board, while the trouble euro zone countries sprout economic green shoots. Here's a look Dow futures since yesterday's close via FinViz. FinViz
REUTERS/China DailyGood morning! Here's what you need to know.
WEFBank of England kept its asset purchase program at ¬£375 billion and maintained its interest rate at 0.5%. It will publish review on forward guidance on August 7, with the inflation report. This was in line with expectations. In the July MPC statement we received a strong hint that any announcement on forward guidance would come with the inflation report on chancellor George Osborne's insistence. In a note published ahead of the BoE announcement, Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard pointed out that if we do get forward guidance next week it will be "state-contingent" guidance.  "The fact that the Chancellor‚Äôs request was framed in terms of assessing the merits of using intermediate thresholds being reached for some particular economic indicator points to the ‚Äústate-contingent‚Äù approach being favored by the MPC." The consensus is that unemployment rate or nominal GDP growth are the top contenders for the choice of the threshold.
As we've been saying, the European recession is coming to an end. The data is far from stellar, but it's clear that a corner has been turned in the numbers. Yesterday for example, we saw that the European unemployment rate fell for the first time in years. Today: More confirmation. For the first time in 2 years, the Eurozone manufacturing sector is expanding, according to Markit, which conducts the PMI survey for countries around the world. Here's the chart that tells the big-picture story. Markit And here are some breakdowns by country. Markit
Another decent manufacturing report from Europe. This time it's Germany. The latest PMI reading came in at 50.7, well above last month's 48.6. This was the highest level in 18 months. Here's a summary from Markit: Markit
This was a decent French PMI report. The index rose to 49.7 from 48.4. That's still in contraction, and was a hair worse than expectations. But it's an improvement from last month, and output rose for the first time in 17 months. From Markit: Markit
This is a very nice report from Italy. The country's latest PMI reading indicated the first expansion in 2 years, thanks to strong export orders. The reading of 50.4 was above last month's 49.7. From Markit, here's the quick dish. Markit
REUTERSWe're in the midst of PMI day, the day when numerous countries in Asia, Europe, and the Americas report how their manufacturing sector is doing. So far the trends are: Weak in Asia, surprisingly decent in China, and okay in Europe. Meanwhile, markets are rallying everywhere. Europe is higher, with banks particularly strong. Japan had a very strong session, gaining 2.5%. Shanghai rallied 1.7%, going out on the highs. And US futures are pointing to a solid green open. For full live, PMI coverage, see here.
Spain's manufacturing has contracted again. The latest PMI report is in at 49.8, down from 50.0 in the previous month. Here's the basic summary, from Markit. Markit
NYU Stern finance professor Aswath Damodaran literally wrote the book on asset valuation. And via his blog, he has been offering his complete analysis and valuations of Facebook since the time it IPO'd. Facebook, which went public at $38 per share, tumbled after a disastrous IPO. In a blog post on August 20, 2012, Damodaran assigned an intrinsic value of $23.94 to Facebook. But in hindsight, the most stunning part of that blog post was: "My conclusion is that Facebook is not quite at the threshold of being a buy yet, but it is getting close. I have a limit buy order for the stock at a price of $18." Two weeks later, that order was triggered on the exact day Facebook hit its all-time low of $17.58. He nailed it. On Wednesday, Facebook returned to its IPO price of $38 for the first time since the IPO. "So, what now?" he asked rhetorically in his latest blog post. "Today, I believe that the markets are over reacting again to limited news from an earnings report and pushing the price up too much," he wrote. "As an investor who was lucky enough to buy last August, because the stock was trading below my estimate of its intrinsic value, I have to be consistent and sell, if the opposite holds now." Damodaran is a seller. But he warns against going short the stock. "Should you sell short? I personally would not, since it is entirely possible that the momentum game that was so firmly against Facebook last year might work in the other direction now," he added. "There may be investors who will be drawn in to the stock if it crests the $38 IPO price, though there is really no economic or value significance around the number." For those keeping score, Damodaran has updated his models, and he currently estimates Facebook's intrinsic value is $27.65 per share.
Financial author Michael Lewis has a sprawling new piece in Vanity Fair about former Goldman Sachs programmer Sergey Aleynikov, who was tried, convicted, and then later acquitted of stealing high-frequency trading proprietary code from Goldman's servers. Lewis' "Goldman's Geek Tragedy" paints a more nuanced picture of Aleynikov,¬†a soft-spoken Russian computer genius who was picked up by the FBI for "stealing" Goldman code and trotting it off to use at another firm. Aleynikov, once Goldman's star programmer earning $400,000 a year, felt the full brunt of Goldman's wrath. "Goldman Sachs‚Äôs role in the trial was to make genuine understanding even more difficult. Its lawyers coached witnesses; its employees, on the witness stand, behaved more like salesmen for the prosecution than citizens of the state," Lewis writes. In Lewis' telling, that "secret sauce" code was anything but. Mostly open-source information that wouldn't even help Aleynikov at his new firm. One of Lewis' sources uses the example of a spiral notebook you keep by your desk to jot down thoughts and ideas. If you left your job for another one, you'd take the notebook with you. It's not that the pages would necessarily give you an advantage in the future, it's that they are your notes. Goldman disagreed. They alerted the FBI and sought to make an example of Aleynikov, who comes off as a brilliant, misunderstood patsy in the story. Goldman comes off as ruthless. Here's why. From Vanity Fair: As one [market insider]¬†put it, ‚ÄúEvery manager of a Wall Street tech group likes to have people believe that his guys are geniuses.¬†Their whole persona among their peers is that what they and their team do can‚Äôt be replicated. When people find out that 95 percent of their code is open-source, it kills that perception.¬†So when the security people come to¬†them and tell them about the downloads, they can‚Äôt say, ‚ÄòNo big deal.‚Äô And they can‚Äôt say, ‚ÄòI¬†don‚Äôt know what he took.‚Äô‚Äù¬† To put it another way: the process that¬†ended with Serge Aleynikov sitting inside a¬†federal prison may have started with some¬†Goldman Sachs employees concerned about¬†their bonuses. A source at Goldman viewed the piece as pretty one-sided. Lewis certainly makes his views known, but breaks down a complicated financial story in a way that¬†only he can. The full story, on newsstands today, is definitely worth a read.
