ReutersChinese Q2 GDP climbed 7.5% in line with expectations. This is down from 7.7% growth in the first quarter. Economists had been cutting their GDP forecasts leading up to the data release. Chinese GDP grew 1.7% quarter-over-quarter, slightly below expectations for a 1.8% rise. China's GDP is up 7.6% in the first half of the year. The official government target is for 7.5% growth in 2013. The cash crunch in June is also expected to have impacted economic growth. We also had other economic data out tonight. Chinese industrial production was up 8.9%, below expectations for a 9.1% rise. Industrial production was up 9.3% in the first half of the year. The 10.8% rise in crude oil output, following the rise in crude oil imports suggests some improvement in investment activity. All important year-to-date fixed asset investment (FAI) climbed 20.1%, missing expectations for a 20.2% rise. A breakdown showed that railway FAI slowed to 15.7%, from 24.2% in May, manufacturing FAI slowed to 15.2%, from 16.5%, and property FAI was up 19.4%. Retail sales were up 13.3%, above expectations for a 12.9% rise. In real terms however, retail sales were up 11.7% in June, down from 12.1% the previous month. Retail sales were up 12.7% in the first half of the year. Chinese electricity consumption was up 6.3% YoY in June to 438.4 billion kilowatt hours, and up 5.1% in the first half of the year. National Bureau of Statistics spokesman, Sheng Laiyun, said that China is creating jobs despite the slowdown in the economy, according to Bloomberg. "We‚Äôd like to reiterate our call of ‚ÄúLi Keqiang Put‚Äù, which means that in the first couple of years of Premier Li‚Äôs term, he may try to prevent a growth hard-landing and a financial crisis," wrote Bank of America's Ting Lu following the release. "That‚Äôs why we expect Li‚Äôs cabinet will introduce some measures to arrest the slowdown (in yoy term) of growth in the next couple of quarters." Markets will be watching to see if policymakers move to support their 7.5% growth target.
Flickr/doegox  Asian markets are mixed in early Monday trading. Seoul's KOSPI index is down -0.69% and falling. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.11%. The Nikkei 225 is closed today.¬† Stay tuned for Chinese Q2 GDP data, out in less than two hours. And of course, there's a bevy of new data out this week, plus earnings from firms including GE, Johnson and Johnson, Yahoo and Bank of America. Plus Chairman Bernanke will deliver his semiannual report to Congress Wednesday.
REUTERS/Aly SongChinese economic data has disappointed markets in the past few months. Here's a look at April, and May. China will release its Q2 GDP data at 10 p.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for GDP to rise 7.5% year-over-year, and for real GDP to rise 1.7% quarter-over-quarter. This isn't the only data out tonight though. We also have industrial production, fixed asset investment (FAI) and retail sales for June out at 10 p.m. ET.¬† Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for industrial production to rise 9.1% YoY, year-to-date FAI ex-rural to rise 20.2% YoY, and retail sales to rise 12.9% YoY. We've already seen a slump in exports, driven by a government crackdown on speculative Forex inflows and a weak global economic environment. Producer prices were also negative for the 16th straight month highlighting the nation's excess capacity problems. The recent liquidity squeeze in China is also expected to weigh on economic growth. Bank of America's Ting Lu however wrote that China benefits from the Li Keqiang put i.e. the Chinese premier will be unwilling to let growth slip below 7.5%. Economists have however been lowering their GDP forecasts as this chart from Bloomberg BRIEF's Michael McDonough shows: Michael McDonough/Bloomberg BRIEF
REUTERS/StringerMNI's David Wilder reports an economist and advisor to the Chinese government says the country's economy is officially in a crisis as debt costs spiral upward. This was spotted by Fabrizio Goria. Xia Bin, of the State Council's Development Research Center, also said authorities need to stop mincing words about the situation. From Wilder: ...[Xia] said Beijing needs to stop using bland rhetoric about "stabilizing the economy" and focus on tackling a debt burden whose interest payments alone tally nearly CNY6 trillion a year. Although monetary printing presses have kept the worst of the crisis at bay, the central government needs to face up to China's debt problem and brace the market for a deep and painful adjustment, he told a forum here at the weekend. "We need to find ways to let the bubble burst and write off the losses we already have as soon as possible to avoid an even bigger crisis," Xia said. Wilder notes interest payments now total nearly CNY6 trillion a year. Read the full story at MNI ¬ª
WolframAlphaAs we've discussed, Wolfram Alpha is a fantastic website that knows basically everything.¬† But one way that people don't use it enough is when it comes to money.¬† If you work in finance, play in stocks, invest, have a mortgage, or pay taxes, Wolfram Alpha is here to make your life better.¬† It's got incredibly detailed data for thousands of companies and if you work in finance it better be a bookmark if you want to make those back of the napkin calculations cake.¬†
At Jackson Hole this week, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard presented a slide demonstrating that in a previous round of QE policy the inflation rate rose near the 2% target of the Fed (Federal Reserve). He then noted that during the present round of QE the year-over-year inflation rate is closer to 1%. He also noted that rising commodity pricing contributed to a higher inflation rate during the first round of QE and that the present trend is downward as commodity prices continue to decline worldwide. My takeaway from Bullardís presentation is that he is worried about falling inflation. My sense is he does not want to see the Fed in a position where the inflation rate approaches zero and the Fedís actions to remove some stimulus turn out to exacerbate volatility, thereby undermining the effectiveness of QE policy. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser noted that the employment situation is improving in the US. He particularly noted the revisions outlined in the last employment report. Plosser is concerned about waiting too long before tapering and about getting to a more neutral policy stance. He outlined his arguments thoughtfully and eloquently. He noted the characteristics of the forecasts by members of the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee), of which he is one. My takeaway from Plosserís comments is that he is worried the Fed will wait too long. Listening to both Bullard and Plosser, the audience could observe the collegiality of these two FOMC members. The skill with which they both argued their points of view, as well as the data they presented, was impressive. The audience of over 200 at Jackson Hole was divided on its viewpoints. One of the Fed presidents pointed out the surveys conducted of audience opinions showed the same types of divisions that occur within the FOMC. While he was not at Jackson Hole, Ben Bernanke was the subject of many conversations during the roundtable discussions and conference. His speech last week triggered market changes. It appears as if he attempted to undo some of the miscommunication that occurred in prior weeks. He seems concerned about the rise in home mortgage interest rates and how it may slow housingís recovery. Ben Bernanke and his potential successor were also the subject of much discussion. In a survey of the 200 in attendance, Janet Yellen emerged as the front-running choice, with Tim Geithner and Larry Summers falling in line behind her. A small portion of the audience felt it would be someone other than these three. Of course, everyone admitted that this is a political decision, and the sooner it is made and vetted in the marketplace and among the general public, the better for everyone. That said, our takeaway from the conversation is that a decision on succession is not expected until early autumn. Bernanke has a chance to clarify things again when he testifies this week. We believe he will affirm the statement he made last week in the Q&amp;A period following his speech: ìYou can only conclude that highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future is what is needed in the US economy.î There is no reason to believe anything will change in his testimony this coming week. We think he will reaffirm his position powerfully. That position is the basis on which we believe that the Bernanke policy will survive Bernanke as Chairman and that the near-zero interest-rate policy will remain in place for several more years.
Last week, U.S. gasoline prices jumped 3.4%, or $0.12, to more than $3.62 a gallon: GasBuddy What happened? As we've explained, fuel is a finished product traded on the international market. Thus, it closely tracks the price of oil priced to the Brent benchmark, the contract traded in London. So what has Brent been up to?† Check it out: Brent Brent's up 7% since the end of June.† So why's Brent been going up? Analysts point to unrest in Egypt, although it looks highly unlikely the Suez canal will be affected by the country's political turmoil.† There have also been production outages in Libya, following protests there. Also of note: Dan Strumpf at the Wall Street Journal reports there's been a new wave of glitches at US refiners, which has slowed down production and adds to price of finished products like gasoline. But if you look at the Brent chart again, you can already see prices came down sharply Friday. So barring any new news, fuel prices should soon come down again too.
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldGold divides investor opinion like no other asset: either it is a worthless investment without yield and utility, or an insurance policy against unscrupulous central banks that should be bought irrespective of price. Both views are, in my opinion, flawed. Gold is a legitimate asset class: a capacity-constrained and widely accepted currency which has protected purchasing power over many centuries. But this does not mean that it should be bought on the basis of a lazy narrative that does not attempt to calculate a fundamental value ‚Äì and the problem with gold is that all reasonable attempts to value it point to its chronic over-valuation. So although gold is now a third off its 2011 high of $1,897 an ounce, I fear there is worse to come for gold, gold miners and goldbugs ‚Äì particularly if the US economy continues to recover at its present pace. Gold‚Äôs role as an investment is to protect investors against the loss of purchasing power in money that can be printed by central banks, which, although accepted as a medium of exchange, has no intrinsic value. Recently, asset purchases funded through new money created by central banks ‚Äì quantitative easing ‚Äì has stoked fears of hyperinflation. Yet inflation in the real economy continues to be negligible. Since 2000, core inflation in the USA has averaged just 2.5pc per annum (an increase of 38pc) while gold (measured in US dollars) has returned 12.4pc per annum (an increase of 356pc), nearly five times the loss of purchasing power in the dollar. This fundamental disconnect between inflation and the price of gold cannot be sustained indefinitely: either inflation has to rise dramatically or gold has to fall. In 1968, gold became freely tradable, having previously been fixed by the US government to the price of the dollar at $35 an ounce. Since 1968, the most credible measure of US inflation ‚Äì the core consumer price index ‚Äì has risen by 578pc, an average of 4.4pc per annum, suggesting a loss of purchasing power in the dollar of 85pc. This shows clearly why investors should be concerned about their wealth being eroded by inflation. However, if we multiply the price of gold in 1968 of $35 per ounce, every year since, by the annual US rate of inflation, then we can calculate a fundamental value of gold based on purchasing power. Such a calculation results in a fair value for gold today of just $240 an ounce, only a fifth of its current price of $1,280 an ounce. On any fundamental analysis, gold is a grossly overvalued asset. Investors should be concerned about inflation, but more wary of the price of gold. There is another problem for gold, which accounts for the timing of its descent into a bear market, namely that its antithesis, the US dollar, should inspire greater confidence in the world‚Äôs financial markets. US home prices are now increasing at a double-digit pace year-on-year and the country‚Äôs unemployment rate, at 7.5pc (down from a peak of 10pc), is falling toward an acceptable equilibrium. The debate on US quantitative easing ‚Äì in contrast to Europe and Japan ‚Äì has therefore shifted to the timing of less stimulus, rather than more. This should return the US dollar to its status as undisputed global reserve currency, particularly as the dollar may pay a more attractive interest rate in the future than the recent past. In a world of US dollar economic and financial hegemony, last seen in the 1990s, investors will choose the greenback over gold. If we are cautious on the prospects for the yellow metal, we have to warn of the implications for the gold miners themselves. The decade-long boom in the price of gold has encouraged them to extract much lower grade ores. This has resulted in significantly higher costs, with the expected boom in industry profit margins failing to materialise. The world‚Äôs leading gold miner, Barrick Gold, believes that the entire industry‚Äôs all-in sustaining costs of production are now $1,200 an ounce, up from $300 in 2002. With the gold price at $1,280 today, the gold industry as a whole is only marginally profitable and close to haemorrhaging cash. The gold industry will respond to this crisis by cutting higher-cost production (mining only higher-grade ore) and mothballing capacity. As mines are closed, orders for mining equipment will dry up and second-hand equipment, such as excavators, trucks, grinders and drills, will be dumped on the market. This will have calamitous ramifications for those companies reliant on gold miners‚Äô investment plans. Many gold-mining companies also have significant financial debt, which will result in significant corporate bankruptcies or at the very least generate a need to raise equity to recapitalise their balance sheets for tougher times. Normally, the marginal cost of production of a commodity acts as a floor to the commodity price. There are a number of reasons why this is not relevant to gold. Gold is unique. It is not consumed. Indeed, all the gold ever mined remains in existence today. In essence, this above-ground stock represents its supply. The World Gold Council estimates this stock at 175,000 tonnes. This year, annual mined production is expected to be 2,900 tonnes or just 1.5pc of total supply, and thus is not material in influencing the price. Moreover, if no gold were mined, unlike the production of other commodities, it would not prevent the global economy from functioning perfectly well. Those who argue that the marginal cost of production of $1,200 an ounce should act as a floor on the gold price are deluded and should be ignored. Today, gold looks like the ultimate high-risk, low-reward investment rather than the low-risk, high-reward commodity it is commonly seen as being. In the absence of a meaningful pick-up in inflation, its price needs to fall another $1,000 an ounce before offering a buying opportunity. Gold is not worthless, but it is chronically overvalued. Barry Norris is CEO and Fund Manager of Argonaut Capital Partners 
The hedge fund industry has been taking a lot of heat in recent days and years for delivering poor performance at a high cost. Indeed, according to a recent report from Goldman Sachs, the average hedge fund returned a measly 2.5% during the first half of the year compared to the S&amp;P 500 which returned 12.6% (13.8% including dividends). It's worth noting that hedge funds often consist of both long and short positions. Short positions lose value when the asset price goes up. Some hedge funds take these long and short positions so they can be neutral on the direction of the stock market. According to Goldman's analysis, much of the hedge fund industry's underperformance is attributable to these short positions. In fact, the hedge funds' large long positions have actually outperformed the S&amp;P 500, which is a pretty incredible feat. Here's Goldman Sachs' David Kostin: Interestingly, hedge fund long stock positions have actually delivered solid returns in 2013. Our Hedge Fund Very-Important-Position (VIP) List has returned 14% YTD (Bloomberg ticker: &lt;GSTHHVIP&gt;). The basket consists of the 50 stocks that ‚Äúmatter most‚Äù for hedge fund returns in terms of weight in a typical hedge fund portfolio. Unfortunate selection of short positions has hampered hedge fund returns. 26 of the 50 Russell 3000 stocks with a market cap of at least $1 billion and the most short interest as a percentage of market cap posted returns of more than 20% during 1H 2013. Here's Goldman's chart showing the distribution of returns for hedge funds and mutual funds. Goldman Sachs
Tomorrow morning Citi will report Q2 2013 earnings at 8:00 a.m. with a conference call to follow at 11:00 a.m. Analysts are expecting earnings per share of $1.18 and a 6.1% y/o/y increase in revenue to $19.7 billion. Last quarter, analysts got a little optimistic about the stock, noting that it had deployed††$652 million in loan loss reserves, more than half of which went to work on toxic mortgage assets. Bank analyst Chris Whalen told CNBC that he thought it had the most positive upside of all the big banks, so if Citi can continue to stop the bleeding, expect more positive reviews.
WikimediaEnguerrand de Marigny on the gallows.We recently told you the story of why the world's first modern central banker was sentenced to death. As it turns out, executing finance ministers appears to have been a relatively common occurrence in early-modern¬†France, where between ¬†1314 and 1328 three different treasury superintendents were executed. With the help of Pierre Cl√©ment's "Trois drames historiques", Andr√© Liesse¬†"Evolution of Credit and Banks in France from the Founding of the Bank of France to the Present Time,"¬†and¬†Herodote.net¬†[FR]¬†¬†we present how they went down: Counterfeiting was a big problem in 13th century France, and when King Philip the Fair took power in 1286, he tried to solve the problem by devaluing the realm's currency.¬† ¬† He went overboard. In the span of 20 years, French coin (livres) was devalued 40 times. Meanwhile, he banned the exchange of gold and silver, meaning French citizens were stuck holding worthless currency. The kingdom was never in danger of defaulting, with Philip having pledged his personal accounts as collateral for the new currency.¬† But everything backfired, and counterfeiting surged anew.¬† By 1313, "weak money" was worth twice as less than "strong money," which provoked outrage among French. Enguerrand de Marigny was a courtier who already possessed vast amounts of wealth as a courtier, and Philip admired his intelligence. So he appointed Marigny chancellor of the whole country. Soon after he did so, Philip declared war on Flanders (for reasons too arcane to discuss here). Now he needed more money, but the value of French livre¬†had already plummeted. So Marigny created the Estates General as a way to pass tax and revenue generating measures more democratically.¬† In 1314, Philip died, and power passed to his eldest son Louis. Louis recognized Marigny had the best interests of the kingdom in mind. But the rest of the kingdom believed Marigny to be a venal thief. After Philip's brother accused Marigny of sorcery, and as the cries among the populace for justice grew, Louis gave in and had Marigny hanged. The elite still believed Marigny got a raw deal,¬†and Louis ended up posthumously pardoning Marigny giving his children 10,000 pounds.¬† Less than a decade later, an even worse fate befell France's Gerard de la Guette. La Guette was appointed chancellor by Louis' successor. When that king passed, Charles IV the Fair took power. Charles quickly realized that the kingdom was facing a deficit of 1.2 million pounds, and fingered ¬†la Guette as the culprit.¬† PHPBBLa Guette was subsequently tortured to death by something called "the wooden horse." Here at left is an image showing what that may have looked like.¬† The last in this unhappy line was Pierre Remy, who historians say really was a crook. He was hanged by Philip VI in 1328. Between 1300 and 1661, France executed or imprisoned five finance ministers or chancellors. Thankfully, occupational safety laws have since improved.
ShutterstockThings are fairly quiet, but there are a number of stories that have the attention of traders. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along some of the stories that have traders attention. We summarize and bullet some key ones:
Over the last month, the low hum of anti-hedge fund murmuring has exploded into a full-on festival of malice - thousands of investors, having spotted the 2-and-20 emperors sans clothing for the umpteenth time, are now reveling in their newfound courage to say it out loud: "I don't get it."† The media - always in possession of a keen nose for blood in the water - has been all too happy to encircle the debate with articles, viewpoints, charts and statistics (oh so many statistics). For skeptical journalists, the sheer size and scale of this multi-trillion dollar industry has†never†made sense and the manager paychecks they've been forced to report on were†always†cartoonish. It's only natural that they should be luxuriating in this moment. For non-hedge fund financial professionals (asset managers, wealth managers, traders, investment advisors, etc) the narrative is an equally delectable one - "Hey, wait a minute! That a--hole in theTod's driving mocs†makes ten times as much as we do and returns less than half as much to his clients! LET'S GET HIM! And the retail investor is also enjoying the public shaming. Because you cannot find a single one who doesn't feel - deep down - that the game has always been unfair to them and it's because the hedge fund managers have some sort of secret (read: unfair) advantages in the market. And so the stockades are being erected in Greenwich's village square as we speak. Anti-hedgian rhetoric can be read and heard everywhere all at once this summer - but its tone is more mocking than angry, a mass confabulation that's more sardonic than it is vitriolic. Yes, the townspeople are holding their torches aloft, lit with the fires from a decade's worth of pent-up envy, but they are laughing, not shouting. Witness†BusinessWeek's limp d--- cover, one for the ages to be sure. The emerald curtain's been pulled back and, with the exception of George Soros and a few others, the wizards are only men in suits, scrambling for their ephemeral "edges" just like the rest of us. A lot of people have asked where I stand in all of this. I don't have anything overly insightful to add to all of the numbers you've seen - in the aggregate these numbers speak for themselves. Here are the key takeaways, in my mind: 1. There is a small group of hedge fund managers who can consistently beat the market as a result of their hard work and innate brilliance. This small group of hedge funds does not want you as a client. 2. There are many, many other hedge fund managers who will have good years, great years and terrible years in no predictable semblance of order. Much of this will depend on the market environment and luck, very little of it will prove to be repeatable. 3. The worst thing that can happen to a manager is a multi-year run of market-beating success. This is because two things are inevitable as a result: First, he will raise a lot of money, which will render his market-beating methods impotent. Second, he will begin dating really skinny girls with huge boobs, traveling a lot and enjoying his fortune. And who could blame him? The problem is, getting handjobs on a Gulfstream at two o'clock in the afternoon rarely leads to alpha. As Clubber Lang menacingly shouted at the champ in†Rocky III, "You ain't been hungry since you won that belt!" 4. There is a larger question as to whether or not hedge funds can reliably generate alpha - and that question is,†does it matter?†I suppose if you've got fifty million dollars to invest, who cares? And if you're a pension or endowment manager, adding hedge funds†looks†smart - especially investing in the larger funds - so why not? 5. There are some great emerging managers out there who can make their early limited partners (the investors) very wealthy. Unfortunately, this is a needle-in-the-haystack type of proposition. The nation's fund-of-funds complex has been shown by the research to be unable to identify these emerging managers. They have the data, analytics, personal connections, real-world experience and educational pedigrees in spades - and they cannot do it. Why you think that you can is beyond me. 6. There was a time when hedge funds could do quite well for themselves by virtue of the fact that there were so few of them that the inefficiencies were immensely profitable. That's been over for more than a decade now. It's not coming back. But this doesn't mean that these inefficiencies are gone - †or that talented managers will not be able to suss them out profitably. 7. The hedge fund industry is racing to open '40 Act Funds (mutual funds) and convert their strategies to so-called "liquid alternative" products. In doing so, they are reducing the fees and the minimum initial buy-in - to just $1000 in some cases. This rush to take in retail money includes everyone from Goldman Sachs to KKR. But this should not surprised you; think of it like seeing luxury brands pop up in TJ Maxx or Marshalls. The products you are encountering in this setting are not high-end fashion duds that somehow found themselves in a discount store. No, they were made specifically for these off-the-rack retailers as part of a business strategy. By the same token, you will not encounter a product giving you entrÈe†into the best hedge funds on the Charles Schwab platform. 8. Given the exodus from active strategies into passive products in the last few years, it is a virtual certainty that many hedge funds are going to see a renewed opportunity to generate alpha and outperform. The question is whether or not that will matter to their investors by the time one factors in fees. Some people will track that "cost of alpha" to within a penny. Most won't. 9. The argument that "hedge funds are not-correlated so they make sense for most portfolios" is nonsense. When stocks go down, cash is non-correlated too and it costs nothing. When stocks go up, who the fuck wants to be non-correlated? One quant I know - who cannot say this in public given his client base - has run a variance optimization test on the hedge fund universe and determined that, in the long-run, they are statistically no different from a half-stocks, half-treasurys portfolio with an enormous price tag attached. But so what? If you own a hedge fund that goes down 10% while the market drops 30%, you're still going to be pleased with yourself†and you know it. 10. Not every fund investment needs to be about performance. Some people just like knowing the smartest, slickest guy in the game is running their money and the results are an afterthought. Some people like the quarterly letters or the ability to tell their golf buddies "I'm with Einhorn." †You will see this when the advertising begins, by the way. It will be very much about aspirational branding and lifestyle. This will be image advertising - think Calvin Klein's Obsession, not "Four Suits for Four Dollars at Joseph A Banks!" And what's wrong with that? The bottom line: Not everything in life needs to come down to stats. People have a variety of reasons for being in hedge funds, from the way it makes them feel to the way it differentiates their portfolios - all of them valid on either a financial level or an emotional level or both. That $2 trillion in hedge fund AUM is not going to shrink in the future, it is going to grow. This is because there will always be new superstars with new ways of investing and generating returns. And the best of these managers will frequently opt for the wrapper in which they're paid the most for their efforts.†It's hard to beat the management-plus-incentive structure. The best and brightest will always go where the pay is the highest - and investors will usually follow them there, for better or for worse. This will not change in our lifetimes so let's all settle down.
Nickolas Nikolic / FlickrHow do mortgages make it to Wall Street anyway? None of the following is essential to understanding mortgages from a personal finance standpoint, I just thought the details of mortgage securitization and mortgage bond trading and structuring would be interesting for some people. I sold mortgage bonds at Goldman for a few years in the early 2000s, so this sausage-making was my daily life.¬† Below, and in a subsequent post, I introduce some Wall Street concepts of the mortgage bond market. In this post, I‚Äôm going to describe points 1 through 3. Subsequent posts will describe points 4 through 7. Conforming mortgages, the forward trade In July 2013, Wall Street is now ‚Äúforward trading‚Äù the October 2013 30-year 4.0% mortgage bonds.¬† October 2013 mortgages are part of the ‚ÄòWhen Issued‚Äù market, which is kind of like a grain farmer selling wheat on the commodities exchange 3 months before his harvest.¬† The farmer has an approximate idea of what yield he‚Äôll get soon, but he may trade on a commodities exchange as his estimate changes, and as his sense for the attractiveness of prices changes.[1] As the largest originator in the US, Well Fargo, in recent times, originates over $100 Billion in mortgages per quarter. That means that on any day in July, and in fact for the next two months, mortgage traders at a big mortgage originator like Wells Fargo will call up their salesman at Goldman Sachs and ask Goldman to purchase some amount of their mortgages that will be originated by October 2013. This ‚ÄúWhen Issued‚Äù mortgage market is just about the most liquid market in the world, and a $1 billion trade happens in seconds. ‚ÄúHello, this is Goldman,‚Äù said in a shouty but efficient voice ‚ÄúBid 750 Fannie 4s in October!‚Äù * ‚Äú22+‚Äù ** ‚ÄúDone‚Äù *** ‚ÄúDone. GS buys $750 million Fannie 4s in October at 100-22+. Thanks for the trade.‚Äù Click. **** [And‚Ä¶let‚Äôs translate: * Wells Fargo today, in July 2013, is selling $750 million worth of future mortgage supply, which it will ultimately originate in October 2013.¬† Wells has an idea of its future October volume, however, because of the recent amount of customers who have locked in their current interest rates.¬† Many of these will end up as loans eligible for inclusion in a Fannie Mae securitization of similar mortgages. **The mortgage salesman‚Äôs price is a fractional short-hand for how many 64ths Goldman will pay, in this case the 22+ means 22 and a half/32nds, or 45/64ths, or .703125.¬† This quote assume everyone knows on the buying and selling side knows the ‚Äòhandle,‚Äô which is the main price, near par, that the bond will trade at during origination.¬† Newly issued mortgage bonds, like most newly issued bond generally, will trade somewhat near 100, but during periods of rapid interest rate changes this handle could be in the 95 to 105 range.¬† The Well Fargo trader and Goldman salesman will now ahead of time and won‚Äôt waste time reviewing this info, until after the trade is done. ***I agree to your price.¬† Not only that, but I agreed to your price so quickly (within a second or so) that you as broker are held to the price even if the market moves against you in the subsequent 10 seconds, or minutes, or days.¬† Goldman is now at risk as a future owner of $750 million in bonds ****Ok, I bought your bonds. Now back to your regularly-scheduled description of mortgage origination and hedging.] ¬† As Wells Fargo‚Äôs mortgage origination supply fluctuates between July and October, Wells may find itself needing to sell more ‚ÄòWhen Issued‚Äô mortgages, or it may buy some back if its mortgage origination supply drops.¬† If mortgages expected to close in October instead actually close in November, then Wells may end up selling fewer mortgages in October and will instead do a trade so that it can deliver them in November. Delivery, again, is like the futures market for wheat.[2]¬† The farmer, in this case Wells Fargo, anticipates his yield, and manages and hedges his future production by selling his ‚ÄòWhen Issued‚Äô mortgages to Wall Street. Delivery and Securitization When October arrives, Wells Fargo delivers its $750 million in conforming[3]¬†mortgages to Goldman.¬† Goldman may then choose to turn over this inventory of raw mortgages to Fannie Mae for securitization as a 4% Fannie Mae bond. Securitization, the process by which a few thousand similar-vintage mortgages become a tradable bond, is the process that occurs to most home mortgages, further separating the home owner from the bank.¬† Not incidentally, it‚Äôs part of what makes our home mortgage rates so affordable. Let‚Äôs say for simplicity‚Äôs sake that 2,000 different mortgage loans underlie the $750 million securitization, for an average loan balance of $375,000.¬† They will cluster in interest rate, to the 2,000 homeowners, around 4.375% to 4.5%, and all will generally have ‚Äòclosed‚Äô in October 2013.¬† Astute readers will notice the extra 0.375% to 0.5% difference between the homeowner rate and the bond rate.¬† This difference largely gets paid in monthly fees to two different entities, the mortgage bond servicer, and the mortgage insurer.¬† I‚Äôll next explain these two roles in the mortgage securitization market. The plain-vanilla Mortgage bond Once the 2,000 underlying mortgages get grouped together and assigned to a structure, and assigned to a mortgage servicer, and guaranteed by the mortgage insurer ‚Äì Fannie Mae ‚Äì it becomes a tradable bond.¬† The bond will get registered, with a Cusip and ISIN[4], loaded into Bloomberg for ease of tracking, and assigned a Fannie Mae number.¬† I‚Äôll call this one ‚ÄúFN 8720331.‚Äù Let‚Äôs say Goldman next sells this particular FN 8720331 to a Vanguard Fund dedicated to purchasing new mortgage bonds.¬† For the next few years, the Vanguard Fund will receive a combination of principal and interest from FN 8720331. FN 8720331 is a AAA-rated, safe security.¬† Vanguard will earn 4% on its investment ‚Äì I‚Äôm assuming that‚Äôs the coupon of the bond and that it was purchased at par ‚Äì although the timing of payments is uncertain.¬† If interest rates decline from here, many of the 2,000 homeowners will refinance before 30 years, shortening the ‚Äòaverage life‚Äô of FN 8720331 to something in the 3 to 7 year range.¬† If instead interest rates rise ‚Äì as seems more likely ‚Äì homeowners may realize their 4.5% mortgages is a great rate, and they may not refinance for many years.¬† FN 8720331 may end up as a 10+ year average life bond.¬† Vanguard takes that risk, known as pre-payment risk. ¬† Mortgage Servicer The mortgage bond servicer earns its fee ‚Äì a portion of the 0.375% to 0.5% difference between homeowner interest and bond-holder interest ‚Äì making sure that the monthly mortgage payments of 2,000 homeowners get routed correctly through the structure that pays out monthly to Vanguard.¬† Our theoretical $750 million bond pays a monthly portion of the 4% annual interest plus principal on a mortgage bond. Just as an individual mortgage paid by a homeowner slowly amortizes ‚Äì decreases in principal amount owed each month ‚Äì so too does the servicer of the mortgage bond disburse a portion of underlying principal to Vanguard every month. This means that 3 years from now our $750 million bond will have partly amortized, let‚Äôs say to 70% of its original face amount.¬† Wall Street, if it trades this bond in the future, will still quote the original face amount, but mechanically only 0.7 of money will change hands at the time of a trade between Vanguard and its Wall Street broker.¬† In other words If you want to buy $100 million of this bond ‚Äì and it still trades at par ‚Äì you‚Äôll only need to pay $70 million to Vanguard for it, since it trades at a ‚Äòfactor‚Äô of 0.7. Each month the factor gets a little smaller, as each month more of the mortgage bond principal gets paid down.¬† Toward the end of the life of a mortgage bond, you get to a sort of absurd factoring situation, in which only 10% of the bond face value is left, meaning a $1 million bond only has $100,000 principal left. The mortgage servicer‚Äôs process is mostly automated, directing a precise amount toward the interest and principal, but the separation of the principal from the interest is essential. If a homeowner pays off his mortgage early, or a foreclosure forces a sale of the home and repayment of a mortgage, that larger-than-expected payment shows up for Vanguard as a larger principal payment the next month.¬† The mortgage servicer pre-pays a portion of the principal, reducing the bond factor faster than the original amortization schedule. For the purposes of creating mortgage derivatives ‚Äì the technology that makes mortgage lending ¬†even more efficient ‚Äì the mortgage bond servicer separates the interest and principal amounts precisely before passing that on to bond holders.¬† I‚Äôll explain a bit more of that further down, after introducing the role of the mortgage insurer. ¬† Mortgage Insurer The mortgage insurer, in my example Fannie Mae, also earns a fee every month (a portion of that 0.375% to 0.5%) for guaranteeing loan defaults and loan losses within the portfolio.¬† If a few of the 2,000 loans underlying the bond ‚Äògo bad‚Äô in any given month, Fannie Mae makes up the difference to bond holders owed a fixed amount, their 4% plus principal, every month. Losses may occur because of delinquency ‚Äì for example, some of the 2,000 homeowners stop paying on their mortgage for a few months.¬† Fannie Mae makes up the temporary shortfall in funds, guaranteeing no diminishment of payment. Losses may also occur because of foreclosure ‚Äì some of the 2,000 homeowners lose their home.¬† A special servicer will work to recover the proceeds of the foreclosure sale and apply that recovered money as an early payment of principal to Vanguard. Under ordinary times, temporary losses from the 2,000 mortgages in non-payment remain relatively light.¬† At any given time only a few homeowners are delinquent on their payments, and many of these resume payment as the homeowners stabilize their finances, or the house gets sold.¬† In addition, bond holder losses due to foreclosure are typically not catastrophic, given that a 20% down-payment cushions bond holders from taking a loss, even when the house gets foreclosed upon. Fannie Mae, and its close cousin Freddie Mac found this mortgage insurance business extremely profitable, for many years, leading up to the Crisis of 2008. Under ordinary times, Fannie and Freddie were like insurance companies offering health insurance for 20-30 year-olds.¬† Hardly anyone got sick.¬† The occasional kid decided to ride a motorcycle and amassed huge fees after cracking his head open, but the majority of people never even saw a doctor.¬† Fannie and Freddie collected fees for doing next to nothing. Obviously, this comfortable arrangement all changed in 2008. ¬† ¬† ¬† See upcoming posts on: The Mortgage Insurance Crisis of 2008 and An introduction to Mortgage Derivatives ¬† Also, see previous posts on Mortgages: Part I ‚Äì I refinanced my mortgage and today I‚Äôm a Golden God Part II ‚Äì Should I pay my mortgage early? Part III ‚Äì Why are 15-year mortgages cheaper than 30-year mortgages? Part IV ‚Äì What are Mortgage Points?¬† Are they good, bad or indifferent? Part V ‚Äì Is mortgage debt ‚Äògood debt‚Äô A dangerous drug?¬† Or Both? [1]¬†My managing editor (aka wife) points out that nobody outside of Wall Street or farmers knows what commodity futures are either, so my analogy is about as useful as a bicycle is to a fish.¬† But since¬†that¬†is an analogy everyone remembers from that U2 song, at least we have some pop culture reference in here somewhere.¬† Right then, so, we cool? [2]¬†Which, again, I can‚Äôt really explain if you still have no idea what I‚Äôm talking about.¬†¬†But remember the orange juice plot line in Trading Places? That was the futures market for another commodity,¬†recently explained here.¬† The price of the future bond fluctuates in anticipation of future supply and demand.¬† Like the most active part of the mortgage bond market. [3]¬†‚ÄúConforming‚Äù is distinguished from ‚ÄúJumbo‚Äù mortgages by size.¬† In most cases the current conforming loan needs to be smaller than a set limit, currently somewhere between $417K and $625,500 depending on local real estate prices. [4]¬†All securities get assigned these registration numbers for tracking purposes. - See more at: http://www.bankers-anonymous.com/blog/mortgages-part-vi-on-wall-street/#sthash.yR5J9wkE.dpuf
360b / Shutterstock.comBERLIN (Reuters) - Just three months since its launch in a blaze of publicity, Germany's anti-euro party is failing to strike a chord with voters and is unlikely to fulfill predictions it will pose a threat to Chancellor Angela Merkel in September's election. Despite recent developments in Greece and Portugal reviving fears of another flare-up in the euro crisis, polls show support for the Alternative fuer Deutschland (AfD) languishing around 2 percent, short of the 5 percent needed to enter parliament. Broad public approval for Merkel's handling of the euro zone crisis and a pro-European political consensus combined with Germany's relative immunity to the problems means there is little appetite for an anti-euro party, pollsters and analysts say. Led by a motley group of mainly academics and journalists, the AfD also lacks a charismatic figure in the style of Italy's Beppe Grillo, whose stunning electoral success this year gave hope to populist movements elsewhere. It has even suffered from a perception that some members have links to the far right. "Things aren't bad enough for Germans to vote for an anti-euro party. Germany is doing alright, people aren't worried about their job or pension," said Carsten Koschmieder, a politics researcher at Berlin's Free University. "There is simply no question mark over the currency itself in the election," he said. Like many other analysts, he sees the AfD scoring around 2 percent. In stark contrast to other euro zone states where hostility to Europe is growing due to painful austerity measures and soaring youth unemployment, the crisis has had a limited effect on Europe's biggest economy. German growth has slowed, but the jobless rate of 6.8 percent is close to 20-year lows and the biggest union has agreed an inflation-busting wage hike. Most Germans are committed to the EU, and the main political parties agree keeping the euro is in the national interest. "The euro was never popular in Germany and still isn't, but people are used to it and voters see no reason to vote for the AfD," said Manfred Guellner, head of the Forsa polling group. In fact the euro crisis has not featured much in a campaign which has in the last couple of weeks been dominated by reports of intrusive surveillance methods employed by U.S. intelligence. The problem for the pro-European Social Democrats (SPD) is that they cannot attack Merkel on European policy, including bailouts, because they agree with her. Merkel's conservatives lead the SPD by up to 19 percentage points in polls. But it is unclear if she will be able to form another centre-right coalition with the Free Democrats (FDP) as their support has sunk to a third of its level in the 2009 vote. RATTLED Launched in April with the headline-grabbing policy of an "orderly dismantling of the euro", the AfD made waves at first. The party briefly rattled some of Merkel's conservatives and some in the more euro-skeptical FDP and they denounced it as a group of scaremongers and populists. Yet the AfD has signed up 15,000 members and has 39,000 Facebook fans. That may be tiny in an electorate of 62 million, but analysts say the party could still take votes from the conservatives and FDP, possibly even robbing the FDP of crucial points it needs to enter parliament and Merkel needs for another centre-right government. A high profile catch came this month when it lured Internet activist Michaela Merz, a former FDP consultant, to its board. "We're not a party that has been making policies for a long time, with party interests," she told Reuters. "I think it's important that experienced citizens, businessmen, professors also take part in politics," she said. AfD leader Bernd Lucke, a conservative economics professor and father of five who works in Hamburg, is not perturbed by his poll ratings of about 3 percent, which he says is "not so bad". "After all, lots of people don't know us yet. The campaign will change that," Lucke told Der Spiegel. "The euro crisis is very complicated and a sizeable portion of the population still follows the government.. That our arguments have not yet reached many people doesn't mean we are wrong," he said. But to many, a posed photograph in Der Spiegel of Lucke with the deputy head of the radical Left party, with which it has little in common, smacked of desperation. Lucke has also had to reject accusations that some supporters sympathize with the far right. Outside the hotel where the party launched its program, newspapers popular with the right-wing militants were being handed out. One supporter hit the headlines with calls for unemployed people to sell their organs and another said people from the "very lowest class" should not be allowed to vote. The stigma of subscribing to extreme views in Germany, haunted by its Nazi past, has alienated voters, say pollsters. Many analysts say the AfD is doomed. For Germans, who above all fear instability, single-issue parties are anathema. "They will not become a political force," said Guellner, who argued Germans want parties that are competent on a range of issues. He compared the AfD to the Pro-DM (deutsche mark) party, founded in 1998 to fight the introduction of the euro but which never gained much nationwide popular support. Guellner said the AfD overestimated potential support from conservatives who in the end are usually loyal to their party. "They haven't found the right, charismatic person to lead it - there isn't a Joerg Haider as they had in Austria. But there is latent potential for a populist party here, just not one that is made up of conservatives with Christian values," he said. (Additional reporting by Natalia Drozdiak and Stephen Brown; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
REUTERS/Jim YoungCan't get enough of this non-stop talk about the Fed, and all that comes with it (Bernanke's future, the taper, rising interest rates, when the first rate hike will come, etc.)? Well then you're in luck, because this week is another big week for that. On Wednesday, Bernanke gives his semi-annual testimony to Congress on monetary policy. From Nomura: The Chairman will no doubt continue to stress that any decision to raise short term interest rates is still a long way off, and is essentially independent from decisions about asset purchases. We will look to see if he clarifies the Federal Reserve‚Äüs thinking on its policy path and the apparent gap between his comments in the post-meeting press conference and the diverging views reflected in the minutes. Among the topics that will be interesting to investors: What does he say about rising interest rates? At his speech last Wednesday he hinted for the first time that the spike in rates was a cause for concern, as it represented a form of tightening of financial conditions that could hinder the recovery. It seems likely that Congressmen will be interested in this topic, as well.
There was sparse monthly data reported in the last week. Consumer credit increased. Producer prices increased sharply due to the increase in oil prices in June. Consumer sentiment about the present increased. Consumer sentiment about the future, an element of the LEI, decreased even more.  The big story among the high frequency weekly indicators continued to be the spike in the price of Oil, so let's start with that: Oil prices and usage ¬† ¬† The price of Oil increased further again this week to a new 52 week high. I am unable to find any rational reason for this. The price of a gallon of gas fell slightly, but will probably turn around next week. The 4 week average for gas usage was, for the first time in a long time, up YoY. Interest rates and credit spreads ¬† ¬† Interest rates for corporate bonds had generally been falling since being just above 6% in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. Treasuries previously were at a 2.4% high in late 2011, falling to a low of 1.47% in July 2012, but have spiked back above that high. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012. After being close to that low 6 weeks ago, interest rate spreads backed up significantly but have now turned back down slightly. Housing metrics  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association: ¬† ¬† Refinancing applications have decreased sharply in the last 7 weeks due to higher interest rates. Purchase applications have also declined from their multiyear highs in April, and this week were only slightly positive YoY. Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012. This weeks's YoY increase made another new 6 year record.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: ¬† ¬† Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. ¬†In the last several months the comparisons have completely stalled, although this week was again positive YoY. Money supply M1 ¬† ¬† M2 ¬† ¬† Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and eased off thereafter. Earlier this year it increased again but has backed off its highs. ¬†Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. ¬†Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. It increased slightly in the first few months of this year and has stabilized since. Employment metrics American Staffing AssociationIndex Initial jobless claims ¬† Tax Withholding ¬† The ASA deteriorated to being flat or negative compared with last year in the last several months, although it rebounded slightly this week. Daily tax withholding remained in the lower part of its YoY range compared with its YoY average comparison in the last 6 months. Initial claims remain within their recent range of between 325,000 to 375,000, and have flattened out just as they have in the last 3 springs and summers. This week's spike may be due to the shortened 4th of July workweek, so I am discounting it for now. Transport Railroad transport from the AAR ¬† ¬† ¬† Shipping transport ¬† Rail transport has been both positive and negative YoY in the last several months. This week it was positive once again.¬†The Harpex index had been improving slowly from its January 1 low of 352, but has flattened out in the last 4 weeks. The Baltic Dry Index increased this week and is close to its 52 week high. Consumer spending ¬† ¬† Gallup's YoY comparisons are still very positive, but less so than they have been since last December. The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012, while Johnson Redbook was generally below +3%. The ICSC, which had been stalling, improved this week, and Johnson Redbook remains close to the high end of its range. Bank lending rates ¬† The TED spread is still near the low end of its 3 year range. ¬†LIBOR rose remains slightly above the new 3 year low it established four weeks ago. JoC ECRI Commodity prices ¬† Surprisingly, despite the big run-up in Oil prices, most of the indicators remained positive, including house prices (at a new YoY record high), credit spreads, consumer spending, money supply, and bank rates. Rail had a positive week also. Slight positives included real estate loans and shipping, as well as commodity prices.  In addition to Oil prices, which should start to constrict economic activity in a month or two if they remain at this level, negatives continued to include bond prices, mortgage refinancing and purchase mortgages. Jobless claims were also a negative for the first time in a long time.  The sharp rise in interest rates and the sharp decrease in mortgage refinancing have now been joined by a big spike in Oil prices, which will shortly be felt at the pump. The big coincident indicators of the economy, consumer spending and initial jobless claims, were mixed, with consumer spending improving and jobless claims spiking. If the spike in jobless claims continues for a couple more weeks, that would be a bad sign, but I am discounting it for now.  Have a nice weekend.
After a quiet week for the economy, the coming week brings another fresh batch of data. And much of it is top-shelf, and fresh, so we should get some insights into some key questions about the economy, including about how interest rates are affecting housing, which is an important source of concern. Via, Nomura, here's a quick table showing what's expected: Nomura
Cardiff Garcia writes at Alphaville (with some quotes from analyst): US housingís resilience: The Q2 results from Wells Fargo and JP Morgan have again raised the issue of declining mortgage refinancings (if rates tay elevated), along with spurring more general worries about the housing market. ... From a macro perspective, refinancings certainly help, but not as much as housing construction activity ... This is a good excuse to excerpt from a post I wrote over a year ago: Home Sales Reports: What Matters  The key number in the existing home sales report is not sales, but inventory. It is visible inventory that impacts prices (although the "shadow" inventory will keep prices from rising). When we look at sales for existing homes, the focus should be on the composition between conventional and distressed. Total sales are probably close to the normal level of turnover, but the composition of sales is far from normal - sales are still heavily distressed sales. Over time, existing home sales will probably settle around 5 million per year, but the percentage of distressed sales will eventually decline. Those looking at the number of existing home sales for a recovery in housing are looking at the wrong number. Look at inventory and the percent of conventional sales. However, for the new home sales report, the key number is sales! An increase in sales adds to both GDP and employment (completed inventory is at record lows, so any increase in sales will translate to more single family starts). It might be hard to believe, but earlier this year [in 2012] there was a debate on whether housing had bottomed. That debate is over - clearly new home sales have bottomed ñ and the debate is now about the strength of the recovery. The composition of existing home sales has moved to more and more conventional sales - a good sign (I wrote the†post†above over a year ago). As Garcia notes, the key for housing is construction activity (new home sales and housing starts) and I expect activity to continue to increase. I wouldn't be surprised to see a decline in existing home sales as investor buying slows (and distressed sales slow). Some people will see that as a sign of weakness for "housing". They will be wrong.
Robert Johnson  ó BI Military & DefenseRemember sequestration? Some warned that the automatic budget cuts ó which were required by 2011's debt ceiling deal ó would send the economy back into recession. For whatever reason, those dire predictions haven't panned out. Whether it's easy monetary policy, or rising home prices, or something else, the economy seems to have gathered steam in recent months, at least as measured by the pace of job creation. But, of course, the cuts still exist, and are painful towards the folks where those cuts land. Annie Lowrey at the NYT has a great story on how cuts fell hard on Indian reservations, which weren't exempt from the cuts (unlike other national benefit programs). On the Pine Ridge reservation, home to around 40,000 members of the tribe, the unemployment rate is estimated at as much as 85 percent. Shannon County, home to the town of Pine Ridge, has a per-capita income of less than $8,000. The local economy is not just reliant on transfers from the federal government; it in no small part consists of them. Over all, the tribeís budget is about $80 million a year, of which $70 million comes from federal sources, said Mason Big Crow, the tribeís treasurer. The tribe still did not know how much money it would lose, waiting on word from Washington, he said, but the number would be in the millions. The tribe is cutting the size of a program that delivers meals to the elderly, many of whom are housebound. The school budget, Head Start program and health service are shrinking, too. The tribe has no choice but to cut everywhere, Mr. Big Crow said. Despite the reservationís extraordinary problems with crime ó alcohol and methamphetamine abuse are rampant, many of the tribeís youth are involved in gangs ó its police force is absorbing more than a million dollars in cuts. ìWeíre cut to the bone,î Ron Duke, the police chief, said. ìRight now, weíre being reactive to things. Itís really hard to be proactive when you donít have enough staff. Weíre just constantly answering calls.î There's been a pretty huge debate this year between people who think that fiscal stimulus is what's needed to keep the economy strong, and people who think it's all about monetary policy. Both sides generally agree, however, that aggregated demand has been too low, and that it needs boosting. One side wants to transfer money into people's pockets directly through government spending. One side wants to reduce the cost of money to the point where credit starts flowing again. (This puts both camps on the opposite side of the liquidationist group, which argues that everything just needs to collapse, and prices need to clear, so that the economy can start growing "sustainably" again"). But within the aggregate, some pockets will be winners and some will be losers. If you're invested in real estate in Nevada, you've been a big winner this year. Obviously if you live on an Indian reservation, then the answer is the opposite. For no good purpose (since there is no debt crisis, and since the sequester wouldn't do a lick about it if there were a debt crisis) some pockets of the economy will see more suffering, even if on the whole, loose monetary stimulus is able to counteract that. Overall it's great that things appear to be healing, but cuts that land arbitrarily on some groups, coupled with a recovery that's (once again) in large part about housing, may not be the best possible way to go about this.
Business Insider, Mike Nudelman One of a hedge fund manager's super powers is the ability to move market's with a few words. On Wall Street, that's like being able to leap tall buildings in a single bound. To do it you need cash, a platform, and faith.† Living legend Bill Ackman no longer has all three of those things. He still has the cash and the platform, but the faith has waned, and if Ackman wants to keep all of those from eroding further he'll need to pull off a feat of heroic proportions this coming week.  That's when he'll announce where exactly his hedge fund, Pershing Square, is putting†$1 billion of investor money. Investors have until July 17th to commit some cash. Ackman's target is said to be a large American company, one that we'll all know †ó that sentimental connection being important to our attention ó a company that can start a new story†and make us forget Ackman's last year. Being a billionaire investor can't save anyone from the prying eyes and sharp tongues of Wall Street, and in the last year Ackman has had an abundance of attention from both. His troubles can most clearly be traced back to the Spring of 2012. That's when Ackman's massive investment in JCPenney started turning sour. Pershing Square owns 17% of the retailer. In May 2012, he closed the Sohn Investment Conference (a marquee event for anyone who's anyone in the vale investing space) with a detailed presentation on why the stock was undervalued. And then, when he was done, nothing happened ó the stock moved up a percentage point or so, but it wasn't anything to write home about. The Street wasn't buying it, there had been too much noise about the company's failures, about hedge funds that had followed Ackman into the deal getting burned, about his changes within the company that royally hacked off their most loyal customers leading to their incredible 2013 ad campaign admitting they screwed up. Regardless, the stock is still down 32% since that day. In the months that followed Ackman tried to use all his strength to turn sentiment around, but his actions sometimes went beyond futile, venturing into awkward. The pinnacle of awkward being the†Squawk Box interview in November, 2012 when Andrew Ross Sorkin accused Ackman of giving a commercial for JCPenney. Despite Sorkin's statement, Ackman continued to explain his long thesis. He must have taken a cue from Kanye saying he was not finished, even holding up visuals to explain the store's plans. But after 14 more painful minutes of Ackman most definitely not finishing, the show's producers played the music and cut to commercial. Still, with $12 billion under management, Pershing Square's inertia was in no way going to be impeded by one bad investment. In December, 2012 Ackman put on a show, diverting The Street's attention from the JCPenney debacle, and giving everyone something else to talk about ó a massive short against a multi-level marketing nutrition company called Herbalife. Ackman assembled investors, reporters and the rest of the Wall Street circus in an auditorium and gave a breathtaking three hour, three hundred page presentation on why Herbalife was a sham and the stock was going to zero. He even had the chutzpah to serve Herbalife products to his guests during the presentation. And for a few days, it seemed like Akman had his swagger back. Herbalife stock plummeted almost 19 percent through Christmas. Eventually though, the stock did start making a steady come back in the new year, but it was rough going. The real turnaround for Herbalife came when an old enemy of Ackman's, Carl Ichan, took the other side of the trade in early January. Ackman and Icahn have feuded for a decade after a deal they made went sour. Herbalife, it seemed, would be their next battle. On January 24th Icahn told Bloomberg's Trish Regan that he didn't approve of Ackman's methods and that he didn't like the guy one bit (no secret there). From the interview: "Frankly, I don't like the way he did this anyway. If you're short, you go short and hey, if it goes down you make money. You don't go out and get a roomful of people to badmouth the company. If you want to be in that business, why don't you go out and join the†SEC?" The next day, Ackman was on CNBC's Halftime Report. Icahn called in, Ackman agreed to speak with him, and the rest is financial TV ó no ó Wall Street history. The two men brawled so hard that you could hear the traders on the floor of the NYSE in the background yelling their reactions to each lob.† Icahn said:† "I'm telling you he's like a crybaby in the schoolyard. I went to a tough school in Queens, you know, and they used to beat up the little Jewish boys. He was like one of the little Jewish boys crying ..." Watch and listen to all of the carnage or skip to the rest of the story below:  After the dust settled and the blood dried, that interview opened the flood gates. Over the next few months, Herbalife's stock price rose as JCPenney's plummeted. In March, Vanity Fair wrote a profile of Ackman highlighting his awkward relationship with his peers, his hyper-competitive nature, and a few less-than-flattering anecdotes. In April, he was forced to sack JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson and change course. Then in May, Ackman presented his long thesis on Procter and Gamble at the Sohn Conference, back at the same place and to the same crowd of hedge fund faithful as the year before when he presented on JC Penney. The P&amp;G presentation was safe, and rather extensive. Procter and Gamble stock didn't budge. The platform was there, the faith was not.†Bill Ackman had lost his juice. His mana from the Finance Gods dried up and trampled on by Ron Johnson's hooves, Ichan's devil tongue and Herbalife's resistance.† But this is still Wall Street, and there's no reason to think Bill Ackman can't take his power back and become even more formidable than before. He got to where he is now after the explosion of his first hedge fund, Gotham Partners, in 2003. This is the kind of come back story The Street has seen again and again. Unfortunately for Ackman, coming back is never easy business. It requires all of the talents Ackman possesses ó brains, brawn, showmanship ó along with luck and a little faith. Oh, and $1 billion to put wherever you like. You need that too.† We'll see if it all comes together next week.
Just a few random market thoughts here to end the week‚Ä¶.If you‚Äôve ever been involved in a short squeeze you know how the market can go against you and at times force you out of your position. ¬†The idea that you‚Äôre borrowing money to short something places a very finite time period on your trade. ¬†You can‚Äôt short forever because the potential loss on the trade is, well, everything (plus the borrowing cost!). ¬†So shorting is a very different psychological game than being long the market. But there‚Äôs a similar emotion that I am seeing and hearing a lot of ‚Äì the long cash squeeze. ¬†That is the feeling of being long cash that you want to deploy as the market rises. ¬†So you wait for the market to correct, but it never does. ¬†All the while you‚Äôre losing purchasing power and the opportunity cost of having bought in at lower prices. ¬†In other words, you‚Äôre feeling squeezed in cash. ¬†And when enough people are all convinced of this position then they start feeding into the cycle. ¬†A slow grind turns into a steady grind and everyone who is waiting for the market to correct uses increasingly tiny ‚Äúcorrections‚Äù to buy in. ¬†And those who don‚Äôt buy in end up buying higher and higher as they throw in the towel on their long cash position. This can last as long as this mentality lasts and from the clients and managers I talk to this mentality is more firmly entrenched than I can ever remember it. ¬†There‚Äôs a sense of calmness around such an environment, but it has the potential to become highly destabilizing at some point. ¬†And if Ben Bernanke has it his way that instability till occur on the upside. ¬† Of course we all know how that one plays out over the course of the business cycle. Have a good weekend.
