Markets are open in Asia, and things are looking† up.† Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 0.1%, and Korea's Kospi is up 0.4%. But all eyes are on Japan.† After the Asian markets closed for trading Monday, Nikkei futures exhibited wild volatility in the electronic markets. After opening modestly lower, Japan is now up 0.6%. Here's a look at the wild ride in Nikkei futures via FinViz: FinViz
Satya Nadella, the leader of Microsoft's massively important Server and Tools business, sent a letter to the troops today that spelled out how CEO Steve Ballmer's decision to shake up the unit's leadership more than two years ago has paid off. ¬† The letter came on the same day that news leaked about another planned reorg, with Nadella poised to gain even more power. Remember, Nadella took over the Server &amp; Tools in February, 2011, replacing longtime Microsoft vet Bob Muglia, who was Bill Gates' man. People were shocked at the time. Nadella had been running Bing, which had never fared well against Google. Meanwhile, Muglia had more than 22 years at Microsoft and built S&amp;T into its most reliable business. It was the only one of Microsoft's five business segments to show consistent growth, quarter after quarter, for a decade. S&amp;T is the home of Windows Server, the database SQL Server and developer tools. Under Nadella, it also gained Microsoft's Amazon-killer cloud, Windows Azure. S&amp;T is the third-biggest unit in terms of revenue and profit (after the unit that sells Office and one that sells Windows). Among these top three units, it is the fastest growing. Word was that Muglia (who now works at Juniper Networks) was ousted because he didn't buy into Ballmer's vision to re-make all of Microsoft's products for cloud computing. Today, Nadella wrote a note of vindication. "Two years ago we bet our future on the cloud and quietly refocused our 19 billion-dollar software business by completely transforming our products, culture and practices to be cloud-first. ... As it turns out we were right to take this risk." He then said that Microsoft's cloud, Azure, was achieving "hyper-growth." Here's the full letter, published on Microsoft's blog.
FordMay auto sales numbers were released today, and major manufacturers offered info on how many vehicles they sold last month. And it was good news: total vehicle sales in May were 15.24 million at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate, up from 14.88 million in April.¬† This was ahead of consensus estimates for 15.1 million. Memorial Day sales and Nissan's price cuts helped buoy the numbers after a soft April.
Anyone who saw Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg's notorious on-air meltdown at the All Things D conference a few years back knows that even the most successful entrepreneurs don't necessarily know how to handle a television appearance.† Fortunately, there are a few things anyone who could be called for a last-minute TV hit can do to be prepared. We spoke to†Manoush Zomorodi, a media consultant and author of "CAMERA READY: How to Present Your Best Self and Ideas On Air or Online," about how guys can get "camera ready" without much prep time. She told us how men should deal with their facial hair, what they should wear, and whether they should put on makeup before sitting in front of the camera. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Volatility Isn't Dead At All (Advisor Perspectives) The VIX index ó a measure of volatility ó has fallen from mid-30 levels in Q4 2011, to 13 in May 2013, according to Paresh Upadhyaya and Michael Temple at Pioneer Investments. But that doesn't mean that volatility has disappeared. Instead they argue that volatility is down in some assets and has ticked higher in others like currencies, commodities, and even bonds. "Fixed income ó driven by Treasuries ó is becoming more volatile, and we expect this to continue as we enter a new interest-rate regime. Improving economic activity, higher employment, and increased lending that will translate into greater monetary velocity will ultimately lead to higher inflation levels. The question that the market will grapple with is whether or not monetary accommodation by central banks will be removed in a timely manner, and how that will affect both fixed-income and other ìrisk-onî asset classes. "While we believe that the markets will ultimately accommodate this transition, the shift will result in higher volatility across a number of asset classes. They might not, however, be the ones investors are used to looking at!" The Smart And Stupid Argument On The Active-Passive Management Debate (The Reformed Broker) Investors still wonder if passive or active investment strategies are the best way to go. In the past five years, passive investors have outperformed active investors. Josh Brown writes that there is both a smart and stupid argument to be made for active management.† Quoting Marketocracy's Ken Kam who writes that no one investment style works all the time, and that managers become great as they hone their skill to one investment style, Brown writes that this is the smart argument.† Kam also writes that, "I think index funds make sense for those who see clear skies ahead for the stock market. For those who see a storm coming, having a human pilot at the helm makes a lot more sense." This Brown thinks is of the "stupid variety." Brown for his part says he is agnostic on the debate, but that he believes that "less is more" and that "passive is superior to active most of the time, but a little of the latter can go a long way if applied systematically and repeat-ably."  Doug Kass: Here's Why I'm Buying Gold (Real Money) Despite the sell-off in gold, hedge fund manager Doug Kass is buying the precious metal. His main reasons for buying it are that expectations on gold have got too low and it now has "contrarian appeal." He also attributed it to the growing consensus that global economic growth recovery projections are too optimistic, that U.S. dollar strength may start to fade, and that inflation is inevitable. He also thinks the eight standard deviation move seen in mid-April when gold entered a bear market is extremely rare. "There is probably no better time to consider diversifying one's portfolio into a depressed asset class (e.g., gold) than when the crowd is optimistic about a vigorous and self-sustaining global economic recovery and when the world's stock markets are at record high prices." Hedge Funds Are Cranking Up Their Bets On Emerging Markets (Bank of America) While some on Wall Street have called the end of the emerging markets a bull run, macro hedge funds have been increasing their bets on emerging markets.† "Based on our exposure analysis, Macros bought EM exposure to the highest since October 2011, while maintaining their net long positions in [Europe, Australasia, and the Far East]," writes BofA Merrill Lynch analyst Stephen Suttmeier. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Concerns Of Fed Tapering Is Prompting Wealth Managers To Tweak Portfolios (The Wall Street Journal) Concerns over when the Federal Reserve will start to wind down quantitative easing, rising Treasury rates, and market volatility has prompted wealth managers to adjust their portfolios, according to The WSJ. Brad McMillan, CIO at Massachusetts-based Commonwealth Financial Network said he was seeing two trends. From The WSJ: "Investors, fearful of getting caught in the much-anticipated pullback, are seeking to de-risk their stock portfolios a bit. At the same time, they're starting to sell off income-generating investments such as real estate investment trusts and utilities, as the promise of high payouts from bonds makes such investments relatively less attractive, he said."

Here's a quick scorecard check of two closely followed hedge fund managers ó Daniel Loeb and David Einhorn. It's been a tough year for hedge funds as they have struggled to outperform the S&amp;P. The S&amp;P†is up about 15% so far this year.† † † Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, is performing just below the S&amp;P 500. RTRS - Hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb's Third Point Offshore fund up3.7 pct in May, up 14.7 pct for year-investor RTRS- David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital up 2.9 pct in may, up 8.6pct for the year-investor
Wikimedia CommonsIt was the first trading day of the month, and it came in the wake of a ton of economic news. U.S. stocks struggled early in the trading session, but climbed back to end the day in the green. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,253, +138.4 pts, +0.9%S&amp;P 500: 1,640, +9.6 pts, +0.5%NASDAQ: 3,465, +9.4 pts, +0.2% And now the top stories:
Business InsiderLast Friday, everyone was abuzz about the "Hindenburg Omen" ó a string of stock market events that take place within a short period of time, and are thought to foreshadow a market crash. There are four key criteria to the Hindenburg Omen. Miller Tabak's Jonathan Krinsky says the gist is that it's "a battle between the bulls and bears" where 2.2% of stocks on the NYSE are making 52-week highs during a bull market, and where another 2.2% are making 52-week lows. Krinsky first alerted his clients to this last week. And on Talking Numbers he argues that there has been historical precedent for this: "All the criteria that make it up just make a Hindenburg signal. You actually need multiple signals within a 30-day period to make an omen. In August 2010 people were calling that as a false signal because we only got one. We did not get multiple in a short period of time. We have to go back to the Fall of 2007 when we did actually get a cluster of these signals and that actually turned out to be quite accurate." Many however think this is balderdash. Jeff Saut of Raymond James says we've had 12 Hindenberg Omens in the past 13 years, and only one of them has actually worked. "The last one was in December of last year and it proved to be a really good time to buy stocks," said Saut. "I think dips are for buying," Saut continued. "I think stocks trade higher into the end of the quarter as the under-invested portfolio managers chase the performance derby, and the first point of real vulnerability comes in mid-July." We'll have to wait and see if the Hindenburg Omen comes true.
Flickr / ucumariWhen stock prices rise faster than earnings, you are witnessing something called earnings multiple expansion.¬† In other words, stocks are getting more expensive. Earnings multiples have expanded and contracted since the beginning of the stock market. Unfortunately, if you have been a stock market bear lately banking on falling earnings growth expectations, then your prediction has only been half right. In a new report, FactSet's John Butters takes a brief look at evolving Q2 earnings expectations, which have only been coming down for months. "The Q2 bottom-up EPS estimate (which is an aggregation of the estimates for all 500 companies in the index) has dropped 3.4% (to $26.52 from $27.45) since March 31," writes Butters. This has occurred as stocks have only been going up.¬† And according to Butters, this dynamic is not that unusual: Is it unusual for the earnings estimate for the index to decline and the value of the index to increase during the first two months of a quarter? In recent quarters, it has not been unusual for the value of the index to increase at the same time analysts are trimming earnings estimates for the same quarter. In fact, it has occurred in 9 of the past 20 quarters (including Q2 2013). During these nine quarters, the average decrease in the bottom-up EPS during the first two months of the quarters has been 4.7%, while the average increase in the value of the index during the first two months of the quarter has been 6.8%. Some warn that this trend of stock prices rallying with no earnings growth is getting dangerous for investors.¬† But for now, it'll continue to make the bears look like fools. Here's the chart from FactSet's John Butters: FactSet
Thereís been a lot of chatter in recent months about the improving economy and the potential for Fed easing. †Some have said it could occur as early as the June FOMC meeting. †I think this is likely to be wrong. †Hereís why: 1) †Weíre in the backstretch of the recovery. †Weíre now into month 47 of the current economic recovery. †The average expansion in the post-war period has lasted 63 months. †That means weíre probably in the 6th inning of the current expansion so weíre about to pull our starter and make a call to the bullpen. †The odds say weíre closer to the beginning of a recession than the beginning of the expansion. †That puts the Fed in a really odd position and not likely one where theyíre on the verge of tightening any time soon. 2) †Unemployment is still way too high. †The Fed has been clear that the real tightening will start when they see unemployment at 6.5%. †Even the most optimistic projections have us hitting that rate of unemployment some time next summer. †That means weíre still a full year away from the Fedís target. †See here for more. 3) †Corporate revenues are starting to falter. †Companies hire when theyíre swamped with demand. †And based on corporate revenues demand is at its lowest point since the recovery began. †That means the likelihood of hiring picking up steam is extremely low. †More likely, corporations will play it safe and try to maintain margins as they offset revenue weakness with cost cutting. †If hiring isnít going to gain momentum then the Fed isnít easing. †Itís that simple. Pragmatic Capitalism
flickr / DonkeyHoteyTwo weeks ago, Jonathan Chait profiled me in The Atlantic as "the loneliest Republican." His piece ran with a caricature of me atop a palm tree, throwing coconuts at my antagonists: not just mainstream Republicans, but also my fellow reformists, who don‚Äôt seem nearly angry enough that the Republican party is ignoring them. The primary liberal reaction to the profile has been self-congratulation: Mike Konczal and Paul Krugman and Michael Tomasky all took the profile as a launching pad to dispute the notion that there is such a thing as a reformist conservative movement. They all called me out as an exception (thanks, guys!), but they‚Äôre selling my colleagues short. As Chait suggests, I am frustrated, but his profile actually overstates my level of disagreement with my fellow reformists. In some areas (particularly health care) the ‚Äúreformist‚Äù agenda has been very heavy on concern trolling. But on fiscal policy, reformists are making serious contributions, and they have a big victory under their belt on monetary policy. ‚Ä®First let‚Äôs look at fiscal policy. Mike Konczal says reformists can't seriously address the federal budget because of their consensus that ‚Äúthe tax code is too progressive‚Äù and ‚Äútaxes in general should be lower.‚Äù That's not the view of the reformists I talk to. James Pethokoukis wrote for National Review last week that conservatives should abandon the goal of a flat tax and support a tax system that can support federal spending of at least 23 percent of GDP. Ramesh Ponnuru, Michael Gerson and Peter Wehner have all called for ‚Äúfamily-friendly‚Äù tax reforms that would give bigger tax credits to poor and middle-income people with children, making the tax code more progressive. The main place the reformers have failed on fiscal policy is that they haven‚Äôt said what their statements imply: If we‚Äôre not going to have drastic reductions in federal spending and we‚Äôre going to give tax relief to families in the middle of the income distribution and below, tax rates can‚Äôt go down at the top. I‚Äôve pressed the reformers to be clearer on this point, and they are getting somewhat clearer. For example, Reihan Salam said in March that ‚Äúthe top rate shouldn‚Äôt be our top tax priority‚Äù and endorsed a legislative strategy that would leave the top income tax rate at 39.6 percent. But the topic about which conservative reformists really should be bragging is monetary policy. The most significant reformist conservative idea on the economy is that central banks ought to aggressively boost weak economies with loose monetary policy, and that appropriately loose money can be a substitute for loose fiscal policy. In general, the approach the reformists (including me) endorse is a nominal GDP target, which would have the central bank target a higher inflation rate when growth is lower and vice-versa. Since last fall, we've been experimenting with something that resembles the reformists' proposal: Congress has been tightening the budget while the Federal Reserve has been loosening the money supply. When the Fed announced its new, looser policy in September and the stock market soared, Matt Yglesias declared ‚Äúthe Scott Sumner rally‚Äù in honor of the top advocate of NGDP targeting. (The Fed isn't actually targeting GDP but it did announce an unemployment-based trigger for easing, which is similar in effect.) And while the Fed has sprung into action, we've had a fair bit of fiscal austerity: Between the end of the payroll tax holiday, the expiration of the upper-income Bush tax cuts and the sequester, we've had policy changes in the last six months that reduce the budget deficit by about 1.7 percent of GDP. In Europe, governments are implementing austerity and watching their economies slip back into recession, but here, the results have been ... not horrible. Economic growth and job growth are still too slow, but they're not any slower this year than last year. Monetary policy has made all the difference. So it makes perfect sense that Scott Sumner responded to the round of liberal self-back-patting with a list of recent problems for the liberal perspective on economic policy, particularly this: "The left predicts fiscal austerity will slow the recovery, and yet both GDP and jobs are actually a bit ahead of the 2012 pace so far this year." In other words, it's looking more and more like Sumner and other market monetarists are right, and loose monetary policy is a viable substitute for loose fiscal policy. Liberals don't like this observation. They want to keep the business cycle discussion focused on the terribleness of fiscal austerity because they oppose austerity for reasons unrelated to the business cycle ‚Äî they see it as threatening progressive programs they favor and preventing the creation of new ones. Relatedly, liberals don't actually oppose all fiscal austerity. They cheered for the expiration of the Bush tax cuts on the wealthy and mostly shrugged at the end of the payroll tax holiday. It's only domestic spending cuts that are really getting the left riled, because they don't want to cut spending. All this is not to say that sequestration is a good idea or that fiscal stimulus is useless. Both the fiscal and the monetary channels work to stimulate the economy, and because they are both subject to practical and political limits, we shouldn't close either one off. I also recognize that there are excellent arguments for not cutting food stamps that don't relate to the business cycle. My point is simply that liberals, like conservatives, want to push their long-term policy agenda under the guise of addressing short-term economic problems ‚Äî and the reformist conservatives, by being right about monetary policy, have interfered with their ability to do so. But while market monetarism is the shining success of the conservative reform movement, it also points to trouble for the reformists. We have had zero success in convincing Republican elected officials that easy money is ever a good idea. The Republican party has gotten, if anything, more rabidly afraid of inflation and more flirtatious with the idea of returning to a gold standard. The 2012 Republican National Convention adopted a platform calling for a ‚Äúcommission to investigate possible ways to set a fixed value for the dollar. In this specific case, the reformists were able to get a hearing from the Republicans who count: the ones at the Fed, including Ben Bernanke. But in almost any other area, changing the conservative policy agenda will require getting Republican politicians to listen to you. And on that subject, Pethokoukis ran a disheartening quote from an anonymous GOP Senate staffer: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs not that we don‚Äôt know about your ideas or understand them. We just don‚Äôt think they‚Äôre any good.‚Äù This is the key problem for reformists ‚Äî actual Republican elected officials aren't interested in what we have to say unless it can be used to craft anti-Obama talking points. That has me pessimistic about changes in areas beyond monetary policy, and it makes me angry. And I suspect, in time, it will make my fellow reformists angry, too.
Wikimedia CommonsWhat happens to oil drillers when there's too much supply and not enough demand? Answer: "culture shock." In a new note, a Morgan Stanley led by Ole Slorer says exploration and production spending is poised to decelerate from past-decade highs of around 16% annually to just 5%.† Basically, it's getting harder to get more cash from the average barrel of oil drilled Team Slorer: We believe that the industry could face a culture shock as it shifts from high octane growth to one more focused on returns and cash flow generation. Scale will become an even bigger differentiator in the ability to generate returns, particularly internationally, in our view. Meanwhile, technology that speeds up development or reduces cost will be another key differentiator as oil companies are increasingly challenged on the marginal cost per barrel. We also believe that the ability to execute will be an increasingly important focal point for investors. The team says companies with lots of offshore oil drilling exposure will be best positioned post "shock."
One of the daughters of billionaire Marc Lasry, who runs distressed debt hedge fund Avenue Capital, was married this weekend.† Samantha Lasry was married to John†Fleisher on Saturday at the Beach Club in Sea Island, Georgia during a black tie ceremony. The weekend kicked off with a "southern casual" BBQ dinner and drinks and then an afternoon of leisure and lunch before the ceremony on Saturday. The wedding gift registry included silver from Tiffany's†and various household items from Bloomingdales, Barney's and Michael C. Fina.† The couple met when they were working as congressional interns on Capitol Hill in the summer of 2005 for Congressman Rahm Emmanuel. (You can see a photo of them interning together below).† From SamanthaandJohn.org: Samantha and John met while†interning for†Congressman Rahm Emmanuel in Washington D.C.†Despite the fact that Samantha misinterpreted their first date as†"just†dinner"†with a friend, they never lost touch†and spent the entire next fall emailing while Samantha was abroad in Rome. They finally began officially dating on April Fools Day that spring, and have spent the past six years playing a long game of "where in the world are Sam and John". Finally, last year they both took root in New York City and have been enjoying every minute of sharing the same zip code! The groom works as a vice president in mortgage trading at Nomura, FINRA records show. †He previously worked at Lehman Brothers and Barclays, the records show. He graduated with his bachelor's degree in government from Dartmouth in 2008, according to his LinkedIn profile.† He's originally from Chicago.† Last year, Samantha bought a three-bedroom Greenwich Village co-op for around $4.3 million, the New York Post reported.† Best wishes to both of them! Getty Images/ Joe Raedle/Staff
Investors should have gained confidence from Ben Bernankeís recent testimony to Congress that the Federal Reserve intends on being accommodative as long as needed. He had a laundry list of job market conditions that needed improving and reiterated that inflation remains low. Itís his belief that ìa premature tightening of monetary policy could lead interest rates to rise temporarily but would also carry a substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and causing inflation to fall further.î The Fedís news is ìgreat for all of us in stocksÖ and not so great for those with cash in a savings account, with real negative returns for the past four years,î reminded Money Map Press. Yet, at least in the short term, markets interpreted Bernankeís testimony differently, as stocks dropped during the week of May 20. The news should also be good for gold investors. Not only is the Fed maintaining its course, the world is also continuing its synchronized easing. According to Deutsche Bank, central banks representing almost 30 percent of global GDP are cutting rates. The rate cuts are spread out over nearly every continent, as you can see on this great visual posted by Business Insider. Turkeyís central bank cut its benchmark interest rate more than expected in April by 50 basis points and then another 50 basis points in May. Serbia also slashed rates by 50 basis points, as did Sri Lanka. Even the European central bank reduced its main rate to a record low 0.50 percent. According to Bloomberg, ECB President Mario Draghi is ìpromising to provide as much liquidity as eurozone banks need well into next year.î With this global easing cycle, gold and equities had been moving together, but have been taking vastly diverging paths in the past six months. In fact, the gold-to-S&amp;P 500 Index ratio has fallen to lows not seen since 2008, according to UBS Investment Research. This extreme indicates that the precious metal may be looking more attractive. In addition, ìgoldís resilience in spite of very weak investor sentiment is encouraging, with recent price levels having acted as a good floor so far,î says UBS. As I often remind investors, gold buyers are a diverse group, but generally fall into one of two categories. Most of the attention gets focused on those who purchase out of fear of damaging government policies (i.e., the Fear Trade). The more important demand for gold, in my opinion, comes from the enduring Love Trade, as countries like China and India buy the precious metal out of love and tradition. Looking at a breakdown of gold demand from the World Gold Council (WGC) through March 31, 2013, the main source of weakness was the Fear Trade, as demand for gold ETFs and similar gold products plunged in the first quarter. However, the Love Trade scooped up jewelry and bars and coins, with the tonnage in each category growing 12 and 10 percent, respectively, on a year-over-year basis. You can visually see the strength of the Love Trade below in the year-over-year change in total consumer demand in tons for gold jewelry, bars and coins. Indian demand grew the most, increasing 27 percent compared to the previous year. Demand for jewelry, bars and coins in the greater China area increased 20 percent, as ìseasonal strength in China, related to Chinese New Year purchasing, exceeded all previous peaks, marking a new record quarterly high,î says the WGC. Even U.S. residents had a love for gold, with demand growing 22 percent over the previous year. The Love Trade doesnít look like itíll subside anytime soon. I recently discussed the record amount of coins purchased through the U.S. Mint and the buyers crowding stores in multiple Asian markets when gold tumbled in April. It appeared that gold was transferring from weak hands to the strong hands of the Love Trade. As one example, on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, trading volume surged to a record 43.3 tons on one day in April, as buyers clamored to buy the metal at a great price. Gold purchases are getting so strong these days, buyers are willing to pay a premium, says Mineweb. The mining publication reported that premiums on gold bars are climbing to all-time highs in Hong Kong and Singapore, with Chinese residents paying $5 to $6 an ounce over the spot London price due to classic economic one-two punch of huge demand and tight supply. According to data from the Hong Kong Census and Statistics Department, ìnet gold flows from Hong Kong to China jumped to 223.519 tons in March from 97.106 tons in February, smashing a previous record of 114.372 tons in December,î says Mineweb. This is the Love Trade in action. Are you interested in receiving more opinions on gold, natural resources and emerging markets? Sign up to receive email updates from Frank Holmes and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter or like us on Facebook. By clicking the links above, you will be directed to third-party websites. U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by these websites and is not responsible for their content. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. The S&amp;P 500 Stock Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies.
Wikimedia CommonsThe meeting will be held at super luxe resort The Grove, in England When you're picking a spot to hold the world's most powerful policy summit, there's really only one place that will do: Watford. I guess the Seychelles must have been booked up. On Thursday afternoon, a heady mix of politicians, bank bosses, billionaires, chief executives and European royalty will swoop up the elegant drive of the Grove hotel, north of Watford, to begin the annual Bilderberg conference. It's a remarkable spectacle ñ one of nature's wonders ñ and the most exciting thing to happen to Watford since that roundabout on the A412 got traffic lights. The area round the hotel is in lockdown: locals are having to show their passports to get to their homes. It's exciting too for the delegates. The CEO of Royal Dutch Shell will hop from his limo, delighted to be spending three solid days in policy talks with the head of HSBC, the president of Dow Chemical, his favourite European finance ministers and US intelligence chiefs. The conference is the highlight of every plutocrat's year and has been since 1954. The only time Bilderberg skipped a year was 1976, after the group's founding chairman, Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, was caught taking bribes from Lockheed Martin. It may seem odd, as our own lobbying scandal unfolds, amid calls for a statutory register of lobbyists, that a bunch of our senior politicians will be holed up for three days in luxurious privacy with the chairmen and CEOs of hedge funds, tech corporations and vast multinational holding companies, with zero press oversight. "It runs contrary to Osborne's public commitment in 2010 to 'the most radical transparency agenda the country has ever seen'," says Michael Meacher MP. Meacher describes the conference as "an anti-democratic cabal of the leaders of western market capitalism meeting in private to maintain their own power and influence outside the reach of public scrutiny". But, to be fair, is "public scrutiny" really necessary when our politicians are tucked safely away with so many responsible members of JP Morgan's international advisory board? There's always the group chief executive of BP on hand to make sure they do not get unduly lobbied. And if he is not in the room, keeping an eye out, then at least one of the chairmen of Novartis, Zurich Insurance, Fiat or Goldman Sachs International will be around. This year, there will be a great deal more "public scrutiny" of Bilderberg. Pressure from journalists and activists has won concessions from the venue: for the first time in 59 years there will be an unofficial press office, staffed by volunteers, on the grounds. Several thousand activists and bloggers are expected, along with photographers and journalists from around the world. Back in 2009 there were barely a dozen witnesses ñ harassed and arrested by heavy-handed Greek police. This year there is a press zone, police liaison, portable toilets, a snack van, a speakers' corner ñ all the ingredients for a different Bilderberg. A "festival feel" has been promised. If you are concerned about transparency or lobbying, Watford is the place to be next weekend. Whether the delegates reach out to the press and public remains to be seen. Don't forget, they've got their hands full carrying out the good works of Bilderberg. The conference is, after all, run as a charity. If you've been wondering who picks up the tab for this gigantic conference and security operation, the answer arrived last week, on a pdf file sent round by Anonymous. It showed that the Bilderberg conference is paid for, in the UK, by an officially registered charity: the Bilderberg Association (charity number 272706). According to its Charity Commission accounts, the association meets the "considerable costs" of the conference when it is held in the UK, which include hospitality costs and the travel costs of some delegates. Presumably the charity is also covering the massive G4S security contract. Fortunately, the charity receives regular five-figure sums from two kindly supporters of its benevolent aims: Goldman Sachs and BP. The most recent documentary proof of this is from 2008 (pdf), since when the charity has omitted its donors' names (pdf) from its accounts. The charity's goal is "public education". And how does it go about educating the public? "In furtherance of these objectives the International Steering Committee organises conferences and meetings in the UK and elsewhere and disseminates the results thereof by preparing and publishing reports of such conferences and meetings and by other means." Cleverly, it disseminates the results by resolutely keeping them away from the public and press. The charity is overseen by its three trustees (pdf): Bilderberg steering committee member and serving minister Kenneth Clarke MP; Lord Kerr of Kinlochard; and Marcus Agius, the former chairman of Barclays who resigned over the Libor scandal. Labour MP Tom Watson remarks: "If the allegations that a cabinet minister sits on the board of a charity that discreetly funds a secretive conference of elites are true then I hope the prime minister was informed. It was David Cameron who heralded the new age of transparency. I hope he asks Kenneth Clarke to adhere to these principles in future." At the very least, George Osborne and Clarke may consider adhering to the ministerial code when it comes to Bilderberg and declare it in their list of "meetings with proprietors, editors and senior media executives" as they've failed to do in the past. Of course, with the lobbying scandal in full spate it's possible our ministers will steer clear of such a major corporate lobbying event. We'll find out on Thursday. ï Charlie Skelton is the script editor of 10 O'Clock Live, a writer on Have I Got News for You and a fan of Bilderberg since 2009. He'll be tweeting from Bilderberg Watford from @deYook This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Back in April, there were signs suggesting that the U.S. housing recovery was stalling. However, all of the latest data has Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok concluding the "housing recovery is real and getting stronger." Among other things, Slok points to the clear upswing in the home price indicators and the rally in household net worth. But one of the most stunning trends has been the decline in housing inventory as measured by the number of available single family homes available for sale.¬† In other words, the market is much leaner. NAR, Haver Analytics, DB Global Markets Research ¬†
Charlie RoseJeff BezosThe only thing more ominous for the world than a Hindenburg Omen sighting is a Bilderberg Group meeting. The concentration of politicians and business leaders has meant the organisation, founded at the Bilderberg Hotel near Arnhem in 1954, has faced accusations of secrecy. Meetings take place behind closed doors, with a ban on journalists. We suspect the agenda (how the US and Europe can promote growth, the way 'big data' is changing 'almost everything', the challenges facing the continent of Africa, and the threat of cyber warfare) has been somewhat re-arranged as market volatility picks up and the status quo begins to quake once again.† The annual gathering of the royalty, statesmen, and business leaders, conspiratorially believed to run the world (snubbing their Illuminati peers and Freemason fellows), will take place this week at the Grove Hotel in London, England. The Telegraph provides the full list of attendees below - for those autogrpah seekers - including Britain's George Osborne, US' Henry Kissinger, Peter Sutherland (the chairman of Goldman Sachs), the Fed's Kevin Warsh, Jeff Bezos, Peter Thiel, Italy's Mario Monti, and Spain's de Guindos. † Bilderberg delegates in full † via the Telegraph
ZOMG. After falling over 3% during the normal trading day, Nikkei futures just continue to plunge. The market is setting up to plunge again in Tuesday trading. From FinViz: FinViz Of course, being long Japan is one of the most popular trades on Wall Street, so this hurts.

Bloomberg TVIf youíre a conspiracy theorist or a person with pretensions to global importance, the annual Bilderberg meeting will be etched upon your mind in indelible ink. If youíre neither of these, you may be interested to know that Bilderberg is holding its ësecretiveí†annual meeting†this week. Incongruously, this yearís Bilderberg meeting is happening in Watford, an unglamorous outer London suburb. Interestingly, itís being held in the same hotel as Googleís recent invitation-only†ëZeitgeistí event. Although itís portrayed in†some circles†as a covert and slightly sinister gathering to decide world affairs, Bilderbergís agenda is†made public on its website.†Among other things, attendees this year†will be discussing European politics, medical research, cyber warfare and big data. Although banking and financial services regulation arenít on the agenda, it seems that plenty of bankers and banks attend Bilderberg meetings on a regular basis. Weíve combed through attendee lists for the past five years and noted that some names and organisations appear repetitively. They are: According to our research, Ackermann has been at every Bilderberg meeting since 2008 and is a member of the†steering committee.†Despite having†stepped down†from Deutsche Bank in May last year, Ackermann will be at Bilderberg again this week. Neither Anshu Jain nor Jurgen Fitschen are on the†2013 guest list.† Marcus Agius, the former Barclays chairman who stepped down after the Libor scandal, has also been a regular fixture on the Bilderberg circuit. Like Ackermann, Agius attended Bilderberg meetings between 2008 and 2012 and is a member of the steering committee. Even though Agius is effectively retired, heís attending again this week.†Sir David Walker,†Barclaysí new chairman, isnít attending; David Wright, vice chairman of Barclays, is. Roger Altman, the†ex-Lehman banker†and founder and chairman of US-based íboutiqueí investment bank Evercore Partners, has also been at Bilderberg meetings on multiple occasions. Altman was there in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
Tuition inflation combined with rising college enrollment rates and a challenging jobs market has some people worried that student loans are in a bubble that will burst and break the financial system. Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok is convinced that the fears may be overblown.† His two points: 1) few people actually have a heavy student loan balance, and 2) total student debt is tiny relative to house hold net worth. Here are Slok's charts demonstrating this: Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank
Tesla's stock is down nearly 7% today to $90.97 on no particular news. This is well off its intra-day high of $114.90 last week. The stock went on a tear in the weeks following its first every quarterly profit, though many have argued that it was just a paper profit. The company will hold its annual shareholder meeting tomorrow at 3:00 p.m., Pacific Time, in Mountain View, California. Two proposals set for the meeting are 1. Election of directors and 2. Ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers as Tesla‚Äôs independent registered public accounting firm Here's a look at Tesla's performance in the first few hours of trading: Google Finance
There's been no lack of love for the U.S. dollar in the markets lately. At the end of May, the dollar index strengthened to its highest levels since 2010. Meanwhile, last week, bullish bets on the dollar hit an all-time high. And Wall Street says we are on the verge of a secular bull market in the dollar. That trade is getting hit pretty hard today. The dollar index is trading down 1.0%, and many currencies that have been weakening against the dollar ñ like the South African rand, the Brazilian real, and the Australian dollar ñ are rallying. (The Australian dollar has become one of hedge funds' favorite currencies to short as growth in China slows, hitting Australian commodity exports to the Asian giant. It's up 2.1% against the U.S. dollar today alone.) The chart below shows the sharp sell-off in the dollar index. Thinkorswim One big area of weakness for the dollar today is against the Japanese yen, another favorite trade among global investors in recent quarters. The dollar is down 1.3% against the yen as investors cover their short-yen positions. Buying Japanese stocks and selling the yen against the dollar has become one of the most consensus trades in the world, but in the past two weeks or so, it's run into some serious trouble. The dollar has fallen from a high of •103.72 against the yen to current levels around •99.17 today. Meanwhile, the Nikkei has lost a brutal 17% since May 22 ñ and futures are still taking a bath in after-hours trading today. At the moment, they are down 1.8% from today's close. This morning's ISM manufacturing release revealed that the American manufacturing sector unexpectedly entered into contraction in May ñ marking, in fact, the worst contraction since June 2009. Economists had predicted continued expansion. The release caused bond yields to fall as investors rotated back into U.S. Treasuries in a safe-haven bid. That triggered a plunge in the dollar index and a big upward move in the yen, illustrating how the U.S. economic comeback story is still the biggest theme driving global markets right now.
LinkedInOn Saturday night, British newspaper the Daily Mail dropped a bombshell report that said Prime Minister David Cameron was dealing with the fallout of a secret love affair between two members of London's political elite. If the Mail is to be believed, Cameron was "stunned" by the news. "This revelation is dynamite," one source told the Mail. "None of us could believe it when we first heard it." There's a catch, however. The Mail didn't reveal the name of the couples for "legal reasons" ‚Äî this is the U.K., of course, home of the notorious press-silencing "super-injunction" law. And so over the weekend, Britain's media observers have spent a lot of time speculating about who the pair could be. Some Westminster insiders claim to know the answer: If Dave knew it is awful, if he didn't know, it is worse... (Whether they are true or not, both stories are spreading online ‚Äî with some creative Googling you can find both sets of names on some less-scrupulous websites.) The Mail's article leaves a large number of suspects. The pair are middle-aged, both married, and not serving in David Cameron's cabinet, the upper echelons of British government. It is not clear if they are politicians themselves or how the affair would impact Cameron. The Prime Minister is said to have learned of the affair in the past couple of weeks, but when it happened, and how long it lasted, are not revealed, but the Mail does reveal that the affair is over. With so little information, people have begun to get a little creative. Evaluating the silhouettes included in the Mail's article, for example: Working out affair participants from Mail's sillhouettes dailym.ai/11fKBJV Going with Christoper Robin and the coastline of Guernsey.
Walmart FacebookIt used to be I was surrounded by proponents of both passive and active management and the discussions in the office and at bars and coffee shops would rage on forever. These debates were evanescent with fresh facts, every twist and turn in the markets brought a renewed vigor to the back-and-forth. But this conversation - as lively as it once was - has all but died in the last five years. Passive investors have emerged so triumphant at this juncture that they barely even bother hurling their statistics at the crumbled walls of Alphaville anymore. At this point, the passivistas are now arguing amongst themselves about what constitutes a truly passive investment strategy - they bicker over the legitimacy of fundamentally-weighted indexes like 16th century Papists and Protestants. Active investors, in the meantime, really can't say anything.†There isn't a single empirical datapoint backing up the idea that an investor is financially†better off†paying someone to pick their stocks for them. There are other considerations in favor of a active managers - mostly emotional ones involving elbow-rubbing, fancy lunches and alerts - but we'll leave those aside for now. Active mutual fund managers have been clinging to the collar of the bull market for half a decade now, barely keeping up in most cases, severely trailing in others. Hedge fund managers, in the aggregate, have accomplished little aside from wealth transference in this cycle - they were hammered in the crash and then made up for that by largely missing the rebound. In the meantime, the inbound equity fund flows are moving almost unidirectionally into the passive index coffers of Vanguard, State Street, WisdomTree and BlackRock's iShares. The modern investing decision has become one of degrees of passivity and the outflows from the Fidelity Funds of the world bear this out. It's not as though the pro-active management contingent has thrown in the towel, however, it's just that they're a lot less vocal these days. Like Marlins fans, they keep their heads down and their mouths shut. Che Guevara said that "Silence is argument carried out by other means," and I think we're seeing just that right now. To be sure, there are some logical arguments to be made on behalf of active strategies - some make perfect sense and some are ridiculous. Marketocracy's Ken Kam, who has spent a career studying and vetting active managers, touches on one of each type in an interview with Covestor the other day. First, his smart argument, the thing about all strategies that is always true: My experience has taught me two important lessons. One, there is no sector or investment style that works all the time. And two: a great manager gets that way by honing his skill in a single sector or style. The combination of these two lessons is that if you want good performance over time, you can't get it by using the same managers year after year. My approach is to look among the managers who have proven themselves over the long term to find those whose style is performing well now. If there are a lot of proven managers who are all performing well now, then I choose managers whose styles are different from one another, to reduce the impact of any single manager's style falling out of favor. This is absolutely correct, there is no strategy - be it active, passive, value, growth, long-short, arbitrage, mean reversion, trend-following, stock picking etc - that will always work in all environments. Kam gets this correct. The trouble is, most passive guys say they don't care about this or that style being out of favor, they will wait 'til the cycle swings back around - "Forget the needle, buy the haystack" Jack Bogle exhorts us. Most active guys, on the other hand, will be the last to recognize (or admit) that their expertise is not beneficial in a particular market moment. Kam's other argument is of the "stupid" variety. Please understand that this is a very smart man making it, so no insult intended: Owning an index fund is like being a passenger on a jet on automatic pilot. Today's automatic pilots are so good that one might argue that having a human pilot on board is an unnecessary expense. But would you be willing to fly on jet without a human pilot on board? Perhaps if the sky is clear you might consider it. But certainly not if you thought you might be flying into a storm. I think index funds make sense for those who see clear skies ahead for the stock market. For those who see a storm coming, having a human pilot at the helm makes a lot more sense. Okay, I'm gonna stop you right there. The passive investor absolutely does not see "clear skies ahead" at all times. Rather, this investor recognizes that most managers will not be able to detect and react to the thunderclouds in a timely, consistent way. In addition, many of them will be so hyperactive that every gray cloud will appear to be a hurricane, and so a lot of buying and selling (churn) will be the result - leading to higher taxes, trading costs and potential for missed opportunities. Also, about the jumbo jet thing - we used to use a variation of that f*cked-up, fear-mongering argument in the brokerage biz over the phone back in the day. When a prospective client would remind the broker who was pitching him that they had never met in person, the broker would reply, "Jim, let me ask you a question - the last time you took your family on a plane flight, did you meet the captain and his number two in the cockpit? Did you ask them to take a breathalyzer before you took your seats in the cabin?" †It was one of those snarky rhetorical questions built into the sales pitch to accomplish two things: Make the guy feel stupid for bringing that lack of familiarity up and to inject a bit of healthy fear into the already emotionally super-charged discussion, hence making a close seem almost like a relief to the prospect. Whether or not you choose to be passively or actively invested in the market does not at all carry with it the same gravitas as the decision to fly through a storm on a particular type of aircraft. Gain vs Loss is not the same as Life vs Death and the implication of that analogy is grotesque. Let me just close here by saying that I am an agnostic on the argument. I believe that active management has a place in a portfolio, specifically as it relates to asset allocation and course correction. I also believe that some people and firms can be really good at selecting securities and timing markets - but there are less of these people than you think and even they can only outperform for a finite period of time before mean reversion catches up. †If you haven't read Mauboussin's The Success Equation: Untangling Skill and Luck in Business, Sports, and Investing†I would ask that you please do so before arguing with me, the math is the math. But I do believe that most people are better off doing as little as possible and that hunting for the next Tesla or Google should be firmly classified as a form of entertainment, cordoned off from serious retirement assets and unrelated to the future income one is counting on. Whether or not we are successful in identifying the next ten-bagger stock should not determine whether or not we spend retirement driving a golf cart or pushing a shopping cart. There's nothing wrong with deriving a bit of our entertainment from the markets each day as opposed to just pro sports or movies. So long as we keep in mind that, as Bernard Baruch†instructs us in the first of his Ten Rules,†speculation on a meaningful scale should only be carried out by professional speculators. The problems with being completely orthodox passive are well-known and just as legitimate - indices tend to overweight the most overvalued stocks just as they are peaking out in both market capitalization and importance, by owning losers along with winners you are saying all companies are worthwhile holdings which is obviously false, indexes will never get out of the way of index crashes - obviously, and in flat markets (think the aught's decade) you are basically sitting back and accepting mediocrity. My own belief system, which continues to evolve as new information presents itself because I am an investor and not a politician, says that less is more. It also says passive is superior to active most of the time, but a little of the latter can go a long way if applied systematically and repeat-ably. This is easier said than done for most investors, specifically amateurs or part-timers, so it is better to err on the side of doing too little rather than doing too much. Unfortunately I can't join either church completely, but you can probably tell which one I am facing when I pray each quarter. Read Also: When and how active management makes sense - interview with Ken Kam of Marketocracy (Covestor) The Paradox of Dumb Money (TRB) The Success Equation (Amazon) Bernard Baruchís 10 Rules of Investing (TRB) Chasing the Cat (TRB)
UBSMuch has been made about what has appeared to be runaway inflation in health care costs. Although prices continue to be rising, the pace of increase appears to slowing substantially. From UBS's Drew Matus: Medical goods prices ‚Äî pharmaceuticals ‚Äî are another important source of core PCE disinflation. Here, the CPI measure agrees with the PCE measure, and in both the deceleration since about a year ago has been striking. It may be that the move toward centralized health care is indeed ‚Äúbending the cost curve‚Äù. Prices for health care services may be benefiting from the same reductions. As with financial services, spending on medical care products is hardly¬† elective ‚Äî it seems unlikely that price declines would cause consumers to delay needed spending. Matus notes points made on medical care inflation from the Economic Report of the President.¬† We paraphrase some of Matus (emphasis added): "Hospitals may have improved efficiency ‚Äúin response to evidence showing their potential for cost savings‚Äù." "Substitution of generic drugs may have contributed." "Early responses to Obamacare are credited as perhaps having encouraged more efficient coordination of medical care for particular patients." "The Report also points to reduced hospital readmission rates as a sign of the success of earlier regulatory changes and as a source of cost savings." This will surely be a metric that everyone will continue to follow closely.
via Kendra Todd GroupRussian fertilizer tycoon Dmitry Rybolovlev plans to level the $95 million Palm Beach property he bought from Donald Trump in 2008 because of mold problems, Gossip Extra reported. The sale of the 33,000-square-foot property, dubbed Maison de L‚ÄôAmitie, was the highest ever for a single-family home, netting Trump a more than $50 million profit, according to the site. Mold has become a ‚ÄúWal-Mart-size problem,‚Äù Gossip Extra wrote. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt care about the house,‚Äù Trump told Gossip Extra. ‚ÄúI bought it for $41 million, put in $3 worth of paint and gave it a good cleaning ‚Äî and I sold it for the highest price ever for a single family home. I don‚Äôt know what he wants to do with it, and I couldn‚Äôt care less,‚Äù he said. Rybolovlev, the billionaire owner of the A.S. Monaco Football Club, could chop up the 6.26-acre property, which includes a 475-foot-long beach, into as many as a dozen beachfront lots, the site said, citing an unnamed source.¬†[Gossip Extra] More from The Real Deal: 1.¬†South Beach Setai $8.6M condo sale sets record2.¬†Morgans fighting bad deal it made in recession3.¬†High-end home sales smash records as South Florida market catches fire
At the end of May, amid a big sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market driven by fears that the Federal Reserve will taper back monetary stimulus sooner than expected, the U.S. dollar index strengthened to its highest levels in nearly three years. The comeback of the U.S. dollar is one of the key themes driving global markets right now. Currencies across the emerging world have declined significantly in value (relative to the dollar) over the past month, and strategists believe the dollar is on the cusp of a secular bull market after a decade of decline. The latest data from the CFTC's Commitment of Traders report, then, should be no surprise: last week, bullish bets on the U.S. dollar reached an all-time high. "In just four consecutive weeks of USD buying, speculators have bought $20.6bn, doubling their net long USD positioning," says BofA Merrill Lynch FX strategist Ankur Singh. "During the last peaks in May 2012, the market continued buying USD for a further three weeks before reversing the trend." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CFTC, Bloomberg
The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam was held this weekend. The CFA is viewed by many as the hardest†test for financial professionals. †It requires about five to six months of rigorous preparation.† Test-takers in Istanbul, Turkey didn't get to take the CFA, though. †It was cancelled because of the protests. † From the CFA Institute:† via CFA Institute
MarkitThe world's biggest economies have published their May manufacturing PMI reports. This is our scorecard. In aggregate, global manufacturing PMI climbed to 50.6 in May from 50.4 in April. On Friday, we learned that China's official manufacturing PMI unexpectedly climbed to 50.8 in May.¬† However, China's unofficial HSBC PMI fell to 49.6 from 50.4 a month ago. In fact, PMI numbers from South Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam all deteriorated, raising some skepticism about the official number. Meanwhile every major region in Europe reported significant improvement. See the chart on the right from Markit summarizing all of the reports we've seen. PMI At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan, and several other major data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the manufacturing¬†purchasing managers index (PMI) for countries around the world. PMI is one of the best leading indicators of the economy.¬† Each reading is based on surveys of hundreds of companies. Read more about it at Markit. These are not the most closely followed data points. However, the power of the insights is unparalleled. Jim O'Neill, the former Goldman Sachs economist, believes the PMI numbers are among the most reliable economic indicators in the world. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks it's one of the most underrated indicators. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- May 31 (All Times ET) June 2, 3
There's not much to say about what happened to the Istanbul stock exchange today. Following a week of brutal riots, the market got destroyed to the tune of 10%. Meanwhile, for some great financial market/econ perspective on Turkey, go read @pawelmorski, who makes the important observation that you can't just analogize Turkey to some other "revolution" in the world. Inequality hasn't been a huge problem, and jobs have been plentiful. And of course, up until recently financial markets have been on a gigantic tear. Bloomberg: Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index ¬† Bloomberg
The latest ISM manufacturing report out at 10 AM ET this morning revealed that American manufacturing sector unexpectedly entered into contraction in May for the first time since November. Following the release, gold is rising, and Treasuries are seeing a nice bounce as well. 10-year yields are down 4 basis points to 2.09%. Stocks, which initially held up following the release, have now gone negative. The S&amp;P 500 is now down 0.3%.¬† The chart below shows gold, which is now trading around $1404, up 0.7%, versus levels near $1393 just prior to the release. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge The next chart shows 10-year Treasury futures, which are now trading around 129'255, up 0.4%, versus levels around 129'020 just before the release. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
This morning, ISM's monthly report on American manufacturing revealed that the sector unexpectedly entered into the deepest contraction last month since June 2009. As a result, the ISM recession indicator, defined as the difference between the new orders sub-index and the inventories sub-index, flashed its first negative reading since August 2012, as the chart below illustrates. The new orders sub-index fell to 48.8 in May from 52.3 in April, while the inventories sub-index rose to 49.0 in May from 46.5. "While we strongly doubt the¬†US¬†economy is heading for renewed recession, the ISM‚Äôs recession indicator (new orders minus inventories) delivered a negative reading for the first time since August 2012," says Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson. "Not worrying at this point, but something to keep an eye on next time around." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
REUTERS/Joe SkipperGold futures are well off their 52-week high of $1,804 per ounce. They are currently at about $1,394.50 per ounce.¬† Hedge fund manager Doug Kass thinks it's a great time to buy gold.¬†¬† "There is probably no better time to consider diversifying one's portfolio into a depressed asset class (e.g., gold) than when the crowd is optimistic about a vigorous and self-sustaining global economic recovery and when the world's stock markets are at record high prices," writes Kass in a ¬†Real Money column (via The Street). Gold is currently his "largest long." Here's his argument: Kass bought bought SPDR Gold Trust in pre-market trading last week.
REUTERSHEBRON, Kentucky (Reuters) - The Biblical account of Noah and his Ark poses a lot of questions, even for believers like the creators of the controversial Creation Museum in Kentucky. What is "gopher wood"? How did Noah fit all those animals on the boat? And how did he stand the smell? In an office park in Hebron, Kentucky, the designers of the proposed "Ark Encounter" theme park are trying to answer questions like these in order to build faith in the Bible's literal accuracy. The project has run into delays because of lack of financing, which could cost it millions in potential tax breaks. Despite the uncertainty, a recent Reuters preview of the project showed that plans for the ark are continuing. "We're basically presenting what the Bible has to say and showing how plausible it was," said Patrick Marsh, design director for the park, which will feature a 500-foot-long wooden ark and other Old Testament attractions, including a Tower of Babel and a "Ten Plagues" ride. "This was a real piece of history - not just a story, not just a legend." The project is currently in the design phase. Not enough private donations have come in to start construction, and building permits will not be ready until November, according to Ark Encounter co-founder and Senior Vice President Michael Zovath. The project has $12.3 million in hand and $12.7 million more in committed donations; it needs $23 million more to start building the ark alone. Zovath does not know when that will happen. Like Noah before the Flood, the builders are in a bit of a time crunch, since Kentucky tourism tax incentives for the project are set to expire in May 2014. The longer it takes to start building the $150 million park, originally planned to open in spring 2014, the less the project stands to gain from the rebates, which allow it to receive up to 25 percent of project costs over 10 years from sales taxes generated by the business. Zovath said the project may refile for the incentives, which critics argue are a violation of the constitutional divide between church and state. If the rebates applied to the full project cost, they could amount to $37.5 million. SPECULATING ON THE ARK SPECS Ark Encounter is a project of Answers in Genesis, the ministry founded by creationism proponent Ken Ham. The ministry built the Creation Museum in nearby Petersburg. The museum, which has been harshly criticized by educators and scientists, argues that the earth is around 6,000 years old and was created by God in six 24-hour days with dinosaurs existing at the same time as humans. It rejects the theory of evolution and explains phenomena like the Grand Canyon as a consequence of the Flood. Attendance at the Creation Museum has declined since it attracted 400,000 visitors in the first year after its 2007 opening, said Zovath. He attributes this to the poor economy and believes some visitors may be delaying their visits until the ark exhibit opens. The Biblical account of the ark does not provide much detail on how it was made, so the designers have had to speculate. The Bible calls for gopher wood, for instance, although it is unclear if this is a now-extinct type of wood or if the term refers to the way the wood was cut, said Marsh, who has done work for Universal Studios. Ark Encounter will go with a mix of woods. Another big question is how Noah got mating pairs of all the animals of the earth, including dinosaurs, onto a boat half the length of a cruise ship. Scientists have cataloged 1.3 million species of animals, but Ark Encounter protagonists figure Noah could have brought on just 1,000 to 2,000 pairs to represent every animal "kind," as the Bible puts it. "If you start with a wolf, you can basically generate all of these dog-like kinds," said Marsh. As for large animals like dinosaurs, Marsh said Noah could have brought them on as eggs or juveniles, to save room. Though the park is meant to teach that the Noah story is true, it is also for profit, and Marsh takes inspiration from secular theme parks. In the exhibit depicting the wicked pre-Flood society that God wanted to destroy, for example, Marsh plans a pagan temple with pagan ceremonies done in a "Disneyesque" way. "You want everyone to have fun and buy souvenirs and have a good time, but you also want to tell everybody how terrible everything (was)," Marsh said. He also plans exhibits within the three-level ark on how animal waste could have been taken away by mechanical devices and how fresh air could have been brought in. CONSTITUTIONAL VIOLATION? Explanations about the origins of the earth from Answers in Genesis are contrary to scientific consensus, which says that the planet formed about 4.5 billion years ago. The Creation Museum was condemned by the National Center for Science Education, which said that students who accept material presented at the museum as valid are "unlikely to succeed in science courses at the college level." Many Biblical scholars interpret the Creation and Flood stories as poetic myths and not history. About one out of three Americans accepts the Bible literally, a percentage that has declined over time, according to a 2011 Gallup poll. Nevertheless, creationism has in recent years re-entered public debate over how to teach science in schools. Marsh said that while you can be a Christian without believing in creationism, you are on a "slippery slope." "So many people have gotten hooked with the concept of evolution that it really makes their faith very delicate," he said. Barry Lynn, a United Church of Christ minister who heads Americans United for Separation of Church and State, said the planned park promotes "junk science." "You don't pay for the ministry of people out of the taxpayer's collected dollars," said Lynn, who said his group will consider a lawsuit if the tax breaks for the ark ever kick in. Zovath argues that the tax breaks do not violate the Constitution, since the state is not giving the park money up-front, but is only returning some of the tourism money the park will bring to the state. "If somebody wants to come into Kentucky and build a Harry Potter park and teach all the fun things about witchcraft, nobody would say a word about it - they'd just think it was so cool," Zovath said. "But if we want to come in ... and build a Biblical theme park, everybody goes crazy." (Editing by Arlene Getz and Prudence Crowther)
ArchivesThey don't want to end up like this guy.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Top wealth chiefs at Bank of America Corp's Merrill Lynch and Wells Fargo &amp; Co say many retail investors are still very hesitant about getting back into equities and are urging advisers at their firms to help reignite client confidence. Even as stocks soared to new highs in 2013, memories of the 2008 financial crisis and lingering distrust have kept many retail investors from jumping back into the stock market with the vigor they had pre-crisis, the brokerage executives said ahead of the Reuters Global Wealth Management Summit, which starts on Monday. "There's still a pretty vivid memory of what happened in 2008, 2009, and the impact to people's portfolios," said John Thiel, head of Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, in an interview at his New York office. U.S. stocks have taken a roller coaster ride over the past five or so years. The S&amp;P 500 index hit its last peak in October 2007 at around 1570, then more than halved to hit its low in March 2009 before finally clawing all the way back this year. Investors scared by the volatility often retreated to low-yielding fixed income instruments. Investors are behaving "like most human beings would with the memory of what can happen and isn't in their favor," Thiel said. Merrill, owned by Bank of America, and Wells Fargo Advisors, the brokerage unit owned by Wells Fargo &amp; Co, are among the largest U.S. brokerages, with more than $1 trillion in client assets each. Merrill counts roughly 14,500 advisers among its brokerage force, while Wells has just over 15,000 advisers - those who manage the wealth of millions of mom-and-pop investors across the United States. Thiel, who started his own career as an adviser with Merrill in 1989 in Tampa, Florida, said among the biggest hurdles for the industry going forward are to help clients regain their confidence and reorient their focus toward goal-driven wealth management. Many of these goals - such as socking enough money away for retirement - cannot be reached by parking money in low-yielding investments. Equities performed very well for almost 20 years, but have underperformed for 10 years, said Thiel. "You have to change all of that memory," he said. "When you talk about changing people, that's hard." MONEY STILL ON THE SIDELINES While there was some movement back into stocks in early 2013, after lawmakers in Washington avoided the worst of potentially growth-killing simultaneous tax increases and spending cuts, many retail investors remain sidelined. From January through early March, David Carroll, head of Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement at Wells Fargo, watched clients pour more money into fixed-income than equities. And that is a source of frustration, even as interest rates are nudging up. "Every day, every week, every month that passes, people's portfolios are incrementally yielding less because they have older-dated (higher yielding) investments that are rolling off," Carroll said from his Charlotte, North Carolina office. "They have this quandary about what to do." So far this year through May 29, stock mutual funds have seen inflows of $106 billion, while taxable bond mutual funds have had inflows of $116 billion, according to Lipper, a unit of Thomson Reuters. (Those figures exclude exchange-traded funds, which often attract short-term investors) That disparity was more drastic last year, when investors poured $257.8 billion into fixed-income, while equity funds had outflows of $129.2 billion. Overall, more than $2.6 trillion is stashed in money market funds, according to the Investment Company Institute. The average yield on a money market fund is less than 1 percent, according to Bankrate.com Carroll said a steady diet of economic threats was behind investor wariness, with the recovery in equities doing little to temper those fears. "We need a period of protracted calm, and since 2009 we've had no less than a succession of quarterly the-world-is-coming-to-an-end events," Carroll said, including the flash crash in 2010, the federal debt ceiling debate in late 2011 and federal budget cuts early this year. "If you think back to prior recessions and prior big market corrections, there was a period of calm and it was a return to normalization." REORIENTING CLIENT CONVERSATIONS The key for advisers, who are constantly engaged in conversations with clients, is to not only help rebuild trust, but also reorient their approach to wealth management, Thiel said. "What we're trying to do is evolve to find out what that money is designed to do - is it for a comfortable retirement or is it for their children?" Thiel said. "How long they can invest is important, and so we try to pick the asset that best matches that liability." Wells is encouraging clients to put their money to work in an effective way, and pushing more clients toward financial plans - a program called Envision that it started in 2004. In the past nine years, more than 80 percent of key households with brokerage accounts at the firm - those with at least $250,000 in assets - have a plan of record. "Our biggest challenge right now is motivating clients simply to take action," Carroll said.
Easy come, easy go. A couple weeks ago, Japan's markets were booming and the yen was weakening thanks to aggressive monetary easing. Doubts have crepts back in. The Nikkei has tanked, and the yen has strengthened, sending USDJPY (the dollar against the yen) back below 100. Some culprits behind the dollar weakening: A weak ISM report and a weak construction spending report. FinViz
From FBís May highs on the 2nd to the lows this past Wednesday, the stock nearly entered official bear market mode, down almost 20%, before bouncing after receiving a couple ratings upgrades yesterday by Jeffries and BMO † (here). † On Tuesday, I took a look at the technical set up for FB in the MorningWord, and concluded that the stock was approaching a fairly dire support level, which it ended up breaking the next day. †Given yesterdayís bounce back above the all important $24 level, I would suggest that after being rejected this morning at its 200 day moving average, †the stock needs to stabilize at or above this level. FB 1 yr chart from Bloomberg † The next couple trading days will be very interesting for this stock to see if in fact it can stabilize above support or it just resumes the downtrend. †One of the big reasons in my mind for the stockís under-performance this year vs the broad market and its peers has a lot to do with the sentiment towards the products and possibly a lack of understanding by investors as to how FB will increase user engagement with their services, whether they be on their computers, tablets or smartphone. †It is my opinion that to date as a public company, FB management has done a poor job of introducing products like Social Graph and most recently Home whereby they tried to take a page out of Steve Jobs playbook by announcing a media event and roll out the founder for the big splashÖÖÖbut in Facebookís case, it almost every major product announcement had the least bit of ìWow Factor attachedî. †Zuck risks being the ìboy who cried wolfî with too many product misfires. As a market participant, a business owner and an individual, I can tell you that FB serves very few purposes for my business or me individually, and I donít see a huge future for the existing product offerings without some major tweaks that coincide with a quickly changing user demographic and online behavior. †That being said, watching Jim Cramer of CNBCís Mad Money describe some of the issues facing the stock near term (below), got me thinking that with sentiment so poor, the next identifiable catalyst (Q2 earnings in late July) could set the stage for a rally on the slightest bit of good news. †The comment that stuck out to me was that in a market where insiders are selling,††îshorts have a free fire zone in the stock because thereís no buyback, insider selling, no dividend, no clarity.î † While FB the company is trying to find its way in a very competitive space, the stock is trading with one arm tied behind its back from an investor standpoint as there are few incremental buyers and it lacks some of the characteristics (buybacks, dividends etc) that seem to be a pillar of the long case for many large cap tech stocks.  Cramer Quick Take: Long Look at Facebook SO while I remain very mixed on the company and their products, if the stock could stabilize in this $24-$26 area over the next couple months and establish a new base, the stock could set up for a re-test of the $30 level following a better than expected Q2. I want to create a structure that affords me the opportunity to hang around for such an event without having to take much delta or vol risk. Break-Even on July Expiration: Barring major shifts in implied vol between the months or a massive move up or down this structure will not do a heck of a lot in the near-term. Where it does really well is around 25 in the stock as we get closer to July expiration. July will decay quickly at that point while August, which catches earnings should stay bid. †Max risk is .58 Payout Diagram: The payout diagram illustrates that the ideal scenario for this trade is for FB to hang around the 25 level until July expiry. †Given the overhead supply from the last 6 months, we donít plenty of sellers keeping FB from moving much higher in the near-term. †Last summer and fall, the 20 to 24 area contained a lot of trading, so those who missed the winter run higher are probably happy to buy the stock back down here. †Thatís why we like targeting the 25 area for the calendar. from TradeMonster Trade Rationale: †Rather than buying the stock in front of what could be a a volatile period as the stock looks to stabilize at support, or getting long outright premium on a directional basis, the calendar spread which has little delta exposure offers me the opportunity to spread the August calls after July expiration to further reduce my break-even into what may be a very important Q2 report.
Flickr/anitakhartThe April construction spending report is out and it's a miss. Spending climbed by just 0.4% month-over-month in April.¬† Economists were looking for a 0.9% gain. The March number, however, was revised up to -0.8% from -1.7%. From the Census Bureau: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTIONSpending on private construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $602.0 billion, 1.0 percent (¬±1.2%)* above the revised March estimate of $595.9 billion. Residential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $301.9 billion in April, 0.1 percent (¬±1.3%)* below the revised March estimate of $302.2 billion. Nonresidential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $300.1 billion in April, 2.2 percent (¬±1.2%) above the revised March estimate of $293.7 billion. PUBLIC CONSTRUCTIONIn April, the estimated seasonally adjusted annual rate of public construction spending was $258.8 billion, 1.2 percent (¬±2.8%)* below the revised March estimate of $261.8 billion. Educational construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $58.7 billion, 4.4 percent (¬±4.4%)* below the revised March estimate of $61.4 billion. Highway construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $76.7 billion, 0.5 percent (¬±9.9%)* above the revised March estimate of $76.2 billion. Click Here For Live Updates &gt;
ISM's monthly manufacturing report is out. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 49.0 from 50.7 last month, marking the lowest reading since June 2009. Economists were looking for an increase to 51.0. Any reading below 50 on the index indicates contraction. Today's ISM release suggests that the American manufacturing sector entered into contraction for the first time since November 2012. Below is a snapshot of the changes in the various sub-components of the index in May: ISM Below is what survey respondents are saying: Click here for the full release &gt;
CNBCOne of the big questions on everyone's mind lately is when the Federal Reserve will taper quantitative easing (QE), or the Fed's effort to stimulate the economy by buying bonds and lowering interest rates. Traders and economists believe this week's jobs report will have a big impact on the Fed's decision to taper soon versus later. But UBS's Art Cashin notes that traders won't be looking at just the number of jobs added.† Rather, they will be paying close attention to hours worked. From Cashin: Everyone and their sibling will be zeroing in on Friday's Payroll Data as the magic answer on the recent tapering debate.† That seems strange given the rather random nature of those figures and their frequent revisions.† Traders will measure changes in payrolls versus hours worked.† Recently, as new hirings were made, the hours worked decreased.† Initially, traders thought that was new workers deceasing the overtime of existing staff.† Now there is watering hole speculation that employers are cutting "hours worked" to make workers look more temporary and slip under Obamacare taxation.† It's any interesting arbitrage that we may explore further. From the start of 2014, employers with more than 50 employees will be fined $2,000 per employee, if they fail to offer full-time employees health insurance. Workers are considered to be full-time if they work over 30 hours a week.† This is a trend that Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth recently addressed in a note to clients.
You already knew that college graduates in the U.S. are having a hard time finding work. As it happens, it's getting rough for new job-seekers in China, too. Via Deutsche Bank Chief International Economist Torsten Slok, the chart below shows the big year-over-year change in the number of college grads with job offers in China. MyCos Consulting, Tencent, DB Global Markets Research
Reuters/ Steve MarcusToday is the quarterly deadline for SAC Capital investors to redeem their money from the embattled Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund.¬† According to multiple press reports, the hedge fund could be left with less than a billion in outsider money.¬† The Wall Street Journal's Jenny Strasaburg reported¬†that SAC sees investors yanking $3.5 billion from the hedge fund by today's deadline. The fund already saw investors ask to pull $1.7¬†during the first quarter¬†redemption period.¬† If those estimates are correct, it would leave the hedge fund with very little outsider capital. ¬†Bloomberg News estimates that it could be left with less than $1 billion. About $9 billion of SAC's $15 billion in AUM belong to billionaire founder Steve Cohen and the fund's employees. ¬† According to Bloomberg News, $7.5 billion of that is Cohen's and the other $1.5 billion belongs to employees. ¬† Bloomberg News reported earlier that Cohen has considered returning outsider money and running SAC as a family office. ¬† It's widely known that Cohen is the ultimate target of the¬†government in their crackdown on insider trading. In the case against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Cohen has been identified as¬†"Portfolio Manager A."¬† He has not been charged with any wrongdoing. ¬†He may never be charged and he has maintained that he¬†acted appropriately.¬†¬† Back in March, SAC agreed to pay $616 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle two separate civil insider trading cases. ¬† In late April, SAC's lawyers called a meeting at the United States' attorney's office in Manhattan and they were surprised when 17 government officials showed up, the New York Times' Peter Lattman and Ben Protess reported. After that meeting, the¬†New York Times reported¬†that Cohen and other SAC execs received subpoenas to testify before a grand jury in an insider trading case against his hedge fund. ¬† Under the statute of limitations for insider trading, if the government were going to file any additional charges in this case they would have to do so by mid-July, which is the five year anniversary of the trades being questioned.¬†
REUTERS/Stephanie McgeheeAmerican oil inventories are at all-time highs thanks to shale production. And the Saudis do not want to talk about it. At OPEC's biannual meeting Friday, the Wall Street Journal's Summer Said and James Herron asked Saudi oil minister Ali Al Naimi what he thought of all the new crude being pumped in the U.S. Naimi's answer was basically: Talk to the hand. From WSJ: Why are you all excited all of a sudden on shale? You know why, because you like to chit chatÖyou are an agent of disturbance,î he said, pointing a finger at his questioner. ìLeave us alone and leave all these issues. We had enough of shale oil and talks of shale. Please talk about anything else,î he said, switching from English to Arabic. OPEC left production rates unchanged.

REUTERS / Nick AdamsJon-Christian Stubblefield relaxes inside of his 200 square foot Mini-Suite apartment in the First Hill neighborhood in Seattle, Washington May 12, 2013. SEATTLE (Reuters) - Aaron McConnell doesn't mind sharing a kitchen with seven neighbors. He's fine in living quarters with just enough room for a twin bed, a corner desk and little else. Closets? Forget about it - he stores his clothing and other possessions on shelves and hooks. McConnell's small-scale home life is part of a hot trend in U.S. real estate - micro apartments. "I like living in a community," he says. "It's kind of fun, very social." It's also affordable for McConnell, 28, who pays $737 a month for his apartment in Seattle as he embarks on a career in civil engineering. Tiny apartments like McConnell's are cropping up in major cities around the country to meet the demand of people who are short on cash but determined to live in areas with otherwise pricey rents. Micros, also known as "hostel-style" apartments, usually offer less than 200 square feet (18.5 square meters) including private bathrooms, and they typically come furnished, sometimes with built-in beds and other amenities to save space. Most feature a group kitchen that may be shared among eight units, although units in McConnell's complex are equipped with microwave ovens and small refrigerators. They also include Internet connections and utilities in the price of the rent. There are no elevators. Few come with parking, but McConnell has a street parking pass for his neighborhood that is close to Seattle University and several of the city's major hospitals. What micro apartments lack in space they often make up for in proximity to prime locations. McConnell's is situated near Seattle's lively Pike-Pine Corridor, an area rich in restaurants, bars and shops. In Seattle, rents for micro apartments range from about $500 to $1,000, while a one-bedroom apartment rental in Seattle averaged $1,223 this spring, according to Mike Scott of Dupre + Scott Apartment Advisors Inc. REUTERS / Nick AdamsThe Element 10 Mini-Suites, a microhousing unit that is home to 36 residents in the First Hill neighborhood, Seattle.MICRO DENSITY Not everyone is in favor of the trend. Residents of some conventional homes and apartments near McConnell's worry that micro sprawl could overcrowd their neighborhood infrastructure, adding to traffic congestion and making already scarce parking even harder to find. "These are like boarding houses on steroids," said Carl Winter, founder of the group Reasonable Density Seattle and a resident of the neighborhood. "I'm living the nightmare." Micro developments have drawn criticism for not facing the same level of design and environmental review that a newly constructed conventional apartment undergoes because a single-dwelling is defined as a unit that includes its own kitchen. "We did a calculation and there are 19 micro apartments going in on 12 sites well within 1 square mile (2.6 square kilometers)" in his neighborhood, Winter said. "Our big issue is they are not being subjected to the same regulatory process as everyone else." Seattle Mayor Mike McGinn is on record in support of micro apartments, as is City Council member Richard Conlin. "The private market is building affordable housing for people who want it," Conlin said. "Fundamentally, this is a good thing." Young people starting out, service workers and retirees on limited incomes all need affordable housing, Conlin and other supporters said. Forty-one micro housing projects have come through the Seattle Department of Planning and Development since 2006, spokeswoman Cyndi Wilder said. Of those, 28 received permits and 13 are under examination. The planning department is aware of the debate over the review process for micro apartment buildings, she said, and the Seattle City Council "is going through an information-gathering process."REUTERS / Nick AdamsSeungchul You stands in his one-room, 200-squared foot apartment at Element 10 in Seattle. A SECOND HOME? In San Francisco, some see the potential for micro apartments to become the domain of high-paid, high-tech suburbanites who keep them for the occasional night in the city, a kind of new-age pied-a-terre, as opposed to serving as real homes for working-class residents. "If they are going to be used for high-tech workers, they will end up having a gentrification effect and push rents up," said Ted Gullicksen, director of the San Francisco Tenants Union. Otherwise, his organization has no objections, he said. Gullicksen described micro apartments as ideal for college students, who have trouble finding an affordable place to live in the city. "If they ended up being used for student housing, that would be a good thing," he said. New York City is experimenting with micro apartments, with the backing of Mayor Mike Bloomberg. Last year, Bloomberg, along with the Department of Housing Preservation and Development Commissioner Mathew M. Wambua, launched the adAPT NYC Competition, a pilot program to develop a rental building composed of micro-units, according to Bloomberg's website. The winner of the competition proposed 55 units ranging from 250 to 370 square feet (23 to 34 square meters), made of prefab modules. The building is scheduled for completion in Manhattan by September 2015, and will include a rooftop garden, lounges, a deck, laundry, bike storage, a cafe and fitness room. REUTERS / Nick AdamsThe Strada aPodment building which houses low cost micro apartments in Seattle.In Boston, Mayor Thomas Menino is also a supporter of the tiny apartments, saying the city must create more housing for workers and seniors, and that micro apartments fit the bill. Matthew Gardner, a Seattle land use economist and chairman of the Board of Trustees for the Washington Center for Real Estate Research, said he is not surprised by the rush to build micro apartments in the past year or so, at least in his city. The economy is doing better and rents are rising, he said. "Land is at a premium here," he said. "So where do (local) service workers live? They want to be close to where they work but can't afford the current price of apartments, which have gone up dramatically in last few years. The introduction of this hostel-type product could meet a lot of unsatisfied demand." Jim Potter, chairman of Kauri Investments, said the micros he builds, including the Emerald 10 complex where McConnell lives, provide a housing option for a group of hard-working people and retirees largely overlooked by most developers. "Nobody else is producing something at this moderately priced range," he said. "You get a brand new building with a new bathroom. You get Internet access and it's fully furnished. In general, our buildings are on major bus lines and/or light rail." Potter has worked with other developers to build six micro apartment complexes in Seattle, with several more planned. He also is working on projects in Portland, Oregon; San Francisco and in New Jersey. "This product has legs on it," Potter said. "It is a national phenomenon and Seattle is ahead of the pack." The average stay in Potter's micro apartments is one year, and the residents' average age is about 33, he said. Most have incomes below $35,000 a year and do not own a car. As for McConnell, he plans to stay in his micro apartment until January, when he's getting married. "Then I'll see where life takes us," he said. (Editing by Steve Gorman, Bill Trott and Vicki Allen)
Do you think the selling in the Treasury complex is over‚Äîat least until next Friday‚Äôs NFP? It you are a trader, this is really the only question you have to ask yourself right now. There has been massive pain in the fixed income world over the past three weeks. The backup in Treasury yields finally attained the speed necessary to shake carry traders across the FI spectrum into shedding risk. It got particularly ugly in EM local fixed income and currencies (more on that later). The risk-shedding eventually spilled over into the equity markets. Odds are good now that we are at that kind of win-win juncture for FI risk that you don‚Äôt that often see. Kind of a David Tepper moment for FI traders. I think the selling in the T-plex has been strong enough for long enough that it would take big fundamental news to drive them further down from here. And I can‚Äôt see anything important enough in front of the NFP to fit that bill. This leaves us with two basic scenarios. One, if the equity market rebounds, the ‚Äòfear discount‚Äô now built into a lot of FI instruments will come out and Treasuries should stabilize if not rally, given the speed, fear and volume behind the recent selling. Two, if, instead, the equity market sells off further from this point‚Äîwhich we got a taste of on Friday‚Äîthen Treasuries will rally, as they tend to when risk aversion rises far enough or fast enough in equities. In fact, we got a taste of this on Friday as well. This scenario should trigger at a minimum a modest rally in the some of the FI instruments hit hardest by the bond selloff. Both scenarios have implications for the dollar and tend to be bearish, but more on that below. Of course, if your scenario doesn‚Äôt envision Treasuries stabilizing, then you stay just out of the way. If, however it does, you then have to consider the follow-up, investor question as well: Has the market too aggressively discounted the timing of the Fed‚Äôs exit process? This is not the same as the first question. If you believe the answer to this question is also yes, then this is probably a good entry point to buy beaten up FI instruments for a longer timeframe, not just for a trade (FWIW, less than 3 months is the trading bucket, more than 3 the investment bucket). Three FI sectors warrant separate discussion here, IMO: Agency mortgage REITs, currencies and EM local currency bonds. Agency Mortgage REITs - ¬†Selloff started last September - The sector is now retail-dominated and emotional¬† - I put the current discount to NAV at ~10%‚Äîbut this is a guesstimate, conditioned in no small part by the magnitude of the decline in book value last quarter - ¬†The sector is in cyclical downswing, but discount to NAV and carry offer good protection right now against being wrong, even when dividends are cut. Ccy, PMs and EM local FI Correlations have been low, making things tricky. Positioning is heavy and will be the driving force in the near term, IMO, especially if the equity market tumbles further. If you believe USTs will stabilize, you are likely to see a decent rally in funding and hedging currencies (EUR, GBP, AUD, NZD, CAD), and in JPY where positioning is so heavy even higher UST yields were unable to lift USDJPY. You‚Äôll also likely see a squeeze in precious metals, where a lot of shorter-term traders and CTAs are positioned short. Even though I dislike precious metals in the longer term, I think odds right now favor an especially good trading opportunity in the gold miners. There‚Äôs a fair number of people long dollars against the majors and precious metals at this point. Caveat: short dollars anywhere except JPY gets a lot trickier if USTs stabilize and SPX sells off hard. It is less clear how much EM currencies rally if the big dollar sells off, if at all. This is an area where there still is short-dollar positioning, and, frankly, it is humongous. USDMXN has moved 80 big figures and long-term holders were only just roused from their slumber last Wednesday. My guess is any rally in EM currencies will be used by institutional investors to lighten up, driven by this wake up call and their longer term cyclical views. The big trade for many macro types has been long EM currencies and short a basket of developed currencies. This allows macro guys to be long EM ccys while diversifying away much of the EURUSD risk by using a funding basket. Shorting AUD hedges SPX and Asia slowdown risk as well. This trade is as old as dirt. Problem is there are many more guys holding dirt these days. And RM, both dedicated and crossover, have piled into EM local ccy bonds (look at the ticker $EDD). Few outside the asset class know how large it has grown relative to the target market. And those in the asset class have kept mum to increase AUM. These local bonds are too difficult to sell in size, so if redemptions get large enough where RM funds have to reduce bond holdings, it will get ugly. In the meantime, the big investors will buy dollars against their EM local bond holdings to protect those positions as best they can. Few investors in EM local ccys bonds realize the extent to which overall returns in the space are driven by currency and not the bonds themselves. I know EM fundamentals are better in most EM countries these days, but that is not much of a defense once we tip over into the liquidation mindset‚Äîand odds are good that we have. The participation in the asset class is just much, much broader than it has ever been. Plus, the sell-side market-making is a lot thinner. So, even if you think USTs stabilize, this is not the asset class to play. Many large players will be looking for the exit on any decent bid.
Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok has the entire debate about the Federal Reserve, and whether it will soon start "tapering" the amount of bonds it buys each month via Quantitative Easing. Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/Jong Yong HakOn Friday, we learned that South Korean exports unexpectedly jumped by 3.2% year-over-year, defying economists' expectations for a decline. What makes this number so impressive is that Japan's extraordinary efforts to boost its economy (i.e. Abenomics) through yen devaluation seems to be having little effect on Korea. According to Bloomberg, South Korea's won has strengthened 18% against Japan's yen in the last six months.† In theory, this would make South Korea's exported goods much less competitive than Japan's goods. But this clearly doesn't seem to be occuring. "The Korean economy is in our view competitive even at a higher exchange rate," said Societe Generale's Klaus Baader. If Korea isn't losing from Japan's policies, then that would suggest Japan isn't gaining too much either. Credit Suisse recently commented on this in a blog post (emphasis added): ìOur analysis thus indicates that a depreciation of the yen will not boost export volume sufficiently over a one-year horizon to offset the negative impact of a deterioration in the terms of trade,î Credit Suisse analysts said in a report entitled ìDevaluation of the Yen Would Widen Trade Balance Deficit.î So, why isnít the depreciation in the value of the yen translating into stronger demand for Japanese exports and weaker imports? Part of the reason, according to Credit Suisse economists Hiromichi Shirakawa and Takashi Shiono, is that Japan has a virtual monopoly over some products, such as certain electronic components and high-tech materials, which means fluctuations in the value of the yen have limited impact on overseas demand. Indeed, Korea also has electronics that dominate. "According to press reports based on a statement from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy strength in exports reflected strong sales of wireless communication devices (62.5% yoy) as well as strong demand for Korean exports in the key export markets China (16.6% yoy) and US (21.6%)," said SocGen's Baader. Based on the Korean trade data, it seems economists may overestimating the impact of Abenomics on global trade.
The announcement of Lord Peter Mandelsonís appointment to the Sistema board, replacing Yevgeny Novitsky, was issued†last Thursday. The announcement doesnít explain what was wrong or obsolete with Novitskyís talents or connexions, about which the Russian press have printed many allegations. Mandelson, on the other hand, is the owner of a small public relations company tied to WPP, an international conglomerate of PR firms controlled by Philip Lader, who sits on Oleg Deripaskaís Rusal board. Laderís relationship with Mandelson has been described in a WPP†press release†as ìprovid[ing] seed capital along with additional benefits in kind including office accommodationî.If Mandelson does for Sistemaís market capitalization what Lader has done for Rusalís, Yevtushenkov may have to recalculate the value of PR men. But Mandelson is also a†banker of sorts†ó chairman of Lazard International, a branch of the Lazard investment banking business. Money usually talks louder than talk, and Yevtushenkovís purpose for Mandelson signals that he probably needs more of the former than the latter. For one thing, the price of Sistema on the London Stock Exchange has been unusually volatile this year, as this chart shows: www.bloomberg.com Between top and bottom of the seesaw Yevtushenkov has been losing $2 billion. With his debt at almost $16 billion, and market capitalization of just $9.2 billion, the volatility intensifies the pressure on Yevtushenkov of Sistemaís banks and creditors. Lacking source, evidence, and irony, the Financial Times reports that ìSistema is thought to have nominated Lord MandelsonÖin an attempt to tap the British peerís public relations skills and contact list.î But an attempt by the London Guardian to do better than that has resulted in†this†ñ a signal the newspaper received a litigation threat from the libel specialists Schillings. Schillings, however, is focusing on allegations the Guardian published about Yevtushenkovís wife, and about Novitskyís connexions. If Yevtushenkov is after stability for his share price and market capitalization, he may be planning to convert Sistema from global depositary receipts (GDRs) to a main board listing of shares on the London Stock Exchange: for that purpose can Mandelsonís reputation be more or less of a liability than Novitskyís with the UK Listing Authority? Has Yevtushenkov counted that the cost of London lawyers to deter investigations around Mandelson may exceed the value of Mandelsonís appointment? Whatever liability Yevtushenkov may be calculating heís disposed of by substituting Mandelson for Novitsky, it has been evident that Yevtushenkovís political clout in Russia was seriously diminished when Yury Luzhkov was dismissed as Mayor of Moscow in September 2010, and moved to London with his family. Since then the test of Yevtushenkovís influence is how much the Kremlin has done to protect his billion-dollar telephone concession in Uzbekistan from the revocation it suffered last year? Answer: not much. Apart from a telephone call to Tashkent by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, make that nothing at all. In its latest†financial report, Sistema reports a writedown of $546 million for the loss of its Uzbek assets, and it continues to face tax and other liabilities there. Yevtushenkov is in court in the Isle of Man this week trying to remedy a similar concession revocation in Kyrgyzstan in 2005 and 2006, masterminded in a fraudulent conspiracy, so Yevtushenko alleges, by his Moscow rival Mikhail Fridman. If Yevtushenkov were as close to President Vladimir Putin as the media releases suggest, how come the Kremlin hasnít intervened during the seven years that affair has been spilling Russian business secrets into the public record? Sistemaís telephone business accounts for just over one-third of the groupís revenues, but nearly two-thirds of its earnings. Oil production and refining generate 50% of revenues, but one-third of earnings. The remainder of revenues and earnings come from a disparate collection of assets ñ farming, medical clinics, the Moscow childrenís department store Detsky Mir, electricity distribution, Intourist, pharmaceuticals, and mass media. Last year Yevtushenkov decided to expand into a new line of railway transportation business. Mandelsonís skills donít include railways, and his influence has yet to be tested with Gulnara Karimova. He may, however, do better at drawing the Chinese into contributing capital to Bashneftís new oilfields, or alternatively promote a Chinese purchase of the 25% shareholding Yevtushenkovís agents have been trying to sell in that oil business. So far, negotiations for such a deal with Sinopec have been as unrewarding as an earlier round with Indiaís Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). If Yevtushenkov intends to divest Sistema of non-core assets ñ many of them picked up in Moscow at the urging of Mayor Luzhkov ñ the dealmaking is likely to be concentrated among domestic buyers, and unlikely Mandelson will be of any help. It is possible that Yevtushenkov has a kind heart and feels charitable towards retired British politicians having trouble making ends meet. Perhaps he is trying to repair the damage to Mandelsonís reputation which was done by the judgement of Justice Sir Richard Tugendhat in the case of The Honourable Nathaniel Philip Victor James Rothschild v Associated Newspapers Limited, followed by the Appeals Court ruling of Justices Sir John Laws, Sir Richard McCombe and Sir David Eady. The full story can be read†here. The court case flowed out of a January 2005 trip Rothschild invited Mandelson to take on his aeroplane, first to Moscow, and then to Abakan. Included in the meetings or along for the ride were Oleg Deripaska of Rusal, Peter Munk of Barrick Gold, Alain Belda of Alcoa, and Alexei Kudrin, then Russiaís Finance Minister. Tugendhat ruled against Rothschild, dismissing his claims against the publisher of the Daily Mail; his judgement was subsequently endorsed on appeal. Since Mandelson didnít testify, and wasnít a party to Rothschildís libel claims, the four judges stopped short of condemning Mandelsonís conduct as they did Rothschildísñ but not altogether. Read Tugendhatís judgment in its†entirety. According to Tugendhat, ìthere is at the very least reasonable grounds to believe that Mr Deripaskaís interest in providing to Lord Mandelson such luxurious and generous hospitality was as Mr Caldecott [advocate for Associated Newspapers] suggested. And I cannot accept that Mr Rothschild was unable to foresee this at the time he invited Lord Mandelson on the trip. In my judgment Mr Rothschild did appreciate this at the time. A holder of public office such as a Commissioner is required to make a clear distinction between his public life and his private lifeÖ ìBy facilitating the development of a relationship between Mr Deripaska and Lord Mandelson, Mr Rothschild was, in my judgment, conferring a benefit on, and seeking to please, both Mr Deripaska and Lord Mandelson. So far as Lord Mandelson was concerned the benefit was the trip and the hospitality itself. So far as Mr Deripaska was concerned it was a relationship with the EU Trade Commissioner. A businessman with such extensive and global interests as Mr Deripaska would be likely to welcome an opportunity to get know a person in Lord Mandelsonís positionÖ ìMr Caldecott submits that on his own version of events, or on the facts that I have found, Mr Rothschildís conduct was inappropriate in a number of respects. I accept that submission. In my judgment that conduct foreseeably brought Lord Mandelsonís public office and personal integrity into disrepute and exposed him to accusations of conflict of interest, and it gave rise to the reasonable grounds to suspect that Lord Mandelson had engaged in improper discussions with Mr Deripaska about aluminium.î The Court of Appeal was also negative towards Mandelson. Sir John Laws wrote, quoting Tugendhat, ì ënothing in this judgment should be taken as a criticism by me of anyone who is not a party to the action. That would not be fairÖî the judge was plainly right to say so. But the narrative of the case, founded on the evidence accepted by the judge, must inevitably throw light on the conduct and character of participants in the relevant eventsÖI [Laws] should note also, if only for completeness and because Lord Mandelson is not a party to these proceedings, that the judge did not accept the submission that the article alleged there were grounds to suspect Lord Mandelson of corruption; only error of judgment (see paragraph 31).î According to Lord Justice Laws, ìtheir sting [of the original newspaper report] is in the context; and the context reveals a web of relationships.î Web of relationships ñ isnít that what the Financial Times reports Mandelson as selling to Yevtushenkov? The four judges suggest that anyone hiring Mandelson for ìrelationshipsî may be running the risk the London market shares with the courts ñ the cost of ìerror of judgementî.
BOSTON (Reuters) - After cutting its stake in Apple Inc by 12 percent in the first quarter, Fidelity's Contrafund trimmed its holdings in the iPhone maker by another 9 percent in April. Contrafund, run by portfolio manager Will Danoff, reported owning about 9.2 million shares of Apple at the end of April, according to disclosures by Boston-based Fidelity Investments. Contrafund owned 10.1 million Apple shares at the end of the first quarter. Contrafund is the largest active shareholder in Apple. Only a Vanguard Group index fund owns more shares.* (Reporting by Tim McLaughlin; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
REUTERS / Brian SnyderMarkit's PMI survey results for the month of May are out. The headline index rose to 52.3 from the flash estimate of 51.9 published earlier this month and 52.1 in April. The consensus estimate was for a smaller tick up to 52.0. Markit's Purchasing Managers Index is a measure of American manufacturing activity. Any reading above 50 on the index indicates expansionary conditions, whereas any number below 50 indicates contraction. So, today's 52.3 reading on the index suggests a slight acceleration in the expansion of American manufacturing in May. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Summary The final Markit U.S. Manufacturing Purchasing¬†Managers‚Äô Index‚Ñ¢ (PMI‚Ñ¢)¬†signalled a further¬†improvement in manufacturing business conditions¬†in May. However, at 52.3, up slightly from a six-month low of 52.1 in April and higher than the earlier¬†flash estimate of 51.9, the PMI was consistent with¬†only a modest rate of growth. The table below shows the various sub-components of the index: Markit Click here for the full release &gt;
Universal(Reuters) - Car chase sequel "Fast &amp; Furious 6" kept racing at U.S. and Canadian box offices, outpacing rival movies for a second straight weekend and finishing far in front of Will Smith's new sci-fi film "After Earth." "Fast &amp; Furious" racked up $34.5 million from Friday through Sunday, according to studio estimates. The sixth installment in the billion-dollar franchise takes the action to London, where stars Vin Diesel and Dwyane Johnson lead their crew on a mission to take down an international ring of mercenary drivers. Comedy heist caper "Now You See Me" yielded a stronger-than-expected $28.1 million in its debut at U.S. and Canadian theaters, finishing second. The post-apocalyptic "After Earth," starring Smith and his teenage son, Jaden Smith, placed third with $27 million. Analysts had expected a $35-million to $40-million opening. "Fast &amp; Furious" maintained its speed after a roaring debut over Memorial Day weekend. Worldwide ticket sales reached $480.6 million through Sunday, according to Universal Pictures, the Comcast Corp unit that released the movie. Distributor Universal said that "Fast 6" has outearned international lifetime totals for each of the first four films in the franchise, and was on track to surpass the fifth. Critically panned "After Earth" settled for a third-place debut. The $130-million production takes place 1,000 years after an apocalypse forced humans to abandon Earth. A boy and his father become stranded on the planet after a crash landing and look for help. Critics assailed "After Earth," with just 12 percent recommending the film on Rotten Tomatoes, a website that aggregates movie reviews. Distributor Sony Pictures, a unit of Japan's Sony Corp, said it expects the film to do well internationally. "This has always been a worldwide play," said Rory Bruer, Sony Pictures' president of worldwide distribution. "We would have liked the movie to have done better domestically and I think people will be pretty happy about it when they see the international rollout." Bruer said the studio expects well over half of the film's gross to come from international sales. "After Earth" will open in 60 countries next week, and several more throughout June. "Now You See Me" beat projections for weekend sales of up to $20 million. The film stars Jesse Eisenberg in the story of street magicians who stage large-scale shows during which they rob banks and distribute money to the audience. It cost $75 million to produce, according to the website Box Office Mojo. Tied for fourth were the sci-fi sequel "Star Trek Into Darkness," and animated family film "Epic," each of which took in $16.4 million in domestic sales. "The Hangover Part III" took in $15.9 million to capture fifth place. "Epic" was distributed by 20th Century Fox, a unit of News Corp. "Star Trek Into Darkness" was released by Viacom Inc's Paramount Pictures. "Now You See Me" was distributed by Summit Entertainment, a unit of Lions Gate Entertainment. "The Hangover Part III" was distributed by Warner Bros., a unit of Time Warner Inc. (Additional reporting by Ronald Grover,; Editing by Doina Chiacu and Xavier Briand)
As I wrote before, housing is a combination of necessity, consumption, and investment.¬† To the extent a house is also an investment, we should be clear-eyed about the risks. Despite the numerous risks of investing through home ownership ‚Äì and acknowledging that it‚Äôs neither a slam dunk nor appropriate for everyone ‚Äì I advocate long-term home ownership as an investment for a host of important reasons.¬† No other investment offers such an array of factors stacked in its favor.¬† The forced savings, tax-advantages, inflation-hedge characteristics, local specificity, and responsiveness to improvement all make home ownership the most important wealth creating vehicle widely available to the middle class. Opportunities I‚Äôve listed in this post the 7 most important advantages of home ownership for personal wealth creation, in order of importance. 1. Forced savings ‚Äì It turns out that for most people, voluntary savings is tough-to-impossible on a monthly basis.[1]¬† What seems to effectively generate a personal financial surplus each year are programs that ‚Äòforce‚Äô savings ‚Äî such as excessive income-tax withholding or automatic paycheck deductions for a 401K. Monthly mortgage payments, which include a portion for paying down principal and therefore purchase small increments of home equity on a monthly basis, work in a similar fashion.¬† Most of us have a hard time accumulating a few hundred thousand dollars in investment equity.¬† But through the forced-savings method of paying down a mortgage every month for a period of 15 or 30 years, millions of people do manage it. I can‚Äôt prove this, but I‚Äôd bet much of the ‚Äòmagic‚Äô of wealth accumulation through home ownership can be attributed to this forced savings program.¬† The psychology of forced savings matters tremendously, probably more than any other factor. 2. Capital gains tax exemption ‚Äì The mortgage interest tax deduction is what we think of when we think of tax-advantaged investing in our home, but I‚Äôd argue that the capital gains tax exemption for home owners overwhelms the mortgage interest tax deduction ‚Äì when it comes to wealth creation. An example here can illustrate my point. Let‚Äôs say you bought your house for $200,000 15 years ago and just sold it for a gain. Inflation on your home ran at 5% annually.¬† Using the compound interest formula we can calculate that your home sold for $415,785 today. (This is because $415,785 = $200,000 * (1+5%)^ 15 ) As an investment, you now have a ‚Äòcapital gain‚Äô of $215,785, the difference between your $200,000 purchase and your $415,785 sale. Now let‚Äôs compare the $215,785 capital gain to other ways of making money through investments. If you made $215,785 in capital gains, for example, by purchasing an IPO and flipping it soon after, you would owe taxes at your ordinary marginal income tax rate.¬† If you are the kind of highly compensated person who can access an IPO, with enough capital to make that kind of gain, you‚Äôre probably up at the 39.6% income tax rate and you might pay as much as $85,451 on your capital gains (39.6% of $215,785). To take a more comparable investment scenario ‚Äì if you held a stock investment for over a year ‚Äì your capital gains tax rate drops to 20% in this scenario, and you would only owe $43,157 (because $43,157 = 20% of $215,785) on your stock investment, upon selling it. Capital gains from your house in the example above, however, are completely exempt.¬† Meaning, zero taxes on your $215,785 gain. Not only that, but as you roll your gains into a larger house, in many scenarios the gains on your next house also remain completely exempt from taxation.[2]¬† Most homeowners can continue to build home equity over a lifetime and a series of houses and never pay taxes on their capital gains. No taxes.¬† This is amazing and awesome and a huge part of how middle class people accumulate tax-free wealth through home ownership. The capital gains tax exemption gains on your house as an investment is a real cool money saver. 3. Mortgage interest deductibility ‚Äì The tax deductibility of mortgage interest gets a lot of attention, and it‚Äôs worth acknowledging this important advantage of home ownership as an investment. I write this semi-grudgingly because my own opinion is that it‚Äôs an unfair tax break[3] and that it‚Äôs also overvalued[4] in the popular consciousness.[5] But I‚Äôll review the tax advantage anyway, using the same home mortgage example, as it‚Äôs still quite important. Let‚Äôs assume you originally made a $40,000 down-payment on your $200,000 house 15 years ago, and took out a $160,000 mortgage at 6%. Over the course of the next 15 years ‚Äì until sale ‚Äì you would pay a total of $126,242 in mortgage interest.¬† Interest as a portion of mortgage payments declines annually from $9,546 the first year to $6,953 in the 15th year, with average annual mortgage interest payments of $8,416. If you itemize your home mortgage interest on your taxes, at the highest 39.6% income tax rate, you‚Äôd save $49,992 (because $49,992 = 39.6% of $126,242 interest paid) in income taxes spread out over 15 years.¬† That‚Äôs probably the highest tax savings available under the scenario I created. If you own your house for less time ‚Äì let‚Äôs say 5 years, and you have a lower marginal income tax rate ‚Äì let‚Äôs say 28% ‚Äì you‚Äôd enjoy total tax savings over those 5 years of $13,001 on a total of $46,434 in mortgage interest. In my example, a total of somewhere between $13K and $50K in tax savings on your investment sure helps.¬† If you have a mortgage larger than $160,000 and/or a higher interest rate and/or you own the home for a long period of time, the total tax savings will be even more significant than the example I give, which is also nice.¬† You can‚Äôt expect to save anything on any other investment loans ‚Äì like a stock margin loan, so this mortgage interest tax break matters quite a bit. 4. Inflation-hedge ‚Äì Gold bug investors think their shiny metal offers an appropriate inflation hedge for troubled financial times.[6]¬† Less well known is the fact that owning a home is a much better overall strategy, for a middle class person, to hedge against future inflation. How does home ownership, with a mortgage, hedge against inflation? In investment terms, the 20% down-payment on your home is equity,[7] which you finance with ‚Äòdebt,‚Äô in the form of a mortgage. There are two ways to use a little bit of compound interest math to see the advantage of a home and mortgage combination as an inflation hedge.¬† First I‚Äôll focus on the nominal increase in home equity, and second I‚Äôll focus on the real decrease in debt value. Nominal increase in home equity The value of your home ‚Äì $200,000 in our example ‚Äì should at least keep pace with inflation in the medium and long term.¬† If inflation ticks up from an ordinary 2% per year to a less comfortable 9% per year or worse, for example, you can reasonably expect your home, like other hard assets[8] will increase in price at a comparable rate.¬† If we suffered 10 years of regrettable 9% annual inflation ‚Äì all else being equal ‚Äì the price of your home will likely ‚Äòappreciate‚Äô in nominal terms at that rate, leading to an expected value at the end of ten years ‚Äì calculated via the compound interest formula of course! ‚Äì of $473,472. (I got here because Future Value $473,472 = Present Value $200,000 * (1+inflation 9%) ^ 10yrs.) But ‚Äì and here‚Äôs the great thing about home ownership with a mortgage as an inflation hedge ‚Äì your mortgage has a fixed value, starting at $160,000 and amortizing downward over the 10 years.¬† Assuming you paid the mortgage on time, your mortgage balance at the end of 10 years would be $134,030. Your nominal[9] ‚Äòhome equity‚Äô under the inflationary scenario of 10 years at 9% has increased to $339,442, which is the difference between $473,472 market value and $134,030 in remaining mortgage debt. Under more moderate inflation ‚Äì say 2% for 10 years ‚Äì your nominal home equity would be only $109,768.¬† So in way, you have a $229,673 higher ‚Äònet worth‚Äô after the higher inflationary period. Of course the $229,673 higher net worth in nominal terms has less purchasing power in real terms than it did before inflation, but at least it has kept pace with inflation.¬† As a hedge, the increased net worth balances out the decreased purchasing power. But, you may ask, aren‚Äôt there instances in which high rates of inflation cause such turmoil and chaos that the Peter Schiff and Ron Paul apocalyptic scenarios come true and my home price declines in value?¬† Shouldn‚Äôt I be buying guns, ammo, and canned goods as they seem to suggest, rather than depending on this ex-banker‚Äôs optimistic view of ‚Äúhouse + mortgage = inflation hedge?‚Äù Nope.¬† They‚Äôre wrong.¬† Houses can always go down in price for many reasons, but inflation isn‚Äôt one of them.¬† High inflation makes at least the nominal price of your house go up, kind of just by definition.¬† There is no reasonably probable alternative scenario in which anything but house price appreciation happens if we experience high inflation. Real decrease in debt value  You can also conceive of your home-and-mortgage combination as an inflation hedge by flipping around the perspective and focusing on the decreased cost of your mortgage, in real terms, over the course of 10 years, under an inflationary scenario. Using the same example of 9% compounding inflation, we can calculate the value of your future mortgage in adjusted purchasing power ‚Äì also known as ‚ÄúReal‚Äù dollar ‚Äì terms. As I wrote above, at the end of 10 years of paying down your mortgage you can expect a remaining debt balance of $109,768.¬† But $109,768 after 10 years of relatively high 9% inflation no longer should be considered the same amount of debt.¬† You can apply the discounted cash flows formula to calculate how much $109,768, 10 years from now, will be worth in today‚Äôs terms. Specifically your new mortgage balance after 10 years would be the equivalent of $46,367 in today‚Äôs dollar terms, or less than half of the nominal balance. (I arrive at that number because Present Value $46,367 = Future Value $109,768 / (1+9% inflation) ^ 10years.) What does it mean that your future mortgage balance of $109,768 is really worth $46,367 in today‚Äôs real dollars?¬† It means that the price of everything has increased in the future, including ideally and most importantly, the price of your labor. In simplest terms, you can imagine that after 10 years of 9% inflation you‚Äôll be earning more than twice what you earn today.¬† If your wages keep up with inflation, it will make the future $109,768 seem more like $46,367 seems today.¬† A sizeable amount still, but less than half as scary.[10] If your wages do not increase commensurately with inflation, that is of course another big problem with inflation, and with earning a fixed income in general.¬† Anticipating inflation in the future is an argument for seeking to move from fixed income compensation to equity compensation, as I wrote about in my segments On Entrepreneurship.¬† The lifestyle of folks on a purely fixed income, like seniors on unadjusted social security and fixed pensions, would get ravaged by high inflation, making an inflation hedge like home ownership that much more important. 5. 4-to-1 Leverage ‚Äì Purchasing your $200,000 home with a $40,000 down payment and a $160,000 mortgage offers you, in financial terms, 4-to-1 ‚Äòleverage,‚Äô also known as the ratio between equity and debt.¬† For the average middle class person engaged in investing, banks and brokerage companies provide very little leverage.[11] In many ways zero leverage is appropriate for the average investor, as leverage exaggerates investment returns, both up and down.¬† A review of financial history shows that leverage has a way of periodically punishing investors, and small-time investors are the least prepared for the catastrophic consequences of a systemic credit crunch. For middle class folks fortunate enough to weather a few decades of home equity gains amplified by leverage, however, small nest eggs become meaningful accumulations of wealth through the magic of 4-to-1 leverage. Yes, it increases your risk and the volatility of outcomes, especially in the short run.¬† If you can sustain a longer holding period, however, the debt helps you accumulate wealth.¬† And if you can use the debt responsibly ‚Äì an acknowledged big ‚Äòif‚Äô ‚Äì you can continue to access this home-equity-based leverage for other investment purposes. ¬† 6. Local knowledge is useful ‚Äì Few middle class people can effectively apply local or personal knowledge to investing in securities.¬† We are all at an extraordinary information disadvantage when purchasing stocks, and even bonds.¬† Hundreds to tens of thousands of the smartest people in the world are ‚Äì right now ‚Äì following the same stocks we might buy as individuals, making moot most individual stock-picking efforts to find unrecognized value.[12] When buying a house as an investment, however, specific local information can make us ‚Äòexperts,‚Äô to some degree, in what we buy.¬† This local, personal knowledge helps even the playing field in a way not generally available in other investment areas. Any home buyer can investigate or intuit neighborhood trends, school quality, demographic shifts and hidden aesthetic potential in homes.¬† As home buyers we become long-term value-investors in a way totally unavailable to most people in other investment spheres. Who knows more about your home and neighborhood ‚Äì you or Warren Buffett?¬† That‚Äôs right, kiddo!¬† In that one investment comparison at least, you shine.¬† Congratulations. 7. Home Improvement ‚Äì ‚ÄòActivist Investing‚Äô ‚Äì I have what I like to call a ‚Äòpurple thumb‚Äô when it comes to physical labor around the house ‚Äì like swinging a hammer.[13]¬† Home improvement is not really an opportunity for me, without risking my concert pianist or surgical sub-specialty career.¬† (I have grandiose plans for my life as an ex-banker.) But for many, home maintenance and improvement allow us to physically enhance our investments.¬† We can personally work on a low-value or under-valued asset and make it more valuable.¬† I think this is great. When activist hedge fund investors like Bill Ackman or Carl Icahn purchase shares in a target company and then agitate to make that company more valuable for shareholders, they‚Äôre acting like home improvement guys with a different set of tools.¬† Most of us can‚Äôt bring our toolbox to a company board meeting.¬† I appreciate that housing makes ‚Äòactivist investing‚Äô available to the everyman,[14] or at least anyone who can swing a hammer.¬† Just not me and my purple thumb. ¬† Taken in combination, these seven factors greatly stack the investment aspect of home ownership in your favor.¬† Of course anyone can lose money owning a home ‚Äì like any true investment, it‚Äôs risky ‚Äì but most of us can accumulate long-term, real wealth through long-term home ownership. Please see previous posts On Housing I ‚Äì Necessity, Consumption, and Investment On Housing II ‚Äì The Risks [1] Approximately 50% of American households carry a credit card balance from month to month.¬† The average household credit card debt ‚Äì as of this writing ‚Äì is $15,956. ¬†That‚Äôs a lot, I think.¬† Just to make the $15,956 entirely relatable to everyone, I mean, you could think of that as the equivalent of ¬†7,978 $2 Powerball tickets, or conversely you could think: that‚Äôs 12% of the cost of your new 2014 Maserati Quattroporte!¬† I‚Äôm making the safe assumption that everyone reading this will be buying the 2014 Quattroporte, right?¬† Or is that a little off-topic? [2] The fine print.¬† You should read the following with that weird sped-up-and-impossible-to-understand-technically-disclosure-but-not-really-audible voice you hear at the end of car dealership ads or Viagra commercials: ‚ÄúIndividuals can exempt $250K of capital gains on their primary residence, and couples up to $500K.¬† You must have lived in your home for 2 of the previous 5 years, although not necessarily continuously.¬† If you do not have 2 years of prior residency you can claim an ‚Äòunforeseen event‚Äô at your place of employment to still qualify for the capital gains tax exemption.¬† If all goes well you can keep rolling forward tax free capital gains through a series of personal residences throughout your lifetime.‚Äù¬† Phew! [3] Unfair because it‚Äôs a regressive tax: The 40% of households that do not own houses in the United States and can‚Äôt take advantage of the tax break correlate highly with lower-income households, making this a tax break for middle and upper income folks only.¬† In addition, the tax advantage increases the larger your mortgage and the higher your income tax bracket, making it even more regressive.¬† If that objection to a regressive tax makes me a pinko commie, fine, call me a pinko commie.¬† I can take it. [4] One of the ways you know it‚Äôs overvalued is how often you‚Äôll hear people justify a larger home or even a second home with the ‚ÄòI need the mortgage interest tax exemption.‚Äô¬† No, you don‚Äôt.¬† This is so backwards it deserves its own post, but I‚Äôll let goofy finance guru Dave Ramsey address the issue concisely in this YouTube audio post. [5] I don‚Äôt expect Congress will take away the mortgage interest tax exemption, as is sometimes considered, as it‚Äôs too popular with middle class voters and certain key sectors of the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex.¬† But I think they should.¬† Would somebody please remind me in a little while to write a fuller post on the problem with the mortgage interest tax exemption? ¬†Thanks! [6] They‚Äôre wrong, but I‚Äôll address that directly another time. [7] My managing editor (aka wife) reminds me that using ‚Äòequity‚Äô in this context is not intuitive for all readers, including her.¬† In this context ‚Äòequity‚Äô is shorthand finance-guy lingo for ‚Äòrisky investment you own that could go up or down in value over time.‚Äô [8] Traditionally thought of as real estate, and commodities like precious &amp; industrial metals, or energy sources including oil &amp; gas leases, and more recently expanded to include investments like timber rights, art, and collectibles. [9] Again, managing editor (reader, I married her) reminds me to define my finance-guy lingo.¬† ‚ÄúNominal‚Äù here refers to the idea that as the numbers get bigger due to inflation, they don‚Äôt indicate any increase in ‚ÄòReal‚Äô terms of value.¬† If the price of everything in the world adjusts upward immediately by 10% in ‚ÄúNominal‚Äù terms, nothing has actually become more valuable in ‚ÄúReal‚Äù terms.¬† Whenever the topic of inflation comes up, we have to start to quickly make ‚ÄúNominal‚Äù and ‚ÄúReal‚Äù distinctions when talking about price and value.¬† I hope that helps. [10] I‚Äôve assumed for the sake of consistent comparisons the scenario of a 30-year, fixed rate, 6% mortgage of $160,000.¬† One variation of course is floating rate mortgages, in which monthly payments would rise due to higher interest rates.¬† The amortization of principal after 10 years would be roughly equivalent however, making the comparison still valid.¬† It really doesn‚Äôt change the fact that your future principal balance will be ‚Äòhalf as costly‚Äô in real dollar terms under that inflationary scenario. [11] Since the reforms that followed The Crash of 1929, by law individual investors generally can only access a loan equal to 50% of their investment equity through their brokerage company.¬† This 0.5-to-1 leverage for stocks hardly compares to the 4-to-1 leverage of home ownership. [12] I know this should go without saying but I can‚Äôt help myself: ¬†Please remember that when prominent Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex clowns on CNBC pretend they have some deep insight and urge you to ‚Äúbuy it now‚Äù while honking an air horn and ringing a cowbell, it means that the professionals who do this for a living bought that stock long ago and are waiting to sell it to you.¬† Watching Jim Cramer does not give you an ‚Äòedge‚Äô when it comes to stock picking.¬† We should now collectively take a pause to weep bitter tears at everything this man represents. ¬† [13] Once again, my managing editor intrudes: She would like Bankers Anonymous readers to know that when shit needs to get done around the house, she‚Äôs the one who owns the toolbox. ¬†Fine, I will admit she is rather handy. [14] Managing editor: ‚Äúor everywoman.‚Äù¬† Gah!¬† Will you stop it please?
The demand for inflation-protected bonds tends to rise (fall) when inflationary expectations are rising (falling). In the current environment, inflationary expectations are falling, and so is the demand for inflation-protected bonds, which is why the TIPS yield is rising. The narrative gets more interesting still when we see that the inverse of the TIPS yield remains highly correlated with the price of gold. What‚Äôs that all about? Obviously, rising gold prices must reflect some concerns about rising inflation, which would increase the demand for TIPS. This year‚Äôs break in the gold price suggests that inflationary expectations are coming down, and so is the demand for TIPS. By the way, the price of gold tends to be a useful indicator of the underlying trend in industrial commodity prices. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Clash of the Titans. (1) Despite all the clashes, stocks at record highs. (2) The clash that could crash stocks. (3) Central bankers are central planners. (4) Bond Vigilantes are rising from the dead. (5) Mythology and the bond market. (6) Yields rising despite record low inflation reading. (7) Bad breaks for gold and TIPS. (8) Back to old normal in bond yields? (9) The Fed is getting cornered. (10) Don‚Äôt bet against the richest men in the world. (11) The Hindenburg Omen. (More for subscribers.)
Reuters/Umit BektasGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Frank PolichDETROIT (AP) ‚Äî U.S. auto sales rebounded in May, with Memorial Day sales and Nissan price cuts drawing buyers back into dealerships after a slower than expected April. Analysts forecast sales will rise 7 percent from May 2012 to 1.4 million vehicles, putting the industry back on pace for full-year sales of more than 15 million. In April, the annualized rate dropped below 15 million for the first time in six months, causing some concern that the industry's gradual recovery could be slowing. "May sales quickly chased away any of last month's concerns that the auto recovery is stalling," said Jessica Caldwell, a senior analyst at car-shopping site Edmunds.com. "This quick rebound is just another example of how the auto industry is currently one of the most resilient areas of the overall economy." Auto companies are scheduled to report May sales on Monday. Nissan's sales likely surged thanks to competitive pricing. Car buying site TrueCar.com estimated that Nissan's sales jumped 25 percent in May, the biggest increase of any major automaker. Nissan announced in early May that it was lowering the price of seven models, including the recently redesigned Altima sedan. But even before that, the company was giving dealers aggressive credits so they could discount vehicles that were shipped to their lots before the price reduction. Cars and trucks with the higher sticker prices are now being discounted, and that's what drove Nissan's May sales increase, said Larry Dominique, a former Nissan product chief who is now executive vice president of TrueCar. Nissan is advertising no down payment and $1,000 cash on the Rogue crossover, for example. "That certainly is stimulating a lot of sales and interest," Dominique said. Nissan's goal was to hold average sales prices steady by cutting sticker prices while trimming discounts such as rebates by a like amount, Dominique said. TrueCar estimates that Nissan cut its incentive spending by 34 percent in May, to an average of $1,821 per vehicle. That's $660 lower than the industry average. Whether the strategy works won't be known until the summer months, after dealers use up all the credits they got to sell existing inventory, Dominique said. Once the credits go away, Nissan's pricing strategy will be fully in operation, he said. Full-size pickup trucks are also selling well as home construction continues to see double-digit growth. That benefits the Detroit automakers, who sell the vast majority of pickups in the U.S. Kelley Blue Book expects General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group all to see sales gains in the 6 percent to 8 percent range thanks to a 20 percent rise in pickup sales. Memorial Day offers ‚Äî such as Chevrolet's $500 cash rebate on top of other discounts ‚Äî also juiced sales, Kelley Blue Book analyst Alec Gutierrez said. Toyota Motor Co., whose Camry and Corolla sedans have been struggling in the face of newer rivals like the Honda Accord and Ford Fusion, is expected to report sales fell slightly from last May. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
A firm called Japonica Partners has announced a tender offer for 10% of all Greek government bonds. FT Alphaville reports that the firm, which is based in Rhode Island, was founded in the late '80s by former Goldman banker Paul Kazarian. Here's the full statement: FRANKFURT, Germany, June 3, 2013 /CNW/ - Japonica Partners &amp; Co. announces an invitation by its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Yerusalem Hesed, Ltd. (the "Acquirer") for eligible holders of certain series of bonds issued by Greece in 2012 to sell the bonds for cash. The amount to be purchased will be up to ‚Ç¨2.9 billion in face value which represents less than 9.9% of the total outstanding ‚Ç¨29.6 billion of Greece government bonds. The purchase of the bonds by the acquirer would permit existing holders to monetize their Greece government bonds. This offer marks the first time ever that a private investor tenders for European government bonds. Also for the first time ever, purchase prices for a sovereign bond tender will be determined by an unmodified Dutch auction. The rationale for this highly innovative tender procedure is to apply an effective method to purchase institutional blocks of these bonds in an orderly and price-efficient manner. The invitation provides maximum flexibility by enabling the acquirer to make immediate purchases and by giving investors a right to withdraw prior to acceptance or the tender deadline. The expected tender deadline is 5:00pm Central European Time on 1 July 2013, unless otherwise revised in accordance with the Tender Offer Memorandum. The minimum purchase price for each of the series of bonds is 45.0% of their principal amount, a 26.5% premium to their average price in the December 2012 Greece government bond buyback, and a 15.2% premium to the average closing price on 27 March 2013. Japonica believes that the market for Greece government bonds is volatile, highly illiquid, and at any time not necessarily reflective of their intrinsic value. During a 42 trading day period in the first quarter of 2013, historical price volatility included a 27.8% decline in average price. The minimum purchase price is a discount to the most recent average price. A Japonica spokesperson said: "This tender offer reflects Japonica's long-term perspective on Greece and the progress that the country has made to date. It is Japonica's goal to align its investment interests with those of Greece." Japonica Partners is an entrepreneurial investment firm that makes concentrated investments in underperforming global special situations. Founded in 1988, Japonica Partners has developed and builds "perfectly aligned" relationships that both cultivate entrepreneurial returns and are the foundation of low risk. With its high value creation core competencies, Japonica invests to significantly raise the bar for the best investments globally. Japonica Partners is not a fund, nor does it provide investment advice. The invitation is restricted to certain eligible institutional investors and bonds may only be tendered for purchase in a minimum principal amount of ‚Ç¨1,000,000 and multiple integrals of ‚Ç¨1 in excess thereof. The invitation is being made on the terms described in the Tender Offer Memorandum to be issued on or about 5 June 2013. Further details, including the relevant series of bonds, will also be contained in an announcement to be promulgated together with or shortly before the Tender Offer Memorandum.
The European economy showed some signs of life this morning, as manufacturing reports from around the Eurozone came in stronger than expected. But the mood is negative markets-wise. Japan is getting smooshed, and European markets are down. The DAX is off over 1%. Bloomberg.com

We wrote earlier than Japan started the month in really ugly fashion, falling 3.7%. But the pain hasn't ended with the close of the Nikkei official hours. Nikkei futures have continued to fall all morning. FinViz Meanwhile, dollar/yen is close to falling back below 100. Nikkei.com
At least 112 people were killed in a fire at a poultry processing plant in northeastern China on Monday, local officials said, in what appeared to be the country's worst blaze for 12 years. More than 300 workers were at the Baoyuan poultry plant at Dehui in Jilin province when the fire broke out and emergency workers searching for survivors were uncertain how many remained trapped inside, Xinhua news agency said. "As of 3:20 pm, altogether 112 people had died," the Jilin provincial government information office said on its Weibo account, a service akin to Twitter. The latest post did not say how many were injured, but an earlier one had put the number at at least 54. It is the country's worst fire for more than a decade, according to listings on Baidu, an Internet portal. On December 25, 2000, a blaze at a shopping centre in Luoyang, in the central province of Henan, killed 309 people. The slaughterhouse gate was locked when the fire broke out but about 100 workers escaped, Xinhua added. The facility had a "complicated interior structure" and narrow exits which were slowing the rescue work, it said. The cause of the blaze was not immediately clear, but state broadcaster CCTV said eyewitnesses had heard a blast and suspected a leak of liquid ammonia. CCTV also said on its Weibo account that the blaze might have started with an electric spark in the plant. Six hours after the fire broke out around 6:00 am it had largely been brought under control, CCTV said, but Xinhua added that firefighters were still working to extinguish it entirely. A dramatic photo taken earlier in the day from an unnamed Weibo account and posted on a Hong Kong-based online news portal showed dense clouds of black smoke several times higher than the low-slung plant. A bright blaze could be seen inside a row of windows in one part of the processing plant. The image could not be independently verified, although the building looked similar to the one shown by CCTV. Photos from Xinhua showed charred walls and rooftops at the plant, with a row of fire engines standing by. The Jilin Baoyuanfeng Poultry Company, which began operations in 2009, employs 1,200 people and produces 67,000 tonnes of chicken products per year, Xinhua said. China News Service said that as of the end of 2010 it had sales of 230 million yuan ($38 million). Workplace safety standards can be poor in China, where fatal accidents happen regularly at mines and factories, with some blaming lax enforcement of rules. But loss of life is rarely on such a scale as the Jilin fire. A major blaze at a Shanghai apartment building in 2010 left 58 people dead, and one at a shopping mall in Jilin killed 53 people in 2004. In some cases owners or company officials have been arrested as a result of workplace accidents. It was not clear whether poor standards were to blame for the blaze in Dehui. No arrests were immediately reported, and Xinhua said an investigation into the cause had begun. Company representatives could not be reached for comment. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Did Europe just see the bottom? There's been increasing chatter in recent weeks about how the peripheral countries might start to surprise on the upside. And in some extreme cases like Greece, there's been a clear jump up in some data relative to extreme lows. And today's PMI manufacturing reports help tell that story. Every one of the big countries (Spain, Italy, France, Germany, Greece) saw increases, withs ome rising to highs not seen in a long time. Via Markit, here's a scorecard and a chart. Markit When you add these figures in with news that Germany may be willing to engage in fiscal stimulus, and news that deficit targets may be loosened, it's not hard to think there might be an inflection point here, where at least Europe is no longer seen as getting worse and worse. Still, the economies remain clearly in contraction, and the overall economic crisis (especially relating to employment and youth unemployment) remains huge. So green shoots won't cut it forever. Real growth needs to be in the offing.
The string of decent PMI numbers continues. After strong beats in Spain, Italy, and France, Germany has registered its highest level lin 3 months, at 49.4, up from 48.1 last month. From Markit: Markit Read the whole report here ---&gt;
Spain reported a decent PMI number earlier. Then Italy beat expectations. Now France. At 46.4 for its May PMI, France just registered its best month in 13 months. Here's the snapshot from Markit: Markit
Another solid number. For May, Italian PMI rose to 47.3, from 45.8. Like the Spain number from earlier, this is still a level of contraction, but a beat in estimates, and green shoots. Markit Read the full report at Markit --&gt;
Spain is still in contraction, but its manufacturing sector just had its best reading in 2 years, as PMI jumped from 44.7 to 48.1. From Markit: Markit Read the full report here --&gt;
Not too surprising: In the wake of the riots in Turkey, the Istanbul Stock Exchange is plunge. It's currently off about 6.35%, a tad better than the open. Outside of equities things remain fairly quiet. Not too much action in the Turkish Lira. REUTERS/Murad Sezer 
Monday was another very ugly session in Japan. The Nikkei was down 3.7%, hitting a 1-month low. Nikkei.com As WSJ notes, the index is now down 17% from its recent high, which was just over a week and a half ago, meaning that from a technical standpoint, the index is on the verge of a "bear market." Although even if it's not in one already, this really is a stunningly swift crash. Japan had been the hottest market in the world, thanks to "Abenomics" the fiscal and monetary stimulus scheme proposed by its new Prime Minister. For awhile it was a can't lose investment. But starting two Thursdays ago, when it crashed 7%, it's been a virtually straight line down.
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaNorth Korea's Kim Il-Sung seen on a North Korean won banknote.* North Koreans crave U.S. dollars and yuan, shun own currency * No one wants to get paid in North Korean won - expert * Won currency has lost 99 percent of its value since 2009 on black market * Illustrates regime's loss of control over the economy * Hard currency gets hidden under floorboards, buried in forests CHANGBAI, China/SEOUL, June 3 (Reuters) - Chinese currency and U.S. dollars are being used more widely than ever in North Korea instead of the country's own money, a stark illustration of the extent to which the leadership under Kim Jung-un has lost control over the economy. The use of dollars and Chinese yuan, or renminbi, has accelerated since a disastrous revaluation of the North Korean won in 2009 wiped out the savings of millions of people, said experts on the country, defectors and Chinese border traders. On the black market the won has shed more than 99 percent of its value against the dollar since the revaluation, according to exchange rates tracked by Daily NK, a Seoul-based news and information website about North Korea. North Korea is one of the most closed countries in the world, so it is difficult to determine what impact this could ultimately have on Kim's regime. But experts said the growing use of foreign currency is making it increasingly difficult for Pyongyang to implement economic policy, resulting in the creation of a private economy outside the reach of the state that only draconian measures could rein in. For now Pyongyang appeared to be capitulating, rather than trying to stamp out foreign currency use, they said. Estimates of how much hard currency is in circulation vary, but an analyst at the Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul put it at $2 billion in an April study, out of an economy worth $21.5 billion, according to some assessments. Pyongyang doesn't publish economic data. The use of dollars and yuan is now so pervasive there is little Pyongyang can do about it, said Marcus Noland, a North Korea expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. The government would increasingly have to force people to provide goods and services to the state and get paid in won, added Noland, who closely studies the North Korean economy. "It's been a tug of war for 20 years where the state would like to get control of the economy, to quash the market and to get everyone to use the North Korean won, but it just doesn't have the capacity to do any of those things," he said. "It just makes it harder and harder for them to govern. Nobody wants what they're selling." SECRET VIDEO In the Chinese town of Changbai in Jilin province, just across the border from the hardscrabble North Korean city of Hyesan, one Chinese trader said North Korean officials he dealt with wanted yuan more than anything else, even food. The yuan they earned from doing business quickly gets circulated into Hyesan, a city of roughly 190,000 people whose industry-based economy has slumped since the 1990s. "The only thing they want is foreign currency," said the trader, who sells products including medicine and tea in Changbai. He declined to be identified because he did not want to jeopardise his business or endanger his North Korean partners. In April, Daily NK posted video it said was shot secretly in February at an open-air market in Hyesan. The shaky footage showed vendors openly quoting prices in yuan for products like gloves and jackets, and one accepting payment in yuan. Pyongyang has waged periodic campaigns to try to stop the use of foreign currency but with no success. North Korea made circulating foreign currency a crime punishable by death in September 2012, the Paris-based International Federation for Human Rights said in a report last month. Another group, Human Rights Watch, recently interviewed more than 90 defectors who had fled North Korea in the past two years about punishment they had received for economic crimes. None said they were penalised for using or holding hard currency. Nevertheless, ordinary North Koreans are very careful. "I have heard multiple stories of people hiding foreign money under the floorboards in the house, or burying it up the hill in the woods out back," said one person in northeastern China who has lived in Pyongyang and regularly interacts with North Koreans. "Nobody puts it in the bank because nobody trusts the government." THE WORTHLESS WON Faith in the North Korean won crumbled when Kim's father, Kim Jong-il, ordered the sudden revaluation of the currency in November 2009. The government chopped two zeroes off banknotes and limited the amount of old money that could be exchanged for new cash. The move, seen as an attack on private market activity at the time, spurred a rush to hold hard currency. It also quickened inflation and according to South Korea's spy agency, sparked rare civil unrest in one of the world's most entrenched authoritarian states after North Koreans realised the won was not a safe store of value. The government is widely believed to have executed the economic official who oversaw the revaluation. Dollars have circulated in North Korea for decades, partly because of the cash siphoned off from official foreign trade. The rise in the use of yuan is a more recent phenomenon and reflects a surge in trade and smuggling between North Korea and China along their 1,400 km (875 mile) land border, where a lot of the currency changes hands. Official trade with China is worth $6 billion annually. Black market rates illustrate how far the won has fallen since the revaluation. It has plunged from 30 to one U.S. dollar to about 8,500, according to exchange rates tracked by Daily NK. The current official exchange rate is about 130 won per dollar. Daily NK has sources in North Korea who report every fortnight on rates in Hyesan, the city of Sinuiju opposite the Chinese border city of Dandong and also the capital Pyongyang. In border areas some 90 percent of transactions occur in hard currency, said Christopher Green, Daily NK's manager of international affairs. Elsewhere, foreign cash accounts for 50 to 80 percent transactions in private markets, he estimated. INFORMAL ECONOMY EXCEEDS FORMAL - EXPERT North Koreans increasingly did not refer to prices in won, Dong Yong-Sueng, senior fellow at the Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul, wrote in the April study on the use of foreign currency in the country. Prices were marked in U.S. dollars for beer, university preparation courses and apartments, Dong wrote. South Korea's central bank estimated foreign currency in circulation at $1 billion in 2000. Dong reckoned $2 billion in foreign cash was now sloshing around the economy. Around half was in U.S. dollars, 40 percent in yuan and 10 percent in euros, he told Reuters. Dollars seeped into the market because trading firms exploited government quotas for exports and imports, making profits when prices diverged from those set by the state, Dong said. It was not possible to estimate the amount of North Korean won in circulation, Dong added. He said the North Korean informal economy was now bigger than the formal, state-led economy. "Without foreign exchange, the economy would stop functioning," Dong said. U.S. officials have previously accused North Korea of making extremely high-quality counterfeit $100 notes. This money is believed to have been used to raise real cash for the regime abroad rather than get cycled into the economy. "JUCHE" IN NAME ONLY Despite purporting to follow an ideology of "juche", or self-reliance, Pyongyang did not have the will to stop the circulation of hard currency even if it had the means to do so, said Yang Moon-soo, an expert on the North's economy at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul. Ordinary North Koreans wanted yuan while the elite preferred dollars, said Yang, who has carried out a study on the use of both currencies based on interviews with North Korean defectors. One official at a European embassy in Pyongyang, who has been visiting North Korea for more than a decade, said the most noticeable change had been the increased use of yuan. Most shops carried prices in dollars, yuan or euros, said the official. "People ... pay in yuan at the market for rice and other daily necessities," said Ji Seong-ho, a defector living in South Korea who stays in touch with friends in the North. An estimated 70 percent of defectors in South Korea also send cash back to family in North Korea, according to the Organization for One Korea, a South Korean support and research institute on North Korean defectors. A Reuters report last year showed how this money was getting to North Korea via underground agents in China, mostly Chinese of Korean descent. They use ties on both sides of the border to funnel around $10 million into the North each year, usually in yuan given the defectors send money to banks in China where it is collected by agents. Use of the South Korean won is unheard of in North Korea. Even in the recently closed Kaesong industrial zone between the two Koreas, which employed 53,000 workers from the North, wages were made to a North Korean management committee in U.S. dollars, not the South's legal tender. There are small signs some in the North Korean government may be coming to grips with the hard currency reality. In the Rason special economic zone in the far northeast of the country on the border with China, the government-run Golden Triangle Exchange Bank changes yuan into North Korean won. The rate - according to people who visited the bank recently - was 1,200 won per yuan, or 7,350 won per dollar. That's a long way from the official rate of 130 won for one dollar. (Additional reporting by Narae Kim, Daum Kim and David Chance in SEOUL. Editing by Dean Yates) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
