GettyEric LefkofskyThe co-CEOs of Groupon, Eric Lefkofsky and Ted Leonsis, stopped by our offices this afternoon, along with CFO Jason Child and other senior Groupon executives. They had some interesting things to say. Groupon, you may recall, is a four year-old digital commerce company based in Chicago. Groupon invented the "daily-deal" industry, grew faster than just about any other company in history, rejected a $6 billion cash buyout offer from Google, and then went public in late 2011 at $20 a share. Then the company blew its numbers. And the growth of the U.S. business screeched to a halt. And the international business imploded. And the stock collapsed to ~$2 a share. And the young, charismatic CEO, Andrew Mason, got canned. Now, Groupon's business appears to be stabilizing, and the stock has recovered to about $7 a share. The co-CEOs, Lefkofsky and Leonsis, have run the company for several months, and they will continue to run it for at least another couple of months until a new CEO is hired. Leonsis, who also owns the Washington Capitals, was still mourning the team's shocking loss to the New York Rangers in the first round of NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs. But he put the nightmare Game 7 behind him and focused on Groupon. Here's what we learned: The Vision Groupon's vision is to become a gigantic mobile local commerce company--the Amazon or eBay of local. Instead of just pumping out "daily deals" via email offers, Groupon wants to become the place you go (via your mobile device) to find everyday deals and discounts on a full range of products and services wherever you happen to be. The company will eventually offer deals and discounts with merchant clients in many more categories of products and services than it does today. Ted LeonsisTed Leonsis.Groupon generated about $2.5 billion of revenue last year. ¬†Leonsis believes the company can eventually generate $100 billion of revenue per year. For context, Amazon generated $61 billion of revenue last year. Walmart generated $470 billion. Groupon has actually not yet retained a search firm to hire a new CEO. It will do so in June, after the next board meeting. Lefkofsky and Leonsis said they haven't hired a new CEO yet because they wanted to run the company for a while to be sure they knew what kind of CEO they wanted to hire. The new CEO will not bring the "vision" for Groupon. The vision is already there. The new CEO will either buy into the existing vision, or he or she will presumably have a short stay at the company. I had never met Eric Lefkofsky before. ¬†Based on some of what I had read about him, I had a vision of a cold, calculating puppet-master who dispatched orders (and CEO pink slips) from a dark room somewhere. I was surprised to discover that Lefkofsky is affable and charming, in addition to smart. He should put himself in front of TV cameras more. He puts a good face on the company. Lefkofsky, Groupon's original investor, took a lot of heat for selling $300 million of stock a year before Groupon went public, in a deal in which nearly $1 billion of new investor cash went to existing investors instead of to Groupon. But he hasn't sold a share since. The growth of Groupon's U.S. business has flattened, but it's still doing okay. The international business, meanwhile, has imploded. Lefkofsky and Leonsis don't think the international business is hopeless, however. Eventually, they think, it will stabilize and then begin to grow again. Given some of the rhetoric around the company in the 18 months since the IPO, you might think it was on death's door. It isn't. ¬† Despite all the trouble it has experienced, Groupon is still modestly growing its revenue (+8% year over year in Q1) and still generating positive operating income ($21 million in Q1). Groupon The bad news is that the company's gross margin has dropped, so gross profit is shrinking, and the growth of the "goods" business has hurt the company's once-impressive cash flow, which has now gone negative. Groupon But Groupon has plenty of liquidity--north of $1.1 billion of cash. And the business does appear to be stabilizing. If Groupon can eventually grow to $10 billion of revenue, let alone the $100 billion that Co-CEO Leonsis mentioned, Groupon's shareholders should be amply rewarded. (The company's market value is currently about $5 billion). The capabilities of the new CEO will be important, as will the staunching of the bleeding of the international business. And the company will have to demonstrate that it can become a destination for consumer-driven commerce, rather than a "push" driven email deals company. But the massive local opportunity outlined by Lefkofsky is real. And Groupon is in an excellent position to make this vision a reality.
We could tell you this story, but we can assure you that you would rather watch the video. This is a bus in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. According to the Johnstown Tribune-Democrat, the driver was cruising along Goucher Street yesterday evening when he hit a deer. That sounds like a sad story. But that's because you haven't seen the video yet. Along with the star of the film, who somehow appears to be unhurt, note the flying coffee cup. And the polite driver who opened the doors just a second too late. And the startled lone passenger in the back. Watch:  (via The AP)
Athit Perawongmetha / Getty ImagesUNITED NATIONS (AP) ‚Äî Economic losses from disasters since 2000 are in the range of $2.5 trillion, a figure at least 50 percent higher than previous international estimates, according to a U.N. report released Wednesday. The U.N. Office for Disaster Risk Reduction warned in the 246-page report that economic losses from floods, earthquakes and drought will continue to escalate unless businesses take action to reduce their exposure to disaster risks. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon launched the report saying the review of disaster losses in 56 countries clearly demonstrates that "economic losses from disasters are out of control" and can only be reduced in partnership with the private sector. "Our startling finding is that direct losses from floods, earthquakes and drought have been underestimated by at least 50 percent," Ban said. "So far this century, direct losses from disasters are in the range of $2.5 trillion. This is unacceptable when we have the knowledge to reduce the losses and benefit from the gains." For too many years, the secretary-general said, financial markets have placed greater value on short-term returns than on sustainability and resilience, which in the long-term are far more attractive and can save millions of dollars. "In the years ahead, trillions of dollars will be invested in hazard-exposed regions," Ban said. "If that money fails to account for natural hazards and vulnerabilities, risk will increase. Where such spending does address underlying risk factors, risk will go down." The report said recent major disasters such as Hurricane Sandy in 2012, the 2011 floods in Thailand and the 2011 Japanese earthquake and tsunami put a spotlight on the growing impact of disasters on the private sector. The report says increasing globalization, the search for lower costs and higher productivity, and quick delivery "are driving business into hazard-prone locations with little or no consideration of the consequences on global supply chains." For example, it said Toyota lost $1.2 billion in product revenue from the Japanese quake due to parts shortages that caused 150,000 fewer cars to be manufactured in the United States and a 70 percent reduction in production in India and a 50 percent reduction in China. On the other hand, Orion, which owns and operates one of the largest electricity distribution networks in New Zealand, invested $6 million in seismic protection that saved the company $65 million in the 2010 and 2011 earthquakes, the report said. And preventive investments by fishermen in Mexico saved each individual entrepreneur US$35,000 during Hurricane Wilma in 2005, it said. But Margareta Wahlstrom, the U.N. special representative for disaster risk reduction, said: "In a world of ongoing population growth, rapid urbanization, climate change and an approach to investment that continually discounts disaster risk, this increased potential for future losses is of major concern." A new global risk model developed by the U.N. office demonstrates that average losses just from earthquake and cyclonic wind damage are expected to be about $180 billion per year throughout this century ‚Äî and this figure doesn't include damage from floods, landslides, fires and storms, the report said. ___ On the web: www.unisdr.org
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Advisors Should Reconsider Bucket Strategies (Nerd's Eye View) Advisors often resort to bucket strategies ‚Äî when a portfolio is divided into buckets based on the clients needs. But Michael Kitces in Nerd's Eye View writes that bucket strategies don't always offer the best results.¬† "The desire to keep the money separate potentially distorts the asset allocation in the long run, which can ultimately have a negative impact on achieving retirement goals.¬† "For instance, while it's appealing to identify short- and intermediate-term buckets that will be used for near-term spending, such that the "equities bucket" won't need to be touched for 10 years, we can't just keep executing on the strategy that way for the next 10 years without making adjustments; otherwise, by a decade from now, all the cash and bonds would have been liquidated for those early years' spending needs, and the even-more-elderly client would actually hold 100% in equities, which would almost certainly be indefensible at that point in time! As a result, portfolio buckets must be rebalanced periodically back to their original allocation.¬† ‚Ä¶In fact, as it turns out, standard rebalancing actually makes most bucket strategies unnecessary in the first place, at least from an asset allocation perspective. While the standard refrain for bucket strategies is that they're "a way to avoid selling stocks when they're down" the reality is that if the stock allocation in a portfolio declines in a market crash, the stocks wouldn't be sold anyway." Russ Koesterich Sees A Great Rotation From The Defensive To The Cyclical Sector (Advisor Perspectives) The defensive sector led the 2013 stock market rally. But Blackrock's Russ Koesterich argues that the Great Rotation that people spoke of, could have just been a move from the defensive sector to the cyclical sector, rather than a move from stocks to bonds. In light of this he thinks investors should 1. Not "completely abandon defensive sectors." 2. "Consider the energy and technology sectors." 3. "Cast a wider net when looking for dividends." This Chart Obliterates One Of The Biggest Arguments Of Fed Haters (Business Insider) It has long been argued that the market rally has been driven by the Fed's easy money and not by strong fundamentals. But the recent divergence between stocks and commodities shows that investors aren't just dumping their money in any asset other than paper currency.¬†  FRED Female Advisors Have Been Outperforming Men Because They Are Risk Averse (Financial Planning) Speaking at the Women Advisors Forum, Cathy Smith of Allianz Global Investors' center for behavioral research said women advisors need to start negotiating for their salary. "Women interpret it as adversarial," Smith said, according to Financial Planning. "Women avoid entering negotiation and often ask for less." Research from Babcock &amp; Laschever shows that¬† 7% of women and 57% of men try to negotiate their salary. Men typically have average starting salary that is 7.6% higher than women. The Fed's Assumption About QE Is Founded On A Misunderstanding Of Basic Portfolio Management (Threadneedle Investments) One of the ways in which the Fed's QE program is supposed to help the economy, is through the "portfolio rebalancing channel." The idea is that as the Fed buys Treasuries and yields fall, investors take positions in other assets like stocks. But Toby Nangle of Threadneedle Investments, says the idea that the two assets compete for investor interest shows an ignorance of a basic tenet of portfolio management. "The more government bonds an investor owned, the more equity they could have owned for their given risk tolerance. Thus, in this sense, government bonds did not compete with equity for capital, but complemented investment in equity."

REUTERS/Noah BergerTesla has had a historic week. It began last Wednesday when it reported its first quarterly profit ever.† That was followed by Consumer Reports essentially calling it the best car ever when it gave it a score of 99/100. The stock's epic rally is continuing this afternoon.† Management just announced that it would take advantage of its high stock price to raise capital. Morgan Stanley auto analyst Adam Jonas has argued this week that the way the world perceives Tesla fundamentally changed.  "The Tesla debate has moved on from questions of viability to measuring the success and sustainable competitive advantage of the business," he wrote. Jonas raised his price target on Tesla to $103 from $47. In a note titled "Tesla Motors Inc America's 4th Automaker: It's Happening," Jonas added that Detroit ó home to Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors ó and other auto hubs around the world must be watching the latest developments with some "astonishment" and "anxiety." In fact, Jonas says there are 4 key developments in Tesla that you everyone should know about: Moreover, Tesla CEO Elon Musk has promised that the Gen 3 mass market car is coming. Things weren't always smooth sailing for Tesla. The biggest problems for the electric car maker continue to be affordability and range limitations. Another Tesla specific problem, according to Business Insider reporter Alex Davies, is that unlike other automakers, Tesla has been developing only one model at a time. The concern was if that the company was always putting all of its eggs in one basket. But Tesla has always had a top-down approach saying they would begin with the high-end market and eventually work their way down to cheaper mass market cars. The Tesla story appears to just be in its early stages.† The world will be watching closely.† The company's competitors will likely watch more closely than most.
ReutersClosely-followed hedge fund manager John Paulson just filed his 13F with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the first quarter ended March 31st, Paulson &amp; Co. maintained his huge stake in SPDR Gold Trust. As of March 31st, Paulson held 21,837,552 shares of SPDR Gold Trust. The hedge fund did pare back its stake in Barrick Gold.¬† The fund held 360,000 call options for Barrick Gold in Q1 compared with 915,000 shares in the previous quarter. Paulson &amp; Co. disclosed a new stake in Citigroup. The hedge fund bought 1,000,000 shares of the bank in the first quarter, the filing shows. Hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these regulatory filings.
Bloomberg via YouTubeThe CBO said this week that America's fiscal deficit will be much smaller than anyone thought, and that long term debt growth will slow by at least 3 points through the next decade. ¬†¬† That's good news right? In his note today, Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna says there is even more than meets the eye in the report. Specifically, the rosier CBO report means there's now less pressure on Congress to keep the Sequester, and more breathing room for the Fed. He writes: Oftentimes, a mid-year CBO update is not particularly newsworthy, but we believe this time is different for several reasons: One, the improving fiscal finances increase the probability that the recent budget sequester will be watered down.  Two, with less fiscal drag likely in train, the Fed at the margin will feel less compelled to pursue quantitative easing (QE) at its current $85 billion per month pace. Remember that when QE was implemented last September, it was done in part in anticipation of the non- negligible chance the US economy went over a fiscal cliff. Ultimately, it could turn out to look more like a fiscal gully. Three, declining Treasury financing needs essentially make current QE more expansionary in the sense that the Fed is absorbing even more fixed income supply relative to what was the case when projected budget deficits were much higher. Less fiscal drag coupled with a dramatic reduction in the Treasury‚Äôs borrowing needs arguably alter the cost-benefit analysis of QE. The question is whether the doves on the FOMC acknowledge this over the next couple of months. Somewhere between David Tepper and Jon Hilsenrath, there we shall be.
Tesla's stock was up over 7% in after hours to $90.50 but has since pared back to about 5.5%. This comes on the back of news that the company is raising more money, and offering new common stock and convertible bonds.  CEO Elon Musk has also said that he will buy $100 million in Tesla stock as part of the secondary offering. And the proceeds of the offering will be used to pay back the loan from the Department of Energy.  Here's the after-hours chart from Marketwatch: Marketwatch
Getty Images/Ethan MillerTech hardware giant Cisco just reported first quarter earnings, and the company beat expectations on both the top and bottom lines. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $0.51 per share, ahead of analysts' consensus estimate for $0.49 EPS. Revenues in the first quarter were $12.22 billion, slightly above the consensus forecast for $12.17 billion. Gross margin was 63.0%. Analysts were looking for 61.9%. Shares are up 7.8% in after-hours trading. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; Below is the full text from the release: SAN JOSE, CA--(Marketwired - May 15, 2013) - Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO) Cisco, the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate, today reported its third quarter results for the period ended April 27, 2013. Cisco reported third quarter net sales of $12.2 billion, net income on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis of $2.5 billion or $0.46 per share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.7 billion or $0.51 per share. "Cisco is executing at a very high level in a slow, but steady economic environment. We are especially pleased with our ninth consecutive record revenue quarter. We are starting to see some good signs in the US and other parts of the world which are encouraging," stated Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers. "We have the right products, the right solutions and our customers are coming to us to solve their biggest business problems. The pace of change is increasing and Cisco is well positioned." Chambers continued, "We have always believed that the Internet will revolutionize the way we work, live, play, and learn. This has never been truer than it is today, with cloud, mobility and video all coming together to deliver the Internet of Everything and unprecedented new opportunities for businesses and consumers. We're excited about the future." Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2013 were $36.2 billion, compared with $34.4 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2013, on a GAAP basis, was $7.7 billion or $1.44 per share, compared with $6.1 billion or $1.13 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. Non-GAAP net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2013 was $8.0 billion or $1.50 per share, compared with $7.5 billion or $1.38 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in the table on page 6. Cisco will discuss third quarter results and business outlook on a conference call and webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available athttp://investor.cisco.com. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program During the third quarter of fiscal 2013: "We executed as we said we would, achieving our revenue and profitability objectives," stated Frank Calderoni, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We are moving the business forward by executing on our strategy of driving long-term value to our shareholders." Select Global Business Highlights Cisco Innovation Select Customer Announcements Editor's Note: Click here for the full release &gt;
REUTERS/Yuri GripasLegendary billionaire hedge fund manager George Soros has filed his latest 13F regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the first quarter ended March 31st, Soros exited his positions in Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan and General Electric, the filing shows. He also decreased his Apple stake. He owned 26,800 shares and 100,000 call options of the tech giant in Q1 compared with 183,976 shares in the previous quarter. Just a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these securities filings.¬†
Mario Tama / Getty ImagesBerkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by billionaire Warren Buffet, just filed its latest 13-F. Among other things, Berkshire raised its bet on Wells Fargo (bought 18.3 million shares), Walmart (bought 1.7 million shares), and DirecTV (bought 3.2 million shares). It dumped defense contractor General Dynamics (sold 3.8 million shares) and Archer Daniels Midland (sold 5.9 million shares). New positions included Liberty Media (bought 5.6 million shares) and Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron (bought 6.5 million shares).
Heidi Gutman/ CNBCBillionaire hedge funder Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, has filed his fund's 13F for the quarter ended March 31st.¬† According to the securities filing, Loeb has completely exited his stakes in Morgan Stanley and Herbalife during Q1. ¬† He owned 7,750,000 shares of Morgan Stanley in the previous quarter. ¬† Back in January,¬†Loeb took aim at Morgan Stanley execs¬†over compensation. Third Point also 3,100,000 shares of Herbalife in Q4. ¬†It was reported last week at the SALT conference in Las Vegas that he had exited the position. ¬† Loeb famously snapped up a big stake in Herbalife shortly after hedge fund manager Bill Ackman publicly said he was shorting the stock because he believes it's a "pyramid scheme." ¬†Loeb called Ackman's thesis "preposterous." ¬† He pared back his massive stake in Yahoo! in the first quarter. ¬†Third Point owned 62,000,000 shares compared with 73,000,400 in the previous quarter.¬† He also purchased 25,000 Apple call options in the first quarter.¬† Just a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these filings.¬†
REUTERS/Noah BergerElon MuskElectric car company Tesla, and its CEO Elon Musk, are back in the news. The primary story is that the company is raising more money, offering new common and convertible shares, and taking advantage of its soaring stock price. Tesla Motors, Inc. (NASDAQ: TSLA) announced today offerings of 2,703,027 shares of common stock and $450 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2018 in concurrent underwritten registered public offerings. In addition, Tesla has granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 405,454 shares of common stock and $67.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the notes. But the big headline is that CEO Elon Musk has announced that he will make a big investment into Tesla. In addition, Elon Musk, Tesla‚Äôs Chief Executive Officer and cofounder, intends to purchase shares of common stock at the same public offering price for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. Of this amount, approximately $45 million would be purchased in the common stock offering, and approximately $55 million would be purchased directly from Tesla in a subsequent private placement due to the waiting period requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. For more on the big fundraise, see here ---&gt;
Tesla also has a press release with what the stock and bond offering will look like: Tesla Motors, Inc. (NASDAQ: TSLA) announced today offerings of 2,703,027 shares of common stock and $450 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2018 in concurrent underwritten registered public offerings. In addition, Tesla has granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 405,454 shares of common stock and $67.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the notes. CEO and founder Elon Musk also intends to put up some of his own money on this new bet. In addition, Elon Musk, Tesla‚Äôs Chief Executive Officer and cofounder, intends to purchase shares of common stock at the same public offering price for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. Of this amount, approximately $45 million would be purchased in the common stock offering, and approximately $55 million would be purchased directly from Tesla in a subsequent private placement due to the waiting period requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Management intends to use the proceeds to repay the government. The aggregate gross proceeds of the offerings, including the options granted to the underwriters, and the private placement is expected to be approximately $830 million. Tesla intends to use the net proceeds from the offerings to prepay Tesla‚Äôs outstanding loan from the United States Department of Energy, pay the cost of convertible note hedge transactions and for general corporate purposes. Tesla closed at $84.84 today, which means the stock is up 150% since the beginning of the year. The stock is above $90 in the after-hours trading session.
Reuters/ Mike SegarBillionaire hedge funder David Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, just filed his fund's latest 13F for the first-quarter ended March 31st.¬† According to the securities filing, Greenlight held 2,397,706 shares of Apple in Q1.¬† Greenlight owned 1,307,006 shares and 275,000 call options in the fourth quarter of 2012. ¬† Just a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these regulatory filings.¬† Einhorn has famously been agitating Apple to do more with its cash holdings.
Flickr / alpinisteThe market refuses to sell off. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,275, +60.0 pts, +0.4%S&amp;P 500: 1,658, +8.4 pts, +0.5%NASDAQ: 3,471, +9.0 pts, +0.2% And now the top stories:
ConvenienceStoreGourmet via www.flickr.comEarlier in the day, the Dow was up 90 points. Now it's up just 14 points. What gives? Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus offers up four things he's hearing from his trading desk. AAPL getting crushed again today ‚Äì Many reasons bantered about for the weakness ‚Äì Bottom Line, heavy MoMo pressure (Still Long)¬† "Hearing" IAEA Says Talks with Iran Have Failed - that's what has bounced Brent - Increased geopolitical risk ---&gt; Time for profit taking?¬† While we see WTI Flat on the session, Brent has moved up 1% quick‚Ä¶¬† Reversion into Bonds, with 10YY off 6bp quick during this move.¬† 10YY has ripped 50bp in short order, so some buying going on ‚Äì especially after BOJ‚Äôs overnight actions¬† Financials are coming off quick ‚Äì Maybe the spike in yields causing concerns on Builders ‚Äì the momentum group?¬† Homebuilders go red.¬† Lotta profittaking there - that is the mo downside group in this slide¬† 13F filings ‚Äì many pointing to the vast liquidation of Mo stocks like AAPL ‚Äì but this is all in the rear-view mirror, and should not be a factor¬† Shorts have come off in a hurry, with most short 110bp off highs and only o/p SPX by 30bp right now
CNBC's senior economics correspondent Steve Liesman sat down with Goldman Sachs COO/president Gary Cohn at the bank's 200 West Street headquarters for an interview.† During the interview, Liesman took the opportunity to bring up the Bloomberg Terminal spying scandal.† Goldman was the bank that complained to Bloomberg LP after it discovered some of the Bloomberg News reporters were using private client data to fuel coverage of their stories. † Cohn told Liesman that Goldman does not "have a major concern" with Bloomberg and the media giant is "reacting in a positive way addressing the issues." †† Here's a transcript from the CNBC interview:† Liesman: There's another story we have been talking a lot about on CNBC, which is the story about Bloomberg and a potential conflict over there. How much concern is there at Goldman Sachs, which is a big user of Bloomberg services and terminals, with the conflict issue? Cohn: We don't have a major concern. We talked to Bloomberg about a month ago. We've had numerous conversations with Dan Doctoroff. Dan is completely immersed in the situation. He understands the magnitude of the problem. I think they are really reacting in a positive way in addressing the issues that we might have had. Liesman: Have they told you enough of what you need to know to feel comfortable going forward? Cohn: We're in constant dialogue with Dan and his team. We are giving them time to understand the issue and allow them to really have real data and real information. I would rather get the truth when they know it and not have them tell me things they're not 100% confident in, but at this point I think they are doing a very good job at communicating with us. Watch the video below. †The conversation about the terminals happens around the 4:40 mark.† 
Flikr Attorney General Eric Holder is testifying in front of Congress today. Not surprisingly, he is being asked about the Justice Department's obtaining Associated Press phone records without telling the Associated Press in advance. As I described earlier, this seizure of the records may well have been legal and justifiable. Under current law, the DOJ has the right to demand media phone records when the DOJ can't obtain the desired information through other reasonable means. The DOJ even has the right to do this without telling the media organization in advance--if it thinks telling the media organization will threaten the integrity investigation. If those two conditions were met in this case, the DOJ has nothing to worry about. But Americans certainly have every right to ask whether those two conditions were met. (And, then, to wonder whether giving the DOJ these rights is really in the country's best interests). But Attorney General Eric Holder is saying that those conditions were met. He's saying he doesn't know anything about the AP case, because he recused himself from it. That just seems ridiculous. It's not ridiculous that Eric Holder recused himself from the case. If he felt he needed to recuse himself, he should have recused himself. What seems ridiculous is that he's using his recusal as an excuse to say he knows nothing about the case. Eric Holder runs the Justice Department. He can be recused from a case and yet still make inquiries about it to understand the decisions that were made in investigating it so he can explain these decisions to Congress. Even if he's not involved in a decision in his organization, that doesn't stop him from being able to ask questions about it for the purpose of relaying this information to investigators.† SEE ALSO: Stop Being Apoplectic About The DOJ's Seizure Of AP Records Until You Understand Current Law
Wikimedia CommonsYesterday, the EU raided the offices of BP, Shell and Statoil in a probe over manipulating oil markets. The European Commission's antitrust authorities say desks at those firms, along with Platts ‚Äî the agency that reports some of the benchmarks ‚Äî may have colluded in reporting distorted prices to manipulate prices "for a number of oil and biofuel products." The EC also says they may have prevented others from participating in the price assessment process. If the investigation is reminiscent of the bust-up of banks who'd manipulated Libor ‚Äî the international borrowing benchmark rate ‚Äî it should be. Last year, the FT's U.S. banking editor, Tom Braithwaite, published a piece on how easily other standardized pricing rates that were determined by reported trades could be rigged. ¬† All you needed to do was figure out the "max bull&amp;*^t number." He explains: Paul Atha, a former natural gas trader for Mirant Corp , deserves the credit for coining it. In a recorded phone call in 2000, Atha described the biggest lie he thought he could get away with in reporting trades as the ‚Äúmax bullshit number‚Äù (MBN), according to a complaint by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which was eventually settled. Like the Libor submitters, Atha and other traders were accused of trying to influence industry prices by reporting false trades...Mr Atha reported to someone like me. Some years ago I worked for a company that publishes commodity prices. I would phone gas traders who would give me a list of trades. I would enter them in a spreadsheet that spat out a magic benchmark. If regulators wanted to find other Libor-like manipulation schemes, they needed only target other markets "MBNs" were being used. With yesterday's raids, Braithwaite Tweeted earlier today,¬†it looks like authorities have officially caught on.
Lara604 / FlickrTiger Global, the tech-oriented hedge fund run by Chase Coleman and Feroz Dewan, has just filed its latest 13F with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ¬† During the first quarter ended March 31st, Tiger Global massively pared back its stake in Apple.¬† According to the filing, the fund held 260,000 shares of the tech giant's stock compared with 1,050,000 in the previous quarter.¬† Tiger Global disclosed a new position in Google (300,000 PUT).¬† The fund closed its positions in Pandora and Yahoo!, the filing shows. ¬† Just a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these filings.¬†
The past few months have been characterized by major developments across global markets as traditional safe-haven investments that surged in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis have finally begun to lose their luster, and riskier assets have outperformed against everything else. Markets saw this start to unfold first in the currency sphere, as investors started once again to exchange Swiss francs for euros and sell the Japanese yen (which rose to multi-year highs following the financial crisis) in force. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Meanwhile, global stocks have staged a strong rally ñ notably absent of any sort of significant correction ñ in recent months. The tone has been decidedly "risk-on," and government bond yields of "safe havens" like the U.S., Switzerland, and Japan initially rose accordingly as investors ditched the bonds in favor of riskier assets. Then, in mid-March, investors began piling into safe haven bonds again as the Cypriot financial crisis reignited fears of a shockwave in Europe and prospects for global growth began to dim. In the past several days, though, government bond yields in the U.S. and Japan have spiked, while Swiss yields have begun to rise again as well. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The upshot here is that as monetary stimulus in the world's developed economies has brought down government bond yields, investors have moved into riskier assets (like stocks) to obtain higher yields ñ and because the driving force behind this move has been so overwhelming, correlations across asset classes have increased as investors buy up anything and everything that provides decent interest income. According to SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale foreign exchange strategist Sebastien Galy, the latest hammering of safe havens is a sign that the "second phase" in the rush for yield is being ushered in (emphasis added): If you imagine central bankers sitting on the mountain and lighting fires to melt the iceberg of cash, the trickle of water turns to a torrent downstream. Ever heavier pebbles (e.g. High Yield) roll down at increasing speed so that correlations cross assets tend to increase. The lightest flows (e.g. Gold, FX vols) move ahead. The slope of the mountain or response of the economy to policy action is the steepest initially. At one point the lightest flows move far faster than an easing slope of the mountain, the divergence means a slowdown back into the flow of cash. These incoherencies between asset prices and the economy is moving to heavier elements (back end of curves, USD vs world) leading to corrections. With Asia and Europe still slowing but the US still outperforming, the incoherence remains subdued. Nonetheless, we have moved to a second phase of the rush for yield. Glaciers are suffering the most (safe haven CHF, JPY, their curves) but the heavier boulders (high yield) are still stumbling down the market. The pattern of localized asset class correction is therefore set to remain, while we look for the heavy boulders coming down the stream and just hope most will end up as well mannered polished stones. Or my two cents on how to look at a complex system visually. Those "heavy boulders" Galy refers to are the big U.S. and Japanese government bond markets. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale's house view is that yields will rise substantially toward the end of 2013, but the key is whether the increase happens at a steady, benign pace, or whether it happens in a quick lurch upward ñ the latter of which would be significantly disruptive across global markets.
Getty/Mario TamaBrokers have been getting bombarded with questions about Apple, which is down nearly 4% today. Credit Suisse has put together six reasons the stock is tanking. Below we've posted the comments verbatim as we've received them, but first we'll give our translation. Now here's the whole note that we received. ††† 1) failed 100 dma††† 2) yesterday's Trainer midday note w $240 number ††† 3) this was out this morning (and dont think they left much anyway "Apple /quotes/zigman/68270/quotes/nls/aapl AAPL -3.37%† shares were down more than 3% to $429.60 on the news that Julian Robertsonës Tiger Management LLC dumped the remainder of its once sizable stake in the company, according to the fundís latest 13-F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission††† 4) follow thru post Hon Hai (supplier) #s weaker yesterday††† 5) was fairly low conviction rally from 400 - 450 ††† 6) GOOG strength -- prob some rotation out of one into [others]
en.wikipedia.orgStudying the history of financial crises can be quite enlightening. Deutsche Bank's Peter Hooper just published an interesting report considering crises going back to the Middle Ages. Referring to the work of Juesus Huerta de Soto, Geld, Bankkredit und Konjunkturzyklen, and Stuttgart, Hooper summarizes what happened during the European credit crisis of the 14th century. What's interesting is how the country got out of the crisis. From Hooper's note (emphasis added): In the early 14th century banks in Florence engaged in a large-scale credit expansion. This set the stage for a powerful economic upswing, which transformed Florence into the most important centre of finance and trade in the Mediterranean region. But the bankruptcy of England, a repatriation of funds to Naples and a bust of Florentine government bonds ended the credit cycle and triggered a crisis. Banks crashed and credit contracted (described in historical records as ‚Äúmancamento della credenza‚Äù ‚Äì we would call it credit crunch today). Real estate prices declined by 50%. It took thirty years‚Äîfrom 1349 to 1379‚Äî before a recovery began. Historians ascribe a role to the plague in recovery, which dramatically raised cash balances per capita (by lowering the denominator) and induced people to spend (by dramatically raising the discount rate for future consumption). As a result, deflation ended and output recovered. "Lowering the denominator" is a nice way of saying that the plague killed a bunch of people leaving excess wealth to the survivors.
Mike Segar/REUTERSA great commencement or class-day speech sticks with you forever. You remember it when you accept for your first job, and when you quit it. Too many, unfortunately, offer the same warmed-over clich√©s, like "dream big," "work hard," or "follow your passion."¬† But there are some lessons that are truly worth remembering, or so well-said that they stick in the memory longer than just about anything else.¬† We've collected some of the greatest speeches and pieces of advice, worth reading and listening to for any grad, or anyone looking for guidance.¬† Links to the full speeches and transcripts are provided, when available.
Chris Graythen/Getty ImagesRavens linebacker Ray Lewis was publicly scrutinized after being accused of allegedly using deer antler spray to recover from a torn triceps.Earlier this month, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) lifted a ban on deer antler spray, a natural supplement that shot to the forefront when "Sports Illustrated" reported in January that Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis allegedly used the substance to recover from a torn triceps muscle. Deer antler spray is controversial because it contains IGF-1, or insulin-like growth factor-1. IGF-1 is¬†banned by WADA as a performance-enhancing drug, and by¬†many professional sports leagues, including the NFL and MLB.¬† WADA's restriction on deer antler spray, however, was overturned when the regulatory body determined that the substance contained only trivial amounts of IGF-1. Ban or no ban, a shocking number of professional athletes believe in the stuff, which they use as a "steroid alternative" to improve muscle strength or boost energy. ¬† One supplement maker, Rick Lentini of¬†Nutronics Labs, told us that 40 percent of MLB and NFL players purchase his product. Another manufacturer recently told the LA Times¬†that hundreds of athletes from each league take the spray. NFL players interviewed by CBSSports.com in January estimated that¬†10 to 20 percent of players use the extract. While manufacturers claim that deer antler spray has vast benefits, scientists are skeptical. "I‚Äôm 99% sure that eating deer antler to induce muscle growth won‚Äôt work,"¬†said¬†Ethan Cohen, assistant professor in the department of endocrinology and metabolism at the University of Rochester.¬†"But I have to admit it sounds good and will probably sell a lot of supplements." Deer antler velvet has been used in traditional Chinese medicine for thousands of years, often prescribed to improve kidney function, promote blood flow, and to treat a variety of diseases, according to the journal of Ethnopharmacology. Athletes and bodybuilders in the Western world use the natural substance to build muscle and boost endurance. Wikimedia Commons/Mehmet KaratayDeer antler velvet refers to the "velvety" skin of the antler during the early stage of growth before the horns harden.IGF-1 is a protein that's naturally found in the human body. It's what makes children grow. So, in theory, ramping up the levels of IGF-1¬†in the system could potentially increase the number of cells with the ability to generate new muscle after exercise-induced injury. This means you can get stronger at a faster rate, explains Cohen.¬† The IGF-1 found in deer antler spray is derived from deer antler velvet, the tissue found inside the deer's antlers before they fully harden.¬†Since deer antlers grow incredibly fast, it is not surprising that the horns are rich in IGF-1. This is a naturally-occurring form of IGF-1, meaning it is not made in a lab.¬†As a result, deer antler velvet is considered a dietary supplement by the Food and Drug Administration, and unlike synthesized drugs, the product does have to be proven safe or effective before it's sold to the public. The velvet is harvested in the early stage of growth by a veterinarian who clips the tips of the live antler. If not removed, the antlers will become very hard and sharp. The extract is frozen and then shipped to manufacturers that will turn it into a spray. Lentini, the CEO of Nutronics Labs, a company that markets itself as selling the world's strongest and purest deer antler spray, claims to have introduced the elixir to the United States nearly two decades ago. "We were the first to turn deer antler extract into a liquid spray," Lentini said.¬† Wikimedia Commons/Mehmet Karatay Deer antler velvet has been used in traditional Chinese medicine for thousands of years.Nutronics harvests its deer velvet from farms in New Zealand, one of the largest exporters of the substance. The sprays can be purchased on Nutronics Lab's website, varying in price from $19.99 to $189.99, depending on the concentration of IGF-1. WADA tested the company's lowest-strength deer antler spray to make their latest ruling, according to Lentini.¬† He claims that a quick spritz of his product¬†under the tongue several times a day can help with countless ailments. It can be used to recover from injuries, reduce inflammation in the brain from concussions, heal sprains or torn ligaments faster, speed up the metabolism, promote flexible joints, help build a healthier heart, and relieve arthritis, says Lentini, who has been administering the concoction into his mouth up to four times a day for 17 years.¬† The only side-effect to the product is that it raises your libido, Lentini added.¬† Deer antler spray sounds like a cure-all, but the scientific backing is flimsy at best.¬† Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderThe deer antler formula provided by Nutronics Labs has the essence of lemon and looked like dirty pond water.Most of the product's medical benefits are based on testimonials from self-interested marketers like Lentini. The fitness guru sent us a sample of his strongest strength formula, 200,000 nanograms, in order to test it out for ourselves. The 2 fl. oz bottle sells for $189.99. ¬† The product smells like lemon-scented cleaner and bears a resemblance to murky pond water. I hesitantly tried the stuff and found it surprisingly palatable, with a lemon taste, but not too sour and slightly sweet. The directions say to take 14 drops under the tongue, three times a day, but I stopped after one dose ‚Äî so I probably don't have a good chance of reaping the benefits, if there are any.¬† While there's plenty of data that IGF-1 is a growth hormone in humans, the question is whether in a mouth spray it could make its way to our muscles intact. Even if IGF-1 dropped under the tongue makes it into the blood stream, data is lacking as to what impacts it has, if any. In a study of mice, scientists at Baylor College in Houston found evidence that IGF-1 promotes the repair of damaged muscle ... when the mice were genetically modified to make more IGF-1 in their muscles. This proves nothing with regards to taking the growth hormone through the mouth. Human IGF-1 studies are even more uncertain. "Only double-blind, placebo-controlled studies can actually prove a treatment effective, and the one study of this type reported for deer antler failed to find evidence of benefit," according to New York University Lagone Medical Center. ¬† Cohen has his own doubts about the ability of deer antler velvet to increase the levels of IGF-1, or any other growth factors, in the human body. "Unlike steroids, which are small, cholesterol-based hormones, protein-based hormones or growth factors can easily be destroyed," he wrote in an email. Cohen guesses that even if you consume high levels of IGF-1, most if not all of the substance would be destroyed after hitting the acid in our stomach and before entering the blood system, which is how compounds we ingest reach the muscles. "This is also why you have to inject insulin instead of just eating insulin pills," he added. ¬† Nutronics says it has a special formula that penetrates the mucous membrane in the mouth¬†and¬†delivers the chemical directly into the bloodstream within minutes by bypassing the digestive system and liver. This results in a 98% absorption rate, according to the company. Nutronics lists papers and books written by Alex Duarte on its website, not all of which have been peer-reviewed and most are decades old. A search of academic papers shows newer studies that don't show a statistically significant effect of orally ingested deer antler extract capsules. And remember that libido comment? A 2003 study of 32 men found that there were¬†no significant changes in hormones or the sexual behavior of the men taking deer velvet capsules¬†compared with the men taking placebo capsules (Lentini argues that his spray works differently than pills, which are destroyed by stomach acids). At least it seems to be now. For awhile things were looking bad. Lentini says his business was hit hard when, in 2011, the MLB placed deer antler spray on its list of cautionary products. This is partly because it contained IGF-1, and partly because it was causing¬†players to test positive for the banned steroid methyltestosterone, although this is not an ingredient in the spray. ¬† In any case, "people were canceling [orders] left and right," Lentini said. WADA's new stance on deer antler spray has rolled back the tide, which in turn has been a great boon for manufacturers. Since the agency lifted its ban, orders for Nutronics spray have started rolling in again.

AP For several years now, the Federal Reserve has been buying up Treasury bonds in an attempt to boost the economy with monetary stimulus. One big channel through which this quantitative easing (central bank bond buying) is supposed to work is known as the "portfolio rebalancing channel," and the idea is that as central banks draw supply out of government bond markets and bond yields fall, investors will sell their bonds and rebalance their portfolios by investing in riskier assets, like stocks. "Declining yields and rising asset prices ease overall financial conditions and stimulate economic activity through channels similar to those for conventional monetary policy," said Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke in an August 2012 speech. Toby Nangle, who heads multi-asset portfolio management at Threadneedle Investments, says this idea, which implies that stocks and bonds "compete" for investor interest in a portfolio, actually fails to acknowledge a basic tenet of portfolio management. As it turns out, stocks and bonds don't necessarily always compete. In fact, a lot of times, they do just the opposite ñ they complement each other in a good portfolio that seeks to minimize volatility. Threadneedle Investments, BloombergThe chart at right is a pretty good illustration of why this is the case. Equity returns are volatile ñ and so are bond returns. When one combines the two in a portfolio, however, the overall volatility of one's investments falls substantially. "The more government bonds an investor owned, the more equity they could have owned for their given risk tolerance," says Nangle. "Thus, in this sense, government bonds did not compete with equity for capital, but complemented investment in equity." Thus, bonds essentially are a "positive-yielding portfolio hedge," says Nangle ñ which, of course, is the best kind of hedge. Now, that's all been changed by quantitative easing. Here's the upshot from Nangle (emphasis added): Now that we understand government bonds as complementary assets, or portfolio hedges, letís think again about the consequences of QE. By bidding yields on government bonds down to current levels, monetary policymakers have largely extinguished government bonds as an effective portfolio hedge. Investors can now decide to either increase their risk appetite on a structural basis and hold more risky assets (that is to say assets that are positively correlated with equities), or increase their cash positions and hold less equity than they would otherwise do to retain the same level of portfolio risk... But,†paradoxically, zero-yielding cash is becoming increasingly attractive. Central bankers have reduced rates to zero†to scare me out of this horrible asset, but the alternative for volatility-aware portfolios ñ close to zero-yielding core†government bonds ñ look less attractive given the asymmetric profile of downside capital risks with which they are†associated. In short, quantitative easing†is succeeding in forcing people out of bonds. However, for investors looking to minimize portfolio volatility, simply loading up on equities may not be sensible, which presents a sizeable headwind to the Fed's economic goals. "I hope that Econ 101 wins out if this is accompanied by economic growth," Nangle concludes, "but Portfolio Management 101 is not helping." Read Nangle's full note here &gt;
REUTERS/Noah BergerElon MuskTesla reported its first-ever profitable quarter¬†last week, and its stock continues to go bonkers.¬† It's an incredible feat. Business Insider's Henry Blodget summed it up thusly: "What Tesla has accomplished over the past decade is extraordinary... So far, anyway, Tesla is a great American success story, and everyone should be rooting for it." Just a few weeks ago, ¬†we were calling out CEO Elon Musk for misconstruing its pricing scheme. And in February, we had concurred with the New York Times'¬†pessimistic take on electric cars. Now we know better. Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves told us the trick to Tesla surmounting the critics was its ability to turn an ostensibly startup product to look like all the other guys' vehicles: ¬† We think versus comparable vehicles ‚Äî the BMW 5 series, the Mercedes E class...buying the Model S, you don't really have to compromise versus those types of vehicles developed over decades. It's been very impressive in terms of engineering this car, and making it something that people are really demanding right now. We're not the only ones who are eating crow. Lots of people banked on Tesla failing. The rips have come in four basic flavors: Tesla has basically beat back each. Wikimedia CommonsLet's look at the idea that Tesla couldn't design a car that felt like a car. The vanguard of that charge came from¬†Dan Neil, who while still with the LA Times called the Model S "a glorified golf cart": "The windows are fixed in their frames," Neil wrote. "The power-steering motor groans. The seating position and outward visibility make a Lamborghini feel spacious. The car's signature design flourish -- a 17-inch, touch-screen control panel with haptic feedback in the center console -- may not even make it to production, concedes Tesla designer Franz von Holzhausen." Tesla basically responded by saying that as long as you get the technology right, the style doesn't really matter.¬†Musk leveled this exact charge at rival Henrik Fisker: ...he is a designer or stylist‚Ä¶ he thinks the reason we don‚Äôt have electric cars is for lack of styling. This is not the reason. It‚Äôs fundamentally a technology problem. At the same time, you need to make it look good and feel good, because otherwise you‚Äôre going to have an impaired product. But just making something look like an electric car does not make it an electric car. Another issue preventing many from seeing Tesla's potential was Musk himself, who's proved to be a bit of an oddball over the years. At one point, for instance, he went on a bizarre Twitter rant about Catherine the Great's death. Also, he evidently loves the band Linkin Park.  "Musk, put simply, is a little bit weird and always has been," author Carl Hoffman wrote in Smithsonian a few years ago. "What appears brash self-confidence is simply precocious intelligence and a strangely literal mind mixed with a deep urge to change the world." But for everyone who saw awkward arrogance, there were those who recognized the hallmarks of a genius. Here's Steve Milunovich, a tech analyst now with UBS,¬†comparing Musk to the most famous technologist of the latter 20th century: The auto industry might change more in the next 10 years than the last 100. Electric vehicles represent a new category that Tesla could lead given that new entrants tend to win when disruptive technologies emerge. In our view, CEO Elon Musk may be similar to Steve Jobs in being a technology visionary also able to manage and create shareholder value. Many also believed Tesla could not survive without public financing ‚Äî Slate's Matt Yglesias just wrote this the other day. But Tesla never denied how dependent they remain on subsidies for electric vehicles. And they've pretty much received every loan or tax rebate that they said they would ‚Äî check out Tesla's exhaustive list here; even the unlikeliest states have rebates. Also, the video below proves the state of California will be highly tolerant of Tesla speed bumps:  Finally lots and lots of people believed Musk's cars simply wouldn't sell. This wasn't going to be unique to Tesla ‚Äî the future of electric cars in general seemed dicey. It's just too easy to get gas, and the market would remain limited to, as we said in February, "tooling around their neighborhoods or cities ‚Äî or, with uber-rich drivers, for impressing their friends with a gorgeous, unusual, and sexy rich person's toy." But the Wall Street Journal's Justin Lahart nicely reframes what the actual expectations were on this ‚Äî build a car to prove it works, sell it to high-end buyers, and finally produce a model for the masses. The result: "Tesla has completed the first step, and looks likely to accomplish the second," said Lahart.¬† "It now expects to sell 21,000 cars this year, more than the 20,000 it has said it needs to be profitable." The third step does remain a hurdle. Googling "Tesla" and "too expensive" shoots out 209,000 responses. As Reuters'¬†Deepa Seetharaman notes, everyone's waiting to see if Tesla will¬†have its Model X crossover next year.  And a third-generation car that will cost between $30,000 and $35,000 won't be ready until 2017.¬†"They have to continue to grow by orders of magnitude before they become a real car company," Tom Gage, the former CEO of AC Propulsion, told Seetharaman. But the growth is there. In its earnings report, Tesla said it notched record sales of $562 million, up 83% from last quarter. It now¬†expects U.S. demand to exceed 15,000 units for 2013, and global demand to surpass 30,000. We are not suggesting there won't be further bumps. But it's clear Elon Musk has the drive and resources to make Tesla part of the establishment.
GPO via Getty ImagesMembers of Hashomer, a Jewish security organization dedicated to protecting pioneering Zionist settlements, pose with their rifles October 1, 1907 in the Upper Galilee during the Ottoman rule of Palestine.The notion of the "Land of Israel" ("Eretz Yisrael"¬†known in Hebrew) has been sacred to the Jewish people since Biblical times. Various empires ‚Äî including those of the Persians, Romans, Umayyads, and Ottomans ‚Äî conquered the area until World War I¬†when Britain took control of the area¬†and subsequently declared it¬†Mandatory Palestine¬†in 1920. Modern Jewish migration to the area¬†(at the time¬†Ottoman-ruled Palestine)¬†began in 1881,¬†and¬†the movement to establish a Jewish state in the Land of Israel¬†formally began¬†with the birth of¬†the World Zionist Organization in 1887. On May 15th, 1948, the territory officially became an independent country: "Israel."

Bloomberg TV screengrabDavid Tepper,¬†who runs $12 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, has filed his latest 13F regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the first quarter of 2013 ended March 31st, Tepper pared back his stake in Apple. The filing shows that the fund owned 540,000 shares of Apple during Q1. ¬†The fund had 912,661 shares in the previous quarter.¬† Citigroup is also still Appaloosa's biggest holding. ¬†The hedge fund held 8,519,547¬†shares in the first quarter of 2012. ¬† New positions Tepper snapped up during the first quarter include Comcast, Prudential Financial and Hess.¬† Tepper completely exited his stake in Oracle, according to the 13F. ¬† Just a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these regulatory filings.¬† 
HUDHere's an interesting nugget about how the non-financial world sees the economy. Hamilton Nolan at Gawker, the popular New York media culture blog, has a big post up about how crappy the European economy. It ends with this warning: It's only a matter of time before the Fed stops pumping money into our economy and we deflate along with everyone else and then the demographic retirement bomb hits and we have fewer younger workers supporting the baby boomer retirees and health care costs explode and everyone's cranky and hope seems like a faraway dream and all the Europeans are laughing at us. So enjoy this brief moment of self-satisfaction while it lasts.  As Matt Yglesias notes, this is ZeroHedge-like claptrap. But the point isn't to debate whether Nolan's take on monetary easing is correct, but just that a lot of these ideas are incredibly popular, even outside the econo-troll-o-sphere.
Today's report on industrial output was highly underwhelming. But as AEI's Mark Perry points out, there was a noticeable bright spot: oil and gas production, which jumped 9% in April and is now at levels not seen since 1972. Here's the chart: Mark Perry/AEI Perry's comments: Thanks to shale gas and oil, Americaís booming energy sector continues to†provide shovel-ready jobs and continues to deliver†a powerful energy-driven economic stimulus to the US economy. The†ongoing energy boom reflected in todayís Federal Reserve report†provides further confirmation that energy remains the†strongest sector of the US economy. The data are also more evidence for IEA's new assertion that American fossil fuel production is set to upend global energy markets.†
CNBCJulian RobertsonIt's official. Apple is no longer the hedge fund darling anymore.† We've seen this coming with a handful of hedge funds exiting their positions in Apple.† Long-time Apple investor Julian Robertson, who runs Tiger Management, dumped his entire stake in the tech giant sometime during the first quarter of 2013 ended March 31st, according to a 13F regulatory filing.† For a long time, Apple was one of the legendary hedge fund manager's biggest holdings.† Back in October 2012, Robertson told Maria Bartiromo on CNBC's "Closing Bell" that Apple was one of the great companies available at "very reasonable prices." † He called it a magnificent company and a "great value at these levels," during that interview. "It's rare that you get a chance at having a great company at a great value," Robertson added. Since the date of that interview, Apple's stock has fallen more than 27%. †The stock is down more than 19% since the beginning of this year. † If you recall, Apple was also the subject of a memorable interview between Robertson and Erin Burnett.† Burnett, a former CNBC anchor who now works for CNN, asked Robertson in November 2010 if he was worried about an Apple bubble. † "But big picture, you've got some worries. Because, well, everybody knows Apple is a hot stock, it's sort of become, I'm going to be honest, it's almost like a cult these days, Julian," Burnett said. † "The one thing I've learned is don't be frightened of a stock that's going up and Apple is so expensive that despite teh fact that people keep pouring into it, it doesn't go up wildly. †And I mean 18 or 20x earnings for maybe the greatest company in the world I don't think is at all high," Robertson responded.† For a long-time, Apple's stock was viewed as a hedge fund favorite. †During the fourth quarter of 2012, though, a number of big named hedge fund managers including Daniel Loeb, Barry Rosenstein, Eric Mindich, Stephen Mandel and John Thaler (just to name a few) completely dumped their positions in the iPhone maker. Robertson is just the latest to throw in the towel on the tech giant. Now here's a timeline of Robertson's Apple position over the past five years based on regulatory filings with the SEC:† Here's a chart of Apple's performance from the end of the fourth quarter in 2008 to the end of the first quarter in 2013:† Yahoo! Finance
Stocks just went positive for the first time this morning. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading around 1653, up 0.2%. Meanwhile, gold is falling out of bed amid a broader sell-off across the commodity complex today ‚Äì the shiny yellow metal is trading around $1394, down 2.1% an ounce. WTI crude oil is down 1.8%, at $92.56 a barrel, while silver is down 3.2%, and platinum is down 1.4%. Earlier, NAHB's index of homebuilder confidence rose to 44 from 41 last month, outpacing expectations for a rise to 43. Before that, new data showed that¬†U.S. industrial production contracted 0.5% in April after rising 0.3% in March, missing economists' estimates for a smaller, 0.2% decline. The headline index in the New York Fed's monthly Empire State Manufacturing Survey also fell to -1.43 from 3.05 in April, defying economists' prediction for a rise to 4.00. The chart below shows the sell-off in gold today. FINVIZ.com
Student loan debt is now one of the Obama Administration's biggest cash cows. The government is poised to pocket a record $51 billion profit from federal student loan borrowers this year, according to a report by the Congressional Budget Office.¬† That's roughly 40% higher than the CBO's original forecast in February, $35.5 billion.¬† The Huffington Post's¬†Shahien Nasiripour¬†helps put the new estimate in perspective:¬† "Exxon Mobil Corp., the nation's most profitable company, reported $44.9 billion in net income last year. Apple Inc. recorded a $41.7 billion profit in its 2012 fiscal year, which ended in September, while Chevron Corp. reported $26.2 billion in earnings last year. JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo reported a combined $51.9 billion in profit last year."¬† Student debt is second only to mortgage debt in American households, and it's the only kind of debt that's steadily increased even throughout the recession. We're long past the $1 trillion-mark for federal and private student loans combined, but federal loans may break $1 trillion on their own soon enough.¬† Congress is set to debate whether or not to cap the interest rate on federal subsidized Stafford loans at 3.4% this July, or let them double. Even if they decide to cap it again, the move would only impact about 8 million borrowers.¬† There are a couple of pieces of legislation making the rounds that would lower interest rates on federal student loans or make it easier for students to refinance their debt. Last week, Sen. Elizabeth Warren proposed the Student Loan Fairness Act to give students the same interest rates on federal subsidized Stafford loans as big banks, 0.75%. A petition supporting her has already garnered 400,000 signatures. Still, none of these moves would really help today's student borrowers. Student loans are practically impossible to discharge in bankruptcy, and for those unlucky enough to have borrowed from private lenders, variable interest rates can be crushing over time.¬†
Is that alarming? Not to me. Iím not alarmed by similar marginal declines in the growth rates of other recent economic indicators. In the first four months of this year, Chinaís fixed-asset investment rose 20.6% y/y, marginally lower than the 20.9% gain in the first quarter. Still, investment in the property sector jumped 21.1% during the four months, up 0.9 percentage point from that in the first quarter. Chinaís industrial production rose 9.3% y/y in April, up from Marchís 8.9%. Retail sales continue to post double-digit gains, rising 12.8% in April. Chinese oil demand rose to another record high in April. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The End Is Far Off. (1) From near to far. (2) Nothing to fear but fear. (3) At 14.3, P/E is back to spring 2010 high. (4) If the end isnít near, then P/Es have been too low. (5) Irrational exuberance or rational rejection of the Endgame? (6) The last correction was insignificant. (7) Averting the fiscal cliff was bullish. (8) Income shifting last year boosting federal revenues this year. (9) GDP passing the stall speed test. (10) Draghi passed a couple of tests earlier this year. (11) Hard-pressed to see hard landing in Chinaís numbers. (12) Focus on underweight-rated Energy sector. (More for subscribers.)
It's a really rough day for precious metal bugs. Gold is down over 1%. And silver is getting poleaxed, falling about 3%. Kitco
www.fooledbyrandomness.comBlack Swan and Antifragile author Nassim Taleb's six rules for success, just posted to his Facebook page: Success in all endeavors is requires absence of specific qualities. 1) To succeed in crime requires absence of empathy, 2) To succeed in banking you need absense of shame at hiding risks, 3) To succeed in school requires absence of common sense, 4) To succeed in economics requires absence of understanding of probability, risk, or 2nd order effects and about anything, 5) To succeed in journalism requires inability to think about matters that have an infinitesimal small chance of being relevant next January,† ...6) But to succeed in life requires a total inability to do anything that makes you uncomfortable when you look at yourself in the mirror. As always, these are just heuristics. A brief explanation from earlier this month: (It is remarkable how many people confuse HEURISTIC with LAW &amp; propose exceptions to invalidate a heuristic: only laws refuse exceptions.) Heuristics need to be convex, i.e. effect when wrong shoud be small, payoff from using it repeatedly should be broadly large.
Apple is down 2%. The big gold ETF, GLD, is down 1.4%. These moves are happening on a day when the market is basically flat. It's not an accident that they're diving together. The reason is: During the immediate post-crisis era, gold and Apple were huge outperformers, that were uncorrelated to the day-to-day "risk on, risk off" regime that was dominating financial markets. Remember, investors are desperate to find uncorrelated assets that don't just mimic the S&amp;P. Thus gold and Apple both held tremendous value as assets that provided outperformance, and seemed to exist in a world of their own rules, and their own returns. Apple seemed disconnected form the hum-drum economy. Gold, it was argued, represented an alternative to the repressive financial system that punished fools for believing in paper money. But now things are changing. Suddenly the market and the economy are looking better. This means that Apple no longer seems so special. Lots of companies have the ability to thrive. And with the economic improvement, the appeal of gold is limited too. So Apple and gold move together. Here's a look at Apple and GLD just over the last three months. It's not perfect, but it's striking that both tanked and recovered within just a couple of days of each other. Yahoo Finance And now here's a look at GLD and Apple going back 2 years! Yahoo Finance Both rallied throughout 2011. Both had a peak in early 2012. Then both had a final, ultimate peak in late 2012. Then both fell since then, and both fell out of bed in early April. Then both spiked back in the second half of April. Then both started fading again in recent days. The similarities in the charts are uncanny. Both Apple and Gold represented alternative assets that bought immunity from the overall market. The same story that's killing one is killing the other.
I am investing in 85 Broads, the 30,000-strong professional womenís network founded by the well-before-her-time Janet Hanson. For most of my career, I tried to avoid the topic of being a woman in business, vaguely concerned that talking too much about it would hold me back in some way. My standard response: ìOh gosh, I never really think about being a woman in business. Iím just focused on getting the job done.î But Iíve been thinking about it over the past yearÖ..a lot. And itís not just because of the fairness issue, important though that is. Itís because the research and business case for the economic advancement of women is so compelling, in a world deeply in need of greater economic prosperity. This holds at the country level, where the increased participation of women moderates the political process and paves the way for a healthier economy. And it is true at the business level, where companies with greater diversity in senior management have higher returns, lower volatility, more innovation, greater customer focus, better stockholder returns and lower gender pay disparity. Despite this, the progress of women in business has plateaued. And while there has been a renewal of the national discussion on how to break this logjam, if the answer were one-dimensional, the challenge would already have been solved. The answer can be as unique to every woman as her own definition of personal and professional success. And that leads to ìwhy a professional womenís network.î Networks are beginning to operate alongside the traditional corporate structure, serving as a modern means for individuals to come together to exchange ideas and information. They enable their members to contribute to, and pull from, the network to accomplish more than the sum of the parts would indicate. Powerful connections can increasingly be made outside the C-suites, boardrooms and private clubs. The women of 85 Broads engage with one another at events and on topics such as how to establish a personal brand, how to negotiate more successfully, how to get a book published, how to make effective sales presentations, how to be a better boss, how to be more effective at social media, how to improve executive presence, how to increase resilience, how to prepare for public service, how to improve one's chance of getting on a board.....you get the point.... In doing this, networking has been shown to increase professional success: research shows that one of the ìunwritten rulesî of advancement in business has been a strong network.Öboth inside oneís workplace and, very powerfully, outside as well. Donít think of these as tired ìsupport groups;î they are instead platforms for the exchange and promotion of information and ideas, accelerating oneís acquisition of skills and knowledge. Doing so outside of oneís company exposes one to different thinking, which can be important in avoiding ìgroup think.î These benefits hold for individuals in a more traditional corporate setting, while entrepreneurs with larger and more diverse networks have been shown to grow their businesses more quickly. The next step is to move from advocacy to real investments in women, just as smart companies ñ and smart investors ñ are increasingly recognizing. I am becoming involved with and investing in 85 Broads because investing in women is smart business. And women investing in themselves and in others, as they do through the network, is even smarter business.
Americans move way more than basically everyone else on the planet. Gallup just published the below map which shows the percent of a country's population that swapped cities, internally, within the past five years. In the U.S., 24% did: Gallup Gallup says the more advanced the country, the higher likelihood they've moved as they search for better educational opportunities.¬† Other countries with a lot of internal migration include New Zealand (26%), Finland (23%), and Norway (22%) ‚Äî¬†though this does not apply universally. Younger people are also more likely to move, the survey showed.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeHomebuilder confidence climbed to 44 in April, according to the latest NAHB housing market index.  This is up 3 points from a revised reading of 41 in March. The sub-index gauging current sales conditions climbed 4 points to 48. The index gauging future sales increased by one point to 53 - the highest level since February 2007. And, the index gauging traffic of prospective buyers increased by three points to 33. Meanwhile, a look at the three-month moving averages for regional HMI showed that only the West had seen a decline of six points to 49. "Builders are noting an increased sense of urgency among potential buyers as a result of thinning inventories of homes for sale, continuing affordable mortgage rates and strengthening local economies," said NAHB Chairman Rick Judson, in a press release. ‚ÄúThis is definitely an encouraging sign even amidst rising challenges with regard to the cost and availability of building materials, lots and labor.‚Äù But mortgage borrowers finally seem to be playing a bigger role in the recovery. The National Association of Home Builders' housing market index is a sentiment index in which respondents rate not just the housing market but also the economy in general. The index draws on builder perceptions of current single-family home sales and sales expectations for the next six months. It also includes builders' expectations of traffic of prospective buyers. A reading of 50 shows that an equal number of builders view the market as good or bad.
Business InsiderSallie Krawcheck, the former head of global wealth management at Merrill Lynch, has been quiet about her next career move since leaving Wall Street. † We've been eager to find out what she will do next.† CNBC's Kate Kelly reports that Krawcheck just purchased women's networking group 85 Broads, which was once a Goldman Sachs alumnae network. 85 Broads, which was established in 1997 and named for the address of Goldman's former offices, now has 30,000 members in 130 countries. † According to CNBC's Kelly, Krawcheck may develop an investment arm for 85 Broads. †† Here's the full release:† Sallie Krawcheck†has agreed to buy†85 Broads†from founder, entrepreneur and former Goldman Sachs executive,†Janet Hanson. Founded in 1997,†85 Broads†is a global membership community of more than 30,000 women. The founding members of†85 Broads, led by Hanson, were women who worked for Goldman Sachs at 85 Broad Street, the investment banking firm's former NYC headquarters. † Over the past decade under Hanson's leadership,†85 Broads†expanded its paid membership to include female entrepreneurs and executives from diverse industries and backgrounds, many of whom are trailblazers in their fields. Members also include alumnae and students of some of the world's leading colleges, universities, and graduate schools. †85 Broads' members represent 130 countries in more than 40 regional chapters and campus clubs around the world. Krawcheck said, "It's a pleasure to become a part of†85 Broads. The energy, expertise and accomplishments of the members have amazed me. Janet's leadership and vision has built†85 Broads†into a vibrant global community of high-achieving women who are defining success on their own terms throughout every stage of their lives and careers. Our members are bold, active participants in the economy, and they represent the changing face and shape of business around the world. "Research shows that it is good business to invest in women. It creates jobs, improves business results, enhances financial stewardship and is one of the keys to global economic prosperity. I look forward to working with†85 Broads' members to expand our mission of empowering women around the world - as women invest in themselves and each other through the network. I believe we're at a tipping point of women's engagement in the economy, and our community's ability to play an important role in that is exciting, as we move from advocacy of women to the smart business of real investment in women." Janet Hanson, who will keep an ownership stake in†85 Broads†and become Chairman Emeritus, as well as an advisor to Krawcheck, †said, "I'm extraordinarily proud of the network, our members and all that we've achieved in the last 15 years. The contributions women are making to the global economy is changing rapidly, and the potential for our members to lead that change is tremendous. † "Sallie's decision to become the next steward of †85 Broads†is exciting to me because she is †passionate about the role women are playing on the global stage, and she understands the transformational power of connection. †With Sallie at the helm,†85 Broads†will enable women from all parts of the globe to advance and achieve their greatest career objectives and leadership aspirations."
We came across this amazing live camera of a mother falcon and her baby chicks nesting on†One Wells Fargo Center†skyscraper†in Charlotte, North Carolina. † If you go to†~19:40, you can see the chicks eating their breakfast. Enjoy! † Watch below: 
Throughout the market rally, which started in early 2009, haters have argued that the whole thing is a Fed-backed ponzi scheme, and that people are only jumping into stocks because of easy money and dollar debasement, not due to any fundamental reasons. But that argument has been obliterated in recent months, as a divergence has grown between stocks and commodities. If stocks and commodities move together, then you can make an argument that people are just putting their money in anything but paper currency. But when they're moving separately, that argument falls apart, because it shows that there's another fundamental driver. And that's what we see in this chart. For much of the period post-2009, stocks and oil moved together. But now oil (blue line) is weak, and stocks (red line) are making all-time highs. This move isn't just about Fed inflation and dollar debasement, for if it were we wouldn't see this commodity weakness. Fed haters lose again. FRED
Wikimedia CommonsThe latest industrial production figures for the month of April are out. U.S. industrial production contracted 0.5% after rising 0.3% in March, missing economists' estimates for a smaller, 0.2% decline. Manufacturing production fell 0.4% after declining 0.3% the month before. Economists were looking for a 0.1% increase. Production of motor vehicles and parts fell 1.3% in April. Below is a breakdown of the data across market groups: After having increased substantially in February and March, the production of consumer goods decreased¬†0.6 percent in April. The production of durable consumer goods moved down 0.8 percent; among the major¬†components of this category, home electronics posted a small gain, but decreases were recorded by automotive¬†products; appliances, furniture, and carpeting; and miscellaneous durables. The index for nondurable consumer¬†goods declined 0.5 percent as a result of a drop of 3.1 percent for consumer energy products. The index for¬†non-energy nondurables rose 0.4 percent, as increases for foods and tobacco and for chemical products¬†outweighed decreases for clothing and for paper products. Over the past 12 months, the production of consumer¬†goods rose 2.4 percent; the index for consumer durables advanced by more than 5 percent during that period,¬†while the index for non-energy nondurables increased only negligibly. The output of business equipment moved down 0.5 percent in April and was 3.4 percent above its¬†year-earlier level. The decline reÔ¨Çected similarly sized losses for all of the major business equipment categories. The index for information processing equipment declined for a fourth consecutive month after having posted a¬†sizable increase in the fourth quarter of 2012. The production of defense and space equipment decreased 0.3 percent in April following an increase of¬†0.2 percent in March. In April, the index stood 0.5 percent above its year-earlier level. Among nonindustrial supplies, the index for construction supplies moved down 0.8 percent in April after¬†having fallen 1.5 percent in March; these declines followed four months of solid gains. The output of business¬†supplies fell 1.0 percent in April after having increased in each of the Ô¨Årst three months of the year. The output of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector decreased 0.4 percent in April as a¬†result of broadly based losses among the major components of this category. The production of durable materials¬†decreased 0.4 percent. Within durable materials, the output of equipment parts edged up, but reductions were¬†recorded by consumer parts and by other durable materials. The index for nondurable materials moved down¬†0.7 percent; textile materials, paper materials, and chemical materials all posted losses. The output of energy¬†materials edged down 0.2 percent after two months of sizable gains.¬† Click here for the full release &gt;
Financial advisors and analysts are bound by strict laws.¬† And beyond those laws, they're expected to behave in an ethical manner. On top of all that, the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute (CFAI) requires its members to abide by its own Code of Ethics &amp; Standards of Professional Conduct. Indeed, the grueling CFA exams require test-takers to become intimately familiar with these guidelines.¬† They are tested heavily alongside of topics like accounting, asset valuation, and portfolio management. Once an analyst passes the CFAI's three exams and becomes a CFA charterholder, they must stick to these codes and standards or risk disciplinary actions that could eventually lead to the revocation of their CFA charters. The newest issue of the CFA Institute Magazine has a section highlighting disciplinary notices (see below).¬† They include the real world cases of analysts getting reprimanded for reportedly violating the CFAI's codes. Anyone taking the CFA exams will recognize these notices as read exactly like test questions. Anyone who is already a CFA charterholder should read these notices and a remember that the CFAI is watching you. CFA Institute Magazine
Bloomberg TV screenshotJulian Robertson's Tiger Management has filed its latest¬†13F regulatory filing¬†with the Securities and Exchange Commission.¬† During the first quarter ended March 31st, Tiger Management dumped the rest of its stake in Apple, the filing shows. The hedge fund held 42,125 shares during the fourth-quarter of 2012 ending December 31. ¬†Tiger Management did pare down its stake in Apple during the fourth quarter from 100,930 shares¬†in the previous quarter.¬† A handful of big hedge funds completely exited their Apple positions in the fourth quarter of 2012. ¬†Apple's stock was seen as a hedge fund favorite. ¬† During Q1, the fund snapped up brand new stakes in Dunkin Donuts (546,000 shares), Monsanto (192,000 shares), Moody's (393,800 shares), The McGraw Hill Companies (408,000 shares) and H&amp;R Block (849,200 shares), the filing shows.
Flickr/Dimo DimovThere's a huge debate happening in the world of economics. The debate is between the traditional Keynesians on one side (and their cousins the MMTers) and the Market Monetarists. The Keynesians argue that the primary lever the government is able to pull right now, to rescue the economy is on the fiscal side. They argue that more spending is needed to juice the economy, and that too much budget cutting will inevitably tank the economy. The Market Monetarists, who draw on the work of Milton Friedman, argue that the power all lies with the Fed. So long as the Fed adopts a framework for aggressively easing in the teeth of weakness, everything is okay. The primary advocates of this school of thinking are folks like Scott Sumner and David Beckworth, economists who advocate that the Fed adopt a Nominal GDP target. Recent developments have set the two sides up perfectly. In late 2012, the Fed adopted what's known as an "Evans Rule" that commits to low rates until employment gets much lower. At the same time, Washington DC started to raise taxes and cut spending (the sequester). So we have our perfect laboratory. The Fed is easing. The government is cutting. If the Fed is all-powerful, it should be able to counteract the sequester. If what matters is fiscal policy, then the government cutting should prove seriously problematic. With every datapoint, the two sides go back and forth. Just at the end of April, Mike Konczal writing at Wonkblog declared the Keynesians the winner, saying it was clear that the economy was slowing and that inflation expectations were falling: We rarely get to see a major, nationwide economic experiment at work, but so far 2013 has been one of those experiments ó specifically, an experiment to try and do exactly what Beckworth and Ponnuru proposed. If you look at macroeconomic policy since last fall, there have been two big moves. The Federal Reserve has committed to much bolder action in adopting the Evans Rule and QE3. At the same time, the country has entered a period of fiscal austerity. Was the Fed action enough to offset the contraction? Itís still very early, and economists will probably debate this for a generation, but, especially after the stagnating GDP report yesterday, it looks as though fiscal policy is the winner. Then yesterday, economist David Beckworth declares that the monetarists are winning. It almost seems unfair, as if the evidence is biased toward Market Monetarist's views. First it was the better-than-expected employment report last week and now it is the forecast-beating retail sales report. These developments should not be happening, especially now with sequestration, if the fiscal multiplier were large. But they are happening and underscore the case that the monetary policy can offset the drag of fiscal austerity. This latest evidence for the Sumner Critique--the understanding that fiscal multiplier will be effectively zero when the central bank is stabilizing aggregate demand--should not be surprising since the Fed has been offsetting structural austerity since 2010, a fact lost on many Keynesian-minded folks. This post-2010 period is one of the great macroeconomic natural experiments now unfolding, pitting U.S. monetary policy against U.S. fiscal policy. And then of course, just when it looks like things are going better, we get an ugly new York Fed manufacturing report. The debate continues.
The first estimates for first quarter GDP growth were released across the eurozone this morning, and the numbers leave a lot to be desired. In France, the economy contracted 0.2%, matching the pace of contraction in the fourth quarter of 2012 but missing economists' estimates for a smaller, 0.1% contraction. In Germany, GDP rose 0.1%, but the data fell short of expectations for a 0.3% advance, and the contraction in the fourth quarter was revised to 0.7% from 0.6%. In Italy, the economy shrank 0.5%, indicating a slowing pace of contraction after falling 0.9% in the fourth quarter, but missing estimates for a smaller, 0.4% contraction, and extending Italy's recession to seven straight quarters ‚Äì the longest on record. Nonetheless, markets across the eurozone are advancing today, undeterred by the bad data. "That we no longer need to deal with the consequences of bad data now rooted in policy attempts to reduce public spending means that the seemingly worsening economic picture can be treated with kid gloves," says Andrew Wilkinson, Chief Economic Strategist at Miller Tabak. Wilkinson compares the releases to a game show: Indeed one can envisage the slew of economic data being presented by a sympathetic game show host, sugar-coating the bad news first-quarter growth readings that largely missed estimates. The host knows he can keep up hope amongst the audience by softening the blow as he says that the ‚ÄúEU team‚Äù as a whole didn‚Äôt do as well as hoped ‚Äì ‚Äúbut that‚Äôs alright, because you did better than you did in the last round. So keep your spirits up, we‚Äôre getting there.‚Äù The EU-wide economy contracted by 0.2% in the first-quarter (two times as bad) but that was a lesser pace of contraction than in the fourth-quarter when output across the zone fell by 0.6%. You can see the host shuffle his prompt cards, keeping his microphone close to his mouth as he moves on to the individual performances. ‚ÄúItaly ‚Äì you shrank by 0.5% when we thought you‚Äôd do just a little better,‚Äù he says offering a stern look aimed at embarrassing the contestant. ‚ÄúBut still that‚Äôs much better than in the last round. You slipped by 0.9% then, but we‚Äôve got a long way to go.‚Äù And quickly flipping to the next card he excitedly jumps to the French contestant and claims that the Parisian contender fared just as well to start the year as he finished the last. Still, a revision up for Q4 was offset by a weaker first-quarter. GDP growth contracted by 0.2%, prompting a ‚Äúzut alors!‚Äù from the host. But the highlight of the show comes as the host turns to an exhausted-looking German contestant. ‚ÄúYou did it! You‚Äôre back in the black and as team leader you made everyone else look good!‚Äù The German economy grew by just 0.1% following a slightly deeper pace contraction than was originally reported in the fourth when the economy sank by 0.7%. The audience, however, had been looking for a better performance of 0.3% growth, but that didn‚Äôt happen as the other team members prevented him from running as fast as he really could have done. And so all said and done, the audience is taking the growth reports in its stride. The show wasn‚Äôt great, but the host delivered the news well and provided us with encouragement for the future. How could things get any worse? It's nothing new, but the saying that "bad news is good news" seems to be holding up pretty well today in the market.
Ryan J. ReillyThe New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing Survey for the month of May is out. The headline index fell to -1.43 from 3.05 in April, defying economists' prediction for a rise to 4.00. The new orders sub-component fell to -1.17 in May from 2.20 in April. The shipments sub-component fell to -0.02 from 0.75. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The May 2013 Empire State¬†Manufacturing Survey indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers declined marginally. The general business conditions index fell four points to -1.4, its first negative reading since January. The new orders index also edged into negative territory, and the shipments index fell to zero. The prices paid index declined eight points to 20.5, indicating a slowdown in selling price increases, while the prices received index was little changed at 4.6. Employment indexes were mixed, showing both a modest increase in the number of employees and a slight decline in the length of the average workweek. Indexes for the six-month outlook were generally lower, suggesting that optimism about future¬†conditions had weakened. Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr / Eric Lim PhotographyThe April reading of producer prices is out, and the numbers were right in line with expectations. The headline number fell by 0.7% month-over-month, largely due to falling energy prices.¬† This was a tad lower than the -0.6% rate expected by economists.¬† PPI climbed by 0.6% year-over-year, which was a hair higher than the 0.8% increase expected. Excluding food and energy prices, the core number was right in line with expectations increasing by 0.1% month-over-month and 1.7% year-over-year.
Michael CarrazzaPrince Harry is in New York City, and the entire town has gone completely mad about him. Today he'll play in The 3rd Annual Sentebale Royal Salute Polo Cup in Greenwich, Connecticut for†Sentebale, a charity he launched†to benefit needy children in Lesotho. And as it so often happens in Greenwich, Wall Street will be represented on the field during this invite-only affair. Michael Carrazza, the CEO of investment firm Solaia Capital and Chairman of Patriot National Bank (PNB), will be playing on the Prince's team ó the match starts at 3:00 pm. As you can imagine, gigs like this don't come around every day. Just getting into the match (let alone playing in it) has been tough. There were only 400 tickets to the event available, and the word from Greenwich is that it†sold out in March. Carrazza and Prince Harry will be joined on the Sentebale Land Rover team by amateur player Marc Ganzi and Malcolm Borwick, a regular on the England national team. The opposing side, named for its sponsor, St. Regis, will be captained by international polo star Nacho Figueras. He'll be leading Peter Orthwein, chief executive of Thor Industries; Steve Lefkowitz and Dawn Jones, wife of actor Tommy Lee Jones ó she's a top female polo player. So on to how one gets invited to play on one of these teams without being an internationally recognized polo player, a prince, or a founding member of the Greenwich Polo Club (like Orthwein). Carrazza has been an active polo player in the New York area for over a decade, but he says there are really two reasons why he was contacted and offered a spot on Prince Harry's team. "They were looking for someone with my handicap level and the fact that I'm in the community with an initiative that compliments Sentebale made me a perfect fit," said Carrazza. The initiative he's talking about is called Lend A Hand.†Starting on May 15th Carrazza's bank, PNB, will match donations up to $10,000 made to either Sentebale or the Child Guidance Center of Mid-Fairfield County, it's an organization that helps children overcome behavioral and mental health challenges and it has been especially active since last year's school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut. In Carrazza's mind, the two causes dovetail perfectly. Carrazza became Chairman of PNB back in 2010 after taking the company†through a recapitalization.†His latest project is the Siena Lending Group, a company that provides asset based lending (ABL) loans of between $1-20 million to small and mid-sized companies. The idea fills a specific need in American finance right now ó helping smaller businesses (that are ignored by big banks) get loans, and expanding the balance sheets at regional banks with high quality loans that Siena's team can originate, service and monitor. The Siena Group deal came together on April 26th, which tells you how quickly Carrazza has had to prepare for an event that will be attended by a long list of A-listers from Greenwich and beyond, like†Dan Stevens, the actor who played Downton Abbey's Matthew Crawley, fashion designer Jason Wu, and model Karolina Kurkova. So no pressure.
Flickr/vtengr4047Agricultural machinery giant Deere &amp; Co. just announced its quarterly financial results.† While earnings were stronger than expected, management cut guidance blaming unfavorable foreign currency movements. As a global supplier with vendors on the ground, Deere and its partners have an intimate understanding of what's going on in the world including China, India, and the troubled eurozone. Their latest financial results includes a 40-slide presentation on the state of business.† We pulled the 7 slides that every economists and non-Deere investor will be interested to see.
AP Photos/Seth PerlmanGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
AmazonToday we get some excellent, high-quality economic data that will give us a nice look at the state of the US economy. Via Calculated Risk, here are the numbers, expectations, and times. ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for May will be released. The consensus is for a reading of 3.75, up from 3.05 in April (above zero is expansion). ‚Ä¢ At 9:15 AM, The Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for April. The consensus is for a 0.2% decrease in Industrial Production in March, and for Capacity Utilization to decrease to 78.3%. ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, The May NAHB homebuilder survey. The consensus is for a reading of 43, up from 42 in April. This index has decreased recently with some builders complaining about higher costs nd lack of buildable land. Any number below 50 still indicates that more builders view sales conditions as poor than good. The homebuilder survey at 10:00 AM will be particularly interesting. It's a good gauge of the housing market (which is generally seen as being in a nice upswing lately), and yet this number has been stalling out lately.
One of the huge divergences in the markets is between commodities and stocks. We've already talked this morning about the weakness in precious metals, but it actually extends beyond that to the industrial space as well. Copper is looking bad today, as you can see via FinViz: FinViz One of the popular arguments is that markets are in the midst of a bubble being inflated by the Fed, and for a long time, proponents of this argument pointed to the strength in hard assets (gold, silver, industrial commodities) as proof of that the whole rally was about a flight from debased currency. But as these divergences exacerbate, and commodities continue to weaken (as stocks make all-time highs) these arguments look more tenuous, to say the least.
gracey / FlickrYesterday on CNBC, bullish hedge fund manager David Tepper held up a chart from the New York Fed, which basically showed that relative to bonds, stocks are very cheap, and that therefore it made sense to continue to buy stocks. As we noted later in the day, a number of investors are using the same rationale to invest in stocks. Big names like Birinyi, Damodaran, and Goldman's Jim O'Neill are also keen to look at stocks this way (which is called the Equity Risk Premium). In his latest "Closing Print" email, Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading expresses surprise that so many investors are all making the same relative-value argument. There were two metrics today over which the market became excited.¬† We highlighted the Fed study about Equities being inexpensive when it came out.¬† The number of investors who have piled on to this analysis is remarkable.¬† As we noted last week, the NY Fed even noted it was not on account of the earnings or dividend outlook, but it was the low interest rate outlook.¬† ‚ÄúWe find that the equity risk premium is high mainly due to exceptionally low Treasury yields at all foreseeable horizons.‚Äù¬† Thus stocks are inexpensive because investors are extrapolating the current artificially low interest rate environment into the future indefinitely.¬† None of this is to say that stocks are going to fall, but O'Rourke sees the same thing that we did, that with stocks continuing to push to all-time highs, a lot of big names are making a relative-value case, rather than a case based on fundamentals.
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesFresh European GDP data is out today, and it reinforces what a terrible slump Europe and the Eurozone are in. GDP in the quarter shrank 0.2%, which is worse than the 0.1% shrinkage that had been expected. From Eurostat: GDP fell by 0.2% in the euro area (EA17) and by 0.1% in the EU271 during the first quarter of 2013, compared with the previous quarter, according to flash estimates published by Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. In the fourth quarter of 2012, growth rates were -0.6% and -0.5% respectively. Compared with the same quarter of the previous year, seasonally adjusted GDP fell by 1.0% in the euro area and by 0.7% in the EU27 in the first quarter of 2013, after -0.9% and -0.6% respectively in the previous quarter. The individual, by country numbers, are quite depressing. Italy and Spain both saw GDP drop 0.5%. Germany which, you know, is the "strong man" of Europe only saw 0.1% growth. French GDP fell 0.2%. The good news in Europe, at least, is that the anti-austerity chatter is taking hold, so perhaps green shoots are due. The bad news is that this is now the Eurozone's longest-ever slump.
government bondLONDON (Reuters) - Debt may be everywhere but there's a scarcity of bonds. With governments awash with debt and furiously selling new securities to fund bloated budget deficits, the idea of a bond shortage on the marketplace may sound puzzling. Yet not only is "quantitative easing" by the world's major central banks sucking benchmark bonds out of the system, new regulations to strengthen banks and derivatives markets that effectively ring-fence bond holdings at commercial banks has raised concerns about a lack of bonds to lubricate the system. And while Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke claims to be monitoring any sign of a reckless "reaching for yield" among investors as government and corporate borrowing costs sink around the globe, the skew in supply and demand for bonds speaks volumes. JPMorgan estimates that the world's central banks and commercial banks alone now hold some $24 trillion worth of bonds - or 55 percent of the entire $44 trillion universe of government, asset-backed and corporate bonds as captured by Barclays Multiverse Global Bond Index. What's more, these players hold more than two thirds of the government bond subset, which amounts to about $25 trillion. "That's why we are in such a depressed bond yield environment," said JPMorgan economist Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou. Cumulative bond buying since 2008 by four major central banks alone - the Fed, Bank of Japan, European Central Bank and Bank of England - reached more than $4 trillion this year. Added to existing holdings, that brings their total to $5.2 trillion. With new Fed purchases of Treasury bonds set to top $1 trillion in 2013 and Bank of Japan bond buying more than half that amount, the year-end total will be about $6.5 trillion. And as both the Fed's and the Bank of Japan's bond buying will exceed new bond sales by their governments by at least $100 billion this year, there will be fewer bonds around this year than last despite all the new debt sales. Add to that $8.7 trillion of bonds estimated to be held by central banks in China and around the globe to bank their hard cash reserves, and $10 trillion of bonds held by commercial banks in the G4 developed economies to hold down risk-weightings on their assets - then there's not much left for everyone else. With banks viewing Treasury bonds as a direct substitute for cash or "excess reserves" with slightly higher returns, the remaining bonds in the banking system get passed around like "hot potatoes" and yields converge, said Panigirtzoglou. The central point of JPMorgan's number crunch was to show the remaining $20 trillion of the bond universe, held by non-banks such as pension, insurance, mutual and hedge funds, means the investment world is unlikely to be as overweight bonds as many had assumed. That total, they reckon, would only amount to about 30 percent of their combined bond and equity holdings. And this tallies with asset managers, who are already eschewing what they consider to be scarce and over-expensive government debt in favor of often higher-yielding if lower quality corporate and emerging market bonds. "Bizarrely, despite all this debt issuance there is a shortage of bonds," said Alan Higgins, Chief Investment Officer at British private bank Coutts, adding there were plenty of signs of what he called "leakage" within the more conservative fixed income funds to higher-risk securities as a result. BOND DROUGHT? What's more, this bond drought on the investment markets has added to growing concern about a shortage of high quality collateral - typically top-rated bonds - pledged and repledged within the financial system to raise cash. For example, the latest meeting of the U.S. Treasury and bond market participants - the quarterly Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee - discussed the problem late last month. It concluded that with AAA- and AA-rated sovereign borrowers selling an estimated $2 trillion of new bonds annually, supply of this high-quality collateral would probably be two to three times demand in normal conditions. However, it said demand could well approach $10 trillion in "stressed markets". This concern about having enough collateral available to generate credit within the financial system refocuses on a central aspect of the banking crisis and its aftermath. International Monetary Fund economist Manmohan Singh has in a number of papers over the past year estimated that interbank mistrust and banks' narrowing definition of acceptable collateral reduced the re-use or re-pledging rate by the big banks to about 2.4 times from 3.0 before the crisis, involving a drop of up to $5 trillion in the cash generated by the banks. That's more than the cash injected by the central banks' bond-buying programs since 2008 and for many this reduced "velocity" of cash-like collateral within the system helps explain why credit in the economy at large is still stalled. For Singh, it's the rise in ëidle' or 'silo-ed' collateral due to institutional ring-fencing - QE, new bank capital and derivatives markets regulation and central bank reserve management and the like - that policymakers now need to watch closely. (Editing by Ruth Pitchford) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Instagram/skyeedlerIt almost seems unfair, as if the evidenced is biased toward Market Monetarist's views. First it was the better-than-expected employment report last week and now it is the forecast-beating retail sales report. These developments should not be happening, especially now with sequestration, if the fiscal multiplier were large. But they are happening and underscore the case that the monetary policy can offset the drag of fiscal austerity. This latest evidence for the Sumner Critique--the understanding that fiscal multiplier will be effectively zero when the central bank is stabilizing aggregate demand--should not be surprising since the Fed has been offsetting structural austerity since 2010, a fact lost on many Keynesian-minded folks. This post-2010 period is one of the great macroeconomic natural experiments now unfolding, pitting U.S. monetary policy against U.S. fiscal policy.1 This multi-year natural experiment has not be lost on all observers. Jeff Spross of Think Progress takes note of it: It hasnít really made the front pages, but the United States recently began carrying out a massive and nearly unprecedented economic experiment, and 2013 looks to be the year when the results come in. The question is straightforward: When the economy is in a deep slump, and the government makes things worse by cutting spending, how much can monetary policy do to help? The answer could reshape the way we argue about economic policy, with profound implications for progressivesí economic priorities ó and big opportunities, if they can seize them. So far, progressives have tended to side with economists like Paul Krugman and bloggers like Mike Konczal. They argue that monetary policy is severely weakened at the zero lower bound... But economists like David Beckworth and Scott Sumner countered that the economyís 2.5 percent growth rate stuck around despite blows from multiple rounds of spending cuts, the European crisis, and worries about China. In fact, as Beckworth pointed out, government spending began shrinking by the start of 2010 ó yet the economy just kept puttering along at 2.5 percent. Other points in Beckworth and Sumnerís favor: Before sequestration, the latest round of across-the-board spending cuts, began, the group Macroeconomic Advisors projected growth for the first quarter below 2.5 percent if sequestration didnít happen. Then the May 3 jobs report, which came out after Konczalís piece, was so good it was almost shocking. Matt Yglesias and Ryan Avent, two other fans of monetary policyís salutary effects, pointed to other data sources that suggest the Fed actually has been able to raise long-term inflation expectations. So this looks like at least a preliminary win for team monetary policy. In my view, the most important insight from this "radical experiment" is not that monetary policy can effectively make the fiscal multiplier zero, but that it could be doing far more to shore up aggregate demand. The fact that the Fed has successfully offset structural fiscal austerity since 2010--as seen by the stable NGDP growth--suggest it could do far more. The Fed has made big strides with QE3, but has yet to unload both barrels of guns. It is time for a NGDP level target. 1† The other, great macroeconomic experiment now unfolding is Abenomics in Japan.
UK just came out with labor data, and one chart from the report really stands out: Average annual wage growth. It just hit its lowest level since the crisis. Ons.gov.uk
Itís no secret that I am skeptical of the approach to stimulus via Abenomics. †I think itís potentially creating a very dangerous disequilibrium in markets like their stock market that could cause more economic turbulence than stability. †But one thing I definitely donít think is that Abenomics is going to bankrupt Japan or cause the bond vigilantes to suddenly spring to life. †And thatís what many have been implying in recent days. So Iíd like to briefly put things in perspective here. †The chart below is a 30 year chart of the 10 year Japanese Government Bond yield. †As you can see, weíve experienced a sharp decline from 8% to under 1% at present. †That little tiny box in the bottom right hand corner shows the ìspikeî that many are now discussing as a sign of impending doom. †I blew it up for you so you could see whatís happened ñ weíre all the way back to levels seenÖ.in January of this year. Iím being a bit sarcastic here of course, but in all seriousness ñ donít panic over the yield spike. †In the grand scheme of things it takes more than a magnifying glass to actually notice itÖ. PragCap.com
It's happening again. Gold and silver are lin liquidation mode. Both of the two precious metals are back to being taken to the woodshed. Gold looks at risk of breaking below $1400/oz. again. KITCO And silver is just plain ugly. KITCO The end of the world trade (which explains a lot of gold's appeal) is looking less and less likely to play out as the precious metal bugs had anticipated. Meanwhile, improving economic fortunes makes it less appealing to have money in rocks. And big picture, now that the rally in gold is no longer seen as bulletproof, there just isn't the same speculative excitement.
Flickr / zilverbat.Shocker: Japan had another big spike last night. The Nikkei rallied over 2.2%, surpassing 15,000 for the first time since the end of 2007. This has just become so repetitive, it's not even funny. Meanwhile, other markets are going nowhere, and things are quiet. Italy, Germany, and France are all virtually flat. So are US futures. Like Japan, the US has been in something of a melt-up mode lately, often starting the day quietly, but then taking off on any kind of good news.
