Flickr/MattHurstThis week's JOLTS report brought us new data on the state of the U.S. job market†ó and it was a mixed bag.† While the U.S. added 120,000 jobs and layoffs dropped more than 12%, quits and hiring painted a less optimistic picture. Nick Colas at ConvergEx Group highlighted the three major takeaways from the BLS' report. Colas pointed out that this economic cocktail is particularly hard to stomach for young college graduates. More than half of employed recent grads are in jobs where a college degree is not a prerequisite, Colas notes. "Truly 'Discouraged workers?' Check. Mismatched skills? Check. Weakened purchasing power? Yep, that too.† Especially problematic is that we are not talking about the working population as a whole.† These are the kids in line to inherit leadership positions in an uncertain economyÖ and look how theyíre starting off," he writes.
AP ImagesStarbucks CEO Howard Shultz ripped into Bill Ackman over the activist investor's aggressive letters to JCPenney's board on CNBC's "The Closing Bell" with Maria Bartiromo. Ackman's letters are calling for a new CEO within the next 30 to 45 to replace interim CEO Mike Ullman, who returned after Ron Johnson stepped down. The activist investor also wants the board's chairman Tom Engibous replaced with Allen Questrom. † Here's what we've transcribed part of Shultz's interview with CNBC's Maria Bartiromo:† "... I think what we've all witnessed, though, the last 24 hours, is such a despicable act. Something so irresponsible that a board member of an existing public company would release and leak an email without sharing it with the board or the CEO is beyond comprehension. †But the story is worse than that. Here's the situation and this is the truth. This is not fiction. Bill Ackman was the primary engineer and architect of recruiting Ron Johnson to the company and he and Ron Johnson co-authored the strategy that fractured the company and ruined the lives of thousands of JCPenney employees and fractured shareholder value."† "My problem is ... Mike Ullman graciously came back to change the company and worked tirelessly and given the time and support from the board I'm very confident he will do just that. And there's one other thing. Bill Ackman released an email today that said that Mike Ullman is not communicating with him and the board. When Mike decided to come back, I shared with him verbatim all the things that I did during the transformation with Starbucks and he used many of those communication tactics, including emailing and communicating with board weekly as well as with employees. So this is a tragic example of an irresponsible, despicable act. This isn't about Mike Ullman for me it's about financial engineering and people who do things for their own benefit and as a result fracture the goodwill, shareholder value and life of hardworking people ... Mike Ullman is a world class CEO and fantastic leader."† [phone breaks up and rejoins the program] "... What I was trying to say, Maria, is that Mike Ullman came back really to try and save the company. What's so perverse here is that he's trying to save the company that Bill Ackman has basically done severe damage to and for Ackman to do what he's done in the last 24 hours is not only irresponsible but it's destructive behavior. If I was sitting on that board, I would be asking for Bill Ackman's removal." † Shultz is not a shareholder in JCPenney and he has never met Ackman.† Ackman is the largest shareholder in JCPenney with a nearly 18% stake. Since Sept. 28, 2010, the date of his initial†13D regulatory filing†on†JCPenney,†shares of the retailer have tumbled more than 47%. Watch the full video below:† 
An excerpt from a post by Cardiff Garcia at FT Alphaville: Shrinking US deficit update, and a new debt ceiling projection From a note this morning by economists at Barclays: The US federal budget deficit has been improving at a dramatic pace in recent months. As a percent of GDP, the deficit peaked at 10.2% of GDP in the four quarters ending in Q4 09; over the past four quarters, it has totaled 4.2% of GDP, down from 7.7% one year earlier. On Monday, the Treasury will release the monthly update of the Federal Government deficit¬†for July. The report is expected to show that the deficit for the current calendar year will be¬†close to¬†the Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) projections in May. ¬† The CBO already released their Monthly Budget Review for July 2013: The federal government incurred a deficit of $96 billion in July 2013, CBO estimates, $27 billion more than the shortfall in the same month last year. But that comparison is distorted by quirks of the calendar: Because July 1, 2012, fell on a Sunday, certain payments that ordinarily would have been made in July were made earlier, reducing outlays in July 2012 by about $36 billion. No such payment shift occurred in July 2013. Without that shift in the timing of payments in 2012, the deficit for July 2013 would have been $10 billion less than the deficit for July 2012. Watch out for reports that don't mention the timing issue! For the current fiscal year (ends September 30th), the CBO¬†is projecting a deficit of 4.0%.¬† This is down sharply from 7.0% last year.¬† And the CBO expects the deficit to fall to 2.1% of GDP in 2015. Calculated RiskClick on graph for larger image. This graph, based on the CBO's May projections, shows the actual (purple) budget deficit each year as a percent of GDP, and an estimate for the next¬†ten years based on estimates from the CBO. After 2015, the deficit will start to increase again according to the CBO, but as I've noted before, we really don't want to reduce the deficit much faster than this path¬†over the next few years, because that will be too much of a drag on the economy.
However, a quick look at history tells us that this time is not really different.¬† In March of 2008 I was giving a seminar discussing why we had already likely entered into a recession and that a market swoon of mass proportions was approaching.¬† While the advice fell on deaf ears as we were in a¬†"Goldilocks"¬†economy, and¬†"subprime"¬†was contained, the bubble ended just a few short months later as it was no "different" then versus any other time in history, or, even now.¬†¬†The slide below was from the presentation: Street Talk Live Of course, the next time I make this presentation I will have to add¬†"Central Bank Interventions"¬†to the list. The reality is that markets cycle from peaks to troughs as excesses built up during the up cycle are liquidated.¬† The chart below shows the secular cycles of the market going back to¬†1871 adjusted for inflation. Street Talk Live This time is not different.¬† The excesses being built up in the markets today will eventually be reverted¬†just as they have been at every other peak in market history. There are 10 basic investment rules that have historically kept investors out of trouble over the long term.¬† These are not unique by any means but rather a list of investment rules that in some shape, or form, has been uttered by every great investor in history. 1)¬†You are a speculator - not an investor Unlike Warren Buffet who takes control of a company and can affect its financial direction -¬†you can only speculate on the future price someone is willing to pay you for the pieces of paper you own today.¬† Like any professional gambler - the secret to¬†long term success¬†was best sung by Kenny Rogers;¬†"You gotta know when to hold'em...know when to fold'em" 2) Asset allocation is the key to winning the "long game" In today's highly correlated world there is little diversification between equity classes.¬† Therefore, including other asset classes, like fixed income which provides a return of capital function with an income stream, can reduce portfolio volatility.¬† Lower volatility portfolios outperforms over the long term by reducing the emotional mistakes caused by large portfolio swings. 3) You can't "buy low" if you don't "sell high" Most investors do fairly well at¬†"buying"¬†but stink at¬†"selling."¬† The reason is purely emotional driven primarily by¬†"greed"¬†and¬†"fear."¬† Like pruning and weeding a garden;¬†a solid discipline of regularly taking profits, selling laggards¬†and rebalancing the allocation leads to a healthier portfolio over time. 4) No investment discipline works all the time - however, sticking to discipline works always. Growth,¬†value, international, small cap or bonds all¬†have had times when they topped the charts in terms of return.¬† However, like everything in life, investment styles cycle.¬†¬†There are times when¬†growth outperforms value, or international is the place to be, but¬†then it changes.¬† The problem is that by the time investors realize what¬†is working they are late rotating into it.¬† This is why the truly great investors stick to their discipline in good times and bad.¬† Over the long term - sticking to what you know, and understand, will perform better than continually jumping from the¬†"frying pan into the fire." Street Talk Live 5) Losing capital is destructive.¬† Missing an opportunity is not. As any good poker player knows - once you run out of chips you are out of the game.¬† This is why knowing both¬†"when"¬†and¬†"how much"¬†to bet is critical to winning the game.¬† The problem for most investors is that they are consistently betting¬†"all in all of the time."¬†as they are afraid of¬†"missing out."¬† The reality is that opportunities to invest in the market come along as often as taxi cabs in New York city.¬† However, trying to make up lost capital by not paying attention to the risk is a much more difficult thing to do. 6) You most valuable, and irreplaceable commodity, is "time." Since the turn of the century investors have recovered, theoretically, from two massive bear market corrections.¬† After 13 years investors are now back to where they were in 2000 if we don't adjust for inflation.¬† The problem is that the one commodity that has been lost, and can never be recovered, is¬†"time." For investors getting back to even is not an investment strategy.¬† We are all¬†"savers"¬†that have a limited amount of time within which to save money for our retirement.¬† If we were 15 years from retirement in 2000 - we are now staring it in the face with no more to show for it than what we had over a decade ago.¬† Do not discount the value of "time" in your investment strategy. 7) Don't mistake a¬†"cyclical trend"¬†as an¬†"infinite direction" There is an old Wall Street axiom that says the¬†"trend is your friend."¬† Investors always tend to extrapolate the current trend into infinity.¬† In 2007 the markets were expected to continue to grow as investors piled into the market top.¬† In late 2008 individuals were convinced that the market was going to zero.¬† Extremes are never the case.¬† It is important to remember that the¬†"trend is your friend"¬†as long as you are paying attention to, and respecting, its direction.¬† Get on the wrong side of the trend and it can become your worst enemy. 8) If you think you have it figured out - sell everything. Individuals go to college to become doctors, lawyers and even circus clowns.¬† Yet, every day, individuals pile into one of the most complicated games on the planet with their hard earned savings with little, or no, education at all.¬† For most individuals, when the markets are rising, their success breeds confidence.¬† The longer the market rises; the more individuals attribute their success to their own skill.¬† The reality is that a rising market covers up the multitude of investment mistakes that individuals make by taking on excessive risk, poor asset selection or¬†weak management skills.¬† These errors¬†are¬†revealed by the forthcoming correction. 9) Being a contrarian is tough, lonely and generally right. Howard Marks once wrote that:¬† "Resisting ‚Äì and thereby achieving success as a contrarian ‚Äì isn't easy. Things combine to make it difficult; including natural herd tendencies and the pain imposed by being out of step, since momentum invariably makes pro-cyclical actions look correct for a while. (That's why it's essential to remember that 'being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong.') Given the uncertain nature of the future, and thus the difficulty of being confident your position is the right one ‚Äì especially as price moves against you ‚Äì it's challenging to be a lonely contrarian." The best investments are generally made when going against the herd.¬† Selling to the"greedy"¬†and buying from the¬†"fearful"¬†are extremely difficult things to do without a very strong investment discipline, management protocol and intestinal fortitude.¬†¬†For most investors¬†the reality is that they are inundated by¬†"media chatter" which keeps them from making logical and intelligent investment decisions regarding their money which, unfortunately, leads to bad outcomes.¬† 10) Benchmarking performance only benefits Wall Street The best thing you can do for your portfolio is to quite benchmarking it against a random market index that has absolutely nothing to do with your goals, risk tolerance or time horizon.¬† Tom Dorsey summed this up well by stating that: "Comparison in the financial arena is the main reason clients have trouble patiently sitting on their hands, letting whatever process they are comfortable with work for them. They get waylaid by some comparison along the way and lose their focus. If you tell a client that they made 12% on their account, they are very pleased. If you subsequently inform them that 'everyone else' made 14%, you have made them upset. The whole financial services industry, as it is constructed now, is predicated on making people upset so they will move their money around in a frenzy. Money in motion creates fees and commissions. The creation of more and more benchmarks and style boxes is nothing more than the creation of more things to COMPARE to, allowing clients to stay in a perpetual state of outrage." The only benchmark that matters to you is the¬†annual return¬†that is specifically required to obtain your retirement goal in the future.¬† If that rate is 4% then trying to obtain 6% more than doubles the risk you have to take to achieve that return.¬† The end result is that by taking on more risk than is necessary will¬†put your further away from your goal than you intended when something inevitably goes¬†wrong. It's all in the risk Robert Rubin, former Secretary of the Treasury, changed the way I thought about risk when he wrote: "As I think back over the years, I have been guided by four principles for decision making.¬† First, the only certainty is that there is no certainty.¬† Second, every decision, as a consequence, is a matter of weighing probabilities.¬† Third, despite uncertainty we must decide and we must act.¬† And lastly, we need to judge decisions not only on the results, but on how they were made. Most people are in denial about uncertainty.¬† They assume they're lucky, and that the unpredictable can be reliably forecast.¬† This keeps business brisk for palm readers, psychics, and stockbrokers, but it's a terrible way to deal with uncertainty.¬† If there are no absolutes, then all decisions become matters of judging the probability of different outcomes, and the costs and benefits of each.¬† Then, on that basis, you can make a good decision." It should be obvious that an honest assessment of uncertainty leads to better decisions, but the benefits of Rubin's approach goes beyond that.¬† For starters, although it may seem contradictory, embracing uncertainty reduces risk while denial increases it.¬† Another benefit of¬†"acknowledged uncertainty"¬†is it keeps you honest.¬† A healthy respect for uncertainty, and a focus on probability, drives you never to be satisfied with your conclusions.¬† It keeps you moving forward to seek out more information, to question conventional thinking and to continually refine your judgments and understanding that difference between certainty and likelihood can make all the difference. The reality is that we can't control outcomes; the most we can do is influence the probability of certain outcomes which is why the day to day management of risks and investing based on probabilities, rather than possibilities, is important not only to capital preservation but to investment success over time.
APHoward Schultz, Chairman & CEO of Starbucks, established the company's European headquarters in Amsterdam in 2002.The infighting among JCPenney's board, sparked by Bill Ackman's letter announcing he was looking for a new CEO, escalated after he published another scathingly critical letter today. His fellow board members called his suggestion to fire CEO Myron Ullman "disruptive and counterproductive." In comments to The Wall Street Journal, Starbucks CEO Howard Schulz joined the critics, calling Ackman's actions "despicable," and claiming that he has "severely damaged the company."† Here's the full quote:† "Mike is working tirelessly to save this company, and it is despicable of Ackman to leak a letter asking for his removal," said Howard Schultz, the chief executive of Starbucks Corp., on whose board Mr. Ullman sits. "The irony is that Ackman himself has every step of the way severely damaged this company." He doubled down when speaking to The Financial Times, calling Ackman a "destroyer of companies," and his actions "disgusting." "As someone who runs a public company, Iím speaking out on behalf of people whose livelihoods can be destroyed by people like this," Schultz adds. Schultz previously called Ullman's decision to return and help turn the company around "heroic." Like Ullman, Schultz stepped down as CEO then came back when Starbucks was in serious trouble.† He was also no big fan of Ackman's hand-picked CEO, Ron Johnson, who was ousted after just 16 months when the company's stock plummeted, telling the FT that "Bill Ackman has blood on his hands for being the one who brought Ron Johnson in."†
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more, visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. RITHOLTZ: Why It Is Important For Asset Managers To Be Able To Admit That They Don't Always Know (The Big Picture) In investing, many people make forecasts and then marry themselves to these forecasts. But Barry Ritholtz of Fusion IQ argues that this sort of thing "usually leads to catastrophic results." Instead, he writes that he takes pride in saying "I don't know." "In the world of investing, recognizing what you do not know and therefore should not be betting on is paramount. It is an important trait for an investor/asset manager to own. Too many people assume they are making decisions based on what they know, but oftentimes their decisions are based on what they think they know but really donít." Ritholtz says this ability is important not just because it "prevents you from being blindsided," but "it shifts your focus to process over outcome," and because it "prevents you from being fooled by randomness." Advisors Need To Help Young Clients Prioritize Different Financial Buckets (The Wall Street Journal) Young adults can be overwhelmed by all the different financial buckets that they are faced with (like housing, emergency funds, 401(k) plans, insurance and so on), writes Rand Spero of Massachusetts-based Street Smart Financial in a new WSJ column. Instead, Spero writes that advisors should help them prioritize these buckets and remind them that not all of them need to be filled now. "I see there are three problems with focusing on too many buckets: potentially filling the wrong bucket first, becoming overwhelmed and therefore doing nothing, and potentially purchasing a financial product without considering whether it's truly a priority. To avoid these problems, advisers need to help clients come up with a systematic plan for saving." TOM LEE: I Had Lunch With 80 Wealth Advisers, And What They Told Me Has Me More Bullish (JP Morgan) JPMorgan's chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee already has an S&amp;P 500 price target of 1,775. But after meeting with 80 wealth advisors he writes that he is even more bullish than before. "A final but interesting anecdote, at a large group lunch earlier this week with 80 or so wealth advisors, we heard how most individual investors are spectators in the equity markets, having a greater share of their assets in bonds, particularly munis ñ apparently, stocks are for 'other people' (who want to take the risk). "In our view, sentiment tends to have contrarian implications ñ that is, if investors are generally (anecdotally) cautious, this suggests that a lot of the negatives are already reflected in current prices. Consequently, as much as investors are concerned about a potential pullback (which we acknowledge is possible), the current caution suggests better implied risk/reward." BofA Has Been Wildly Successful At Selling The 'Great Rotation' To Retail Clients ó And That's About It (Business Insider) We heard a lot of chatter about the 'Great Rotation' out of bond funds and into equity funds. But our Matthew Boesler writes that Bank of America was successful in pushing this, with its retail investors pouring $23 billion into equity funds, and redeeming $21 billion from funds invested in bonds and cash. But a look at investors from EPFR Global which reports fund flow data, not just BAML clients, shows that money market funds have seen large cash outflows. Equity funds have seen a lot of inflows, but money has also flowed into bonds. "Thus, while BAML has been wildly successful in selling the concept of the 'Great Rotation' to its private clients (retail investors), the rest of the investment community isn't necessarily buying it," writes Boesler. Here's a look at BAML's retail investors: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy And this chart shows EPFR fund flows: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Investors Who Are Tired Of Rebalancing Their Portfolios Have Plenty Of Other Options (Morningstar) Investors who are tired of rebalancing their portfolios should consider allocation funds according to Morningstar's Cara Esser. If investors want something other than a target fund, i.e. funds in which asset allocation tends to become more conservative as this date approaches. Instead Esser suggest allocation funds, with the options of conservative-allocation funds, which place more of an emphasis on bonds and related securities (50-80%) and 20-50% in stocks. Investors also have moderate-allocation funds and aggressive-allocation funds. "Overall, allocation funds can offer investors some respite from rebalancing between equity and fixed-income funds, but a solid understanding of the underlying strategy is imperative," she writes.
pinguino via flickrThis week, a Texas judge ruled that Bitcoin can be considered a formal currency in a case regarding a man who allegedly ran a Bitcoin ponzi scheme. The ruling allows the SEC to go forward with its prosecution. Bitcoin firms are welcoming the ruling.†Alan Silbert, the CEO of luxury goods site BitPremier, told us by email that the opinion signaled nothing more than growing pains. "It's just part of the process of the Fed and State governments going through the learning process and feeling out how to handle virtual currencies." Indeed, the number of regulatory bodies taking a shot at classifying Bitcoin keeps rising: FinCen, the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ruled in March that Bitcoin money transmitters must register with the government, and that the Texas ruling itself was borne of an SEC enforcement action.why the Justice Department's crackdown on another digital currency meant increased regulation was likely. Patrick Murck, chief counsel for the Bitcoin Foundation, an organization that promotes and serves as an unofficial custodian of the currency, told us that by now, any business hoping to legitimately traffic in Bitcoin has already taken legal precautions. "I don't know any sane person that hasn't already learned this lesson," he told us by phone. He continued: There was time of what I like to call 'Bitcoin magical thinking' ó 'I can run a sports betting site in the US'... You can't run a Ponzi scheme just because Bitcoin is the medium of exchange ó that the use of Bitcoin will somehow magically make Bitcoins jurisdiction-proof. If you're operating a money transmission business, it doesn't you're not a money transmitter, you're just one that uses a new technology. But some are interpreting the case as another sign that one of the most important features of Bitcoin ó its lack of rigorous regulation ó†is eroding. For Bloomberg View's Timothy Lavin, Bitcoin will end up suffering from its own legitimization: The closer Bitcoin gets to being an accepted currency, the less useful it will be as a method of exchange. And the less useful it is as a method of exchange, the harder it is to see why it has any value at all. Almost all the advantages Bitcoin has -- it's cheap, somewhat convenient, anonymous, free from centralized authority -- derive from the fact that governments haven't taken it very seriously. As the Texas case shows, that's changing.† Several members of BitForum, one of the largest Bitcoin discussion group, published† comments like the one here which seemed to reflect that view: †† Bitcoin being a currency means now the entire banking infra can enforce laws and policies on bitcoin. Welcome to fees, regulation, and loss of freedom.  Silbert dismisses the notion that increased scrutiny will dampen the currency's popularity:  I don't see any waning interest in bitcoins because of what has transpired to-date - quite to the contrary, adoption and investment in the space keep growing.†  Furthermore, Bitcoin is international. †The US has only 5% of the world's people and there will be many countries with more favorable regulatory attitudes towards Bitcoin. †Companies can move to a more favorable regulatory climate if it got that bad in the U.S. †And of course Bitcoin is decentralized and can't be shut down anyway. It's wasn't immediately clear how Bitcoin prices responded to the Texas ruling, which was first published Monday. Prices stayed flat until Thursday, when they suddenly fell. They finished the week down nearly -3% at $103. The next shoe to drop will likely be from the CFTC and Bart Chilton, who said in May that the agency was monitoring Bitcoin derivative products.
REUTERS/ Jim YoungPresident Obama said he has a range of outstanding candidates to be the next Federal Reserve chair in a press conference this afternoon. The new Fed leader should have an eye on inflation, promote growth, but focus on reducing unemployment, the president noted. The conversation diverted from national security, the intended topic, when CBS News' Major Garrett asked the president to respond to reports that Larry Summers heads the pack to replace Ben Bernanke when his term ends in January. Obama said both Summers and Janet Yellen, the Fed's Vice Chair and reportedly Summers' main competition, were "outstanding candidates," though in a slip of the tongue, Obama called the Vice Chair "Mr. Yellen" (Yellen's husband, George Akerlof, is actually a Nobel Prize-winning economist, for what it's worth). Obama said he decided to push back against those bad-mouthing his former economic adviser because Summers was "getting slapped around the press for no reason." The president joked that he would defend any pal under fire, even Garrett, the reporter who asked the question. Obama ended his response by reiterating that a decision on the next Fed head would come in the fall.
In the mutual fund space, some of the most popular and well-known allocation funds are target-date mutual funds. These days, many 401(k) plans include target-date funds, allowing investors to simply choose their expected retirement date and let the funds' managers do the rest (this usually means following a preset "glide path" that places more emphasis on bonds as the retirement date approaches). If you're interested in target-date mutual funds, you can read the latest Morningstar research on them¬†here. An alternative to target-date offerings are funds that hold both equity and fixed-income securities, usually within specified bands, moving into and out of asset classes more fluidly than a predetermined glide path. Within allocation funds, investors will find a variety of "neutral allocations" (a starting point for allocating to equity versus fixed-income instruments) and strategies. Some will be tactical, others will follow a more static allocation--for example, 70% to equity and 30% to fixed-income, with little deviation during various market cycles. Morningstar identifies three categories of domestic allocation funds based on historical portfolio weightings between equities and fixed-income instruments. (World-allocation funds fall into their own category, and it's within this category that we've seen the broadest range of strategies and asset mixes. For that reason, we do not include it in this discussion.) Conservative-allocation funds tend to place more emphasis on fixed income and less on equities, typically investing 20%-50% in equities and 50%-80% in bonds and related securities. Moderate-allocation funds are more slanted toward stocks but generally keep these allocations to 50%-70%, with the remainder in fixed income. Finally, Aggressive-allocation funds are the most heavily invested in equities, generally allocating 70%-90% of the portfolio to them. Keep in mind that funds and managers can allocate to various sectors and industries within equities and fixed income. And, in terms of fixed-income securities, allocations may be to any number of income-generating securities including high-yield or investment-grade corporate bonds, convertible securities, preferred stock, government bonds, or mortgage- or asset-backed bonds, to name a few.¬† That asset mix can materially affect a fund's risk/reward profile and will affect what investors can reasonably expect from a fund's performance. As a result, before buying a fund, it's important to understand which securities the fund has held in the past and whether the manager moves within sectors frequently, chooses to remain invested in a certain type of fixed-income security, or prefers a certain sector such as financials or utilities. Knowing those characteristics increases the chance of investors using an allocation effectively.¬† Returns and RiskWhile the Morningstar Categories refer to mutual funds, closed-end funds, and exchange-traded funds, Table 1 below highlights the 23 domestic allocation funds within the CEF universe with a least a one-year track record. On a total-return basis, many of the funds have fared well over the latest three-year period and nearly all have positive annualized returns over the five-year period ending Aug. 2, 2013. Note that many of the funds on the list use leverage, magnifying returns. Compared with¬†SPDR S&amp;P 500¬†(SPY)¬†all have underperformed over the three-year period, but five-year numbers (which include 2008) look stronger likely because of the allocation funds' bond holdings, which generally held up better during the crash than equities. Due to that defensive aspect and the recent years' bull market in bonds, it should not surprise investors that the average conservative-allocation fund has outpaced the average moderate- and aggressive-allocation fund over the past five years (a category average gain of 10% versus 8% and 6%). But, as the equity market has remained strong over the past year, the average aggressive-allocation fund far outpaced the average conservative- or moderate-allocation fund (27% versus 13% and 14%). Despite variations in overall strategy and allocation, essentially all of the funds on the list in Table 1 are trading at discounts, most of them historically wide discounts. Of note is the highest-distributing fund on the list, Cornerstone Progressive Return¬†(CFP), which is selling at a 15% premium. On its face, Cornerstone Progressive Return doesn't look terrible, but a deeper look shows a fund that has many red flags. First, it is a serial distributor of destructive return of capital (it pays 25% of net asset value each year), which is particularly worrisome because of the fund's persistent premium pricing (return of capital reinvested at a discount to NAV¬†can actually be beneficial to long-term shareholder value). The fund tends to hold most of its assets in other CEFs and had a relatively high expense ratio (1.34%) in the latest fiscal year. We've written numerous¬†articles about our distaste for funds managed by Cornerstone Advisors. Persistent, unwarranted premiums and dubious rights offerings make this fund a poor choice for investors. For investors interested in a fund that holds other CEFs, there are cheaper ETFs to choose from (notably PowerShares CEF Income¬†(PCEF)) and better-performing mutual funds, though the best-performing mutual fund, RiverNorth Core Opportunity¬†(RNCOX), is closed to new investors. And, though performance is not as impressive, Cohen &amp; Steers Closed-End Opportunity¬†(FOF)¬†is a CEF of CEFs, holding a mix of bond and equity funds. Morningstar While the returns of the funds listed above are relatively straightforward, risk measures show an interesting story. Table 2 below lists various risk statistics for the funds and SPY. Standard deviations run the gamut mostly due to leverage.¬†Zweig Total Return¬†(ZTR), for example, has the lowest five-year standard deviation of the bunch, but the fund is unleveraged. Looking at its Sharpe ratio tells us that the fund's relatively low volatility of returns has been associated with low total returns--low risk, but low reward. Upside and downside captures also provide context for volatility of returns, particularly on the downside when investors are loath to see NAVs fall hard and fast. ZTR's capture ratios are remarkably consistent, about 73% on the upside over the latest three- and five-year periods, and 76% and 71% on the downside over the same time periods. Morningstar One of the funds with the highest Sharpe ratio is¬†¬†John Hancock Premium Dividend Fund¬†(PDT), which has earned a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. This fund is a favorite of ours for its long and successful track record, decades-experienced management team, and reasonable fees. The strategy here focuses on common and preferred stock and has a sizable allocation to utilities and financials. Managers do change allocations based on fundamentals and outlook in equity versus bond markets as well as in U.S. versus non-U.S. markets, but investors should not expect wild swings in broad allocations. Upside and downside capture ratios have been very strong, and the fund's recent fall-off in share price has created a strong buying opportunity. The current 10.5% discount is much wider than historical standards. Its one- and three-year z-statistics are negative 1.8 and negative 1.9, still in a fair value range but reaching the level of undervaluation. Overall, allocation funds can offer investors some respite from rebalancing between equity and fixed-income funds, but a solid understanding of the underlying strategy is imperative.¬†Tortoise Power &amp; Energy Infrastructure¬†(TPZ), for example, is fully invested in energy and related securities. It's not a balanced fund, but an energy fund that balances its holdings between equity and bonds. What's more, utilizing the risk and return measures in Table 2 can highlight historical volatility of returns and prepare investors for choppy waters ahead, but past measures of risk may not fully capture future market risks and portfolio-specific risks. For that, we'd need a crystal ball. Click¬†here¬†for data and commentary on individual closed-end funds.
Frenkieb / FlickrThe stock markets ended the week in the red. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Back in April, we asked star New York Times media reporter Brian Stelter what grade he would give CNN's new boss, the celebrated former NBC executive, Jeff Zucker. Brian gave Zucker a "C." Yesterday, we asked Brian whether he has updated this assessment now that he has seen more of Zucker's work--and now that he's a guest host of CNN's "Reliable Sources." We also asked Brian about CNN's obsessive coverage of the "Poop Cruise." Was that what we should expect more of during the Zucker regime? Produced by Busines Insider Video
Bank of America Merrill LynchEthan Harris, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's top global economist, discusses labor productivity in a new note to clients. "While it rarely moves the markets, labor productivity growth is one of the most important statistics for the economy," says Harris. "High productivity growth means a strong ‚Äúpotential‚Äù or sustainable growth rate for the economy. It lowers unit labor costs, boosting profits and helping contain price inflation. And productivity is the basis for longer-term improvements in standards of living." Using data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Harris charted the year-over-year gains in productivity. Harris puts the current move in the context of the major recoveries since 1960. After a surge at the beginning of the economic recovery, productivity growth has cooled. For the nonfarm business (NFB) sector, productivity has slowed from a peak of 5.8% year-over-year in 4Q 2009 to just 0.9 in 1Q of this year. 2Q data come out in the week ahead and we expect a further slowing to just 0.6%. Moreover, as Chart 1 shows, outside of the tech boom in the late 1990s, productivity tends to slow as business expansions mature... "Productivity growth is calculated as a residual: it is the difference between the growth in output and the growth in hours," explained Harris. "It is very sensitive to the ups and downs in the economy. When growth slows, firms are often slow to cut hours worked and productivity dips." All of this speaks to the extraordinary nature of the tech boom. As for the current business cycle, Harris doesn't think were doom for more productivity deterioration in the near-term. "We expect productivity growth to accelerate to about 2% next year, underpinning a modest further rise in profits and continued weak inflation," he predicted.
Joe Bastianich is Mario Batali's business partner. Together they went from owning a couple of restaurants in Manhattan to running a global restaurant and retail business, with restaurants from Hong Kong to Los Angeles. Bastianich's most famous restaurants include The Spotted Pig, Del Posto, Esca, Lupa, among others, and represent the marketplace franchise Eataly in the U.S. He became the tough judge on¬†Gordon Ramsay's TV show "Masterchef," and is the author of a memoir ‚Äì "Restaurant Man." But before going into the restaurant business, Bastianich started out working on Wall Street. Though it was brief, he says his time there taught him a lot about business and how to make money. Watch below to see what he had to say. // <![CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 'RpNXZyZDqsjEUEY_cdpUoNxigRckpfG3'); });// ]]> Produced by Robert Libetti
Sober Look 2. We've discussed Australia (see post), where the economy is definitely slowing.3. The Eurozone is clearly beginning to recover (see post). †PMI measures across the board are showing improvements, including France, Spain, and Italy. Even Greece is beginning to stabilize. Sober Look Of course we are still in the early stages of recovery and the Eurozone has a long way to go. Here is what the composite looks like for euro area as a whole. Sober Look 4. The UK recovery is accelerating. The latest measures show a strong rebound across multiple sectors, particularly in service industries. Sober Look 5. It's difficult to say where the US is on the cycle. The recovery has been going on for some time - certainly longer than in the UK or the Eurozone - but it has been quite tepid. Is it about to accelerate or continue at its current pace? There is a great deal of debate about that.6. Japan is a wild card. We've seen a sudden jump in industrial activity and exports, but more recently things have not looked that great (see post). Given Japan's short economic cycles, it's not clear if we are still in the early stage of the recovery or if growth has peaked. Much of course will depend on government policy such as the implementation of the new sales tax proposal (see story).Based on these generalizations, here is a very rough picture of where the various economies are on the cycle. Note that this doesn't say anything about how deep the slowdown has or will be or how fast the recoveries are. This is just about where we are on the the "sine curve" (each nation's cycles could be quite different in amplitude and frequency). Sober Look One can have long debates about the relative placement of these boxes. It is a fact however that major world economies are all over the place in terms of their economic cycle. It seems that we are witnessing the long-awaited global decoupling, although it may not be exactly what some had in mind (see WSJ story).
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke delivers his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress before the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 17, 2013.According to Mark Koba, a CNBC.com senior editor, the Federal Reserve, ‚Äúarguably plays the most crucial role in the U.S. economy,‚Äù because it ensures that ‚Äúthe U.S. has a sound¬†banking¬†system and a healthy economy.‚Äù Chances are, you are directly or indirectly impacted by the Fed‚Äôs decisions. With the Fed‚Äôs comprehensive reach, there are ample reasons why you should care about¬†Federal Reserve interest rates.
YouTube Screengrab French farmers, scrambling to drive up prices, are working hard to destroy 5% of their egg yield. The Wall Street Journal reports that last night was the third night a group of masked farmers in Brittany joined forces to smash 100,000 eggs on the ground outside a tax office in Carhaix. This video from French TV shows the aftermath:  It seems a little strange to smash up your own produce like this, and the farmers are aware of that. "We've had to destroy the fruit of our labor," one farmer explained sadly to the Journal. However, there is a logic at work here. The Financial Times reports that the farmers are angry at a 2012 European directive that forced them to invest millions of euros in larger cages for their hens. A local farmer's union, UGPVB, says this has come at a time when the EU‚Äôs laying-hen population of 350 million is between 15 million and 20 million too big. The result is that farms have to sell eggs at below cost price ‚Äî one farmer told France24 that producers are currently getting paid at 75 cents for a kilo of eggs against a cost price of 95 cents. By smashing 5% of their egg yield every day the farmers hope they can raise egg prices. Will this work? It's certainly debatable, but the farmers may be desperate. The group are pledging to continue smashing eggs until Sunday, with more radical moves to come then if the government doesn't in. Local residents say the smashed eggs are already smelling terrible.
If you're looking for evidence of a "Great Rotation" out of bond funds and into equity funds this year, look no further than private clients of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one of Wall Street's biggest retail brokerages. This group of retail investors ñ apart from BAML's institutional and hedge fund clients ñ has poured $23 billion into equity funds in 2013, while redeeming $21 billion from funds invested in bonds and cash. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy That's a textbook example of the†Great Rotation, a term coined by BAML chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett back in January 2011. The phrase really became popular in October 2012, though, when BAML credit strategist Hans Mikkelsen applied it to fixed income markets, declaring 2013 the year that a "great rotation trade out of bonds and into equities" would begin. Chart from October 2012 BAML research note illustrating the conceptual underpinnings of the "Great Rotation" concept. The idea behind such a "great rotation trade" is best captured in the chart at right, taken from an October 2012 BAML research note. Over the past several years, investors have poured hundreds of billions of dollars into bond funds, at the same time redeeming hundreds of billions of dollars from equity funds. This makes sense, because bonds became very attractive as a safe haven for investors when equity markets collapsed in the financial crisis of 2008. Given expectations on Wall Street for a pickup in economic growth in 2013, along with fears that the three-decade bull market in bonds is now drawing to a close, the idea behind the "Great Rotation" is that a rush of money out of fixed income funds and into equity funds ñ reversing the pattern of the past several years ñ will provide support for equity prices in the coming years as investors structurally re-allocate their portfolios toward more stocks and less bonds. In January, following the resolution of the "fiscal cliff" negotiations on Capitol Hill, the rush of flows into equity funds predicted by BAML strategists just two months before came to fruition, and chatter about the "Great Rotation" really began to heat up. The chart below shows daily instances of the phrase "Great Rotation" in the news. Notice that chatter peaked at 16 articles on January 14, 2013, and turned in another high count of 14 articles on February 4. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The massive weekly flows into equity funds in January 2013 set all-time records, but by February, flows were normalizing, and "Great Rotation" chatter in the media and on Wall Street tapered off somewhat. And even though there was a mad rush into equity funds in January, the other half of the "Great Rotation" trade ñ "out of bonds" ñ wasn't happening. Money was flowing into bond funds too, albeit at a slower pace. Fast forward to this summer. In July, investors pumped $24 billion into U.S. equity funds over the first 12 trading days of the new quarter ($2 billion every day into U.S. stocks alone), reviving the "Great Rotation" concept in the news and on Wall Street. Yet, just as in January, money is still flowing into bond funds, too. In fact, if we re-create BAML's private client chart at the top, but this time using data for all investors from EPFR Global (the firm widely cited on mutual fund flows from week to week) and not just BAML clients, the picture tells a slightly different story. True, money market funds ("cash") have seen a lot of redemptions in 2013, and equity funds have seen a lot of inflows. However, money is still flowing into bonds. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global (Not all types of bond funds are receiving inflows. Funds focused in Treasuries, TIPS, municipals, and emerging market debt†have seen substantial outflows recently. But high yield, investment grade credit, and leveraged loan funds are all still pretty hot.) Thus, while BAML has been wildly successful in selling the concept of the "Great Rotation" to its private clients (retail investors), the rest of the investment community isn't necessarily buying it. Every week, BAML's equity strategy team breaks out what clients are doing with regard to fund flows in and out of U.S. equities. While we can't make a conclusion about whether the bank's hedge fund and institutional clients have also been sellers of bonds this year, we can observe that BAML's retail clients are the only ones who have bought the other half of the story ñ the "into equities" part. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research To sum it up, BAML's retail clients have been convinced of a rotation out of bonds. The rest of the investment community hasn't necessarily. BAML's retail clients have also been convinced of a rotation into equities. However, the bank's hedge fund and institutional clients have not.

Here's a simple chart from the EIA showing just how fast the energy sector is growing compared to the rest of the economy, in the form of pace of payrolls added. It's not even close ‚Äî 40% on average compared with 1%, and nearly 60% in support services alone: Oil and gas extraction¬†constitutes less than 1% of private payrolls even after you throw in mining support services. Still, if you're looking for a growth sector, this appears to fit the bill. EIA, Business Insider
Scott Eells/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesActivist investor Bill Ackman blasted the JCPenney board in yet another publicly released letter. † Ackman, who is the largest shareholder in the retailer and has a seat on the board, writes about how he thought other board members were excluding him from meetings. That turned out to not be true.† From the letter: Yesterday's press release implies that my letter was the first time the board was made aware of my concerns about the hiring process. As you know, for nearly four months I have been advocating for the promised search process to be launched. Last Friday, I wrote a several-thousand-word email to the board outlining my concerns about our current trajectory and the need for a rapid search process. I asked the board to consider my thoughts over the weekend. When Tom wrote back on Monday dismissing my approach, I assumed that the full board had met to consider my concerns and that Tom, as the spokesperson, was accurately representing the views of the outcome of that meeting. I later learned that no such meeting had taken place and that Tom had simply called directors individually. A director I spoke to earlier this week explained that they agreed with my approach for an accelerated search process, but Tom did not a call a meeting so they could share their views with other board members. Boards must have the ability to deliberate openly amongst one another so that all points of view can be adequately discussed. By not calling a meeting, Tom prevented the board from properly functioning and fulfilling its fiduciary duties. Then, Ackman, who owns a private Gulfstream G550, goes on to take a dig at Ullman for the use of a private jet. If you recall, the New York Post called out former CEO Ron Johnson for using the company jet to commute between Dallas and his Palo Alto, Calif. home.† From the letter:† I am concerned that personal relationships and potentially other business dealings outside of JC Penney are affecting certain board membersí judgment. While I do not know whether Tom is still splitting his GV aircraft with Mike ñ perhaps not, because Mike has access to our two G450s (one has to ask the appropriateness of our aircraft fleet in light of the current state of the Company) ñ these type of outside business dealings can color the thinking of our board when independent judgment is most needed. As a result, I would like the full board to be provided with full and fair disclosure on any directorsí business activities or financial dealings, charitable donations or activities, outside board involvement with Mike or JC Penney of any kind so that the full board is informed of the potential for any director conflicts. Pershing Square Capital Management owns a†17.74% stake†in†JCPenney, according to the latest 13F filing. Since September 28, 2010, the date of Ackman's initial†13D regulatory filing†on†JCPenney,†shares of the retailer have tumbled more than 47%. Here's the full letter:† To My Fellow Directors: I think JC Penney is at a very critical stage in its history and its very existence is at risk. During a period like this one, it is absolutely critical that we work together to solve our problems. It is essential that our board function extremely effectively or we will certainly fail. In my history as a board member of many public companies over the last 15 years, I have never before released a public letter to a board of which I was a current member. That was admittedly an extraordinary step, but you should understand that I did so as a last resort after attempting to negotiate a resolution of my concerns about the recruitment process with our Chairman and the Companyís advisors over the last week. After having read the boardís public response to my letter and considering the events of the last few weeks, I am concerned that a small subset of the board is negotiating and speaking on behalf of the full board, that the rest of the board has not been properly informed and has not been given an opportunity to express its views, nor is even included in deliberations about what to do. A proper functioning board needs to be fully informed about all material facts about a corporation in order to make deliberate and intelligent decisions. Extreme candor among directors is critical. Directors need to hear from one another in an open forum so all issues can be aired in a transparent fashion. Directors must put personal relationships and issues aside that might color their decision-making process. The board must be led by a Chairman who is unbiased, can make decisions without regard to personal relationships, and focused only on what is best for the corporation. In recent weeks, our board has ceased to function effectively. Material information is not being properly shared with the board, and the board does not have access to independent advice. As the Chairman of the Finance committee, I need to have full access to the financial affairs of the corporation in order to help lead the board in making critical financial decisions in fulfilling my fiduciary duties. When Mike became CEO, he terminated Alix Partners and cutoff Blackstone from access to information and a role in assisting us in analyzing the current state of affairs. My team was similarly cut off from access to information. This is despite the fact that when I joined the board, the Company explicitly agreed in writing to allow the Pershing Square analysts access to information so that they could assist me in analyzing the financial affairs of the Company. Alix Partners and Blackstone were hired by the Board to assist the Board in its deliberations and to help the Company in controlling cash, expenses, and future commitments. It was entirely inappropriate for Mike to terminate the boardís advisors without the boardís knowledge or consent. We are now flying blind. While I like Robert Pruzan and Centerview, they are Mikeís advisors, not the Boardís financial advisors. They are conflicted, therefore, in providing independent financial advice to the board. Robert is therefore not likely to recommend that Mike should be terminated, nor is he going to criticize any decisions that have been made by Mike. He is not going to show us projections that would lead one to the conclusion that management should be changed. We are therefore not able to receive the objective advice that we need in order to make intelligent decisions. Bob Peterson and Susan Ray were very helpful to me and my team and the board in understanding what was going on J.C. Penney. I, and I believe, the rest of the board thought very highly of both of them. Once Mike became CEO, Bob and Susan said they were no longer authorized to answer our questions. When I confronted Mike directly, he reluctantly agreed to allow Bob and Susan to speak to my team. Last week, Bob was constructively terminated (his strategy position was eliminated and he was offered a middle-tier position in the finance department, so he quit). I was told that Susan was fired last week. I do not know the basis for her termination. Material hiring and firing decisions are being made without the board being properly consulted. Our marketing has been a major problem. I thought we had begun to make material progress when Sergio was brought in as a consultant. Marketing messages were tested. Data were generated to determine ROIs of our various campaigns. Traffic was recovering, Motherís Day was strong, and we appeared to be recovering. Unfortunately, Mike fired Sergio without the boardís consent. He has now hired Debra Berman, a friend of Mary Bethís from Kraft. No other candidate was considered for the position as far as I know. Up until Mikeís current tenure, there was a process for hiring executive officers. They would be vetted, at a minimum, by the compensation committee, and their package would be considered by the committee and recommended to the board for its approval. In light of the fact that Ms. Berman is a friend of a director, particularly one who is Chairing the search committee, this new executiveís hiring should be analyzed with greater scrutiny. Sometimes CEOs hire friends of directors in order to curry favor with those directors. While I am not suggesting that this is what has happened here, proper process was not followed in this personnel decision. Furthermore, in light of the criticality of this role and the difficulties we have had in this area, one would reasonably have assumed that the full board would have had the opportunity to interview Ms. Berman. That could easily have been accomplished at the last board meeting for apparently her hiring was being negotiated at that time. As Allen Questrom pointed out in his interview on CNBC yesterday, the decision to hire a consumer packaged goods marketing executive as the CMO of J.C. Penney is a strange decision. The skills and experience one learns from marketing lunch meats and American cheese to consumers are not logically applicable to marketing JCPenney to our customer base. Imagine my surprise when I learned of Ms. Bermanís hiring from a press release on my Bloomberg machine. Unless the compensation committee met to consider Debra without me, Mike hired Debra without the approval of the comp committee. I and other directors still do not know how much she is being paid, how much equity she has been granted, etc. This is entirely inappropriate in my view. I am very concerned about personnel decisions that are being made without the board being asked for its consent or even notified. It appears to me that a lot of other qualified people have been terminated, individuals with no experience in a particular function are given important roles in that area, and that some very questionable hiring decisions have been made. For example, at the last meeting, Mike mentioned that he had made a member of the merchant team head of real estate and construction even though she has no background in real estate or construction. When Mike first joined as our interim CEO, he told me that he intended only to hire one or two people total. This made sense to me because interim CEOs do not make many material hiring decisions (those are left for the new CEO) and instead focus on recruiting a new CEO. While the board agreed that it would take the ëinterimí out of Mikeís title to assist him with working with the team in Plano, Mike was hired by this board as an interim CEO. He has not acted like one. When Mike was asked about succession at the last board meeting, he said that he did not know of any other executive who could run the Company. I learned yesterday from an analyst that Mike had told her and the other members of the analyst community that he was not an interim CEO, but the boardís long-term choice. Mike provided the analyst community with false information. That explains why the analyst community was so surprised yesterday to hear that the board had started a search process. If Mike had told the truth that he was indeed an interim CEO, there would be no disruption in revealing that a search process was underway. Compare how Mike has handled the situation with A.G. Lafley, the interim CEO of P&amp;G. The situation is remarkably analogous. P&amp;Gís board made a decision to replace CEO Bob MacDonald. Not having an immediately obvious candidate to promote internally or from the outside, the board brought back A.G. Lafley, the former CEO, as an interim CEO. As the interim CEO, Lafley immediately began a process to identify the next CEO and gave a story the following week to the Wall Street Journal so that there was no confusion about Lafleyís interim status. I am also very concerned about the budgeting process. We received three different financial projections ñ a new one at each of the last three board meetings ñ each one projecting worse results than the previous one. Most disconcerting was Mikeís disavowal of the first two projections when he explained at the last meeting that those were not ìhis numbers.î I find this particularly troubling because these projections were presented by Mike himself to the board in May and in June so it is hard for me to understand why he should not have ownership for May and Juneís projections. Now Centerview is running a new set of numbers. In light of the uncertainty about our projections, I am also extremely troubled about the aggressive inventory purchases and future commitments we are making for later this year and 2014. Yesterday, I received a call from one of the Companyís largest vendors who explained his concern about the number of purchase orders he has received from the Company. When a vendor expresses concern that J.C. Penney is buying too much, we need to take a very hard look at the commitments we are making. In my opinion, Mike is overly optimistic about the near-term future of J.C. Penney. This vendor recommended, and I agree, that JCP should be making only conservative inventory commitments and then chasing inventory in the event we sell beyond our projections. Yesterdayís press release implies that my letter was the first time the board was made aware of my concerns about the hiring process. As you know, for nearly four months I have been advocating for the promised search process to be launched. Last Friday, I wrote a several-thousand-word email to the board outlining my concerns about our current trajectory and the need for a rapid search process. I asked the board to consider my thoughts over the weekend. When Tom wrote back on Monday dismissing my approach, I assumed that the full board had met to consider my concerns and that Tom, as the spokesperson, was accurately representing the views of the outcome of that meeting. I later learned that no such meeting had taken place and that Tom had simply called directors individually. A director I spoke to earlier this week explained that they agreed with my approach for an accelerated search process, but Tom did not a call a meeting so they could share their views with other board members. Boards must have the ability to deliberate openly amongst one another so that all points of view can be adequately discussed. By not calling a meeting, Tom prevented the board from properly functioning and fulfilling its fiduciary duties. Beginning on Monday, I and my counsel attempted to negotiate a resolution of our differences. We proposed that the Company publicly disclose that a search process had been launched and that the Company commit to an accelerated time frame. My counsel and I negotiated with Chip Delaney of Skadden and Rob Pruzan. I assumed that the board was being informed about our request and the advisors were representing the full boardís views on this issue. My argument for public disclosure of the search process was based on the fact that a search process would likely leak as the search firm contacted potential candidates. We believed that the leak would be more damaging and disruptive to the Company than if we affirmatively told the world what was going on. I also believed that publicly announcing the process would keep the board focused on getting the search done promptly. After our proposal had been rejected by the advisors, I decided to write yesterdayís letter and release it to the media because I thought it was the right thing to do as a fiduciary for the Company and its shareholders. Sometimes being ìdisruptiveî is exactly what a Company and board needs at a critical time. At our last board meeting at the first eveningís executive session, Tom terminated our discussion despite directors asking for the opportunity to continue to discuss our concerns. As a result, the executive session we held at the end of the following day did not give the board an adequate opportunity to discuss our affairs as many directors had to leave to make flights home. To state the obvious, executive sessions require sufficient time so all issues can be fully discussed and debated, and important decisions can be made. I am concerned that personal relationships and potentially other business dealings outside of JC Penney are affecting certain board membersí judgment. While I do not know whether Tom is still splitting his GV aircraft with Mike ñ perhaps not, because Mike has access to our two G450s (one has to ask the appropriateness of our aircraft fleet in light of the current state of the Company) ñ these type of outside business dealings can color the thinking of our board when independent judgment is most needed. As a result, I would like the full board to be provided with full and fair disclosure on any directorsí business activities or financial dealings, charitable donations or activities, outside board involvement with Mike or JC Penney of any kind so that the full board is informed of the potential for any director conflicts. I have lost confidence in our Chairmanís ability to oversee this board. I would therefore recommend that Tom be replaced as our Chairman. Allen Questrom said on TV yesterday that he is willing to be our Chairman in the event we meet certain conditions; namely, he is not willing to step into a hostile situation and he must be comfortable with the CEO we designate. If we join arms and this conflict behind us, reach out to Allen as a full board, and commit to move forward with an accelerated search process, I believe that Allen would come on board to help us right away. With Allen as our new Chairman, we would have the benefit of one of the great retail CEOs in assisting us in overseeing the Company at this critical time, and we would have his input and direction in selecting our next CEO, something with which he has enormous experience and relationships. I hereby request that we hold a board meeting as soon as possible so that the board can deliberate and make decisions about all of the above. Time is of the essence. Hopefully, this is the last board letter I need to release to the press. Sincerely, Bill
This week has been really slow. The economic data calendar has been thin after a busy week last week, and it's the first week of August, so we've been hearing a lot of anecdotal reports of low market liquidity while everyone is away on vacation. The stock market fell on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday before finally closing in the green on Thursday. However, today stocks are falling again. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading down 0.5% from yesterday's close, right around 1688. The decline today is especially interesting in light of the fact that stock exchanges across Asia and Europe rose on Friday, and no clear catalyst for the sell-off in North American trading has really presented itself. The chart below shows the S&amp;P 500. Thinkorswim
Around May, reports surfaced that Washington was growing tired of JP Morgan. The House of Dimon had grown unruly, said the New York Times, and regulators had warned the bank that it was in their sights. Recently, those reports have started playing out in real time, and now that the onslaught is here, it is clear that no one thought it would be this bad. In the last week, the regulatory siege on JPMorgan has been unlike anything the bank has experienced in recent memory. The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Justice, several state Attorneys General, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) all want a piece of the JP Morgan for various transgressions that it has allegedly committed in the years leading up to, and since the financial crisis. And there could be more. Let's start with the most recent. Last month, JP Morgan agreed to pay a $410 million FERC fine to settle allegations that its traders manipulated energy markets in California and the Midwest from 2010 to 2012. This has a direct connection to the New York Times' May report, as it mentioned that one of the divisions of JPM under fire was JP Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation (JPMVEC), its commodities arm. Back in May, the NYT reported that government documents alleged that JPMVEC's head, Blythe Masters, had "'knowledge and approval of schemes' carried out by a group of energy traders in Houston" and that she had "'falsely' denied under oath her awareness of the problems" ó so perhaps we can expect more on that front. Masters' division is under pressure for other parts of its business as well. According to Bloomberg, JPM was added to a lawsuit against Goldman Sachs and Glencore alleging that it purposely delayed deliveries of aluminum from its Henry Bath warehouses to suck more money out of customers. The suit was filed by filed by a Jacksonville, Florida, direct purchaser, Master Screens Inc., and a private individual. If that's not enough, this week reports detailed two more aggressive moves on the bank. The SEC said that it would push JPM to not only pay a fine, but also admit wrongdoing for the 2012 $6 billion trading loss in its Chief Investment Office. Banks don't usually admit wrongdoing... for anything ó they pay fines and they walk away. This is newly minted SEC Chief Mary Jo White's way of saying, 'I'm not playing ball.' For what it's worth, trader Bruno Iksil, the so-called 'London Whale,' will not be prosecuted for the loss. The second move comes from the Justice Department. It's reaching back even further into JP Morgan's past for its probe, ramping up an investigation into now defunct Bear Stearns' dealings in mortgage backed securities in the lead-up to the market's collapse. Since JPM bought Bear at the financial crisis fire sale, it is liable for any alleged wrongdoing. According to Reuters, U.S. prosecutors in California are looking into this matter as well. That means they're joining the ranks of Attorneys General all over the country, like Eric Schneiderman in New York, who are still digging into the mortgage mess the financial crisis left behind. Expect more drama here as well. This doesn't have to be the end. In the fall Jon Corzine and another MF Global executive will go to Court to answer for the over $1 billion of customer funds lost when the commodities brokerage went down in flames back in 2011. MF Global banked with JP Morgan, and in its final days, there was allegedly communication between Corzine and the bank. JP Morgan wanted Corzine to ensure the money he was moving around was not untouchable customer money. It's murky whether or not those assurances ever came. That doesn't even touch on all the issues regulators warned JP Morgan about in May. There are still questions about how the bank handled former client and convicted Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff's money, and there are questions surrounding its collection of credit card debt as well, according to the New York Times. So hold on to your hats.

REUTERSQuazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis appears in court in New York, February 7, 2013, in this courtroom sketch. A 22-year-old Bangladeshi man was sentenced to 30 years in prison for trying to blow up the Federal Reserve Bank in New York, the AP reports. Quazi Nafis pleaded guilty to terrorism charges after a government sting operation busted him last year. The New York Times reported how the incident went down last year: On Wednesday morning, they drove to a warehouse and assembled the fake bomb, placing supposedly explosive material in trash bins they had bought, then putting the bins in a van, according to the complaint. They assembled a fake detonator that was to be triggered by a cellphone and drove to the fortress like Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the largest bank structure in the world when it was completed in 1924, about two blocks from Wall Street. Mr. Nafis and the undercover agent parked the van outside the bank and walked to a nearby hotel, where Mr. Nafis recorded a video statement addressed to the American people, which he planned to publicize after the attack. In the statement, he said, ‚ÄúWe will not stop until we attain victory or martyrdom.‚Äù Then he tried again and again to detonate the bomb, dialing the cellphone repeatedly until agents arrested him. Nafis told the judge he was extremely sorry for what he had done, according to the AP. He'll have plenty of time to think about it.
Chinese economic data has disappointed markets in recent months and prompted economists to downgrade their GDP forecasts. But July data largely came in better than expected. Business Insider Here are the key takeaways: While the rebound in industrial production might prompt GDP revisions, Yao warned that growth outlook beyond the third quarter is still uncertain. This is because property sales have been falling and because credit growth continues to slow.
Earlier today, China released a bunch of fresh economic data, and most of it was encouraging. One of the important highlights was industrial production, which jumped 9.7% year-over-year in July. Economists were expecting a 8.9% gain. Economists will now likely have to revise up their forecasts for Q3 growth. However China is by no means in the clear. Here's Societe Generale's Wei Yao: ...we still believe the growth outlook beyond Q3 is murky for two reasons. First, property sales growth peaked in April and has since started to fall. Sales value growth slowed to 14.6% yoy from 17.7% yoy in June and 46% yoy in H1. Renewed emphasis on affordable housing projects and improving funding access of big developers may support the construction revival, but sales remain the dominating factor of the housing investment cycle. Second, overall credit growth is declining, which should limit the increase in fixed asset investment. According the Peopleís Bank of China, M2 growth unexpectedly re- accelerated to 14.5%yoy in July from 14%yoy, but credit nonetheless grew more slowly. New yuan loans decreased by CNY160 bn to CNY 700bn (Cons. 640bn; SG 650bn). More importantly, credit from non-bank channels ñ shadow and bond ñ fell to just CNY109 bn from CNY177 bn in June and CNY 516.6bn in May. Undiscounted bankerís acceptance bills contracted for a third month in row and net issuance of corporate bond only increased by a paltry 5bn from the extremely depressed level in June to CNY46 bn. As a result, total credit growth, according to our count, slid to 20.7% yoy from 21.3% yoy in the previous month and compared with 23% yoy back in April. The implication of the latest money and credit data is that liquidity is returning to the formal banking system, but conditions keeps tensing up elsewhere. Yao has long been concerned about the state of China's credit bubble and its ability to generate growth. "We maintain our view that liquidity tensions in the shadow banking system and the bond market will remain in place, as the PBoC is keen to contain excess credit growth," said Yao. "This remains the biggest risk factor to economic growth beyond Q3."
Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle reports that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has fired off yet another letter to JCPenney board calling for the resignation of Tom†Engibous, the chairman of the board.† According to Bloomberg, Ackman has said he has "lost confidence" in Engibous and wants him to be replaced with Allen Questrom, the former CEO of JCPenney.† Yesterday, the activist investor†sent a letter†yesterday saying that the board is looking for a new CEO to replace Mike Ullman, who†took over the helm again after†Ron Johnson stepped down back in April. JCPenney†fired back slamming Ackman saying his†"latest actions are disruptive and counterproductive."† Ackman is the largest shareholder in†JCPenney and he has†a seat on the retailer's board. His†$12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management owns a†17.74% stake†in†JCPenney, according to the latest 13F regulatory filing for the fund. He started building his position in the retailer†September 2010.†Since September 28, 2010, the date of his initial†13D regulatory filing†on†JCPenney,†shares of the retailer have tumbled more than 47%. The stock was last trading down 4%.† Here's the Bloomberg TV clip:†
There's a hot new fashion trend on Wall Streetó†bankers, hedge funders and private equity guys are rocking some really funky socks with their suits.† But it's only on Fridays.† It's a movement called "Friday Socks" and it was started by Joshua Weiner, a 25 year-old who works at a real estate investment firm. Weiner previously worked in private equity and investment banking. "Socks are the most overlooked part of a person's wardrobe," Weiner told Business Insider, adding,†"After a long 60 hour four day work week, it's nice to wake up in the morning and think about the next day off by putting on Friday Socks that suit up your mood."† Wall Streeters are using the Friday Socks movement to spice up their conservative suited up attire, Weiner explained. "It also helps to show your personality in an easily concealable or revealable fashion statement ó instead of the standard black sock, blue shirt, white shirt, red tie fashion. †It's a way to have fun with your dress in a conservative environment."† Even though some banks have an uber strict dress code, Weiner says it's still worth a shot participating in the trend.† "I have seen at least two work cultures shift at the hands of Friday Socks," he told us. †"Some of my past bosses and colleagues have participated and I have heard stories of other bosses doing the same around the hedge fund/ banking/private equity world." It Started In High School† Weiner told us that "Friday Socks" started as a fun thing he did when he had to wear suits in high school.† "Back then, the socks were just a plain, outrageously bright, non-matching color ó primarily to express my personality." † Weiner, who grew up in Rye Brooke, New York, said he's always made "outside of the box" fashion statements.† For example, he told us that for his senior prom, he wore a white tuxedo with a baby pink vest, baby pink bow-tie and bright pink "Friday Socks." † "As I started to wear suits more often they started morphing into much more fun designs, only on Fridays, meant to help me get through the last work day before the weekend, in a tongue-in-cheek sort of way."††  Turning It Into A Business Weiner has been designing his own "Friday Socks," which he intends to sell. † "My background in real estate lends to geometric designs, but also some funky curvy designs. I incorporate bright colors to bring out the fun in my personality that is not necessarily exemplified at work or with conservative business dress," he said. Weiner also recently launched a website that's currently under development called FridaySocks.com. † The website is "to share the social movement, by sharing designs, photos, stories, and to purchase the latest in 'Friday Socks fashion,'" Weiner explained.† As part of his business plan, Weiner said he wants to use a portion of the proceeds to start a scholarship fund to promote college education.† "With a college education, young guys have a chance to get those sought after corporate jobs where they can wear Friday Socks to celebrate their weekends." † The website should be ready to launch within the next couple of months, he said. †Weiner's sock designs are already in production and should be available after the site is officially open.† 'A Work Hard, Play Hard Social Movement'† This trend has also turned into a movement in the social media sphere, especially on Instagram with those participating using the hashtag #FridaySocks. † "I shared my pictures of my socks with a bunch of friends, calling them 'Friday Socks,' which began the "movement."† Weiner added that almost all of his friends in corporate jobs wear Friday Socks. † "The word has been spreading. †Friday Socks is a work hard, play hard social movement."
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonU.S. Attorney Preet Bharara¬†‚Äî the "Sheriff of Wall Street"¬†‚Äî sat down with Bloomberg Businessweek for its annual interview issue. Bharara is known for his biting sense of humor and ruthless pursuit of insider trading cases. So how does the man who threatens to take down SAC Capital start his day? From Businessweek: So as far as your movements. You wake up‚Äâ‚Ä¶?My movements are a state secret, and I‚Äôm not allowed to tell you that. Other than to say I eat the same thing every day: raw meat. Raw meat, OK.And when raw meat is unavailable, I eat a granola bar every morning and a Diet Coke. Bharara did strike a more serious tone too. Asked about those who argue he has not taken enough cases related to the financial crisis, he said, "I think it‚Äôs totally appropriate for people to ask questions about why certain cases are brought and other cases are not. It‚Äôs America, and before I am a prosecutor I am also an American." "We brought some cases in that respect, and to the extent that there are not more of those cases yet, it‚Äôs a function of the facts and not a function of will or commitment or courage," he said. Read the full interview at Bloomberg Businessweek&gt;
YahooProponents and beneficiaries of the Silicon Valley hype machine will often tell you that what matters is "buzz." You have to get people talking about your company, this story goes. You have to fake it until you make it.¬†You have to create an aura of invincibility and inevitability. You have to get the press swooning and scrambling for interviews and scoops. You have to make your founders and CEO celebrities. You have to own the conference circuit. You have raise ever-bigger pots of money at ever-more-massive valuations. You have to create the perception¬†that you're going to be the next world-changing moonshot worth quabillions of dollars...and the reality will follow from that. Nope. You don't have to do any of that. You just have to put up the numbers. If you're not convinced, take a look at the company that is without a doubt the most remarkable comeback story in the history of the Internet industry. Way back in the 1990s, this company was the hype machine to end all hype machines. It went public in a massive IPO, and its stock valuation immediately shot up to nearly $50 billion. But then the numbers collapsed. And so did the hype. And so did the stock. And so did the company. A couple of years after the peak of the dot-com boom, the company's stock had fallen 99%. And the company itself had been left for dead. But then an amazing thing happened. The company found a management team that was less interested in "buzz" and "ideas" and "stories" than it was in actual performance. The company stabilized its business, and then went looking for a new growth engine. And found it. And, now, a decade later, with shockingly little fanfare, the company's value is about to exceed the level it hit back in the wild dotcom days.¬† The company, in other words, is about to be worth $50 billion again. The company is located, of all places, in... Norwalk, Connecticut. The company is, of course, Priceline. And its CEO, Jeff Boyd, is so press shy that you've probably never heard of him. A $50 billion company! In Norwalk, Connecticut! That almost no one ever talks about! If ever you needed proof that, over the long haul, perception is NOT reality, reality is reality, Priceline is it. Congratulations to Jeff Boyd and the rest of the team at Priceline. What a remarkable success story.
CNBCThe S&amp;P has rallied 19 percent in 2013, which is impressive by any measure. But the market did far better in 1987, when stocks added more than 30 percent from the beginning of the year to Aug. 8. The problem? The market ended up tanking in the second half of that year‚Äîdropping 36 percent from the Aug. 25 peak to the October low, before closing out 1987 nearly exactly where it began. And Marc Faber, publisher of the Gloom, Boom &amp; Doom Report, predicts that the very same thing will happen in the back half of 2013. "In 1987, we had a very powerful rally, but also earnings were no longer rising substantially, and the market became very overbought," Faber said on Thursday's "Futures Now." "The final rally into Aug. 25 occurred with a diminishing number of stocks hitting 52-week highs. In other words, the new-high list was contracting, and we have several breaks in different stocks." Faber says that's exactly where we find ourselves this August. "If you look at the last two days," Faber said, referring to Tuesday and Wednesday, "it's remarkable. We are close to the all-time high, at 1,709 on the S&amp;P, and yet yesterday and the day before, there were 170 new 52-week lows. That's a very high figure." (Read more: The S&amp;P stalls‚Äîhere comes the fall) That means that the market has become very reliant on a very small number of companies. "The only way this market can go up is if the 10 or 50 stocks that are very strong continue to drive the market higher, with the majority of stocks having actually peaked out," Faber said. (Read more: Siegel: Keep buying‚Äîyou 'can't lose') This as the macro environment is only getting more difficult. "Some of the tailwinds we've had‚Äîsuch as massive monetization and falling interest rates‚Äîare no longer in place," he said. So what kind of a decline does Faber predict, once all is said and done? His year-end market call lives up to his "Dr. Doom" moniker. Faber expect to see stocks end the year "maybe 20 percent [lower], maybe more!" ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Alex Rosenberg. Follow him on Twitter: @CNBCAlex. Watch "Futures Now" Tuesdays &amp; Thursdays 1 p.m. ET exclusively on FuturesNow.CNBC.com!
Reuters/ Jack CusanoThe New York Post's James Covert reports that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman threatened to sell his massive stake in JCPenney if the board didn't find a new CEO to replace interim CEO Mike Ullman. From the Post:† At a tense July 22 meeting, with Penneyís business still swooning, a source said Ackman demanded that Penney find a new CEO by the time it announced second-quarter results on Aug. 20 ó and threatened to sell his 18-percent stake if the board didnít agree. Ackman, the largest shareholder in JCPenney who has a seat on the retailer's board, sent a letter yesterday saying that the board is looking for a new CEO to replace Ullman, who†took over the helm again after†Ron Johnson stepped down back in April. JCPenney fired back at the activist investor saying his "latest actions are disruptive and counterproductive."† Ackman's $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management owns a†17.74% stake†in JCPenney, according to the latest 13F regulatory filing for the fund. He started building his position in the retailer September 2010. So far, he†has taken a bath on the stock. Since September 28, 2010, the date of his initial†13D regulatory filing on JCPenney, shares of the retailer have tumbled more than 47%.
Since the financial crisis, some market pundits have attributed the stock market rally to the Federal Reserve's extraordinarily easy monetary policy.¬† And most have also argued that these efforts have caused interest rates and the dollar to fall. Since May, the Fed has begun talking about tapering its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds.¬† This initially caused stocks to fall a bit, while interest rates rose. But yesterday, stocks fell while interest rates also fell, a sign that investors were rotating out of stocks into the safer fixed income asset class.¬† This all occurred while the dollar fell. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services director of NYSE floor operations, thinks that this may be telling us something about the state of the U.S. economy. From this morning's Cashin's Comments (emphasis): Pattern Recognition And A Possible Ponder For The Weekend ‚Äì All week, we have been pounding the table about the pundits pushing "taper talk" as the cause for stock weakness.¬† I have noted, again and again, that the "pattern" was inconsistent.¬† Taper talk would put pressure on stocks but it should simultaneously raise both yields and the dollar.¬† The opposite of the latter two has been happening. So yesterday, as I watched the yields on bonds move lower despite a mediocre auction, I re-examined the pattern. What could cause stocks and yields and the dollar to all weaken simultaneously? One possibility might be a real weakening of the economy.¬† That certainly would weaken yields and the dollar as the Fed would abandon tapering.¬† But, what about stocks?¬† They would only weaken if the slowing would be significant enough that tapering would offer scant help.¬† Is there a pattern?¬† Is there a knowing message?¬† Way too early to tell but worth marinating an ice cube or twelve while pondering. That's not encouraging.¬† Maybe it was a one-day thing. Today, the dollar is picking up.
Coverage of the Fabrice Tourre trial was stuffed with language about how the jury was either†too bored or too stupid to really understand the case. "Some members of the nine-person jury appeared to fall asleep as one expert witness testified to the ins-and-outs of the deals,"†Tracy Alloway reported in the FT. "Another witness who participated in Mr Tourreís transaction said he could not recall what the term 'CDO' stood for." It was for these reasons, some observers argued, that Tourre was martyred for a financial crisis in which he was just a small cog.† But NPR's Planet Money tracked down two of the jurors, an†Episcopal priest and a man who works in the film industry, and they actually had some shrewd things to say about the trial (and, now out of sequester, they took issue with some of the media coverage). "We didn't feel any malice towards him. We felt sympathy at times," juror Dylan Maxwell told NPR. "We saw Goldman as the bigger problem. And the whole system as a bigger problem." If they looked sleepy, Maxwell said, it was simply because of the droning protocol of the legal process†ó the same emails read over and over again to new witnesses offering monotonous responses.† "The problem with just going after Fabrice Tourre or going after the different sort of Fabrice Tourres that are in all of these banks is that it doesn't change the system," said Beth Glover, another juror. "At least not enough." But they had to deal with the case at hand.
Good morning, AdLand. Here's what you need to know today: Morgan Stanley released a report estimating that Facebook's highly anticipated video ads, which will play in the news feed, will generate $1 billion in 2014. Note: the video ads don't even exist yet. The report continues that said ads could produce $6.5 billion in 2020. Carnival Cruises, known for a series of ill-fated voyages, picked Omnicom's PHD to lead its media duties. It had been with Havas Media since 2008. Edible Arrangements selected The Richards Group as its agency of record. Hill Holliday hired Graham Ritchie, most recently at Publicis Mojo Group in Australia and New Zealand, as its new chief strategy officer. The Guardian looks at what Twitter's new retargeting service means for user privacy. Citibank is optimizing a retargeting campaign so that it can drive up credit card signups in Malaysia. There are good branded Instagram posts, and there are incredibly boring branded Instagram posts. These are the latter. Yawn. Young &amp; Rubicam will lead global marketing efforts for the Special Olympics through 2015. How bad is fake web traffic? Previously on Business Insider Advertising:
REUTERS/Tullow Oil UgandaThe IEA revised its June demand forecast for US oil product consumption up 235,000 barrels a day, indicating four of the first six months of the year saw gains. That's the strongest sequential reading since 2011. In its new report today, the Paris-based group also revised its full-year U.S. consumption forecast to +0.3% from 0.0%. But the momentum will not continue into 2014, it says: Despite this revision, which takes stock of the latest uptick in delivery patterns US demand remains projected to edge down over the medium term. Remarkably, while the US demand outlook for 2013 looks more upbeat, the IMF in its July World Economic Outlook has reduced its forecast of US GDP growth for 2014, to 2.7% from 3.0% in the April WEO. That adjustment, coupled with our own assessment of relatively high efficiency gains in 2014, bolsters the forecast of a 0.2% demand decline.¬† The agency also cut its global demand figures, with 2013 seeing a drop off of -30,000 barrels to +895,000 a day, and 2014 -100,000 to +1.1 million barrels a day, based on lower GDP forecasts from the IMF. Japan is expected to see declines as it eases back into nuclear following the Fukushima disaster. Emerging-market demand will have overtaken OECD demand by the end of the year, it says, with sluggishness in China and India getting outweighed by booming demand in Latin American and former Soviet Union countries. The report didn't have much to say on the effects of US shale production. It forecasts a +400,000 shale oil production gain to about 2.6 million barrels a day for 2H2013, with North Dakota reaching 900,000 barrels a day.

BofA Merrill Lynch US Equity & US Quant StrategyBofA Merrill Lynch equity strategist Savita Subramanian is bullish on the stock market. Recently, she hiked her S&amp;P 500 year-end price target to 1750 from 1600, one of the most optimistic forecasts on Wall Street.†(The index closed at 1697 on Thursday, so Subramanian's target implies an additional 3.1% upside through the rest of 2013.) "With the S&amp;P 500 rising over 20% over the past twelve months and continuing to make all-time highs, the pervasive refrain is that the market has grown expensive," writes Subramanian in a note to clients. "Admittedly, the majority of 2013ís gains have come from multiple expansion rather than earnings growth, but the market is far from overvalued. This suggests that the market has merely played catch up with fundamentals - recall that earnings made new highs in 2010. Valuation remains a driver for our bullish view on stocks." The table at right shows 15 popular S&amp;P 500 valuation metrics. "The majority indicate that the market is still trading below or in-line with historical norms, suggesting that the rally has chiefly been driven by a recovery in multiples from very depressed levels," says Subramanian. The one metric of the 15 that says stocks are expensive is the Shiller price/earnings ratio: The Shiller P/E, which is based on inflation-adjusted earnings over the past 10 years, currently suggests that stocks are overvalued. However, this metric assumes that the normalized (cyclically-adjusted) EPS for the S&amp;P 500 is today less than $70ówell below even our recessionary scenario for EPS. The methodology assumes that the last 10 years is a representative sample, but the most recent profits recession was the worst we have seen and was exacerbated by a high leverage ratio which has since been dramatically reduced. Assuming that this scenario is going to repeat itself is, we think, overly pessimistic.† Subramanian argues that if stocks are expensive, "other asset classes are really expensive." "While the relative attractiveness of stocks versus bonds, as measured by the equity risk premium (ERP), has moderated from all-time highs, the ERP still remains well above historical norms," writes the BAML strategist. "And compared to commodities, stocks are sill attractiveóthe price of the S&amp;P 500 in WTI oil terms is currently 16 [oil barrels], vs. the historical average of 22 [oil barrels]. Similarly, the S&amp;P is trading at 1.3x the price of a Troy oz. of gold, while it has historically traded at 1.5x." That's not to say some stocks aren't expensive. Subramanian flags the Consumer Discretionary sector as overvalued versus historical norms, along with "the more defensive, high-yielding, domestically-focused stocks within Telecom and Utilities." Less overvalued, according to Subramanian: "1) cyclicals, 2) dividend growth; 3) globally-diversified stocks; and 4) and stocks with low earnings volatility," especially in the Tech, Industrials, and Energy sectors.

REUTERS/Tyrone SiuStaff uncover a Great Wall Motors Haval M4 mini SUV during the media preview of the 10th China International Automobile Exhibition in Guangzhou November 22, 2012.For the first time ever, sport utility vehicles account for more than 20% of all market share by vehicle type in China. "[SUV] market size boomed by 46% [year-over-year] to 240,000 units in July, recording the highest monthly market share of 20.8% of the total [passenger vehicle] market," say Morgan Stanley analysts Sheng Zhong and Frank Xu. "This is driven mainly by low and luxury SUV segment, which both rose over 60% [year-over-year] last month." In July, 239,683 of the 1.15 million vehicles sold in China were SUVs, which contributed 7.5% percentage points to the 13.5% overall sales growth rate last month. The chart below shows how the SUV's market share has evolved over the past several years. In 2006, it stood at only 5.4%, a quarter of where it is today. China Auto Market, Morgan Stanley Research
The White HouseAnother Obama meeting that probably looked similar.Apple CEO Tim Cook, Google tech guru Vint Cerf, AT&amp;T CEO Randall Stephenson and other tech executives and civil liberties leaders met with Obama yesterday to discuss the country's spying programs, POLITICO's Tony Romm reports. The meeting was off the record. And, already, privacy advocates are blasting the companies for attending a secret meeting to discuss secret spying. (Not to get all Big Brother here, but it seems perfectly reasonable to have a closed-door brainstorming session about how to improve the status quo before actually moving forward with any particular plan. Unless the tech companies are secretly plotting with Obama about to increase surveillance of their users and customers, which seems extremely unlikely, the idea that they would get together to share thoughts and concerns makes sense.) The White House has had other meetings like this recently to discuss the country's surveillance programs, which have come under fire since National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden released documents showing that the U.S. government keeps electronic records of pretty much everything.¬† Nobody's commenting yet on what was discussed yesterday.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
APThorsten Heins(Reuters) - BlackBerry Ltd is warming up to the possibility of going private, as the smartphone maker battles to revive its fortunes, several sources familiar with the situation said. Chief Executive Thorsten Heins and the company's board is increasingly coming around to the idea that taking BlackBerry private would give them breathing room to fix its problems out of the public eye, the sources said. "There is a change of tone on the board," one of the sources said on Thursday. No deal is imminent, however, and BlackBerry has not launched any kind of a sale process, the sources said. Even if it tried, BlackBerry could find it hard to come up with a buyer and the funding to go private. With the company still posting losses and bleeding subscribers, private equity firms and other buyers may not want to step up. The company's shares have fallen more than 19 percent this year. Its market value has fallen to $4.8 billion, from $84 billion at its peak in 2008. BlackBerry, which had been pinning its hopes for a turnaround on its new line of BlackBerry 10 devices, declined to comment. The sources declined to be named because these discussions are private. BlackBerry's openness to consider a deal marks a radical shift in thinking at the once high-flying smartphone maker. Until recently, BlackBerry, formerly known as Research in Motion and a pioneer in providing secured emails on handheld devices, had been bent on staying independent, betting its turnaround on its latest smartphones. Last month, Heins said the company was on the right track and just needed more time to fix its problems. He said the company will unveil more devices that run on the BlackBerry 10 operating system over the next eight months. The company has also been looking at options such as licensing its BlackBerry 10 software and other partnerships. Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry has recently had discussions with private equity firm Silver Lake Partners about potential collaboration in enterprise computing, one of the sources said. Silver Lake is caught in a bruising $25 billion battle to take Dell Inc private. Should it succeed in the Dell buyout, one possibility could be for it to collaborate with BlackBerry in mobile computing, where the PC maker has struggled to gain traction, the source said. The talks with Silver Lake did not involve any buyout or other transaction-related discussions, the source said. Silver Lake declined to comment. Pressure is only increasing on the smartphone maker. BlackBerry 10 sales have come in well below some analysts' expectations, raising questions about whether the company can quickly win back market share from Apple Inc's iPhone as well as Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's Galaxy devices and other phones powered by Google Inc's Android operating system. Some investors say the company must now look at all of its options, from a sale of the whole company to a sale of parts. Its valuable patent portfolio and high-margin services business could draw interest from technology companies. But private equity firms have circled the company for more than two years and have tried without success so far to figure out ways to structure a deal. Moreover, Ottawa reviews any big takeover of a Canadian company for competitive and national security reasons. Government officials have often said they want BlackBerry to succeed as a Canadian company, but concede they do not know how things will play out. (Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Chris Gallagher)
The St. Louis Federal Reserve published a new batch of archival Federal Reserve materials on Thursday, and we came across an intriguing document. Here is a map, dating from either 1913 or 1914, showing an original proposal for nine Federal Reserve Districts. One of them was to be based in Cincinnati. It would have covered Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. Check it out: St. Louis Fed It was presumed that Cincinnati would get it over Cleveland. Indeed, it got the 4th-most votes in one of the final rounds of voting! McAvoy! Indeed, in the version showing nine districts, Cinci makes it: St. Louis Fed Today, of course there are 12 Fed Districts, and none of them are based in Cincinnati. There are lots of theories why the Queen City ó as well as other places that lost out including Portland and Baltimore ó came up short. Michael McAvoy of SUNY-Oneonta has documented the accusations of clout and favoritism that followed the final choices. But he concludes that ultimately the decisions were made as objectively as possible based on the best interests of the country.
Wikimedia CommonsDespite generally favorable July economic data out of China and a rally in Asia overnight, stock markets in Europe and the U.S. are sliding. Right now, the French CAC 40 and the German DAX are down 0.2%, the Spanish IBEX 35 is off 0.1%, and the Italian FTSE MIB is 0.4% lower. Meanwhile, the London FTSE is up 0.2%. In the United States, S&amp;P 500 futures are lower by 0.4%. In Asia, the Japanese Nikkei 225 closed up 0.1%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng advanced 0.7%, and the Shanghai Composite rose 0.4%. "A re-acceleration in Chinese industrial production growth to 9.7% [year over year] (thanks to steel and auto production increases), has helped boost positive risk sentiment into the weekend," says Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale global strategist Kit Juckes. "[Emerging markets] currencies are stronger across the board, the [Aussie dollar] short-covering rally is continuing and only the yen‚Äôs strength is inconsistent with this overall picture. That‚Äôs testament to the pressure for positions to be squared and probably tells us not to take any of the current price action too seriously." French industrial production unexpectedly plunged in June ‚Äì down 1.4% following a 0.3% decline in May. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.3%. "In the details, the contraction in industrial activity in June was mainly driven by a slump in output of utilities (-5.4%)," says Morgan Stanley economist¬†Olivier Bizimana.¬†"Production declined in almost all the main branches of the manufacturing industry as well (-0.4%). In particular, output in the manufacture of food products and beverages showed the largest decline (-2.9%)."
Despite unprecedented monetary ease, the economy has slogged along at an average 2% growth rate over the last three years and seems to be slowing down even more in 2013.¬† GDP grew at an annualized rate of only 1.1% in the 1st quarter and 1.7% in the 2nd with final demand even lower at 1.3% and 0.3% respectively. The reasons for the lagging growth are not hard to find.¬† Simply put, there is not enough demand as consumers continue to deleverage the enormous amount of debt built up during the housing boom at the same time their incomes are barely rising.¬† For the last 60 years household debt, which averaged about 77% of real disposable income, soared to 129% at the peak in 2007.¬† While some progress has been made in reducing the ratio to 106%, it is still a far cry from the 60-year average. At the same time consumers‚Äô ability to spend is severely limited.¬† Real spending increased at a tepid 2% over the past year, and even this amount is unlikely to be maintained as real disposable income during the period rose only 0.6%.¬† With the household savings rate at a recovery low of only 4.4%, consumers are unlikely to reduce the rate even more in order to support spending. The reported increase in payroll employment is not likely to change the bleak outlook for income and spending.¬† Monthly job increases have averaged 186,000 over the last two years, far below the amount recorded in prior recoveries.¬† In addition the rate of new jobs has not picked up recently as average employment rose by an average of only 175,000 over the last three months.¬† Furthermore, an unusually high proportion of new jobs were part-time and in lower paying segments such as leisure and hospitality, where wages are only $13.48 per hour, compared to $24.37 per hour in manufacturing jobs, which have been going down.¬† And since hours worked per week are much lower in leisure and hospitality than in manufacturing, the gap in weekly wages between the two segments is even greater.¬† That is why consumer incomes are not keeping pace with the increase in jobs.  In sum, we believe that the economy is losing steam rather than picking up.¬† This is happening at the same time that the Fed seems intent on paring down QE, dysfunction is coming to a head in Washington, earnings increases are decelerating, and global economies are under pressure.¬† Under these circumstances the potential for a severe market decline should not be overlooked.
flickr / HipnosBEIJING/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China is developing a new trading platform to enable banks to sell off loans to a wider range of investors, in a move that could pave the way for a government bailout of lenders or distressed asset sales to private investors. The trading platform, now in the testing phase, is designed to introduce banks to a new class of investors, including non-bank financial institutions and large companies. Currently, the lack of well-established precedents for asset disposals effectively leaves banks only two options: sell non-performing loans in private deals, mostly with big state-backed asset management firms, or keep rolling them over indefinitely to avoid booking a loss. Most analysts believe Beijing will eventually be forced to use some public funds to help peel off bad loans from state banks, but the ability to draw in at least some private capital could reduce the cost of that bailout. The new platform could aid the effort to draw in private investors by allowing for price discovery for loan transfers, creating benchmarks that could guide future deals. Greater transparency in pricing could thus lure even more investors. The China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) will introduce a so-called "credit transfer system" in the country's interbank market, which includes banks as well as non-bank financial institutions and large companies, three sources with knowledge of the situation told Reuters. The system would allow for the transfer of asset-backed securities (ABS) as well as non-securitized loan packages. China's banks are struggling with an overhang of potentially bad debt from a state-backed lending binge unleashed from 2008 to 2010 in response to the global financial crisis. Market participants widely suspect that the true scale of the bad loan problem is far larger than the official, system-wide non-performing loan ratio of under 1 percent. Loans to local governments have emerged as a particular source of risk. Allowing banks to unload assets could help prevent a debt crisis that could lead to a sharp recession if asset prices tumble and credit flows to the real economy decline. It could also free up space on bank balance sheets, enabling them to support the economy with fresh credit. China is on pace for its slowest full-year growth since 1990. REVITALISATION SEEN AS KEY In response to questions, the CBRC appeared to confirm the program, saying that in line with the leadership's call for "revitalizing the monetary credit stock," the agency was "in the midst of researching related institutional structures and methods." The State Council, China's cabinet, first introduced the "revitalize the stock" formulation in a policy statement in June. The establishment of a system allowing troubled assets to circulate and trade - rather than sit like deadweight on banks' balance sheets - sheds new light on what the cryptic but oft-repeated phrase means. The new platform will be administered by the China Central Depository &amp; Clearing Co., Ltd., the state-backed clearing house that clears trades in the interbank bond market, Reuters sources said. "China Central Depository's system is working on supporting both ABS as well as (non-securitized) loan transfers," said a source with knowledge of the system. Several simulated trades occurred on the system last week, and it will be formally launched following further internal discussion and a public comment period, said another source, who is close to regulators. But questions remain about who would be willing to buy risky bank assets and at what price. China set up four state-backed asset management companies (AMCs) in 1999 to buy 1.4 trillion yuan ($230 billion) in bad from the nation's Big Four banks. They bought the bad loans at or near face value in an explicit bailout of commercial banks. This time around, the AMCs may again step in to purchase the lowest-quality assets. In addition to the original four, the CBRC last year authorized provincial governments to set up their own AMCs to buy bad debt from smaller banks. So far only Jiangsu, a wealthy province in southeast China, has formally established one. But private investors, including brokerages, commercially-oriented AMCs, distressed debt investors, insurance companies, and pension funds, would likely require discounts to face value for all but the highest quality loans. Even with such discounts, however, the difficulty of performing due diligence on loans originated by other institutions could limit these investors' appetite for these assets, market participants say. "The non-standardization of assets has always been the main factor restricting credit asset transfers. How can you assess the risk? Bonds can have credit ratings, but loans don't. This has created difficulties for price setting," said a senior interbank market participant at a mid-sized Chinese bank. Securitized assets, which are standardized, carry credit ratings, and are typically more liquid than bank loans, could be more enticing. Reuters reported last month that the CBRC was working with China's securities regulator to formulate new, less restrictive guidelines for the creation of ABS. China cautiously re-launched a securitization pilot program last year, following a halt during the financial crisis.¬†But only 25.6 billion yuan in credit-based ABS are currently outstanding in China's interbank market, a tiny fraction of the 27.25 trillion yuan in total bonds outstanding, according to data from China's two main bond clearinghouses. (Additional reporting by Zhang Shengnan in BEIJING and Zhao Hongmei in HONG KONG; Editing by Kim Coghill)
REUTERS/Rebecca CookA large "Opportunity Made In Detroit" banner is seen on the side of one of the buildings owned by Quicken Loans founder Dan Gilbert in downtown Detroit, Michigan January 30, 2013. Gilbert has a vision for downtown Detroit that many would find hard to square with the long, painful decline commonly associated with this city: a vibrant urban core full of creative, innovative and talented young people. Yet Quicken Loans, the mortgage lender Gilbert co-founded in 1985, has invested $1 billion over three years, bought some 2.6 million square feet of commercial space in the downtown area and moved 7,000 employees there in a bid to make that vision a reality. Picture taken January 30, 2013.SAGINAW, Mich. (AP) ‚Äî Three governments in Michigan have pulled planned municipal bond sales off the market since Detroit filed for bankruptcy protection last month. On Thursday, Saginaw County withdrew a roughly $61 million sale to cover pension obligations. Ahead of that decision, Genesee County withdrew a $54 million sale to finance a water and sewer work. And Battle Creek delayed a $16 million general obligation bond issue. The decisions come amid concern that Detroit's bankruptcy will make it more difficult for communities to borrow money. Detroit owes billions to bondholders and billions more in pensions to retired city workers. In its bankruptcy filing, the city proposed trimming pension benefits and paying bondholders a fraction of what they're owed. It also wants to treat retired city workers and bond investors as equals. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
// <![CDATA[ secure: 1// ]]> This post originally appeared on LinkedIn. See more of Christoph R¸hl's LinkedIn Influencer posts.  The impact of the US shale ìrevolutionî has people all around the world scratching their heads ñ over what it means: Is North America really on the road to self-sufficiency? Of oil, of gas, or of all fuels? And increasingly, people wonder about the implications for their own regions: Are there similar resources? What would it take to get at them? By the numbers, this already†IS†a big development. Last year, the US witnessed the worldís largest increase in oil as well as gas production. Not only did oil production expand faster than in any other country, last year also saw the biggest oil production increase in the history of the US ñ a country, mind you, which has produced oil since 1859. So far this year, production has grown even stronger. The reason is tight oil - oil generated with the same technologies that gave us shale gas. Production US production last year grew by over 1 million barrels per day, 80% of which came from North Dakota and Texas, currently home to the countryís most prolific tight oil formations. North Dakota surpassed Alaska to become the second largest producing state and in Texas, the number one, output has doubled over the past five years. Meanwhile, the US is well on its way to replace Saudi Arabia as the worldís largest oil producer ñ the switch may take place as early as next year. How did this happen? Parts of the story are well known: Everyone can invest in oil and gas in the US or Canada ñ and many did. It was actually mostly small or medium sized firms which tried to develop the technologies to make it possible to connect high prices and known shale resources ñ first for gas, and then for oil. Many failed and lost their shirt in the process. A few succeeded. But the big ones, the BPís or Exxonís of this world, only came in once the basic technologies (such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing) had been developed ñ to buy them, and to apply them elsewhere. Economics Economists use a big name for this type of development (named, of course, after a fellow economist) and call it a†ìSchumpeterianî†process ñ otherwise also known as Economics 101: Under market conditions, high prices trigger competition, and competition triggers innovation. There are victims among those agile spirits who move in first, and there is a wave of followers who come in next, catching up with the new technologies and refining them to make them more efficient, until the system turns stable again. These waves of innovation indeed are one of the most fundamental characteristics of functioning market economies. BP The US is now reaping the second round effects of such a wave of innovation: after access to the massive resource base has been granted by technological improvements, and thus the boom been triggered, comes the hour of efficiency improvements. The graph above shows how: In North Dakota, for example, the number of new wells started in 2012 grew by more than 50% and so did the stateís oil production ñ even though the number of rigs grew by only 10%. Producers are getting more oil out of the ground with less activity. Perhaps the most important lesson one can ever hope to learn from this development is what it means for energy markets generally: that energy markets are governed by the very same simple principles as any other market. There is a reason this happened in the US or Canada and not, say, in Venezuela or China ñ despite the fact that they sit on unconventional resources at least as plentiful as those in the US and Canada (oil sands in Venezuela, shale formations in China). This reason has nothing to do with resource endowments below ground but everything to do with competition and markets above ground. Innovation tends not to happen in economies where government control extinguishes the private reward for trial and error - in energy markets just as in any other industry. Global Impact Meanwhile, the developments in North America are changing energy relations for the rest of us. They are still too new to be emulated in other parts of the world, although the resource base is wide-spread. But while other places are busy trying to locate those resources (and remember, they will have to mimic the ìabove groundî competitive conditions as well to access them efficiently, which will take time), developments in the US are reshaping global oil markets as we used to know them. Five years ago the US imported 2 million barrels per day of refined products (i.e. gasoline, diesel, etc.). Last year, it became the worldís biggest exporter, selling 1 million barrels per day of refined products abroad (crude oil exports are still legally constrained in the US). All told, the US still is a net oil importer and likely to remain one for years to come, but look at the graph below ñ I think it tells it all. BP Net US oil imports peaked in 2005 and have since fallen by 36% (or 4.5 million barrels per day). Just to clarify the order of magnitude; this reduction is equal in size to Japanís entire oil consumption last year, Japan being the third largest oil consumer on the planet. Just a few years ago, US imports were on a par with Europeís; now they are one third below those of the European Union. Over that same period, Chinese net oil imports rose 84% (2.8 million barrels per day). China is well on its way to overtake the US to become the worldís largest oil importer. You can take a guess as to how long it will take for the orange and light green lines cross - it is happening right as we speak. (Believe it or not, 20 years ago, China was a net exporter of energy!). In my view, and this is a little guesswork now†the foundation of which can be found here, the US is likely to remain a modest net oil importer until about 2030. North America as a region (comprising Canada, Mexico and the US) looks set to become self-sufficient around 2020. China, on the other hand, soon the worldís biggest importer of fossil fuels (oil, gas and coal), will import almost 80% of its oil and more than 40% of its natural gas by 2030. In this way the shale ìrevolutionî becomes part of a much bigger development. But what triggered it? Accident? The North American resource base? Markets? What are the implications? And - will it happen elsewhere? More from LinkedIn:
Bloomberg TelevisionIn his latest note to clients, JPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee ñ who has the highest year-end S&amp;P 500 price target on Wall Street ñ passes along a few interesting anecdotes. Lee writes: We continue to find sentiment readings (positive, per AAII) to be incongruent with the feedback we get from hedge funds, asset managers and individual investors. With August/September being seasonally weak periods, hedge funds seem to be looking for short ideas and long-only managers simply do not feel comfortable putting incremental cash to work at new market highs. A final but interesting anecdote, at a large group lunch earlier this week with 80 or so wealth advisors, we heard how most individual investors are spectators in the equity markets, having a greater share of their assets in bonds, particularly munis ñ apparently, stocks are for ìother peopleî (who want to take the risk). In our view, sentiment tends to have contrarian implications ñ that is, if investors are generally (anecdotally) cautious, this suggests that a lot of the negatives are already reflected in current prices. Consequently, as much as investors are concerned about a potential pullback (which we acknowledge is possible), the current caution suggests better implied risk/reward. As for strategy, Lee says, "We continue to like Cyclicals here, primarily because of the anticipated acceleration in [second half] growth for U.S. and Euro area, as evidenced by the upturn in economic momentum indicators."†
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonIn the week ended August 7, investors redeemed $4.0 billion from Treasury bond funds ‚Äì equal to 1.3% of assets under management ‚Äì marking the worst week of outflows on record for the asset class. "Great Rotation continues as weekly flows show record redemptions ($4bn) from Govt/Tsy funds vs robust inflows ($10bn) to Developed Market equities," says BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett. Also of note were outflows from BRICs equity funds, which were all the largest on record this past week ‚Äì Brazil funds lost 1.8% of assets under management, Russia funds lost 0.8%, India funds lost 0.4%, and China funds lost 0.1%. Below is a complete breakdown of this week's fund flow data, via Hartnett: Asset Class Flows  Equities: $9.6bn inflows ($6.7bn via ETFs) (6 straight weeks)  Bonds: $2.2bn outflows (largest outflows in 4 weeks) Precious metals: $0.6bn outflows (record-extending 26 straight weeks)  Equity Flows  Strong $1.8bn inflows to Europe (6 straight weeks) $5.7bn inflows to US (6 straight weeks) ($4.2bn via ETFs) $0.7bn inflows to Japan (inflows in 28 out of past 29 weeks) $0.7bn outflows from EM equity funds; BRICs all record outflows Fixed Income Flows $4.0bn outflows from Govt/Tsy (largest on record in absolute terms); caveat is that outflows from IEI (iShares 3-7y Treasury Bond ETF) accounted for half the redemptions 17 straight weeks out of TIPS ($0.4bn) 11 straight weeks out of Munis ($0.9bn) 11 straight weeks out of EM debt ($0.4bn); but pace of outflows slowing 59 straight weeks of inflows to leveraged loan funds ($2.0bn) $1.3bn inflows to HY bond funds ($12bn inflows over past 6 weeks) 3 straight weeks of small inflows to IG bond funds ($0.4bn)
REUTERSAn employee works inside a silk factory in Neijiang, Sichuan province, July 3, 2013. China's economy is expected to grow 7.6 percent in the second half of 2013.China just released five key economic data points overnight. Here's a quick run-down: "Among the data points, the most important upside surprise is [industrial production] growth," says Deutsche Bank economist Jun Ma. "This is also the highest [industrial production] reading since Jan-Feb. By sector, the [year-over-year industrial production] growth of the steel sector accelerated by 1.8 [percentage points], that of auto by 2.1 [percentage points], and that of power by about 3 [percentage points]. We believe that the demand for heavy manufacturing is beginning to recover, led partially by the stabilization of the inventory cycle and partially by the rise in corporate confidence due to the mini stimulus measures announced since the beginning of July." BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu says the better-than-expected industrial production data should move markets. "By considering the rebounding official PMI and trade data as well as the subdued inflation readings in July, we expect today‚Äôs data will have quite a positive impact on commodities, commodity-related currencies and some Chinese stocks (especially cyclical names exposed to [fixed-asset investment])," says Ting. "We believe many Street economists will likely revise up their 3Q GDP growth forecasts soon." While inflation came in below expectations, Credit Suisse analysts Weishen Deng and Dong Tao see a pickup on the horizon. "This [consumer price index] print is lower than expected, however, we believe that the upward price pressure persists and inflation uncertainties remain high going forward," writes the Credit Suisse team in a note. "The only factor that caused the negative surprise in this month is the large sequential decline in the fresh fruits prices. However, this is the item that usually comes with smaller dynamic weighting, and it is a more volatile component of the CPI basket. Prices for those more persistent components with higher weights were actually on the rise, such as pork prices, rental costs, and residential service costs.¬†These will likely bring upward pressure to CPI inflation in the coming months, in our view." Yifan Hu of Haitong Securities points to the July fixed asset investment data as a sign that investment is bottoming. "Jan-July China [fixed asset investment] growth stabilized at a low level, and likely to bottom out on more supportive policies following the first wave of measures," says Yifan. "Infrastructure projects supported by 'new urbanization' policy will continue to play an important role." Yifan also says retail sales data are bottoming out. "The deceleration of retail sales reflected remaining weak demand, but likely to bottom out," she writes in a note. "We expect retail sales growth to accelerate in [the second half of 2013] along with announcement of supportive policies on consumption. 'Information Consumption' is to be a new highlight promoted by the State Council, who targets information consumption to reach RMB 3.2 trillion by 2015. It will consequently to pull up internet equipment sales to grow by 30% per year to reach RMB 2.4 trillion by 2015; and meanwhile, online retail sales and B2B business are expected to rise significantly and reach RMB 1.2 trillion and RMB 18 trillion respectively by 2015." The Aussie dollar ‚Äì seen as a proxy for risk sentiment toward China, given Australia's large commodity exports to the country ‚Äì is trading 0.5% higher against the U.S. dollar this morning on the news.
