Former GOP VP nominee and budget superstar Paul Ryan will unveil a plan tomorrow morning that will, according to him, balance the budget within 10 years. He has a new op-ed in the WSJ this evening laying out his vision in broad swaths, but we must warn you, it's very broad. There are no real details in the op-ed. He says his plan cuts spending. He says his plan repeals Obamacare. And he says his plan targets domestic energy. He also mentions welfare reform. But considering the significant cuts that will be required to get the deficit to zero, there's obviously a lot still missing. Will he get more detailed tomorrow? We'll wait and see. But in the meantime, we shouldn't be talking about the deficit it all. We shouldn't be talking about the long-term debt at all either. It should be completely ignored. Why? Because of this chart. Unemployment remains incredibly high by historical standards. And when you break the number down further, you'll see a much bigger crisis of long-term unemployment. FRED This remains the US' #1 economic problem, and unfortunately, we can't address the current situation and the long-term debt at the same time. Oh sure, on paper you can have a program that stimulates the economy now, while doing some tweaks to long-term spending (like means-testing Medicare and adopting a system that slows the pace of Social Security growth). But in practice it doesn't work. In practice, all of the talk about long-term deficits gets people thinking that this is a problem that we must address starting now, and so we end up with a lot of self-defeating policy. Think about it: If nobody talked about the US debt "crisis" would we have gotten the debt ceiling standoff of 2011, or the sequestration of 2013? Of course not. In our worry about long-term deficit issues, we shoot ourselves in the foot near-term, while also not doing anything about the long-term. That's why this is the saddest chart of the sequestration. It shows that the sequestration, while haring growth now, does zilch to change the long-term US deficit trajectory. Bipartisan Policy Center This is what deficit obsession has gotten us. No change to anything long-term. Just short-term cuts. Felix Salmon had a good post last week arguing that you can't fix fiscal problems with fiscal solutions. What that means is, the underlying issues regarding the long-term debt are not really about levels of spending, but about core issues of growth, demographics, and health care costs. If you want a "fix" then you need to address the core issue of why health care is rising so much. (And actually, Obamacare attempts to do this, which is why the zeal for repeal as part of a balanced budget plan is funny.) Furthermore, as it stands right now, the current deficit is shrinking incredibly fast (as Krugman notes today), and healthcare inflation is slowing more quickly than people expected. So let's get back to a healthy level of unemployment, and then see where things stand on healthcare and so forth. And let's not say one word about the deficit or the debt, since that clearly only leads to bad policy.
Nikkei up. Drink. The hottest market in the world is aiming for a 9-day winning streak, according to Nikkei.com. In these early minutes of the day, the index is up another 0.7%. Nikkei.com
Flickr / bnpositiveLucas Oil StadiumLots of people gripe about waking up on Daylight Savings Time turnover day. They're likely to gripe even more when they find out "Daylight Savings" is actually a misnomer. A 2011 study by environmental researchers¬†Matthew J. Kotchen and Laura E. Grant (via WSJ's Real Time Economics) found switching actually cost each an Indiana resident¬†an average of $3.29 per year in increased electricity bills, or approximately $9 million for the entire state. Anything people save on lighting costs ‚Äî savings that constituted the original goal for DST ‚Äî are canceled out by increased energy use for heating and cooling. Moving an hour of sunlight from the early morning to the evening (relative to clock time) increases electricity consumption for cooling because demand for cooling is greater in the evening and the¬†buildup of solar radiation throughout the day means that the¬†evening is hotter. The researchers do not calculate the cost of ending DST and make no recommendation on what should be done.
Charlie Rose via YouTubeJim O'NeillU.S. economic data has been improving notably.† And the U.S. stock market is near its all time high. However, Goldman economist Jim O'Neill is getting increasingly concerned that the stock market is getting expensive. In the near-term, he thinks momentum could drive stocks higher.† But we warns that valuations are getting rich. From his latest Viewpoints note: The strength of last weekís US data is leading the consensus to revise upwards their forecasts for 2013 real GDP. Having been notably higher than the consensus since autumn 2012, GSAM is rather pleased about that as a number of investment strategies have prospered from it. Of course, and as I discussed last week and in recent Viewpoints, this is despite the ongoing and sometimes unchosen fiscal tightening in the US, and is a marked contrast to Europe. Not surprisingly, all of the US bond, equity and currency markets are reacting accordingly. I am not that confident about what happens next and as to whether all these trends are going to continue, not least because May is now less than two months away and the infamous ìSell in May and go away, come back on St Legerís Dayî (which I am physically actually going to be doing post retirement, of course!). US equities seem set to strengthen further in the near term, given the momentum in the data, but as page 47 shows, they are hardly bargain basement these days from a CAPE perspective. As for bonds and the Dollar, the market is adjusting its future profile for the Fed and starting to think that the Fed will have to change its own views, but I am not sure, in light of the actual (and prospect of more) fiscal tightening means the Fed will jump too soon, especially given their output gap views and the strength of conviction of their leading players. Of course, if this data improvement continues, then the Fed will have to adjust. CAPE is short for cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio, which divides the S&amp;P 500 by 10-year average earnings. At 23.6, the U.S. CAPE is well above the long-term average of 18.7. The chart he references comes from his presentation at the Ambrosetti Financial Markets Workshop. † Goldman Sachs Asset Management
The other day I was driving my daughter to school and a Taylor Swift song came on the radio. She immediately pleaded with me from the back seat to turn it up.†† As she was bopping her head back and forth and singing the tune ñ the lyrics got me to thinking about how investors approach the financial markets much in the same way Taylor Swift approaches her relationships. At one point the tabloid covers show her happy, smiling, holding hands and laughing. Not too long after we see her heartbroken and her next hit song, which makes her a few million more dollars, rings of the love lost. Then, her love comes back into her life promising that this time will be different.†† Only it isnít. On again, off again and back on again.†† The interesting thing is that it is not so very different with our continued love/hate relationship with the financial markets. †Investors fall deeply in love with the markets as they are rising.† Rising asset prices create a euphoric feeling that begins to cloud our judgment.† We overlook the flaws, and the early warning signs, with willful blindness. After allÖîainít love grand?î Then, as the end of the love affair eventually comes, as it always does, we become disillusioned, angry and depressed. We swear to ourselves that we will never be lured back into that trap again. We have learned our lesson. However, as the markets once again recover, and the pundits chastise investors for ìmissing outî they are once again lured back in thinking that this time they will know better. This time will surely be different. Lately, there have been numerous articles discussing that, with Dow at all-time highs, now is the time for investors to jump in.† Most of these articles, however, are based on the same tired and worn out arguments of market timing, buy and hold investing and an improving economy. 1) You can't time the markets. It's true - you cannot time the markets.† Being "all in" or "all out" is a sure way to eventually blow up your portfolio. †However, a "buy and hold" strategy is also not realistic.† While buying and holding a balanced portfolio over the last hundred years would have certainly made you very wealthy - there are several reasons why this it is also untrue. † First, even though it is possible for someone to live to the ripe old age of 100 it is highly unlikely that they begin investing as soon as they left the womb.† The majority of individuals don't start saving, much less investing, until very late in life. In the majority of cases individuals that are seriously saving, and investing for their retirement, have on average about 15 years to reach their goal.† Secondly, such analysis assumes that individuals are emotionless beings that are not affected by the volatile swings in the markets which ultimately destroy their savings. The breakups, and makeups, with the markets are clearly shown in the chart below which shows the emotional cycle that investors go through with the markets. Street Talk Live Investors continually make the same emotionally driven mistakes, with the help of plenty of hype from mainstream pundits, which leads to buying "high" and selling "low". †This is, of course, exactly the opposite of what logic tells you to do. Emotions are a much stronger force than logic ñ and while life should be filled with emotion, our investing should not. 2) You should "buy and hold" because there is no 20-year period where stocks have had a negative return. There are two problems with this statement.† First, as stated above, the average person has less than 20 years to save for retirement. This means that "buying and holding" during the wrong secular cycle can be devastating to retirement and savings goals.† The chart below shows the S&amp;P 500 on an inflation adjusted bases with secular "bull" and "bear" markets defined.† With the exception of the very short secular bull market from 1920-1929 these secular periods range from 14-18 years normally. Street Talk Live The argument that you should stay invested because every rolling 20-year periods is positive is also flawed.† When adjusting for inflation, we can clearly see that there are multiple periods where negative real returns existed.† Of course, it isn't surprising when you look at the devastation caused during the secular bear market periods in the chart above. (The chart below uses monthly Shiller data going back to 1900 and shows rolling monthly 20-year periods) Street Talk Live Successful investing, over the specific time frame that you have to reach your retirement goals, is mostly dependent on being in the right secular cycle.† Currently, despite the current cyclical bull rally, the markets remain contained within a secular bear market period. As we discussed recently the current secular bear market likely still has several more years, and at least one more major market correction to go. This is due to the one consideration that is often ignored by the mainstream pundits which is that the domestic economy is no longer in the same position as it was in the early, or even mid, 20th century.† During those time frames were wither engaged in World Wars, which boosted domestic spending and production, OR the U.S. was primarily the sole manufacturing and production facility for the rest of world post the devastation caused by WWII.†† Today, that is no longer the case.† With the domestic economy now based largely upon finance and service, which are low economic multipliers, the burden of high debt levels and weak economic growth is likely to yield weaker returns for longer than investors are prepared for.† 3) The economy is set to take off. Of course, the argument for continued weak economic growth undermines one of the primary arguments for a continued surge in the financial markets. That argument revolves around the notion that economy is set to have an explosive resurgence of growth beginning this year.† With the Fed, and central banks around the globe, dumping money into the economic system it is just a function of time until the economy gains traction and jumps higher. This is highly unlikely to be the case for a two reasons.† First, the diminishing rate of return of increases in debt relative to economic growth is getting worse.† The chart below shows the rate of increase in debt versus the rate of increase in economic growth since the beginning of 2009.† The current trend is unsustainable and potential cuts to government spending and increases in taxes may further retard future growth. Street Talk Live Secondly, the amount of slack in the overall economy, as shown by a near 6% output gap, is going to continue to restrain organic economic growth in the future. Street Talk Live The reality is that high debt and deficit levels, declining wages and low savings rates are eroding economic growth as productive investment is inhibited. The large amount of slack in the economy gives little reason for companies to ramp up hiring, production or investment beyond simply maintaining current levels of demand. This supports the premise that the markets will likely remained mired in a secular bear trend for longer than currently expected. Changing Our Behavior If we truly want to win the long term investment game we have to learn to behave differently. Instead of jumping into, and out of, our relationship with the market ñ we need to develop an understanding that the equity markets are not ìlong term relationshipî material. That puts us into a position to manage our exposure to the markets accordingly. While Taylor Swift is either all in, or all out, of her revolving relationships and swears that she will ìnever, ever, ever ñ get back together,î as investors we just need to strive to have a healthy, but emotionally unattached, relationship with the markets. A relationship built on the proper understanding of the risk, how to manage those risks, and keeping expectations in line with reality are key to attaining your investment goals. When the markets are being friendly we can enjoy their company ñ but we do not have to fall in love with them.† Conversely, there are times that we should spend more of our time with other friends like Mr. Bond and Mr. Cash. There has never been a rule that investing should ONLY be done in the equity markets. Our job, as investors, is to deploy cash into the best opportunities available, at any given time, which will inure to our benefit within our specific time frame. If there are no opportunities currently available ñ cash is the best place to be. It is absolutely true that you will miss out on some of the highs, however, you will also miss a bulk of the lows. However, missed opportunities are much easier to replace than lost capital. The one thing that can never be regained is the time lost along the way. While it is our human nature to be eternally optimistic - it is much healthier, as an investor, to remain a bit of a skeptic. The reality though is, like the continuing sagas that seem to be Taylor Swift's relationships, we are continually lured by the appeal of the markets.† "This slope is treacherous, This path is reckless...and I, I, I like it."
A judge blocked New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's sugary drink ban†one day before it was supposed to go into effect. Now, the mayor has held a press conference to talk about what happened today. Bloomberg stepped up to the mic about 23 minutes late. "We believe that the judge's decision was clearly an error," said Bloomberg, reminding everyone that he's planning to appeal.†"We think that the judge is totally in error in the way that he interpreted the law," he continued. New York Supreme Court Judge Milton Tingling wrote that the new regulations are†"fraught with arbitrary and capricious consequences." "It is arbitrary and capricious because it applies to some but not all food establishments in the City," the judge wrote. "It excludes other beverages that have significantly higher concentrations of sugar sweeteners and/or calories on suspect grounds." When asked by a reporter about the political consequences of his actions, Bloomberg became clearly agitated. "It's not a question of political capital," said Bloomberg. "I'm trying to do what's right! ... My job is to do the best I can for New Yorkers." He also spent a lot of time defending the purpose of the ban and why he thinks it's necessary. "The best science tells us that sugary drinks are a leading cause of obesity," said Bloomberg. "It's not enough to talk and it's not enough to hope." He said that it our "responsibility" to solve the problem about sugary drinks, calling the NYC Board of Health a "pioneer." "We believe that ultimately the courts will find it consistent with the law." said Bloomberg. "When we began this process we knew we would face lawsuits." And he made sure to note that his team knew that special interests ó in this case, trade associations and a union ó would sue.† "That's America," he said. Live stream below: 
goingconcern.comErin Callan, the former chief financial officer of Lehman Brothers, offers this contribution to the work-life balance discussion: I don't have children, so it might seem that my story lacks relevance to the work-life balance debate. Like everyone, though, I did have relationshipsóa spouse, friends and familyóand none of them got the best version of me. They got what was left over. I didn't start out with the goal of devoting all of myself to my job. It crept in over time. Each year that went by, slight modifications became the new normal. First I spent a half-hour on Sunday organizing my e-mail, to-do list and calendar to make Monday morning easier. Then I was working a few hours on Sunday, then all day. My boundaries slipped away until work was all that was left. Inevitably, when I left my job, it devastated me. I couldn't just rally and move on. I did not know how to value who I was versus what I did. What I did was who I was. I have spent several years now living a different version of my life, where I try to apply my energy to my new husband, Anthony, and the people whom I love and care about. But I can't make up for lost time. Most important, although I now have stepchildren, I missed having a child of my own. I am 47 years old, and Anthony and I have been trying in vitro fertilization for several years. We are still hoping. Sometimes young women tell me they admire what I've done. As they see it, I worked hard for 20 years and can now spend the next 20 focused on other things. But that is not balance. I do not wish that for anyone. I've been following Callan for a very long time. Until I read this, I didn't realize how much she regretted about the choices she made with her life. It's quite moving. It's hard not to wonder how much of this is related to the failure of Lehman Brothers. If her firm had not collapsed, she might have felt different about rising to the upper echelon of Wall Street. Success can often provide at least the illusion of happiness. Or, perhaps, it would have just delayed the recognition of her own unhappiness. Callan hardly needs advice from me but I'll offer it anyway. She may want to consider that her lack of satisfaction with her life's direction is not a product of the choices she made. Instead, her choices may have been a product of her lack of satisfaction. In my experience, the kind of people who can rise to the level she did at a relatively early age tend to be filling a hole in their psyche, an indistinguishable yearning for something more that is experienced as a kind of pain. Look at Callan's life. She is obviously very ambitious and capable. Yet she describes her life as almost beyond her control. There are no words of happiness about the success she achieved. Instead, she says she wouldn't wish her life on anyone. And now that she is in a new phase of life, she is still filled with regret, worry and unsatisfied ambition. "We are still hoping," she writes. But she means striving, pushing, trying to escape the limits of the ordinary. If Callan suffers from this, it's not clear that she wouldn't still feel this kind of profound regret if she had filled that abyss with family life rather than work in the financial sector. This feeling of unease about her place in the world is just a part of who she is. There's very little that can be done about this. Although perhaps recognition of the permanence of this uneasiness would help her experience it not exclusively as a source of pain.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Wealthy Americans Are Investing Directly In Infrastructure (The Wall Street Journal) Wealthy Americans are investing in infrastructure including highways, public transit, power plants, schools, ports and so on in the U.S. and abroad. Most do this by buying up shares of companies that build, but some are choosing to invest in the project itself. These investors often include those who distrust hedge funds or are reeling from their losses in the stock market in 2008. They tend to think they are better than the average investment manager at making money, and they tend to want in on emerging market opportunities. Cognitive Biases That Affect How We Trade And Invest (Minyanville) There are 12 cognitive biases that prevent human beings from behaving rationally and impact how people trade and invest. These include 1. Confirmation bias - we seek out information that reinforces our view. 2. Gamblers fallacy - "past performance is no guarantee of future results". 3.¬† Negativity bias - people trust negative news more than positive news. 4. The current moment bias - "we want to live as well as possible and pay for it at a later date". We're In An Earnings Recession (Gluskin Sheff) For those that argue that this rally is driven by earnings,¬†Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg notes earnings are contracting. Instead he says it's being driven by multiple expansion which is in turn impacted by the Fed's easy money policy.¬† "If contraction and recession are synonymous, then an earnings recession is already underway. These talking heads on CNBC are talking about an 'earnings-driven rally'. I have no clue what they are talking about. My database is from Haver Analytics, who get their numbers from Standard &amp; Poor's, and the latest update was on March 6th. And at last count, S&amp;P 500 Q4 operating EPS is running at -1.7% on a YoY basis, and at a $23.32 estimate right now for last quarter, it is actually running only moderately above the level prevailing in Q4 2006 ($21.99). So on this basis, earnings have only eked out a mere 0.8% annualized gain over the past seven years." Gluskin Sheff Central Bankers' 'Crackpot Monetary Ideas' Are Causing Societal Trust To Disintegrate (Edelweiss Holdings) Dylan Grice has previously talked about how the easy monetary policy being flogged about by global central banks was causing social debasement. "So with their crackpot monetary ideas, central banks have been robbing Peter to pay Paul without knowing which one was which. And a problem here is this thing behavioral psychologists call self-attribution bias. It describes how when good things happen to people they think it‚Äôs because of something they did, but when bad things happen to them they think it‚Äôs because of something someone else did. So although Peter doesn‚Äôt know why he‚Äôs suddenly poor, he knows it must be someone else‚Äôs fault. He also sees that Paul seems to be doing OK. So being human, he makes the obvious connection: it‚Äôs all Paul and people like Paul‚Äôs fault. "‚Ä¶When we look around we can‚Äôt help feeling something similar is happening. The 99% blame the 1%; the 1% blame the 47%. In the aftermath of the Eurozone‚Äôs own credit bubbles, the Germans blame the Greeks. The Greeks round on the foreigners. The Catalans blame the Castilians. And as 25% of the Italian electorate vote for a professional comedian whose party slogan ‚Äúvaffa‚Äù means roughly ‚Äúf**k off‚Äù (to everything it seems, including the common currency), the Germans are repatriating their gold from New York and Paris. Meanwhile in China, that centrally planned mother of all credit inflations, popular anger is being directed at Japan, and this is before its own credit bubble chapter has fully played out. (The rising risk of war is something we are increasingly worried about...) Of course, everyone blames the bankers. " James Glassman Still Thinks Dow 36,000 Is Possible (Bloomberg View) James Glassman, who famously predicted Dow 36,000 in a 1999 book with economist Kevin Hassett, is back with a new piece in Bloomberg View. In it he explains that the 36,000 call was based on two assumptions 1) investors assumed more risks in stocks than there was at the time 2) U.S. GDP would rise at 2.5 percent a year.¬† "From its low of 6,547 on March 9, 2009, the Dow has risen 117 percent. Another 117 percent in four years would put it at 31,022, just 16 percentage points shy of the magic number." To get investment returns and push aside investor fears we need more economic growth. "How fast can the U.S. grow? Four percent is attainable, but I‚Äôd settle for 3 percent. Get there quickly, and we‚Äôll get to Dow 36,000 quickly, too."
APNew York state judge Milton Tingling tore Mayor Bloomberg's ban on large sodas to shreds in a lengthy and scathing opinion that essentially said the mayor's office was making a huge power grab. Bloomberg pushed for the ban on drinks larger than 16 ounces at fast food places, movie theaters, and other establishments ó but it wouldn't have applied to bodegas and grocery stores. The city's board of health adopted the rule banning drinks after Bloomberg proposed it. The ban never went through the city council for approval. Tingling said the rule was filled with so many loopholes that it didn't make sense, and that it gave the mayor's office too much power. In doing so, he bought arguments the American Beverage Association and other industry groups made when fighting the ban in court. In their petition to the court, the beverage groups say the executive branch essentially bypassed the city council to get the soda ban passed. "The power to enact new policy is reserved to the legislative branch," they argued. "The executive enforces the law, but it may not usurp the legislature's authority to create it, whether by executive order, administrative fiat, or agency rulemaking. These principles are fundamental to the separation of powers in New York." In siding with the beverage groups, Tingling had this to say: The soda ban "if upheld, would ... violate the separation of powers doctrine. The rule would not only violate the separation of powers doctrine, it would eviscerate it. Such an evisceration has the potential to be more troubling than sugar sweetened beverages." The Bloomberg administration said it was stepping in to get the rule enacted because New York lawmakers had failed to address the issue, but Tingling rejected that argument. "There is no rational argument purporting to demonstrate legislative inaction in this area," he wrote. "Addressing the obesity issue as it relates to sugar-sweetened drinks, or sugary drinks, is the subject of past and ongoing debate withint the city and state legislatures." Latham &amp; Watkins LLP lawyer James Brandt, who represented the American Beverage Association, called the ban "grossly unfair" when arguing the case in court in January, the Washington Post reported. ìItís not going to stop anybody from drinking soda, your honor," Brandt said.
Hours before the new rule came into effect, a judge†overturned Mayor Michael Bloomberg's ban on large sugary drinks in New York City.† State†Judge Milton Tingling called the ban ó which would have blocked sugary drinks over 16 ounces from being sold at restaurants, movie theaters, and street carts ó "arbitrary and capricious." Here's the part where he sums up the arbitrariness: The petitioners state the decision to target only certain sugary sweetened drinks is nonsensical as a host of other drinks contain substantially more calories and sugar than the drinks targeted herein, including alcoholic beverages, lattes, milk shakes, frozen coffees, and a myriad of others too long to list here. Petitioners also point out the exceptions to enforcement of the Rule whereby certain food service establishments are exempt from complying with this Rules. The effect would be a person is unable to buy a drink larger than 16 oz. at one establishment but may be able to buy it at another establishment that may be located right next door. Furthermore, no restrictions exist on refills further defeating the Rule's stated purpose. In the days and hours leading up to the sugary drinks ban, it was shaping up to be a disaster. Dunkin' Donuts and other stores planned to ask customers to add their own sugar and flavors to drinks ó a complicated process that was expected to cause delays when the ban went into effect on Tuesday. There was also disagreement about how to interpret the rules. While Dunkin' planned to cut large hot chocolates from the menu, Starbucks claimed that the rules allowed large milk-based sugary drinks. Meanwhile Starbucks†planned to continue serving all large sugary beverages†until "pending litication" about the ban was resolved.†Starbucks "doesn't want to make any knee-jerk reactions,"†spokeswoman Linda Mills told BI. It's not clear how the city would have enforced the ban either. City health inspectors were set to measure drink sizes during health inspections and would have penalized restaurants that violated the ban. But no one knows how significant the penalties would have been, nor how the city would respond to disobedience by a chain as large as Starbucks.
Yum! Brands, the owner of KFC and Taco Bell, has reported that same-store sales plunged 20 percent in China in Q1. This is according to a new 8-K the company filed with the SEC. However, Yum! also said that February same-store sales were up 2 percent.¬† This suggests the worst may be over. Yum's KFC chain has been struggling amid chicken supply worries in China. Yum! shares are currently up 8 percent in after-hours trading. Here's the full release: Louisville, KY (March 11, 2013) - Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) first quarter same-store sales declined an estimated 20% for the China Division. This included estimated declines of 24% at KFC and 2% at Pizza Hut Casual Dining. Consistent with prior years, the first quarter of the China Division is two months and includes January and February results. February same-store sales growth was approximately 2% for the China Division, including flat same-store sales at KFC and 13% growth at Pizza Hut Casual Dining. We estimate the timing of Chinese New Year had a positive mid-teen impact on February same-store sales growth for both KFC and Pizza Hut Casual Dining, offsetting a similar negative mid-teen impact in January. For the full quarter, the Chinese New Year impact to same-store sales growth was neutral. We will release March same-store sales for our China Division on April 10, 2013 after market hours. We will release first-quarter earnings on April 23, 2013 after market hours.
Reuters/Andrew KellyThis is something we didn't know before about InTrade, the events betting site that announced yesterday that it was shutting down... Legendary billionaire hedge fund managers Paul Tudor Jones and Stan Druckenmiller were both investors in Intrade as of 2011, the Financial Times reports citing audit documents.¬† From the FT: The documents also revealed that the company‚Äôs shareholders in 2011 included hedge fund managers Paul Tudor Jones and Stanley Druckenmiller, and a trust connected to Christopher Hehmeyer, the current chairman of the National Futures Association, a US regulatory body. None of the shareholders could be reached for comment yesterday. Intrade, a popular Dublin-based internet betting exchange for things like the presidential election to the papal conclave, halted its operations and froze customer accounts yesterday after it discovered possible financial irregularities.¬† It's not clear whether Druckenmiller or Jones remain shareholders.
Flickr / brewbooksIt's lonely up here.The bull market has entered its fifth year with the Dow closing at a new all-time high. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,447, +50.2 pts, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,556, +5.0 pts, +0.3 percentNASDAQ: 3,252, +8.5 pts, +0.2 percent And now the top stories:
New York state judge Milton Tingling has rejected Mayor Bloomberg's controversial soda ban in a lengthy and scathing opinion. Read it for yourself: Tingling by Erin Fuchs 
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderJames Dinan (right)BOSTON/NEW YORK, March 8 (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager James Dinan is wagering that ailing retailer JC Penney Corp will continue to perform poorly and in the process he is taking on the company's biggest bull, billionaire investor William Ackman. Dinan, who heads York Capital Management which manages $15.1 billion, this week told an audience at a Morgan Stanley investing conference in New York that the firm is shorting JC Penney's debt, effectively taking a dim view of its future. That puts Dinan at odds with Ackman and his $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management hedge fund. Ackman has become a big JC Penney cheerleader since his firm started buying the stock in 2010. Ackman is now under pressure from big-name investors taking the opposite side on two of his positions - the other being nutritional supplements company Herbalife Ltd in which he has a $1 billion short position and has been battling hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb and legendary investor Carl Icahn, who have both taken long positions. A spokeswoman for York declined to comment on whether the hedge fund is betting against the retailer's debt. Morgan Stanley's high yield bond desk is also betting against JC Penney bonds, said a person familiar with the firm. The firm is betting on a decline in the value of the retailer's bonds using credit default swaps. A Morgan Stanley spokesman declined to comment. JC Penney is emerging as one of the more difficult trades for Ackman's Pershing Square, which owns 39 million shares, or 18 percent of the company. Ackman joined the board of JC Penney in 2011 and helped bring in Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson, a former Apple executive, to lead a turnaround of the middle-market retailer and bring in more fashionable merchandise. That strategy is far from showing signs of paying off and the retailer reported last week that its comparable sales dropped 31.7 percent in the winter holiday season quarter as its move to more upscale product lines failed to catch on with shoppers. As a result, its shares tumbled and are now down 24 percent this year. A spokeswoman for Ackman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. York Capital is far from alone in betting against JC Penney. Many hedge fund managers are also shorting the retailer's stock, leaving it to rank as the third most heavily shorted stock on the Russell 1000 Index this week, according to data provided by the Bespoke Investment Group, which tracks the data. At the industry conference, Dinan did not give details about his JC Penney trade. Speaking in very general terms, Dinan said his firm uses shorts to hedge the portfolio. Discussing JC Penney's biggest investor, Pershing Square, Dinan said shareholder activism used by Ackman to force changes at a company "works great when the tide is rising." But he said Ackman seemed to be losing control of his destiny now that Vornado Realty Trust, which started buying when Ackman did, sold half of its JC Penney stake. Vornado's sale was disclosed earlier this week. With JC Penney's share price sinking, this bet might ultimately prove to be more damaging to Ackman's performance and reputation than his big short bet on nutritional supplement company Herbalife. With Herbalife, the battle lines seem more sharply drawn as Daniel Loeb and Carl Icahn very publicly took the other side of Ackman's short position. But he still sits on a big gain there, while he has a loss on JC Penney. Meanwhile, other hedge fund managers have made money shorting JC Penney's stock. Two managers who shorted the stock said their view is that, while CEO Johnson might be the only man able to resuscitate JC Penney, he could be running out of time for his vision to take hold. Vornado's sale, for example, underscores that investors and possibly board members are running out of patience. Vornado's Steven Roth joined the JC Penney board at the same time as Ackman did. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Beck Diefenbach, ReutersAnd now... an iBuyback. Apple stock just popped on a rumor that the company will dig into its mountain of unneeded cash and issue a big fat "special dividend" to shareholders. On the one hand, this is a positive: Apple should do something with the cash. On the other hand, it's a negative: Of the three most sensible ways to return cash to shareholders, a "special dividend" is the least flexible and least efficient. The two other options are: Of these two options, the stock buyback is the most efficient and flexible option. Why? Because of dividend taxes. Apple's stock is owned by a lot of small, taxpaying shareholders. These shareholders will get hit with up to a 23.8% tax on any dividends thanks to the recent tax increase. These taxes will take a big bite out of whatever dividends Apple pays. And Apple shareholders may actually not want their cash back yet. If Apple buys back stock, meanwhile, the cash will be returned to shareholders tax free. Each dollar spent to buy back stock will reduce Apple's share base by a full dollar. Thus, shareholders will get a full bang for their buck. A doubling (or even tripling) of the regular dividend would be better than a "special dividend," which would be over and done with in one shot. It would also be more flexible: If Apple ever ran into truly tough times, it could just cancel the or reduce the dividend. But a massive buyback--on the order of $50 billion--would be the best of all.
A judge has invalidated New York City's ban on large sodas, which was supposed to go into effect tomorrow, saying that the limits on sugary drinks are invalid,†according to CNBC. The New York City Mayor's Office said it would appeal the decision†"as soon as possible" in a tweet shortly after the ruling came down. Bloomberg's new sugary drink regulations†are "fraught with arbitrary and capricious consequences," New York Supreme Court Judge Milton Tingling wrote. "It is arbitrary and capricious because it applies to some but not all food establishments in the City," the judge wrote. "It excludes other beverages that have significantly higher concentrations of sugar sweeteners and/or calories on suspect grounds." "The simple reading of the rule leads to the earlier acknowledged uneven enforcement even within a particular city block, much less the city as a whole," he continued. "The loopholes in this rule effectively defeat the stated purpose of the rule." The ruling "provides a sigh of relief to New Yorkers and thousands of small businesses in New York City that would have been harmed by this arbitrary and unpopular ban," a spokesperson for the American Beverage Association told the WSJ. Earlier today, Bloomberg predicted that his new regulations would be accepted by most, according to the New York Post. "I think you're not going to see a lot of push back here," he said. We reached out to the Mayor's Office, which declined to comment. But it did tweet out a note: We plan to appeal the sugary drinks decision as soon as possible, and we are confident the measure will ultimately be upheld. More to come...
CNBC/ YoutubeFormer Lehman CFO Erin Callan wrote a chilling Op-Ed for The New York Times, Is There Life After Work?, where she says she regrets putting work before family, friends and, ultimately, herself. She's living proof of why people need to protect their work-life balance. Callan was once one of Wall Street's most powerful women before being forced out of her job and Lehman collapsed in 2008. She says she went about achieving success all wrong, and "Inevitably, when I left my job, it devastated me. I couldn‚Äôt just rally and move on. I did not know how to value who I was versus what I did. What I did was who I was." When she was CFO, Callan was a fixture in the media for overcoming gender barriers on Wall Street, but she says that it wasn't worth it in the end:¬† "I have often wondered whether I would have been asked to be C.F.O. if I had not worked the way that I did. Until recently, I thought my singular focus on my career was the most powerful ingredient in my success. But I am beginning to realize that I sold myself short. I was talented, intelligent and energetic. It didn‚Äôt have to be so extreme. Besides, there were diminishing returns to that kind of labor." Other professionals have come to the same conclusion. A few months ago, famous advertising executive Linds Redding wrote a chilling account of the toll his work took on his life on his death bed: "So was it worth it? Well of course not. It turns out it was just advertising. There was no higher calling." Which brings up a crucial point. There's nothing wrong with pure ambition, and there are certainly times in life to put in more hours than others. But throughout, it's important not to neglect things that will keep you healthy and sustain you later in life. In his book, "How Will You Measure Your Life?" business guru Clay Christensen says that too often, people prioritize work above all else early in their careers, with plans to focus on family and their health later. But by then, he argues, it's already too late.¬† Hitting this balance is a huge struggle. Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg famously leaves the office at 5:30 PM, and other executives like Richard Branson have spoken about how important it is to find meaning in your work, and also have a life outside of work. Research shows that happier employees are more productive employees. But at the end of the day, you've got to make the decision for yourself, and work at a place where your personal values align with your company's values.¬†
Senator Johnson made the comment: Social Security is in danger of ‚Äúgoing broke‚Äù unless action is taken. ‚ÄúWhen I hear people saying Social Security is solvent to the year 2035, it‚Äôs not.‚Äù Krugman fired back with: Your facts are false. The Social Security thing‚ÄîSocial Security, it has a dedicated revenue base, it has a trust fund based on that dedicated revenue base. You can‚Äôt change the rules midstream and say, ‚ÄòOh well, suddenly the trust fund doesn‚Äôt count.‚Äô¬†‚Äù Is SS going broke as the Senator claims? Or is Krugman right, when he says that SS is solid because it has a big Trust Fund? There is not much ‚Äòout-there‚Äô on this topic that could could convince either side. You have the vast majority of the conservative thinkers/writers who have concluded that the SSTF is a sham, and you have all of the progressives who see it in precisely the opposite light. I would like to use two credible sources on this issue in an attempt to determine who‚Äôs correct. The Office and Management and Budget (OMB) has opined on this, so has the Congressional Research Service (CRS). I think these sources are as credible as can be had. The CRE is supposed to be apolitical, while the OMB is decidedly political. The following information from OMB comes from 2010, a period when Peter Orszag was the boss at OMB. Given that Pete was running the show, one would have anticipated¬† a Populist ‚Äòspin‚Äô from OMB on the question of TFs; not the case at all. Neither OMB or CRS have said anything relevant regarding the Social Security Trust Funds. The observations were made regarding the Trust Fund for the Federal Employee Retirement Fund (FERS). I‚Äôm not going to spend a 1000 words convincing you that FERS = SS. (But if PK asks me to, I will). They are very similar entities, they collect revenues, they invest surpluses in Special Issue Treasury Securities and they make benefit payments to covered workers. CRE had this to say about the TF for FERS (Link): The assets in private-sector pension funds represent a ‚Äústore of wealth‚Äù that firms can use to meet pension obligations as they come due. The CSRDF, however, is not a store of wealth for the federal government. Got that PK? The CRE says there is no wealth (aka money) in the TF: The OMB¬† provides more clarity on TFs. From the Budget of the United States Government, Fiscal Year 2010: Analytical Perspectives (Link) Balances in the trust fund are available for future benefit payments and other trust fund expenditures, but only in a bookkeeping sense. Ah! There is no money in the TFs. They are bookkeeping entries. OMB concurs with CRE ‚Äì TFs are not a store of wealth. More: The holdings of the trust funds are not assets of the Government as a whole that can be drawn down in the future to fund benefits. How many ways does OMB have to say this to convince PK? Another: The existence of large trust fund balances, therefore, does not, by itself, increase the Government‚Äôs ability to pay benefits. Is this getting through to progressives like PK? This is not the tin hats talking PK. This is your ‚Äúguys‚Äù. Senator Johnson made the statement that the SSTF accounting was similar to a person who writes themselves an IOU for $20, and then somehow believes he actually has an asset. PK objected. This is what the OMB has to say about it; no wiggle room for PK with this: These trust fund balances are assets of the program agencies and corresponding liabilities of the Treasury, netting to zero for the Government as a whole. Got that PK? The Senator was correct. Writing an IOU to oneself nets to zero. If the OMB was the arbiter of the TV debate, it would have said that the Senator had the facts, and Krugman was blowing smoke. Krugman, on the other hand, is claiming victory. He still believes that the SSTF has real fairy dust in it. He maintains that he alone has the facts. In his typically snarky manner:: (Link) I have to say, it‚Äôs extremely telling that conservative Republicans don‚Äôt seem able to make their case without resorting, right from the beginning, to obviously dumb fallacies. Who‚Äôs right? PK or the Senator? Which side is suffering from ‚Äúdumb fallacies?‚Äù This is a critically important point to resolve. Either we continue to live in PK‚Äôs fantasy land, or we recognize that SS is a here-and-now issue. There is no middle ground. One side or the other is ‚Äúright‚Äù on this one. For the US, it‚Äôs a make-or-break issue. Note: Where did the ‚Äòmoney‚Äô go that PK thinks is available today? It was spent years ago. The ‚Äòeconomic miracle‚Äô of Bill Clinton was bought with money looted from SS. Bill sucked out $565b in his eight years. No one even noticed. George Bush really raided SS. A total of $1.5T leaked out during his years. Who ‚Äòpaid‚Äô for Iraq and Afghanistan? SS did. If anyone is upset about the status quo, they can point to either a Republican or a Democrat. They‚Äôre equally to blame. But looking backward, and laying blame, is a fool‚Äôs game. The fact is the money is gone and SS is Paygo today. It‚Äôs running big annual deficits. SS will produce $75b of red ink in 2013 (equivalent to 10% of the deficit).¬† The deficits will pass $100b in 2016 and explode from there on. The beast is howling ‚Äì and Krugman thinks it‚Äôs his cat purring.
The S&amp;P 500 is within a few points of an all-time high. However, earnings growth estimates and forecasts continue to come down. "The estimated earnings growth rate for Q1 2013 is -0.6%," wrote FactSet's John Butters in a note on Friday.¬† "On December 31,the earnings growth rate for Q1 2013 was 2.2%. "Since the start of the first quarter (December 31), analysts have also reduced earnings growth expectations for Q2 2013 (to 4.9% from 6.3%), Q3 2013 (to 10.1% from 10.4%), and Q4 2013 (to 15.7% from 17.3%)." Earnings growth is the most important driver of stock market returns.¬† So, it can be a bit jarring to see stocks rise as earnings expectations fall. The technical term for this phenomenon is "multiples expansion" as the price-to-earnings ratio is increasing.¬† When multiples are expanding, stocks are getting more expensive. Some stock market bulls argue that valuations should justifiably be higher. But the bears will warn that eventually, these cracks in earnings expectations will catch up to the market and manifest in a sell-off. For now, the bears who have been banking on earnings expectations falling are looking pretty stupid. Here's the chart from Factset: FactSet
60 Minutes The COO of Facebook, Sheryl Sandberg, has published a new book called "Lean In." The book offers career advice for women in a world that is still dominated by men. Sandberg argues that women need to be more assertive in their careers, fighting against societal programming that conditions them to defer to men, scale back their ambitions, and essentially give up early. This passivity, Sandberg argues, is the real reason there are so few women in positions of power. In the context of this message, Sandberg notes that it is impossible to "have it all" as a woman ó full career and full home life ó if you're also expected to do all of the housework and child care at home. This is why a woman's most important career decision, Sandberg says, is whom you marry. (Sandberg also says that men who do more housework have more sex, an assertion that would be encouraging to those in "egalitarian" marriages in which men do their share of the cooking, cleaning, and child-rearing. Unforunately, a recent study actually refutes this.) Sandberg's book has already stirred the pot. Many women have been offended by Sandberg's implication that they're responsible for their own relative lack of success. As a billionaire, they say, Sandberg is not in a position to speak for normal women. And it's the men who are keeping the women down! Many men, meanwhile, have reacted to Sandberg's message by lashing out at her. Sandberg, they say, doesn't even deserve her own success. And she certainly has no business telling other people how to act! Interestingly, Sandberg herself predicted this reaction. When explaining why she decided to write this book, Sandberg cites many facts that illustrate why and how women hinder their own progress in the workplace. One of these facts is a study showing that, when men get more successful, people like them more, while when women get more successful, people like them less. (See: Deeply Troubling Stats About Women). That's a depressing fact. And, unfortunately, Sandberg's own experience would seem to confirm it. Sandberg has become one of the most successful and powerful women in the world. And now, after writing a book that does little more than urge women to believe in themselves and be more assertive in their careers, Sandberg is being pilloried for a litany of perceived sins. For example, people have accused Sandberg of "just riding Mark Zuckerberg's coattails" at Facebook ó as if her own hard work and success at Facebook, Google, the Treasury Department, McKinsey, the World Bank, and Harvard doesn't give her the authority to speak about how to succeed. People have dismissed Sandberg as too rich and elitist to speak on such matters ó as if her own rise from a public school education and a middle-class upbringing isn't a perfect illustration of how talented and hard-working women can work their way to the top. And some people have dismissed Sandberg as uppity and bitchy for even opening her mouth about these things ó a woman who clearly doesn't know her place. That Sandberg knew she would be met by this reaction is a testament to her guts and passion: She decided to say it anyway. And if this reaction doesn't confirm that Sandberg's book desperately needed to be written, nothing will. SEE ALSO: Sheryl Sandberg Takes On The Haters
Bank stocks have undoubtedly been one of the leaders in the latest stock market rally. The chart below, normalized to 100 at November 15 prices (the starting point), shows how bank stocks have outperformed. The red line is the KBW Banks Index (ticker symbol: BKX) and the blue line is the S&amp;P 500. Bloomberg, Business Insider After a bit of a pullback, the KBW Banks Index surged to new highs in the last few weeks of 2013. On the back of this rally, BofA analysts Erika Penala and Mary Ann Bartels say now might be the time for those invested in the banks to sell. In a note to clients ‚Äì titled "Are banks at a near-term top?" ‚Äì the analysts write, "While bank stocks clearly face technical resistance, we find little in the way of fundamental support for continued outperformance." The chart below shows the technical resistance BofA is talking about. The $55-65 range used to be a "support" level for the index, back in the late 1990s and early 2000s. In the wake of the financial crisis and stock market crash, however, that same range has now become a resistance level. Bloomberg, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Business Insider¬† Penala and Bartels write (emphasis added): While bank stocks clearly face technical resistance, we find little in the way of fundamental support for continued outperformance (YTD BofAML‚Äôs bank coverage universe is up 12.3% vs. 8.7% for S&amp;P) and would use this rally as an opportunity to lighten up on select regional bank exposure ahead of earnings. We believe 1Q results are unlikely to provide many upside surprises as loan growth trends point to more than seasonal weakness (1Q13 loan balances +0% YTD vs. +1.6% at this point in 1Q12) and NIM pressure serves as a reminder that spread income at banks is far more reliant on movements in short rates vs. long rates. In this light, we continue to prefer C and JPM as our top picks in our universe. If the banks cool off, it could be bad news for the broader market as well.
For some it seems inconceivable that, after the financial crisis, Wall Street bankers would expect their compensation to return to what it was before the crash. To investment bankers, though, the fact that it hasn't is becoming more and more frustrating. That was the subject of a much buzzed-about Telegraph story this morning headlined, "It's so unfair, say 'underpaid' bankers." The story was based on a report by financial services recruiting firm Selby Jennings. In it more than 67.2 percent of bankers responded that they think they should be better compensated. We wanted to see what was actually in the report, so we tracked it down. Selby Jennings surveyed over 600 bankers across all levels of employment in Singapore, Hong Kong, NYC and London to get their thoughts on compensation. What the firm found was that some cities (London and Singapore) are doing better than others (Hong Kong and NYC). The world over, however, the global economy is leaving Wall Street bankers behind as bonuses remain flat for the most part. And that's if you get a bonus at all. Over the past two years almost a quarter of the world's bankers haven't.
YahooClick for the video.The big political news in America last week was the House vote to avoid a total government shutdown while President Obama broke bread with several GOP Senators (POTUS paidÖwith his own money!) Meanwhile, China continued its once-a-decade leadership transition and efforts to fine-tune its economy proving a glaring contrast to the ongoing and long-running story of D.C. dysfunction. From Xi Jinping on down, Chinaís new leadership is trying to cool off the nationís red-hot real estate sector, stem overall inflation, tackle rising income equality, curb corruption and make the economy more driven by domestic demand -- all while managing Chinaís ever-important role in a still-sluggish global economy. ìChina is holding up pretty well despite whatís happening in the rest of the word,î Cornell professor and Brookings Institution senior fellow Eswar Prasad tells Henry Blodget in the accompanying clip. ìGrowth has slowed from the red-hot pace before the final crisis but [GDP] is now growing 7.5% to 8% year on an inflation-adjusted which is pretty good.î Like most observers, Prasad sees ìbig festering problemsî in China, most notably in its financial system. But unlike some, he doesnít believe Chinaís economy is in imminent danger of imploding. At least in the near term, Chinese officials ìstill have enough room in terms of fiscal and monetary policy to deal with shocks,î he says. ìAn important thing about China is they do have a good sense of what the problems are in the economy.î Does 'Command &amp; Control' Trump the Free Market? Here again, the contradiction with America could hardly be more sharp; U.S. policymakers are pretty constrained in what they can do, even if they could somehow agree on whether the ìrealî problem is too much spending or not enough revenue. (To be clear, this is a bipartisan critique; neither party has a monopoly on common sense right now.)  The glaring contrast between whatís happening in Washington vs. whatís happening in Beijing raises the question of whether Chinaís ìcommand and controlî economic system is better than our quasi-free market model. Of course, countries are not stocks. But, if they were, investors would look at things like their balance sheet and the amount of debt vs. assets, plans for future growth, as well as the competency and stability of management. On these particular issues, China Inc. is kicking America Co.ís butt right now. These are not just idle or academic issues to consider. One of the big fallouts from the 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath was the diminished allure of the ëAnglo-Saxoní (i.e. U.S.-U.K.) model. This was the theme of Ian Bremmerís 2010 book The End of the Free Market, in which he argues: ìThe free-market tide has now receded. In its place has come state capitalism, a system in which the state functions as the leading economic actor and uses markets primarily for political gain. This trend has stoked a new global competition, not between rival political ideologies but between competing economic models. And with the injection of politics into economic decision-making, an entirely different set of winners and losers is emerging.î In a state-sponsored economic model like Chinaís, homegrown companies are given huge advantages over foreign rivals. Just last week, for example, Chinaís Ministry of Industry and Information Technology warned that China was becoming ìtoo dependentî on Googleís Android platform. Some analysts believe the report is a harbinger of new regulations against Android and/or more-tacit support for platforms developed by Chinaís ZTE and Huawei, Reuters reports. In the near term, moves like these can put downward pressure on international growth opportunities (and earnings) for U.S. multinationals. In the medium term, they can lead to tit-for-tat reprisals and copycat policies by other nations. In the long run, that's a recipe for outright trade wars, which often lead to hot wars. If China really is Americaís main global rival for the next century, U.S. policymakers better wake up and smell what the Chinese are cooking. Aaron Task is the host of The Daily Ticker and Editor-in-Chief of Yahoo! Finance. You can follow him on Twitter at @aarontask or email him at altask@yahoo.com
David Guttenfelder/APBack in February, North Korea's local service provider Koryolink started allowing foreigners to access the internet on their mobile phones for the first time ever. David Guttenfelder, the Associated Press' chief photographer in Asia, immediately began posting pictures from inside Pyongyang to his Instagram account. They quickly went viral. Jump right to the photos ª The pictures show snapshots of daily life in the country's capital, from propaganda posters lining the streets to what bar food looks like in Pyongyang.† A veteran photographer and World Press Photo Award winner, Guttenfelder has traveled to North Korea more than 20 times since first accompanying former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright in 2000 when she met the now-deceased leader, Kim Jong Il. "During that trip, we were told not to take photos from the bus we traveled in and my hotel window was covered with a black plastic sheet," Guttenfelder wrote on his blog. Today, he is able to upload his images in real-time to his 74,000 followers. ìI feel I can help open a window into a place that would otherwise rarely be seen by outsiders,î he said on the Instagram blog. ìAs one of the few international photographers who has ever had regular access to the country, I feel a huge responsibility to share what I see and to show it as accurately as I can.î But so far, the new change will only affect visiting foreigners ó North Koreans do not have access to the new internet service.
REUTERS/China NewsphotoOver the weekend, we saw a string of Chinese data that showed the economy had a slower start to the year than what many economists had expected. First a quick roundup. Analysts are typically cautious about interpreting January or February data in isolation because of the impact of the Chinese New Year holiday.† Rather, they prefer to look at data from the Jan-Feb period. Some are worried about the weak industrial production and slowing power production growth figures.† The latter was up just 3.4 percent YoY in Jan-Feb. But Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that this could have been because of "some temporary destocking in Jan/Feb due to cold winter" and that industrial production and power growth could rebound in March.† Lu also notes that the FAI/exports data was strong enough to offset weakness in the lagging data points. He further believes that the data shows that investors shouldn't worry about monetary tightening just yet. The loan supply data and TSF show that policymakers are unlikely to step up lending, but will likely "maintain its overall pro-growth policy stance" in the first half of the year. The decline in retail sales has been attributed to the government's efforts to curb gift-giving. We had reported on the ban on commercials for luxury goods ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday. While Lu says the data is a 'mixed bag', Diana Choyleva at Lombard Street Research was more upbeat. "China's recovery seems to have at least maintained its momentum, if not picked up speed," she wrote in a note to clients. Lombard Street ResearchChoyleva seasonally adjusted the data and looked at quarterly developments to offset the impact of the New Year holiday. Looking at it this way, industrial production "showed quarterly growth so far in Q1 up quite sharply on Q4". But this is missing electricity and steel production data. In terms of retail sales, Choyleva "deflat[ed] the Lombard Street Researchretail sales series with the consumer price index and seasonally adjusting it". Done this way, she writes, "the numbers show a buoyant Chinese consumer, with retail sale volumes picking up speed fast". Remember the government just announced a growth rate of 7.5 percent in 2013 and will try and control its policies with that goal in mind. Societe Generale's Wei Yao shares a similar view about the latest data dump. "Overall, the data till suggest that the recovery is on track, albeit more gradual than initially anticipated."
Reader forum, Wired New YorkFormer Vice President Al Gore triggered a firestorm a couple of months ago when he sold his cable network, Current TV, to Doha-based news network Al Jazeera. For a former Vice President to line his own pockets by selling an American network to a company that was once perceived as being sympathetic to Islamic terrorists was considered outrageous. And when Al Jazeera announced that it planned to shut Current down, firing Americans in the process, the public relations storm increased. But then Al Jazeera announced that it was going to hire hundreds of American journalists to build a new cable news network focused on America. This muted the media criticism somewhat (because, for understandable reasons, journalists approve of companies that employ lots of journalists). And now comes yet more Al Jazeera news that may get the media talking. According to Keach Hagey and Eliot Brown of the Wall Street Journal, Al Jazeera may move into the old New York Times building near Times Square. You don't have to reach far to see a lot of symbolism in that!
Goldman Sachs Asset ManagementEconomic data is improving in the U.S., deteriorating in Europe, and a bit mixed in China. Meanwhile, the stock markets are staging a huge rally. Last week, Goldman Sachs economist Jim O'Neill gave a presentation at the prestigious Ambrosetti Financial Markets Workshop.† He updated its attendees on how he sees the world, and he outlined some of the issues that concerned him. One issue was the evolving make-up of the German exports (slide 37). "I repeated a remark I often make that on current trends, by 2020 Germany would rather be in a monetary union with China than with France," said O'Neill Indeed, China was another hot topic in his presentation. "Probably the most important slide of the presentation is page 8 which shows global and regional GDP since 1980, and what we are assuming for this decade," he said. "As I pointed out in Cernobbio, China growing at 7.5% is essentially equivalent to the US growing at 3.75%, given China is now $8.2 trillion in size." O'Neill believes China is an "underhyped" story. His entire presentation gives an excellent and comprehensive view of the world.† And it's worth reviewing closely. NOTE: Thanks to Goldman Sachs Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Sergio Lora / FlickrThe SEC announced a settlement with Illinois for allegedly misleading munibond investors about its pension obligations, according to a release from the agency. The SEC says the state failed to mention its pension obligations would by statute be significantly underfunded. The state began correcting††"process deficiencies and enhance its pension disclosures" in 2009 and signed a consent decree neither admitting nor denying the charges. The state sold more than $2.2 billion in munibonds between 2005 and early 2009.† ìMunicipal investors are no less entitled to truthful risk disclosures than other investors,î said George S. Canellos, Acting Director of the SECís Division of Enforcement. †ìTime after time, Illinois failed to inform its bond investors about the risk to its financial condition posed by the structural underfunding of its pension system.î If you've never seen it, Gov. Pat Quinn created a mascot called "Squeezy" who was meant to be the face of reforming the state's pension woes. It's pretty great.† Here's the full statement:† ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Washington, D.C., March 11, 2013 ó The Securities and Exchange Commission today charged the State of Illinois with securities fraud for misleading municipal bond investors about the stateís approach to funding its pension obligations. An SEC investigation revealed that Illinois failed to inform investors about the impact of problems with its pension funding schedule as the state offered and sold more than $2.2 billion worth of municipal bonds from 2005 to early 2009. Illinois failed to disclose that its statutory plan significantly underfunded the stateís pension obligations and increased the risk to its overall financial condition. The state also misled investors about the effect of changes to its statutory plan. Illinois, which implemented a number of remedial actions and issued corrective disclosures beginning in 2009, agreed to settle the SECís charges. ìMunicipal investors are no less entitled to truthful risk disclosures than other investors,î said George S. Canellos, Acting Director of the SECís Division of Enforcement. ìTime after time, Illinois failed to inform its bond investors about the risk to its financial condition posed by the structural underfunding of its pension system.î Elaine Greenberg, Chief of the SECís Municipal Securities and Public Pensions Unit, added, ìRegardless of the funding methodology they choose, municipal issuers must provide accurate and complete pension disclosures including the effects of material changes to their pension plans. Public pension disclosure by municipal issuers continues to be a top priority of the unit.î According to the SECís order instituting settled administrative proceedings against Illinois, the state established a 50-year pension contribution schedule in the Illinois Pension Funding Act that was enacted in 1994. The schedule proved insufficient to cover both the cost of benefits accrued in a current year and a payment to amortize the plansí unfunded actuarial liability. The statutory plan structurally underfunded the stateís pension obligations and backloaded the majority of pension contributions far into the future. This structure imposed significant stress on the pension systems and the stateís ability to meet its competing obligations ñ a condition that worsened over time. The SECís order finds that Illinois misled investors about the effect of changes to its funding plan, particularly pension holidays enacted in 2005. Although the state disclosed the pension holidays and other legislative amendments to the plan, Illinois did not disclose the effect of those changes on the contribution schedule and its ability to meet its pension obligations. The stateís misleading disclosures resulted from various institutional failures. As a result, Illinois lacked proper mechanisms to identify and evaluate relevant information about its pension systems into its disclosures. For example, Illinois had not adopted or implemented sufficient controls, policies, or procedures to ensure that material information about the stateís pension plan was assembled and communicated to individuals responsible for bond disclosures. The state also did not adequately train personnel involved in the disclosure process or retain disclosure counsel. According to the SECís order, Illinois took multiple steps beginning in 2009 to correct process deficiencies and enhance its pension disclosures. The state issued significantly improved disclosures in the pension section of its bond offering documents, retained disclosure counsel, and instituted written policies and procedures as well as implemented disclosure controls and training programs. The state designated a disclosure committee to assemble and evaluate pension disclosures. In reaching a settlement, the Commission considered these and other remedial acts by Illinois and its cooperation with SEC staff during the investigation. Without admitting or denying the findings, Illinois consented to the SECís order to cease and desist from committing or causing any violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933. The SECís investigation was conducted by Peter K. M. Chan along with Paul M. G. Helms in the Chicago Regional Office and Eric A. Celauro and Sally J. Hewitt in the Municipal Securities and Public Pensions Unit. They were assisted by other specialists in the unit including Joseph O. Chimienti, Creighton Papier, and Jonathan Wilcox. This enforcement action marks the second time that the SEC has charged a state with violating federal securities laws in their public pension disclosures. The SEC charged New Jersey in 2010 with misleading municipal bond investors about its underfunding of the stateís two largest pension plans. Additional information about the SECís initiatives in the area of municipal securities can be found in its Report on the Municipal Securities Market released last year. 
Watch out, New York restaurants. The soda police are coming to get you. Mayor Michael Bloomberg's controversial ban on large sugary drinks hits Tuesday and along with it comes an initiative to make sure restaurants are following the rules. City health inspectors will be armed with specially ordered 17-ounce cups to enforce the new mandate, Tina Moore at the New York Daily News reported. Here's how it's going to work: Health inspectors will use the new measuring cups when they're visiting restaurants for regular inspections. The cups will be able to contain 17 fluid ounces.†Inspectors will issue a violation when the cup is found to "clearly exceed" 16 ounces when put in the measuring cup. The frequency of the inspections depends on letter grade. For instance, restaurants with an A grade are inspected only once per year, but that timeframe shortens as the letter grade gets lower. Deputy Health Commissioner Daniel Kass said that the cups are meant to provide establishments with a margin of error.
Fox Business senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino reports that CNBC's Gary Kaminsky is in talks with Morgan Stanley to be the vice chairman of its brokerage unit, according to sources familiar.† Kaminsky, who is CNBC's capital markets editor, is expected to receive his official offer from Morgan Stanley today, the report said.† Prior to joining CNBC, he spent two decades working as a managing director/money manager at†Neuberger Berman.†
Business Insider VideoDylan Grice in the BI newsroomIn one of Dylan Grice's final notes as an investment strategist at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, he wrote that he was "more worried than ever" by the "social debasement" that central banks were causing in society. Grice announced in November that he was leaving SocGen for the buy side. Today, he is out with his first note since joining Edelweiss Holdings, his new firm, and it touches on much of the same that was discussed in the SocGen note referenced above. In the note ñ titled "Would the real Peter and Paul please stand up?" ñ Grice explains his theory of how monetary policy experimentation is leading to a breakdown of societal trust. The idea is that everyone sees their paper currency buying less and less physical goods, but the cause of this inflation is not widely understood, which means everyone just looks to cast the blame on each other. Referring to the general populace, Grice writes: The problem is that while they will be acutely aware of the reduction in their own spending power, they will be less aware of why their spending power has declined. So if they find groceries becoming more expensive they blame the retailers for raising prices; if they find petrol unaffordable, they blame the oil companies; if†they find rents too expensive they blame landlords, and so on. So now we see the mechanism by which debasing money debases trust. The unaware victims of this accidental redistribution donít know who the enemy is, so they create an enemy. "Deliberately impoverishing one group in society is a bad thing to do," says Grice, referring to central banks, "But impoverishing a group in such an opaque, clandestine and underhanded way is worse." From there, Grice links several examples of phenomena currently unfolding around the world to this idea that central banks are debasing social trust with their "crackpot monetary ideas." Below is the key passage: So with their crackpot monetary ideas, central†banks have been robbing Peter to pay Paul without knowing which one was which. And a problem here is this thing behavioral psychologists call self-attribution bias. It describes how when good things happen to people they think itís because of something they did, but when bad things happen to them they think itís because of something someone else did. So although Peter doesnít know why heís suddenly poor, he knows it must be someone elseís fault. He also sees that Paul seems to be doing OK. So being human, he makes the obvious connection: itís all Paul and people like Paulís fault. But Paul has a different way of looking at it. Also being human, he assumes heís doing OK because heís doing something right. He doesnít know what the problem is other than Peterís bad attitude. Needless to say, he resents Peter for his bad attitude. So now Peter and Paul donít trust each other. And this what happens when you play games with societyís bonding.  When we look around we canít help feeling something similar is happening. The 99% blame the 1%; the 1% blame the 47%. In the aftermath of the Eurozoneís own credit bubbles, the Germans blame the Greeks. The Greeks round on the foreigners. The Catalans blame the Castilians. And as 25% of the Italian electorate vote for a professional comedian whose party slogan ìvaffaî means roughly ìf**k offî (to everything it seems, including the common currency), the Germans are repatriating their gold from New York and Paris. Meanwhile in China, that centrally planned mother of all credit inflations, popular anger is being directed at Japan, and this is before its own credit bubble chapter has fully played out. (The rising risk of war is something we are increasingly worried about...) Of course, everyone blames the bankers (ìthose to whom the system brings windfalls... become ëprofiteersí who are the object of the hatredî).† Click here to read Grice's full note &gt; (Via @Dutch_Book)
Christie's Real EstateEveryone is buzzing about a¬†Bloomberg News report¬†that billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson is considering moving to Puerto Rico to take advantage of a new tax law. Bloomberg News also reports¬†that closely-followed hedge fund manager "recently looked at real estate in the exclusive Condado neighborhood of San Juan, where an 8,379- square-foot¬†penthouse, complete with six underground parking spaces, lists for $5 million. The area is home to St. John‚Äôs School, a private English-language academy where he and his wife could send their two children, said the people, who asked not to be named because the discussions were private." Paulson &amp; Co. acknowledged it has looked at real estate there, but doesn't currently hold anything, the report said.¬† We were able to track down the $5 million Acquamarina penthouse¬†listed by Trillion Realty Group, an affiliate of Christie's International Real Estate,¬†matching that exact description.¬† It's definitely a dream home in paradise and now we're going to take a tour.¬†
Wikimedia CommonsBankers are not happy with their pay, according to a poll done financial services recruiting firm, Selby Jennings. Globally, 67.2 percent of them believe they should be compensated more given market conditions. But maybe it's actually better for them if their salaries are lower. According to a report from Wells Fargo being really, really rich just stinks and it takes a lot of work. For one, you might need a psychologist to help with the wealth management process, and/or you may be under a lot of pressure to chose a place to discuss family money peacefully and comfortably. Well Fargo's website has some really interesting literature ("white papers") that go over 1% problems. We've picked out the ones that sound most horrific.
WealthTrack via YouTubeExperts are split on what's behind this huge 4-year long bull market. Some believe it has been driven by improving fundamentals.¬† Others believe it has been driven by the Federal Reserve's easy monetary policy. In a recent note, BTIG's Dan Greenhaus noted that the S&amp;P 500 climbed 128 percent during a period when earnings jumped 129 percent. In other words, he believes there's a strong case to be made that the market reflects an earnings-driven rally. But economist David Rosenberg believes that this assessment is faulty. He takes a page out of Lakshman Achuthan's book and notes that year-over-year earnings growth has gone negative. From Rosenberg's Friday research note: If contraction and recession are synonymous, then an earnings recession is already underway. These talking heads on CNBC are talking about an 'earnings-driven rally'. I have no clue what they are talking about. My database is from Haver Analytics, who get their numbers from Standard &amp; Poor's, and the latest update was on March 6th. And at last count, S&amp;P 500 Q4 operating EPS is running at -1.7% on a YoY basis, and at a $23.32 estimate right now for last quarter, it is actually running only moderately above the level prevailing in Q4 2006 ($21.99). So on this basis, earnings have only eked out a mere 0.8% annualized gain over the past seven years. Rosenberg offers this chart: Gluskin Sheff He argues that this is not an earnings-driven rally.¬† Rather, it has been driven by multiple expansion.¬† In other words, the ratio of the S&amp;P 500 to earnings is on the rise. On a weekly basis, using reported quarterly earnings (four-quarter moving total), the P/E multiple is approaching 18x, a two-year high, and a two point expansion from a year ago. So it is a multiple expansion-led rally, not an earnings-led rally, and saying 'multiple expansion' today is no different than talking about 'Fed balance sheet expansion.' The two are synonymous. Gluskin Sheff If you can't tell, Rosenberg believes this rally has been driven by the Fed. He points to the "87 percent statistical relationship between the size of the Fed's balance sheet and the direction of the S&amp;P 500, which now exceeds the time-worn 70 percent correlation with corporate earnings."
Steve Kovach, Business InsiderAT&amp;T announced today that it will sell the new BlackBerry Z10 for $199.99 with a two-year contract beginning March 12. The phone ships March 22. The Z10 is the first phone to run the new BlackBerry 10 operating system, which has received good reviews.¬† Unfortunately, the timing isn't so great for BlackBerry. Samsung will unveil its new flagship phone, the Galaxy S4, at a big event on March 14. We're still waiting for release dates and pricing from BlackBerry's other carrier partners Verizon and T-Mobile. Sprint will not sell the Z10. AT&amp;T's pricing seems a bit off. BlackBerry is in desperate need of gaining new smartphone users, but it's going to be hard to convince people to buy an unproven phone at the same price as the iPhone or Galaxy S III.
Flickr/mark_donoherBillionaire hedge funder John Paulson, who famously bet against the subprime housing market, is reportedly weighing a move to Puerto Rico to take advantage of a new tax law there, Bloomberg News reported citing unnamed sources familiar with his plans.¬† According to Bloomberg News, the new law makes it so new¬†residents pay no local or U.S. federal taxes on capital gains. The¬†law¬†firm of¬†Adsuar Muniz Goyco¬†Seda &amp; Perez-Ochoa has a breakdown of the new tax law.¬†¬†¬† On January 17, 2012, Puerto Rico enacted Act 22 (a.k.a. "The Act to Promote the Transfer of Investors to Puerto Rico").¬† According to AMGPR Law, the basic premise of the act is to incentivize people who are not already residents of Puerto Rico to become residents. To incentivize them, the act exempts these individuals who become residents from income tax on their interest and dividend income and certain long term capital gains from the sale or exchange of securities, the newsletter states. The idea behind the act is that by having these individuals become residents it will help Puerto Rico's economy through real estate investments and consumption of their local products/services.¬† In order to qualify, individuals cannot have been residents of Puerto Rico during the last 15 years. They also must become residents before¬†December 31, 2035. Both U.S. and non-U.S. residents apply, the report said.¬† So far, about 10 wealthy individuals, including some hedge fund managers, have taken advantage of this new law in Puerto Rico, Bloomberg reported.¬†
BofA Merrill Lynch strategist David Woo is out with a report this week on the changing nature of the U.S. dollar's relationship with oil prices and what it means for the future of the American economy. The main conclusions of the piece are that a stronger dollar will help remove volatility from the business cycle in the U.S., make more people want to invest in U.S. assets, and further enhance U.S. economy's competitiveness vis-a-vis China and Europe. All of this is thanks to the American energy boom.¬† Woo says that the biggest surprise of 2013 so far has been the noticeable decoupling of a longstanding negative correlation between the U.S. dollar and world stock prices ‚Äì "one of the most enduring features of financial markets over the past decade" ‚Äì as illustrated in the chart below. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchU.S. dollar versus MSCI world stocks (click to enlarge) According to the report, a big component of this inverse correlation between the U.S. dollar and global growth over the last decade has been the rise in Chinese energy consumption. When global growth rose (driven by China and other emerging markets), so did oil prices. Because the U.S. was pretty dependent on energy imports over the same time period, the dollar became negatively correlated with rising oil prices, and thus global growth. This negative correlation has been "a major source of volatility for the U.S. economy and risk premium for U.S. assets," writes Woo, because it "often led to¬†overshooting of oil prices which created many little boom-bust cycles (Chart 21)." BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchClick to enlarge However, that is all starting to change now. A surge in U.S. energy production, even while consumption has flattened out, has allowed the U.S. to pare its current account deficit, which is supportive of the dollar. And since that means the U.S. is becoming less independent on imports for energy, the boom in U.S. oil and gas production has also allowed the problematic negative correlation between the dollar and oil prices to ease. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchClick to enlarge Now, the energy portion of the U.S. current account deficit is improving, even as it worsens in other major advanced economies like those of the euro zone and Japan. Thus, the U.S. is becoming more competitive against these economies, and Woo estimates that this edge could amount to 1.5 percentage points of extra GDP growth per year for the U.S. relative to Europe. Woo writes that the weakened correlation between oil and the dollar also "eases the inflation-growth trade-off in the U.S., thereby making U.S. assets more attractive." The conclusions for investing: look for a stronger U.S. dollar (especially against the euro), sell 10-year TIPS, which are meant as an inflation hedge and should thus fall from current all-time high levels as the inflation risk premium recedes, sell oil, and buy natural gas. "Going forward, it will be Europe rather than the US that will have to bear the brunt of the cost associated with the growing number of Chinese and Indian consumers and their appetite for energy," writes Woo. BofA expects the euro to fall to 1.25 against the dollar by the end of the year.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonAt the National People's Congress, China announced some government restructuring plans. The number of cabinet ministries were cut to 25, the biggest reduction in ministries since 1998, according to Societe Generale's Wei Yao. The Ministry of Railways is being split into two parts, the administrative functions will now be merged with the Ministry of Transport, while the part that deals with construction will be changed into something like a state owned enterprise (SOE) called the China Railway Corporation (CRC). "Going forward, railway investment may no longer enjoy the same level of priority as in the past," writes Yao. Bank of America's Ting Lu warns that this isn't necessarily a huge improvement since the CRC "would be run as a monopoly as the MoR had been". This break up has already raised concerns about who will repay the 2.6 trillion yuan (approx. $426 billion) in debt, about 5 percent of GDP, that the Ministry of Railways amassed during its massive expansion. Second, the government will merge the Family Planning Commission with the Ministry of Health. We have previously said that ending the one-child policy is one of Chinese government's biggest priorities. The changes to the Commission that will make it responsible for carrying out the population policy. The population strategy itself will be handled by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC). Some of its other functions will be merged with the Ministry of Health to form the National Health and Family Planning Commission". "We think this move paves the way for the much-anticipated and long overdue relaxation of the one-child policy," writes Yao. Here is a chart from Societe Generale that shows the major changes to both ministries: Societe Generale China has in the past year also been plagued with food safety concerns. Now, the State Food and Drugs Administration is being bumped up to a ministry, under the General Administration of Food and Drugs. "It will increase accountability by making the new super regulator exclusively responsible for food and drug safety," writes Lu. With China and Japan's ongoing dispute over the Senkaku-Diaoyu islands China is consolidating its various maritime law enforcement agencies into the State Oceanic Administration. These include the coast guard which is part of the Public Security Ministry, the fisheries law enforcement command that is currently under the purview of Ministry of Agriculture, and the anti-smuggling police that are part of the General Administration of Customs. While China experts are happy about the consolidation they say much more is needed. But the fact that such changes are being made this early into the start of the new leadership shows that policymakers are paying attention. These show policymakers efforts to "improve bureaucratic efficiency and weaken vested interest," writes Yao.
Flickr / wrumsbyWhat's out there?U.S. economic data has been coming in increasingly positive. Everything came to a crescendo on Friday when we learned that American companies added 236k jobs in February. This helped bring the unemployment rate down to 7.7 percent from 7.9 percent. This week, the February retail sales report will tell us if Americans are actually spending.¬† This report will be crucial because it will incorporate a full month's worth of the payroll tax hike.¬† It'll also reflect any impact that the sequester debate may have had on consumer confidence. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update The S&amp;P 500 is very near an all-time high. As we mentioned above, there is some concern about the rally in the dollar. But Deutsche Bank's David Bianco believes we need not worry as price-earnings ratios (PE) rise. "It would take a very sharp dollar rally to derail EPS growth or cause oil prices to collapse, which we do not expect," said Bianco.¬† "But gradual dollar strength, as we do expect, would be consistent with further improvement in US economy and fiscal position, which should help raise the PE." Ultimately, a strong dollar reflects an economy that is getting. It also means foreign investment dollars are coming in. Meanwhile, the dollar is moving at a moderate pace, which gives the stock market room to extend its rally.
Rich Ricci, the head of Barlcays UK corporate investment bank, is catching fire from politicians, bookies and race fans all over the UK, the Mirror reports. Ricci, who wears a hat to all the races he attends, has 11 horses entered in this week's Cheltenham Festival. It's an annual racing and hunt competition second only to the Grand National in terms of prize money. Ricci and his wife have 40 horses total and have already won almost $900,000 racing this year. If Ricci's horse, Fatcatinthehat, wins a hurdle race for which it's favored 12-1, he and his wife will pick up an additional $111,547.50. From the Mirror: Labour MP John Mann, a member of the Treasury Select Committee, described it as an ‚Äúinsult‚Äù. He added: ‚ÄúIt shows how out of touch these bankers are.‚Äù The bookies are also less than happy. Ladbrokes spokesman David Williams moaned: ‚ÄúIf Fatcatinthehatwins, we will sink into recession ‚Äì all the bankers will be shovelling their bonuses on to the horse. ‚ÄúMr Ricci has some fancied runners and it‚Äôs an odds-on shot he will be celebrating a winner this week.‚Äù Fat cat in the hat is 12-1 third favourite to win Wednesday‚Äôs Fred Winter Juvenile Hurdle, which carries a ¬£75,000 first prize. The Mirror also points out that Mr. Ricci is known for buying Euro¬≠Millions tickets for the $137,236.40 jackpot last summer. He reportedly bought them with ¬£50 notes. Now that's some bad press.
Following its Q4 2012 earnings announcement,¬†Apple suffered its worst one-day loss in four years, as a result of the company‚Äôs failure to¬†meet Wall Street‚Äôs expectations. This was due largely to a simple calendar-generated error ‚Äì most¬†analysts failed to account for the fact that Apple‚Äôs Q4 2012 was one week shorter than the same¬†quarter the year before. At the root of this error is the 13-week quarter problem. Apple, like many other companies,¬†defines its fiscal quarters in 13-week periods. With the Gregorian calendar, this requires an¬†adjustment (the addition of an extra week every five or six years). Apple added the extra week in¬†2011, and many Wall Street analysts failed to pick up on the change between 2011 and 2012. Unfortunately, such analyst errors are all too common. Indeed, on average, analysts tend to¬†‚Äúforget‚Äù that companies periodically add a 14th week to quarters and overestimate revenue in years¬†following 14-week quarters (see R. Johnston, A. J. Leone, S. Ramnath, and Y. Yang. ‚Äú14-Week¬†Quarters,‚Äù Journal of Accounting and Economics," Feb.‚Äî April 2012.).¬† Errors like those that led to Apple‚Äôs quarterly reporting debacle would have never occurred if¬†the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar was in use. The HHPC, which my colleague, Johns Hopkins¬†Astrophysics Prof. Richard Conn Henry, and I developed would, among other things, create ¬†a¬†system in which each day, each year, falls on the exact same date. The Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar provides a comprehensive template for revising the¬†contemporary Gregorian calendar. It adheres to the most basic tenet of a fixed (read: permanent)¬†calendar ‚Äì each year, each date falls on the same day of the week; in our case, every year begins on¬†Sunday, January 1. The year is then divided into four three-month quarters. Each month begins on the same day¬†(and date) each year. The first two months of each quarter are made up of 30 days; the third is made¬†up of 31 days. So, each quarter contains 91 days, resulting in a 364-day year that is comprised of 52 seven-¬†day weeks. This is a vital feature of the HHPC, because, by preserving the seven-day Sabbath cycle,¬†the HHPC avoids the major complaints from ecclesiastical quarters that have doomed all other¬†attempts at calendar reform. Indeed, one of the major criticisms of past calendar reform attempts¬†is that they interfered with religious days of rest, which play an integral role in the organization of¬†economic activity, i.e. ‚Äúthe work week‚Äù. If publicly-traded companies adopted the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar, quarters¬†would be the same length, year after year, and every day would occur on the same date each year.¬†In terms of accounting, the types of confusion and errors generated in the recent Apple case would¬†be avoided, as all businesses would be employing the same permanent calendar and accounting¬†conventions. There would be no need to do otherwise.
Wikimedia Commons Imagine you're a trader. You're on the trading floor, trying to price out if a 15-year bond issued by General Electric will generate the returns needed to placate your investors. Bad news, your calculator is dead and the trader from Cantor Fitzgerald is readying to signal his buy. What to do? Well, if all you need to do is double the investment in five-years, you're in luck. That's probably not the case, and maybe GE isn't issuing 15-year debt.¬† But we compiled a list of eleven math tricks that might just come in handy at various times in life. If you have a math trick you'd like us to add, leave it in the comments. Eric Platt also contributed to this report.
Reuters/Minoru IwasakiFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus: ¬†China Economic Data cools down - adding to signs of a moderating rebound// China into the FTSE? // Kuroda wants to ramp printing fast as Japan economy slides further ‚Äì Yen hit despite some BOJ resistance // watching the correlation between Yen and Gold as Japanese players the marginal mover // Pound has taken out recent lows against the Dollar, but protection not spiking // Italy downgraded to S&amp;P levels on election fears ‚Äì Yields wider, but market resilient // EU Fins under pressure, led by those Italian banks holding all that paper // North and South Korea staged dueling war games Monday as threatening rhetoric jumps ‚Äì market still unmoved // For you Bulls out there, POMO operation today (and all this week) // 10YY, S&amp;P, DXY Jump, Gold whacked on US Growth // S&amp;P and the yield on the 10y hitting new 200-day highs on Friday ‚Äì bearish? // Tracking ‚ÄúSell in May‚Äù ‚Äì rally to 1600 will reverse 10%? // GOP and Dems introduce Budgets far apart this week // Private equity firms are highlighting the record levels of cash they have returned to investors // Last week we saw a reversal of the Miners underperforming the metal- watch GDXJ // Canadian heavy oil strengthened the most in almost six months // Eyes last week was on the WTI contract bouncing off the 200dma // Speculators reduced net-long positions across 18 U.S. futures and options in the week ended March 5 by 9.2% - the lowest since March 2009
TwitterFormer Citigroup forex trader Chris Arnade¬†has an incredibly moving and raw blog post about leaving his Wall Street career to pursue photography full-time in Hunts Point (Gawker has also posted it here). In the post, he talks about how he spent his spare time outside of the office learning the stories of dealers, addicts, prostitutes and pimps and taking their pictures. He also writes about how he was being pulled between two very distinct worlds. Here's an excerpt from "Staring into the Abyss":¬† Soon I started going at nights, drawn by the stories and the frankness. It was jarring to leave my Wall Street job where the focus was luxury, golf, kids, and second homes, and then hear small talk about rape, murder, and jail.¬†¬†It was equally jarring to come home to my wealthy neighborhood. Once pulling into my parking space at 3:00 am I saw a large rolled-up rug in the alley trash: My Hunts Point eye saw it as a great sleeping place, how dare somebody throw it away. A second look revealed it had come from my apartment. I was being tugged in two directions. My days were safe, practical, and obvious. My nights were dangerous, impractical, and not at all obvious. I started choosing the nights. My friends and family started to question my sanity. When asked why, the best I could explain was, ‚ÄúI have learned more from the last year than my prior twenty on Wall Street.‚Äù Read Arnade's full blog post here &gt;
Chris Hondros/Getty ImagesFrom Michael Block at Phoenix Partners, who observes how rare it is to see a down market these days. Itís a little after 7:30 AM ET here in New York, and I am trying to figure out what this strange color on my screen is.† Oh yesÖ red.† SPUs (we are onto the June eMinis for those of you keeping score at home) are down 3.50 at this hour, and the Euro Stoxx is down 75 bps with Spain and Italy the biggest drags for any number of reasons.† This is going to be one of those interesting weeks where market dynamics may trump anything else.† Lots of talk is going around about how bullishly dealers are positioned in the indices for the big March expiration on Friday, and there will be a big push to make that all work.† The big question is, what happens once that artifice goes away?† I knowÖ more artifice!†† Speaking of which, letís see what our favorite politicans/central bankers (unlike some of my peers, I no longer differentiate between those two groups) are up to, and oh yesÖ we have some data to discuss.† Some of it is troubling.† Not that it matters. The red shade is actually already a little lighter. S&amp;P futures down just 2 at the moment. And Dow futures are flat.

Heidi Gutman/CNBCAnother refugee looking to escape U.S. taxes? According to Bloomberg's Stephanie Ruhle, Katherine Burton, and Zachary Mider, hedge fund manager John Paulson is considering leaving New York to go to Puerto Rico, where a tax loophole would let him reduce taxes on the $9.5 billion he has in his own hedge fund. Ten wealthy Americans have already taken advantage of the year-old Puerto Rican law that lets new residents pay no local or U.S. federal taxes on capital gains, according to Alberto Baco Bague, Secretary of Economic Development and Commerce of Puerto Rico. The marginal tax rate for affluent New Yorkers can exceed 50 percent. Paulson, 57, recently looked at real estate in the exclusive Condado neighborhood of San Juan, where an 8,379- square-foot penthouse, complete with six underground parking spaces, lists for $5 million. The area is home to St. John‚Äôs School, a private English-language academy where he and his wife could send their two children, said the people, who asked not to be named because the discussions were private. Paulson, of course, made a huge fortune during the financial crisis, betting on a housing collapse. Since then his fortunes have turned, having had several bad years in a row. Last year he announced a huge gift, offering $100 million to Central Park.
Frederick M. Brown/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Beck Diefenbach, ReutersFund manager Howard Ward of GAMCO investments is on BloombergTV this morning with Tom Keene. He says his No.1 holding remains Apple, and that he is a bull on the stock despite the big dive. The big catalyst for a comeback? Ward predicts that within a month Apple will make an announcement regarding its prodigious cash pile, setting a brand new "floor" underneath the stock. More generally he just thinks it remains damn cheap.
The British Pound ‚Äî the other most-hated currency in the world, after the Japanese Yen ‚Äî is diving again today. It's now at a 2.5-year low. FinViz
Kris Wilson on FlickrThe world continues to watch for any sign that the fiscal shenanigans happening in DC are derailing the U.S. recovery. Goldman is feeling optimistic that things will be okay. BofA/ML's David Woo is concerned that we're about to see a sharp slowdown in the March data, especially once the impact of sequestration is felt. One of the big datapoints of the year, therefore, will be wednesday's retail sales number for February. Analysts expect to see a 0.5 percent increase, per Yahoo Finance. Given that the February number should completely incorporate the effect of the expiration of the payroll tax holiday, this will be a critical number.
There's been another round of discussion lately surrounding ECRI and its infamous 2011 recession call. Bill McBride at Calculated Risk (via Cullen Roche) has a great post up about recession forecasting and the stock market. The question is: If you knew exactly when recessions were going to start and end, could you significantly outperform the market? And the answer is pretty clearly yes. This table that McBride put together shows a portfolio starting at various times in history using a mere buy-and-hold strategy vs. a portfolio that timed recessions both in and out. There are variations, but the gist is this: An investment of $10,000 in 1970 would be worth $399,910 today using a buy-and-hold strategy. If you could time recessions perfectly, your portfolio would be worth $1,582,190.† No wonder the hunt for a perfect recession forecasting model is such a holy grail. Calculated Risk
Linette Lopez, Business InsiderThe "Butchers Steak" at St. AnselmFancy a juicy steak? It is good for you, reports the Daily Mail, because the saturated fat in a cut of beef is actually healthy for the heart. The claim is based on a study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition that showed eating lean beef improved cholesterol levels and therefore reduced the risk of heart disease. Eating beef as part of a low-fat diet had the effect of reducing risk factors for heart disease, namely levels of the bad cholesterol LDL, as with eating chicken breast. But how can red meat be as healthy as chicken? And eating any meat may seem counter intuitive, especially in a month that's seen the horsemeat scandal and the publication of a paper in BMC Medicine saying that a diet packed with sausages and bacon increases your risk of dying from heart disease by 72%. But the link between red meat and "good" saturated fatty acids adds just another layer of confusion about our intake of fats. Last month a paper in the BMJ stated that replacing saturated animal fats, which are traditionally thought of as bad, with omega-6 polyunsaturated vegetable fats, found in wholesome margarine, actually increased deaths among people who already had heart disease. So are there any animal fats that are good for us, and if so do we need to get them from steak? Saturated fats are generally thought of as bad because they raise cholesterol levels. They get their name from the fact that the chain of carbon atoms that makes up their chemical structure is fully saturated with hydrogen atoms. They usually exist in solid form, in cream, cheese and butter. Sources of unsaturated fats include olive oil and oily fish and these are thought to be cholesterol-lowering. The British Dietetic Association recommends a daily intake of saturated fat of 30g for men and 20g for women. Stearic acid is a saturated fat that is found in lean red meat and other healthier sources. It is known from previous studies to reduce cholesterol levels perhaps because it is broken down to oleic acid, which is an unsaturated fat. Oleic acid is so healthy it's found in olive oil and thought to be a component of the healthy Mediterranean diet that lowers cholesterol and blood pressure. This doesn't mean you need to eat steak to get the benefits of healthy fats. Or that you need to eat more fat since most of us eat more than the recommended amount already. It means, as research so often does, that most things in moderation are fine and this includes eating saturated fats in lean red meat. ‚Ä¢ Mayo clinic: Dietary fats: know which types to choose‚Ä¢ NHS Choices: Fat: the facts‚Ä¢ The Guardian: Cancer risk higher among people who eat more processed meat, study finds‚Ä¢ The Guardian: Ten Mediterranean recipes to help you live longer This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Reuters/Osman OrslaThe latest data out of China this weekend shows a bit more slowing in the economy than expected. Retail sales over the January-February period grew only 12.3 vs. expectations of 15.0 percent. The culprit? There's wide-scale evidence that the government has gone on a big "diet," reducing a lot of its excessive spending on itself. Check out the chart from Nomura, showing a big year-over-year drop in sales of catering companies, suggesting the government threw far fewer parties for itself. Nomura Nomura cites several regional contacts anecdotally confirming that government expenditures are far more subdued than they have been in the past. And this is consistent with the aims of the new Xi Jinping government to reduce government luxury spending and corruption. In fact, Xi's own behavior gave a big hint that this would be carried out. From Nomura: From a local government in middle province, holiday parties were cut this year. One senior executive recently told us that local government officials that they conduct business with now dine out only at local government canteens, so as to off the radar. Various local governments are cutting back on CNY get-together this year. When some local officials travel, they now book less expensive hotels. After Chairmanís Xiís trip to Guangdong in November where he requested no red carpets/fresh flowers/fruits/snacks and four dishes and one soup only as his meal standard, various government events are now following suit. That was your big tell, China watchers. When the Chairman declined to have a red carpet or fresh flowers and fruit, that was a sign of things to come.
This weekend, over 900 pigs were found floating dead in a river near Shanghai. The count is now up to nearly 3,000 pigs.¬† The cause of the event is still not known. Authorities did find a virus in a water sample from Huangpu river called porcine cirovirus, according to Chinese news agency Xinhua. The virus affects pigs but does not spread to humans.¬† A video of the clean-up looks like something out of a sci-fi horror film:  The pigs started turning up on Thursday near a local water treatment plant, but clean-up efforts did not begin until a few days later when the scope of the problem was realized, The Global Times reports.¬† Huangpu¬†is an important source of drinking water for the city, so workers are moving quickly to remove the bloated carcasses from the river. Pictures show blue-suited men armed with rakes fetching the water-logged animals. ¬†¬† According to the FT, tags on the pigs' ears showed that the animals came from¬†Jiaxing, a neighboring province of Shanghai. Farmers from the area are known to dump dead pigs into local rivers, even though Shanghai's agricultural commission has warned against this practice, according to Xinhua. ¬† Below are some pictures of the incident:¬† REUTER/Aly Song REUTER/Aly Song  REUTERS/Stringer REUTERS/Stringer
Wolfiewolf via FlickrIt was a very quiet weekend for global economic/market news. The major developments came from China, where data was generally a tad weaker than expected. Stocks are moving a bit lower. U.S. futures are just a bit lower. Europe is lower. Italy remains the center of focus, and stocks are currently down one percent. Borrowing costs in Italy are up about seven basis points.
With the Dow hitting brand new all-time highs yesterday, there's a lot of discussion about what's next. We've already seen a long-term take from Jeremy Siegel, who argues that Dow 18,000 is reasonably likely by the end of next year. For a more short-term, trading-oriented look, here's some analysis from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus, writing in his "Bedtime With BTIG" note last night. †What matters for our clients though is not some numerical level (ignoring that the real price is ~10% below current levels) or an analysis of realized/unrealized gains but solely whether further gains lay ahead. On that front, the table below is a bit interesting. We took a look at previous instances in which new highs were made and what kind of performance immediately ensued. As you can see, itís not always good and in fact, nearly two months later, equities are, on average, only barely higher, taken nearly nowhere. History doesnít repeat but it does rhyme and after rallying 15% from Novemberís low, is a flat-to-down two months really so bad? We donít think so.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Stock Market                                            Dow Jones                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						2									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Here's What Stocks Do After Hitting Brand New Highs ó Often It's Not Very Good    Here's What Stocks Do After Hitting Brand New Highs ó Often It's Not Very Good        A stall out is likely.
CNBCDuring a webcast on December 11, bond god Jeff Gundlach unveiled his latest hot trade: short the yen and buy the Japan's Nikkei. Japan's new leaders have committed to pursue aggressive monetary policy to stimulate the economy. Gundlach believes the means currency debasement.† He also believes it means inflation, which is good for stocks And for three months, Gundlach's trade has been nothing but a huge success. But Gundlach believes there's a long way to go. Today, the yen is trading at 96 to the dollar. Gundlach thinks it's heading toward 100 and could go as high as 200. The Nikkei is at around 12,300.† Gundlach thinks it's on its way to 13,000, and he wouldn't be surprised if it books a 3,000-point rally this year. In a webcast last week, he reiterated his traded and laid out his case in 10 slides charts.
