Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesChinese exports were up 10 percent year-over-year, down from 21.8 percent the previous month. But this sharp slowdown isn't a complete surprise since the strong export data in February was attributed over-reporting. Societe Generale's Wei Yao had said last month's rise in export data was "the result of disguised capital inflows, as exporters could overstate export amount in order to move yuan into the mainland," according to some rumors. Bank of America's Ting Lu offers a few other explanations. First, he believes that the "growth of higher-value added ordinary exports ...used as tools for over reporting exports, slumped to -4.5% yoy in Mar from 29.8% in Jan-Feb due perhaps government‚Äôs crack down on misbehavior." Second, he believes there is a chance that the March number could also be overstated because exports to bonded areas jumped a whopping 343 percent year-over-year in March. This compared with a 201 percent increase in Jan-Feb, and compares with a 40 percent rise in previous months. Bonded zones include free trade zones, export processing zones, bonded logistics parks and so on. Bloomberg reported that companies could be doctoring their trade activity to take advantage of tax benefits to help exporters. And this is why exports to bonded trade zones which have easier requirements on documenting foreign trade have increased. Lu does expect external demand to remain weak in coming months and weigh on Chinese exports.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVThe New York City metro area has been one of the weakest housing markets for the past few years. But in the last three months, home prices have been surging. With homebuilders preparing for a "solid spring season," Bank of America's Michelle Meyer believes this is an important trend to track. But the rebound in New York city home prices is just one of the four top topics in housing that investors need to watch.
A New York City court has ruled that the city shall pay $366,700 for a destructive raid on Occupy Wall Street's Zuccotti Park encampment. Around 1 a.m. on Nov. 15, 2011, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ordered the NYPD to evict protestors ‚Äî some of whom had camped there for almost two months ‚Äî from Zuccotti Park in New York City's Financial District. The police threw away 5,554 books from the Occupy library and destroyed media equipment in addition to removing tents, tarps, and belongings. The¬†U.S. District Court¬†for the¬†Southern District of New York decided that the NYPD's actions violated the protestors' rights under the First, Fourth, and Fourteenth Amendments. The city will pay: Occupy Wall Street is a movement, beginning on September 17, 2011 in Liberty Square, that protests the role of Wall Street in the 2007 financial crisis and aims to resist the influence of major banks and multinational corporations. Here's footage of the raid courtesy of Casey Neistat:  Here's the full ruling: Occupy Wall St. v. City of New York Settlement 
Reuters/Issei KatoChinese exports climbed 10 percent year-over-year in March. This was lower that expectations for an 11.7 percent rise, and compares with a 21.8 percent rise in February.  Societe Generale's Wei Yao had previously said that last month's rise in export data was "the result of disguised capital inflows, as exporters could overstate export amount in order to move yuan into the mainland," according to some rumors.  Economists don't think the Jan-Feb exports reflects strong external demand. In fact, Yao said the rise in exports could be "more of a curse than a blessing for China." Meanwhile, imports rebounded in March, climbing 14.1 percent on the year. This beat expectations for a six percent rise. Imports were down 15.2 percent the previous month.  China reported a trade deficit of $0.88 billion, this missed expectations for a surplus of $15.15 billion. These charts from Bank of America's Ting Lu show Chinese trade growth and the trajectory of exports by destination from 2007: BAMLBAML
CorcoranBillionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, whose S.A.C. Capital has come under scrutiny lately, is selling his gorgeous Upper East Side duplex penthouse for $115 million, The Real Estalker reports. He bought the place for $24 million back in 2005. He hired late architect†Charles Gwathmey to transform the space. It really is breathtaking.† Corcoran has the details of the†9,000 square foot, 6 bedroom, 6.5 bathroom apartment at One Beacon Court. We've included photos in the slides that follow.† Last month, Cohen agreed to pay $616 million to settle an insider trading probe with the Securities and Exchange Commission. He recently snapped up a $60 million oceanfront home in the Hamptons. He also bought a $150 million Picasso painting last November.† Anyway, let's take a tour of Cohen's apartment.†
The Bank of Japan is taking the concept of quantitative easing to a whole new level. Unlike the Fed who is only focused on treasuries and agency MBS securities, the BOJ is authorized to purchase ETFs and REITs in addition to JGBs. According to Credit Suisse, the BOJ's balance sheet as a proportion of the nation's GDP will far outstrip that of the other major central banks (excluding the SNB) within the next two years. This is uncharted territory - nothing of this magnitude has been tried before in a developed economy. ¬†As a result, dollar/yen is at 99 (the yen is down some 25% over the past 6 months) and Japan's stock market just hit a 5-year high. Credit Suisse
Al Bello/Getty ImagesThe annual football game between Harvard and YaleHarvard vs. Yale. The two universities regularly battle for the top spot on college rankings and claim some of the most powerful alumni networks in the world. But which school is really better? To answer the question we compared them across six categories ¬†‚Äî cost, academics, job prospects, campus, student body, and student life ‚Äî which together describe everything that should go into one's college choice. Here's what we found: Annual tuition including room, board and personal expenses at Harvard costs $57,950, while Yale costs $58,600 ‚Äî a slight edge for Harvard but not much of a difference. When you factor in financial aid, however, Harvard still comes out ahead.¬† At Harvard, about 60 percent of undergrads receive about $182 million in need-based financial aid, while at Yale approximately 55 percent of undergrads receive $120 million in need-based financial aid. At both schools, students whose families earn under $65,000 per year can qualify for financial aid. Harvard has a slight advantage in cost. Academics Harvard and Yale are both elite institutions that offer world-class academics. Both schools stress the importance of a balanced liberal arts education.¬†Harvard has a Core Curriculum, which requires students to take a variety of classes. Yale's¬†distributional requirements mean that students have to take classes in certain categories like the humanities, social science, and natural science. Both schools have strong economics and political science programs. Yale excels in drama and the arts, while Harvard is arguably slightly stronger in the sciences. Harvard offers about 3,900 courses and more than 40 majors for undergrads. Yale offers 2,000 courses and more than 75 majors. Let's call that a tie. Both schools have world-renowned faculty members and a similar faculty-to-student ratio. (Harvard has a 7:1 ratio and Yale has a 6:1 ratio.)¬†At Harvard, 78 percent of classes have fewer than 20 students, while at Yale 72 percent of classes have fewer than 20 students, according to the US News &amp; World Report. Again it's a wash. REUTERS/Brian SnyderThe statue of John Harvard sits in Harvard Yard Harvard has 47 Nobel Laureates who are faculty or alumni, while Yale counts 25 Nobel Laureates among its faculty and alumni. Harvard faculty or alumni have won a total of 47 Pulitzer Prizes, while Yale comes out ahead with a total of 56 Pulitzer Prizes awarded to faculty and alumni. Students who rate professors on Ratemyprofessors.com gave Harvard professors an average rating of 3.84 and Yale professors an average rating of 3.8‚Äîa nominal difference. In short, the schools are about equal, with similar course offerings, class sizes and high-quality professors and alumni. Academics are a tie. Both Harvard and Yale have strong brand recognition that almost guarantees jobs for future students, but one school appears to have an advantage. Harvard grads will earn slightly more money. According to PayScale, the¬†average starting salary for Harvard grads is $50,700, while the¬†average starting salary for Yale grads is $48,900. The mid-career salary for Harvard grads is $111,000, while the mid-career salary for Yale grads is $105,000,¬†according to PayScale. In our poll to determine the 50 Best Colleges in America¬†‚Äî which focused on future job prospects ‚Äî Harvard was ranked the¬†the number three school in the country, while Yale came in behind at number four. Similarly, the Times Higher Education ranking of universities by reputation¬†gave¬†Harvard the number one spot last year, while Yale came in at number 10. Flickr/Adam Jones, Ph.D. - Global Photo ArchiveAs for alumni networks, another critical factor in getting a job, both schools are excellent. Eight U.S. Presidents graduated from Harvard, while only five graduated from Yale. Twenty U.S. Supreme Court Justices attended Harvard, while 10 Justices attended Yale. According to US News, Harvard topped the list of 2012 Fortune 500 CEO degree granters with 65 total degrees. Yale didn't even make the list of the top 13 schools for CEOs. Harvard's notable contemporary alumni include CEOs and financial bigwigs like Lloyd Blankfein and Ben Bernanke; foreign leaders like Mexico's Felipe Calderon; and actors like Ashley Judd and Natalie Portman. Yale's include writers like Harold Bloom and Tom Wolfe; actors like Paul Newman and Meryl Streep; and political figures like Hillary Clinton and Dick Cheney. The bottom line: Both schools have strong alumni networks and brand recognition that will land students great jobs, but Harvard takes the lead in brand value. Harvard has a slight advantage in job prospects. Harvard is located in Cambridge, Mass., a bustling district outside of Boston that's been called one of the¬†best communities for young people¬†and¬†the healthiest city in America¬†by Self magazine. Yale is in downtown New Haven, Conn., which has a reputation for having some unsafe neighborhoods. But the area surrounding the college is filled with shops, restaurants, and bars, and students feel right at home there. When it comes to architecture, it's tough to pick one over the other. Both Harvard Yard and Yale's campus are known for their centuries-old stone buildings, leafy quads, and high-tech laboratories. Harvard's libraries hold around 17 million volumes, while Yale's have 12.99 million. Neither college has a central undergraduate student center, though Harvard students¬†launched a campaign¬†to build one in 2011. Both have great athletic facilities: Yale's 9-story Payne Whitney Gymnasium¬†has training centers for crew, gymnastics, swimming, and a state-of-the-art fencing salon, while Harvard's 5-floor Malkin Athletic Center has three pools, a cycling studio, and two cardio rooms. As for future spending,¬†Harvard has the largest endowment in the world at $30.7 billion. Yale's endowment is still impressive but not as high at¬†$19.3 billion. While students on both campuses are satisfied with their surroundings, we'll give Harvard the edge for its cool neighborhood, proximity to Boston, and the classic beauty of Harvard Yard. Harvard has a slight advantage in campus. Yale and Harvard are¬†two of the most competitive schools in the world.¬†Yale admitted 6.7 percent of applicants for the class of 2017, while Harvard accepted 5.8 percent, giving Harvard the slight edge. Both colleges have also admitted an increasingly diverse group of students in recent years. For the class of 2016, Harvard's admitted students were 21 percent Asian American, 10 percent African American, and 11 percent Hispanic or Latino,¬†while Yale's were¬†21.1 percent Asian American, 9.5 percent African American, and 10.5 percent Hispanic.¬† Harry How/Getty ImagesStudent reviewers on College Prowler gave both schools an A+ for diversity. Yale's average SAT score is slightly higher than Harvard's. The SAT range at Yale is 2120-2390, compared to Harvard's 2080-2380, according to College Prowler. Both schools have standout students within their current undergraduate ranks.¬†Harvard's include undergrads¬†who are making strides towards curing cancer and have played at Carnegie Hall, and¬†even the daughter of the head of China's Communist party. Yale's student body includes Rhodes Scholars, entrepreneurs, a composer of classical music, and a professional magician. Harvard's undergraduate student body is slightly larger at around 6,650, compared to Yale's 5,322. Both schools fared well, but we'll give Harvard the category for its slightly lower admission rate ‚Äî¬†when you're talking single-digit percentages, one percent matters. Harvard has a slight advantage in student body. Both colleges offer tons of extracurriculars and vibrant social scenes for undergraduate students. Yale's student life revolves around the residential college system, in which incoming freshmen are assigned to one of 12 residential colleges, where many students live, eat, and make their closest friends. Harvard also has a house system. Freshmen live in dorms and join one of 12 houses at their end of their first year. Houses also have dorm rooms, dining halls, and common spaces. Northfoto / Shutterstock.com Harvard does not have a formal Greek system, but its eight all-male "final" clubs serve a similar social purpose. Around¬†10 percent of Yalies¬†participate in Greek life.¬†Fifty percent of seniors¬†are also members of the school's famous "secret societies." Both schools offer tons of extracurriculars: Yale has more than 400 organizations on campus,¬†including over 50 performance groups and 60 cultural associations. Harvard also has¬†more than 400 campus organizations¬†for students with any interest under the sun. When it comes to the dining halls, Harvard has Yale beat; Harvard, with 13 undergrad dining halls, ranked #12 on¬†The Daily Meal's latest list of the best colleges for food, while Yale was #21. But Yale bests Harvard when it comes to nightlife. College Prowler's reviewers gave Yale's nightlife an A+ for its variety, from campus-wide theme parties to frat parties to the dance floor at local nightclub Toad's. Harvard, where nightlife is centered around the finals clubs and local bars, got an A.¬† Overall, Yale seems to be a happier place to be. According to¬†The Daily Beast's latest ranking of the happiest colleges¬†‚Äî¬†based on student opinion data and retention rates¬†‚Äî¬†Harvard ranked #11 and Yale was #3. This one was almost too close to call. Both offer tons of clubs, ways to socialize, and house systems. But since Yale ranked higher in terms of nightlife and student happiness, we'll give it the edge in this category. Yale has a slight advantage in student life. While both universities are excellent, Harvard is the winner,¬†coming out slightly ahead in ¬†cost, job prospects, campus, and student body.
At one time or another, everything was transported. Planes, trains, and ships are able to move the biggest quantities of goods at any one time. But trucks are by far the most crucial mode of transport. Here's a cool infographic from uShip laying out some of the numbers. uShip
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffBill Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management is by far the largest shareholder at JC Penney, giving him a board seat and a lot of influence at the company.† On Friday, Ackman criticized CEO Ron Johnson, a man he personally recruited from Apple and previously loudly supported, which signaled that Johnson's time was up. He stepped down days later.† Now, according to Reuters, it looks like Ackman's going to have to take the humiliating step of admitting defeat and exit his years long position in the struggling retailer. "What we have now is clearly the worst case scenario and Bill will be looking to make as graceful an exit as quickly as possible," a Pershing Square investor told Reuters. Another investor said that Ron Johnson's failure does "not bode well for the board's receptivity to (Ackman's) future recommendations. He is now a neutered activist."† And what's the benefit of having a massive stake in a struggling company if you can't push changes?† Ackman's held onto the investment for a long time despite increasing doubts about Johnson's strategy. But there are a number of reasons that now might be the time for him to exit.† The hedge fund could either start selling its shares, or try to join a deal to take the company private. Either way, Ackman will be eager to put this embarrassing chapter in his investment history behind him.†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. This Bull Market Doesn't' Need Earnings Growth Or Fed Easing (Barron's) Wells Capital's Jim Paulsen writes that the stock market could "evolve into a buy and hold investment, driven in future years by a slow buy steady rise in price-earnings." Neither earnings growth nor Fed easing are necessary to keep the bull market going. This is because the current PE multiple is actually low compared to the average since post-WW II. "Earnings cannot collapse, but as long as the recovery continues and earnings grow in line or even slightly less than nominal GDP, solid total equity returns can be achieved simply by PE multiples returning to levels seen commonly in similar environments of the post-war era. Finally, for the stock market to evolve into a value-driven bull market, it will be paramount to keep inflation under control." Baird Hires New Team From Wells Fargo And UBS For Houston Office (Reuters) Robert W. Baird &amp; Co. hired seven veteran advisors¬† that managed more than $770 million in assets from Wells Fargo. They also hired John Hantak a former UBS Wealth Management advisor. The team will be setting up Baird's new Houston office and will be managed by Hantak. The S&amp;P 500 Is Nowhere Near Its All-Time High When Priced In Eggs (Gluskin Sheff) Stocks hit an all-time high in the first quarter. But in real terms stock market gains are far below their post-recession highs."In egg-adjusted terms, the S&amp;P 500 is more than 20 percent below its pre-recession highs," writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. Gluskin Sheff What Advisors Need To Know About Managing Millennials (Wealth Management) The average age of advisors is over 50 according to Cerulli. So, the industry needs to hire more millennials. Susan Konig at WealthManagement.com writes that unlike baby boomers that "value autonomy", millennials are looking for a mentor and "want a structured training process".¬†They also like being part of a team and need "ongoing feedback." 4 Signs That The Stock Market Needs Inspiration (LPL Financial) Since hitting all-time highs at the end of the first quarter, stocks have been losing momentum. Jeff Kleintop at LPL Financial writes that there are four clear signs that markets are looking for inspiration. 1. "Daily push-and-pull action - The S&amp;P 500 has now reversed direction on a daily basis 12 times in a row," which has never happened. 2. "Stronger selling conviction." 3. The risk and safety battle is ongoing with the S&amp;P 500 index and gold trading at the same level, only for stocks to then decline. 4. Defensive, not cyclical stocks are leading the stock market rally.
My daughter called last night, sheís made her reservations for a honeymoon in Japan. Six months ago she was leaning on going to Thailand, but the cost of a trip to Japan has fallen so sharply, that she was able to afford the cost of a visit to beautiful Tokyo. Sheís delighted. The dollar cost of a hotel in Tokyo has fallen by a very significant 25% in just a half-year. Iím sure that many other tourist around the world will now consider Japan as a destination for a vacation. The devaluation of the Yen is working! While Iím happy for my daughter (and those hoteliers in Tokyo) Iím frustrated by the enthusiasm that financial markets have demonstrated by the major devaluation of the Yen. To me, this is a zero sum game. The gains in Japan, are just losses everywhere else.  † I see the big losers as Korea, China and the rest of SE Asia. America is going to get hit fairly hard as both tourism and trade react to the cheaper currency. Europe is so screwed up today the consequences of the Yen devaluation will be masked, but the German car exporters will get beat to pieces as the exchange rate adjustment flows through on car prices.† Places like Brazil will feel the consequences as well, liquidity out of Japan will leak into local capital markets, it will be the source of unwanted inflation. A lot of my readers resent the fact that big money gets bigger because it is big. The Yen devaluation is a classic example. Itís my understanding that some folks have gotten spectacularly rich from the plunge in the Yen. (not just those who made it to the papers) The beauty of the Yen short trade is that there was very little risk. The government telegraphed its intentions perfectly. Damn near every speculator in the world was able to profit from what has happened. The gains are measured in the 100drs of billions of dollars. Once again, the central banks have made market players rich. The vast majority of the speculative currency gains will never get taxed. The rich and powerful just got richer and more powerful Who will pay for the speculators gains? The Japanese citizens will be forced to kick in a huge chunk. The cost of everything that is imported into Japan is now 25%++ higher than a half year ago. The US economy will surely play a price. How much of a drag to US GDP is the Yen devaluation going to cause? I think the number starts with 1/2 percent. China is going to get thumped. I donít think China is just going to roll over and give Japan a free ride. Some retaliation is in the offing. ìThingsî between China and Japan have been very rocky over the past half-year; they are going to get worse. Japan has created an enemy with China, this will not end well. In my years of watching FX, Iíve never seen a soft landing from a devaluation.† I donít think Japan in 2013 will be any different. Japan Inc. may be happy to see the 100/dollar exchange rate, but I doubt that the Bank of Japan can achieve equilibrium at this level. The risk is that the USDJPY overshoots (they always do). There is a very real possibility that things get out of control and a move to USDJPY 120 is in the cards. I see a near zero chance that the BOJ is going to step into the currency market and do reverse intervention to contain Yen the weakness. If enough speculators believe as I do, then we are in for a hell of a ride in the coming months. Japan is desperately seeking to export its deflation ñ I think they will succeed. But when the deflationary consequences hit Japanís trading partners, a global slowdown will be the result. Japanís trash is being passed around the globe. I wonder how long the rest of the world is going to stand for it. Give it six months (or less) for the damage to be felt in the USA, and then the backlash will start. That, or China does something ugly. Either way, those who are singing praise for Japan and itís effort to undermine its currency are going to be singing a different tune. There is a perception that Japanís monetary policies are directed inward. People like Bernanke are saying that any monetary stimulus is good stimulus, nothing bad can come of it. I donít see it that way. I see Japan as a global aggressor, the country doesnít give a damn about where the chips fall outside of its borders.
Peter Orszag, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget, is an avid runner. He used to go for his daily run at 4:30am, but now that he is the Vice Chairman at Citi, he has switched to running at 9pm instead. Orzsag, who runs about a 8:30 minute mile, goes for 4-5 mile run on a weekday, and a 7-10 mile run during the weekend. He is also a huge country music fan, having quoted Toby Keith during a Congressional hearing back in 2009. Watch below Orszag explain why he prefers running half marathons rather than full ones, and what he really thinks of country music's big breakout star Taylor Swift:¬† Produced by William Wei
As Bitcoin prices charge ever higher, the same people who were dismissing Bitcoin as a "bubble" at $35 six weeks ago are now huffing about it being even more of a "bubble" at $235. And maybe they're right. Maybe, someday, Bitcoin prices will collapse 99.9%, impoverishing everyone who owns them. But in the meantime ... Those who are trading Bitcoins ó and, more importantly, owning Bitcoins ó are making money hand over fist. And here's what the latter folks understand that the those who are huffing about "Bitcoin bubbles" don't: The most you can lose if Bitcoins go to zero is 100% of your money. The most you can make, meanwhile ... Well, no one knows exactly how much you can make. But it's probably a lot more than 100%. Those who bought Bitcoins in early March, for example, have now made 7X their money ó a return of nearly 600%. That's a pretty nice return. And it's a return that more than justifies the risk that these speculators took when they bought their Bitcoins for $35 ó namely that the price of Bitcoins could go to zero. All the speculators would have lost if Bitcoins went to zero was the value of their bet. And now here they are, six weeks later, sitting on profits of 7X their bets. In other words, for anyone who realized that it was possible that Bitcoins might trade at $235 in relatively short order, it was a no-brainer to buy them for $35. Bubble or no, a wise speculator would take that bet every day. And how about now? Are Bitcoins a good bet at $235? Well, let's run through the possible outcomes. Bitcoins could certainly plunge†suddenly from $235 to zero. If they did that, you would lose 100% of your bet. But ... Bitcoins could also easily go to $2,350 ó or higher. (Bitcoins are impossible to value, but there are, and theoretically always will be, a finite number of them. Meanwhile, as Bitcoin prices rise, more and more people want them. And there are sound conceptual reasons why an electronic currency like Bitcoin is a good idea ó one whose time has come. So it is possible that the "equilibrium" for Bitcoin prices, to the extent that there will ever be an equilibrium, is vastly higher than where Bitcoins are trading today. If you don't believe this, please read this article, which discusses it in more detail.)† If Bitcoins go to $2,350, then that would be a 10X return. So that's one possible betting scenario: If you lose your bet, you lose 100%. If you win your bet, you make 1000%. That's a good bet. Now, you may think there is no conceivable way that Bitcoin prices could ever hit $2,350. And you might be right. But ask yourself this question: When Bitcoins were trading for $35 six weeks ago, did you think there was a chance that they would ever hit $235? If you're like most people, you didn't. If you're like most people, you either had no idea what Bitcoins even were ... or you cackled smugly about how Bitcoin was obviously a bubble and that all of the idiots stupid enough to buy Bitcoin would lose their shirts. Well, just so you know, many of those "idiots" were laughing at you, too. One of them reached out to me the other day. He explained why he bought a boatload of Bitcoins when they were trading for much less than $35 apiece:  ... over the long term the only two possible outcomes are 1000X+ or 0 ó I don't know the probability of each possible outcome, but I firmly believe those are the only two possible options ... I actually don't think $400 is a meaningful equilibrium point for it. (The $400 he was referring to, by the way was the $400 "target" I put on Bitcoins last week, when they were trading for ~$90. The $400 was an inside joke, which I won't repeat here. You can read about it here if you like.) Anyway ... This is the equation that many of the "idiots" hoarding Bitcoins are thinking about when they decide to buy more Bitcoins and keep hoarding them: All they can lose is all of their money. All they can make, meanwhile? Unlimited. (Yes, this is classic bubble logic. Yes, someday, many Bitcoin speculators will probably lose their shirts. And, no, there's no way to determine what Bitcoins are "actually worth." That's why I call Bitcoin the "perfect bubble." But what many folks who snicker smugly about "bubbles" don't seem to understand is that before some Bitcoin speculators lose their shirts, some other Bitcoin speculators are going to, well, coin it.) SEE ALSO: I'm Raising My Bitcoin Price Target To $400 WARNING: Bitcoins have no inherent value, and they could go to zero at any time. If you decide you just can't stand missing out on all the Bitcoin riches and plunge in, and they instantly go to zero, don't come crying to me.
Flickr / librarymanStocks staged a nice rally today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,673, +59.5 pts, +0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,568, +5.5 pts, +0.3 percentNASDAQ: 3,237, +15.6 pts, +0.4 percent And now the top stories:
A Hamptons real estate brokerage firm just got the ultimate revenge on a pair of Wall Streeters.¬†[via¬†Curbed] Broker Rosehip Partners, which has the blog Hamptons Marketwire, writes that¬†Jon Terracciano, an attorney, and Jon Shechtman, a hedge fund portfolio manager, tried to cheat one of its agents out of earning a $3,000 commission fee for a summer share. Terracciano is a Wall Street attorney, according to his LinkedIn. ¬†You can see¬†Terracciano partying it up in the Hamptons¬†in this Guest of a Guest photo.¬†Shechtman¬†is¬†a portfolio manager at Axonic Capital, according to his LinkedIn. Anyway, the pair inquired about some high end rental properties promising "all cash for a quick deal," according to the blog. ¬† We're told that they were asking about 25 homes in the brokerage firm's system and an agent worked really hard making calls and arranging tours.¬† The agent took the two Jons to some houses last Saturday. He felt confident that they would put in an offer.¬† According to the brokerage, the pair were leaving handwritten notes in the homes telling the homeowners that they would like to do an all cash deal directly with the owner, while cutting out the agents. Two homeowners found the notes and turned them over to Rosehip Partners, says the firm. We have tried reaching out to both individuals to get their side of the story.¬† The notes have been posted on Rosehip Partners' blog. ¬†They gave us permission to run them.¬† HamptonsMarketwire Hamptons Marketwire Hamptons Marketwire
In the past 24 hours, the value of Bitcoin has surged more than 26 percent, and now stands at $236. As you can imagine, some merchants are having trouble keeping up¬† Inspired by NYMag's Kevin Roose, here are some items from BTCZone.com whose prices are lagging Bitcoin's exploding value. This bike ‚Äî admittedly, a pretty sweet-looking one ‚Äî now costs $644.28. Amazon price: up to $500. BTCZone This iPhone 5 now costs $1,158.76; the iPhone 4, $717.44. Amazon price: $702 and $445, respectively. BTCZone iPhone boombox: $337.48. Amazon¬†price: $210.BTCZone These last two are particularly egregious. Here's a Canon zoom lens: $3,188.36. Amazon¬†price: $1,149. ¬† BTCZone And while we admire and appreciate Tom Verlaine's contributions to punk, we're not sure a digital download of Television's seminal album "Marquee Moon" is worth $18.88. ITunes¬†price: $9.99.BTCZone
The S&amp;P 500 Index closed at 1553 on Friday, April 5, the level the current rally first reached a month ago. The stock market‚Äôs stalling momentum and increasing volatility, combined with other signs evident in the market‚Äôs recent behavior, suggest investors might be looking for new inspiration. These signs suggest that an event in the coming weeks could tip the market trend into a modest pullback or refresh it for another run. LPL Financial While much of the attention in recent months has been directed toward Europe as a source of potential crisis or breakthrough, global attention has now turned to Asia. The weak U.S. economy and extended stock market run-up may be vulnerable to a shock or due for a recharge. A flu pandemic or an act of war by North Korea could be a shock that results in a setback to the economy and stock market, while the aggressive stimulus in Japan could be a boost that finally gets stocks to break out of their month-long range. Spreading Bird Flu An influenza pandemic has the potential to exact a great human and financial toll. The Chinese stock market suffered last week, despite better economic data, from the spreading outbreak of the bird flu, referred to as the H7N9 virus. None of the 21 confirmed cases in China have yet confirmed that the virus has spread from human to human. In the past, it was at that point that it began to impact the markets. While in each of these cases the U.S. stock market experienced at least a 5‚Äì10% decline around the time of initial human-to-human transmission, other contributing factors helped to result in a weak environment for stocks. The market may react negatively to headlines about infections spreading and the potential for limited human-to-human transmission. We will continue to watch these developments closely. North Korean Aggression South Korea‚Äôs stock market was down each day last week as geopolitical risk escalated. North Korea, angered over recent U.N. sanctions prompted by the North Korean nuclear test in February and routine U.S.-South Korean naval exercises, has threatened to launch a nuclear strike against U.S. territories and a missile strike on South Korea. While likely inflated, such rhetoric has been followed by action in the recent past with attacks that included the sinking of ships and short-lived artillery barrages. The sinking of the South Korean naval vessel Cheonan, and the resulting deaths of 46 crewmen, took place on March 26, 2010. An investigation concluded a month and a half later that the source of the attack was a North Korean submarine and contributed to global stock market weakness. On November 23, 2010, North Korea launched artillery shells and rockets at South Korean military and civilian targets on Yeonpyeong Island‚Äîcontributing to a pause in the rally among global stock markets. Last week, stocks fell on Wednesday, April 3, when the news broke that the Pentagon will deploy a missile defense system to Guam in the coming weeks in response to North Korea‚Äôs threat. This may mark a break from much of the past 20 years, when threats and aggressive actions by North Korea typically resulted in high-level meetings, a short-lived agreement, and economic aid. Stocks may react negatively to any escalation. Action could occur ahead of the anniversary of North Korea‚Äôs founding President Kim Il-Sung‚Äôs birthday on April 15. Japan‚Äôs Shock-and-Awe QE In contrast to the weakness seen in other major world stock markets, Japan‚Äôs Nikkei Index was up 3.5% last week, adding to a year-to-date rally of over 20% on an aggressive policy move to revive growth by the Japanese central bank. The Bank of Japan (BoJ) announced it will buy 7.5 trillion yen ($76 billion) of bonds a month. Japan was the first nation to use the now common bond purchases known as quantitative easing (QE) 12 years ago and has had little success to show in combating deflation and a stagnant economy. The[A1]¬† new, bolder approach is intended to achieve a two-year inflation target of 2%, a level achieved only briefly over the past 20 years (in 1997 and 2008 as oil prices rose sharply). The BOJ shifted its focus to expanding the amount of cash in circulation and on deposit at the BOJ, intending to grow it in excess of the pace of economic output. The surprisingly bold move weakened the yen, which has fallen over 20% in the past six months. A weaker currency may help promote exports and raise domestic inflation, while higher inflation expectations may encourage consumers to spend now rather than wait. Pushing down bond yields may also encourage banks to stop holding so many government bonds and instead be more eager to make loans. Of course, the ability to pull forward spending among aging consumers and the willingness by businesses to borrow is not assured. Also, there is a risk posed by the longer-term consequences of driving up inflation, resulting in a serious increase in interest costs for a country already using 25% of its budget to service debt. In fact, the interest rate on Japan's 10-year government bonds is now less than 0.5%‚Äîthe lowest in the world, despite a very high level of government debt and annual budget deficits. Japan's debt is roughly 230% of gross domestic product (GDP) and rising, higher than that of Greece (175% of GDP) and nearly twice that of Italy (125%). Japan believes the only way to turn this trend around is to drive GDP higher and is pulling out all the stops. Perhaps this bold move may inspire investors to believe more stimulus may be forthcoming from the European Central Bank or the U.S. Federal Reserve, given the weak manufacturing and jobs reports last week, capable of renewing the stock market‚Äôs rally. Plenty of events‚Äîincluding those listed here‚Äîmay serve as inspiration for investors to sell and take profits or put more money to work in the coming weeks. Given the market‚Äôs recent behavior, we expect a modest pullback is most likely.
HÂvard M. OttestadMany of the world's most wealthy and powerful people were educated in Switzerland's famed boarding schools, and have sent their children to those same institutions. North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un supposedly attended the International School in Bern; Danish royalty were sent to†CollËge Alpin International Beau Soleil. But no Swiss institution is as prestigious, expensive, or well-connected as†Institut Le Rosey, located near Rolle. The school, founded in 1880, is considered to be the world's most expensive private school, with annual tuition (including boarding) around $133,000. Its alumni network is astounding: Former students include the†last Shah of Iran, the Aga Khan, King Albert II of Belgium, Prince Rainier of Monaco,†Dodi Al-Fayed, and the children of the royal families of†Egypt, Greece, Yugoslavia, Italy and Britain, according to Forbes. The offspring of the American dynasties like the Rothschilds, Rockefellers, and du Ponts also attended. HÂvard M. Ottestad has provided us with some pictures of Le Rosey; click through to see the campus and find out more about the school.
Wikimedia CommonsA biennial survey of U.S. gas reserves has just printed its highest-ever estimate, reports the Financial Times. The Potential Gas Committee says there is now¬†2,384 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural gas in America, up 486 tcf from the previous all-time high in 2010. Most of the new reserves came from recalculations in the Atlantic, Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast areas. Here's why it went up, according to PGC Director John Curtis, via PGC's release: Our knowledge of the geological endowment of technically recoverable gas continues to improve with each assessment," PGC director John Curtis said. "Furthermore, new and advanced exploration, well drilling, completion and stimulation technologies are allowing us increasingly better delineation of and access to domestic gas resources‚Äîespecially ‚Äòunconventional‚Äô gas‚Äîwhich, not all that long ago, were considered impractical or uneconomical to pursue. Consequently, our present assessment, strengthened by robust domestic production levels, demonstrates an exceptionally strong and optimistic gas supply picture for the nation.‚Äù Thanks to revisions for the Marcellus Shale, PGC now ranks the Atlantic area as the country‚Äôs richest resource area, with 33 percent of total gas resources. The Gulf Coast and Rocky Mountain areas combine for much of the rest.
KPMG said it fired one of its senior partners for allegedly leaking non-public information in Herbalife and Sketchers to a third party who then traded on that info.¬† The Wall Street Journal has named the now-former senior partner as Scott London. Bloomberg News' Julie Hyman Tweeted¬†that the Skechers CFO confirms that the senior partner was Scott London.¬† London has been at the firm for over 29 years, according to his LinkedIn profile. He was in charge of audit practice for KPMG in Southern California.¬† It's still unclear who is the "third party." CNBC's Scott Wapner reported earlier that the third party is not related to hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who is short Herbalife, or Carl Icahn, who is long the nutrition company.¬† The accounting firm resigned as an auditor to those companies. ¬†Both the SEC and FBI are said to be investigating the matter, according to press reports.¬† Here's a screenshot of London's¬†LinkedIn profile:¬† LinkedIn screencap
The price of a Bitcoin now stands at $234. That is really, really high. Especially given that just three years ago, Bitcoins were worth one-quarter of one cent. It was at this price when, according to Internet lore, Jacksonville resident Laszlo Hanyecz¬†purchased a pizza for 10,000 BTC, or $25. Vice's Brian Merchant actually had this story several days ago. But the pizza was then only worth $750,000. Here's Hanyecz' original post, from Bitcointalk.org: I'll pay 10,000 bitcoins for a couple of pizzas.. like maybe 2 large ones so I have some left over for the next day.¬† I like having left over pizza to nibble on later.¬† You can make the pizza yourself and bring it to my house or order it for me from a delivery place, but what I'm aiming for is getting food delivered in exchange for bitcoins where I don't have to order or prepare it myself, kind of like ordering a 'breakfast platter' at a hotel or something, they just bring you something to eat and you're happy!I like things like onions, peppers, sausage, mushrooms, tomatoes, pepperoni, etc.. just standard stuff no weird fish topping or anything like that.¬† I also like regular cheese pizzas which may be cheaper to prepare or otherwise acquire.If you're interested please let me know and we can work out a deal.Thanks,Laszlo As user The_egg_came_first points out on Reddit, that pizza has now cost the original purchaser over $2 million at today's prices. At the time, Hanyecz¬†updated a series of photos proving the purchase ‚Äî here's one: Mike Lazlo This episode is a big lesson and a big cautionary tale: Anyone transacting in Bitcoin is liable to feel like an idiot the next day, as the price surges or collapses. Hence it makes more sense to just speculate, and not do anything real.

We are headed into the final hours of trading in the United States, and stocks are moving higher. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up about 85 points, or 0.6 percent, while the S&amp;P 500 is up 0.5 percent, trading at 1570. Both indices are just off their highs of the day. Below is a chart of the Dow. FINVIZ.com
Earlier today we marveled at Bitcoin blowing past $200. Now? Over $230. From Clarkmoody.com: Clarkmoody.com
First solar shares are up 18 percent today as the company revised guidance upward. The stock popped nearly $3 this afternoon on the news. The company now projects $4 to $6 2015 EPS, compared with $3.28 estimates, according to Bloomberg. Here's the chart:
Flickr/raanveSome people are probably going to be really, really nervous right about now...¬† Both the FBI and the SEC are looking into the alleged insider information leaks from a now-former KPMG senior partner, according to press reports.¬† Earlier, KPMG said one of its senior partners in the Los Angeles office leaked non-public information¬†in Herbalife and Sketchers to a third party who then traded on that information.¬† The accounting firm fired that partner and resigned as an auditor at those two companies. The senior partner and the third party have not been identified. CNBC's Scott Wapner reported earlier that the third party is not related to Bill Ackman, the hedge fund manager with a massive short on Herbalife, or his rival billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who has a huge long position in the nutrition company.¬† Reuters' Emily Flitter¬†reported¬†that the FBI is going to do a probe.¬†The Securities and Exchange Commission is said to be investigating the matter, Bloomberg News reported.¬†

Gold and silver prices are way up today. Spot gold was up more than 1 percent to $1,588/oz, while silver was up as much as 2.9 percent to $27.96/oz. Here's gold... Investing.com And here's silver: Investing.com Reuters' Jan Harvey reports¬†gold demand from Hong Kong has recently increased.¬† Hong Kong's net gold flow to mainland¬†China¬†rebounded last month from three-month lows in January, reflecting increased demand ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday and as buyers took advantage of weaker prices, data showed on Tuesday. Gold has fallen as low as $1,545 in recent weeks.
Kyle Bass, the hedge fund manager who has become the most prominent voice in the market betting on a collapse of Japan's sovereign bond market, was on Bloomberg TV this morning discussing the trade. It's known as the "widowmaker" because Japan's outsized stock of government debt ‚Äì the largest in the world as a percentage of GDP ‚Äì leaves only one conclusion for many traders. The market¬†has to blow up eventually, right? Except it never does. Bass has been vocal about his call since 2010. Now, against the backdrop of the monetary policy revolution at the Bank of Japan, which just announced a massive bond buying program, the "widowmaker" trade is back in the spotlight. Bloomberg TV anchors¬†Erik Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle pressed Bass to put a timeframe on his call. When exactly does he think the Japanese government bond market is going to blow up? Bass replied that he wasn't na√Øve enough to think he could guess when it would happen ‚Äì but he said that on Friday, we saw the first signs that such an event could be coming. (On Thursday, the Bank of Japan announced its massive new stimulus program. On Friday, there was a big sell-off in short-dated Japanese government bonds, causing yields to spike. The chart below shows the move.) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Bass told Bloomberg TV: I think it's important to talk about the BoJ's "shock and awe" campaign, where they are going to double the monetary base by the end of next year, which is unprecedented. They're going to buy roughly 60 trillion yen per year of bonds in the next two years, which is 11 percent of GDP, or their whole fiscal deficit. This is what I find fascinating in the whole situation. [The Bank of Japan] came out and told you: "The new sheriff is in town, and we've got you." Right? "We're going to buy everything we can buy. Don't worry." And what happened on Friday? Investors in JGBs panicked. Which is, again, it's really the first diversion from the 20-year norm of their ability to just swallow the numbers and not worry. They actually worried. According to Bass, this episode illustrates that other market participants are finally coming around to his view on Japanese government bonds. Bass said in the interview: You have to think about ‚Äì¬†you have to get into the heads of the participants, because they all have a collective sense of fatalism. When you do the quantitative analysis here, you know they are insolvent. Everyone that owns the bonds knows they are insolvent. It's a question of how long they can hang on. And what changes their views are a multitude of variables... You never know what sparks the qualitative perceptions of investors to change, but what I saw Friday was it began to change. I'm not saying it's over today. I'm saying, this is the first deviation of the sanctity of that marketplace. And it was a complete panic on Friday. The 5-year JGB yield keeps heading higher this week.
Based on an AP image. For the past 50 years, the world has grown used to crazy threats from North Korea that don't lead anywhere. But with young and untested Kim Jong-un in charge of a nuclear arsenal, no one knows what will happen next.
Stocks hit all-time highs in the first quarter. But many have argued that this has just been driven by central bank easing. In a new report, David Rosenberg quotes Kyle Bass (via Fred Hickey) as saying that stock market gains in real terms are weaker than those in nominal terms. In fact, Bass is quoted saying, "one of the best performing equity markets in the last decades has been Zimbabwe. But now your entire equity portfolio (in Zimbabwe) only buys you three eggs." Rosenberg says that this made him think about the S&amp;P 500 in egg terms: "While there has been a market recovery, it is far more subdued on this basis ... in egg-adjusted terms, the S&amp;P 500 is more than 20 percent below its pre-recession highs and about half what it was at the all-time highs 16 years ago. In milk terms, the S&amp;P 500 is actually 15 percent below its its pre-recession highs, and in bread terms, the index is 10 percent lower. Just in case you thought I was cherry picking what's on the breakfast table." Gluskin Sheff To really drive home his point, Rosenberg included a chart that shows the NYSE market capitalization when adjusted for the Fed' balance sheet is still at 2009 lows: Gluskin Sheff
APLast week it was revealed that the President's budget proposal will include a revision to the way the government calculates the impact of the rate of inflation as a concession to House Republicans. Still, a switch to chained CPI from the current rate demonstrably cuts benefits to seniors and could be a stealth tax on primarily the middle class.† The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is used as a proxy for the annual cost of living adjustment used to keep federal benefits in line with inflation.† There are several different ways that economists calculate the Consumer Price Index, according to the AARP Public Policy Institute. "Chained CPI" refers to another adjustment, particularly to CPI-U. As an example,†CPI-U and CPI-W already incorporate people switching from Starbucks coffee to homemade when prices increase. Chained CPI-U takes that a step further ó the idea that when coffee gets more expensive, people switch to orange juice. It incorporates more switching.† When it comes down to it, Chained CPI-U spits out a lower rate of inflation than regular CPI-U, which already spits out a lower rate of inflation than the current CPI-W. As a result, were the government to switch the way they index cost of living adjustments to chained CPI-U from CPI-W, payouts to seniors would increase at a much slower rate.† This means that over time, seniors receiving Social Security see their benefits cut.† Here's a comparison of CPI-W, CPI-E, and chained CPI-U from the AARP Public Policy Institute. Keep in mind that, as an advocacy group, the AARP probably wants CPI-E to become the law of the land. You can see how much less the C-CPI-U (chained CPI, green line) will pay out over time. AARP PPI Now, assuming chained CPI were the law of the land ten years ago, here's how much less money an elderly person making $878 per month in 2001 would make with C-CPI-U according to a Center for Economic and Policy Research study: CEPR You'll see that the annual Social Security payment in 2012 under chained CPI would be the same as it was in real life in 2009.† According to the CEPR report:† Switching to the Chained CPI immediately would have a more significant impact on the retirement income of seniors than the ending the Bush-era tax cuts would have on the after-tax income of the wealthiest 2 percent of households. For the average worker retiring at age 65, this would mean a cut of about $650 each year by age 75 and a cut of roughly $1,130 each year at age 85. Just a reminder: President Obama is the one proposing this.† Still, chained CPI could also hit the middle class. While Social Security is tied to CPI-W currently, the cost of living adjustment to tax brackets is indexed to CPI-U.† If the president's budget updates CPI-U to chained CPI-U, the thresholds for tax brackets would rise more slowly.†This leads to incomes increasing faster than tax bracket thresholds do.  As a result, incomes would jump to higher tax brackets faster, CEPR reported, and the effective income tax rates would increase: According to Congressí Joint Committee on Taxation, if individual income taxes were indexed to the Chained CPI starting in January 2013, by 2021, 69 percent of the gains in revenue would come from taxpayers with incomes below $100,000, while those in the highest income brackets would†barely be affected.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz said what everyone else in the industry was thinking when describing Ron Johnson's disastrous tenure at JCPenney.† ìLetís face it. The last two years have been a tragic set of events for Penneyís and all of its constituents,î Schultz told Evan Clark and David Moin at Women's Wear Daily.† Johnson stepped down as CEO yesterday after a tumultuous 16-month reign. His turnaround strategy, which involved ditching the company's popular promotions program, was blamed for a staggering sales decrease of 32 percent.† Johnson will be replaced by former CEO Mike Ullman, a Starbucks board member, in the interim.† Schultz can relate to Ullman because he took an eight-year hiatus from Starbucks (though he remained as chairman) and was hired back as CEO in 2008 to turn the company around.† He emphasized that Ullman's decision to come back wasn't the easy thing to do: "This is not an easy task, but he is the perfect person to come back. He didnít have to. He is coming back because he feels a responsibility. It takes a lot courage to come back."  Wall Street isn't thrilled about Ullman's return. While Johnson tried to change too much too fast in his tenure, Ullman was criticized for not making the changes the company desperately needed.†
NEWPORT BEACH ‚Äì What is the most urgent economic priority shared by countries as diverse as Brazil, China, Cyprus, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Korea, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and the United States? It is not debt and deficits; and it is not dealing with the aftermath of irresponsible lending and borrowing. Yes, these are relevant and, in a handful of cases, urgent. But the number one challenge facing these countries is to develop growth models that can provide more ample, well-paid, and secure jobs amid a secular re-alignment of the global economy. For both theoretical and practical reasons, this is a challenge that will not be met easily or quickly. And, when it is met, the process will most likely be partial and uneven, accentuating differences and posing tricky coordination issues at the national, regional, and global levels. The last few years have highlighted the declining potency of long-standing growth models. Some countries (for example, Greece and Portugal) relied on debt-financed government spending to fuel economy activity. Others (think Cyprus, Iceland, Ireland, the UK, and the US) resorted to unsustainable surges in leverage among financial institutions to fund private-sector activities, sometimes almost irrespective of underlying fundamentals. Still others (China and Korea) exploited seemingly limitless globalization and buoyant international trade to capture growing market shares. And a final group rode China‚Äôs coattails. Recent data from the International Monetary Fund highlight these models‚Äô simultaneous loss of effectiveness. Global growth averaged only 2.9% in the most recent five-year period, well below the level for virtually any such multi-year period going back to 1971. While emerging economies have out-performed developed countries, both have slowed. Growth has been virtually flat in developed economies and, at 5.6% in the emerging world, is well below the 7.6% average in the previous five-year period. Highly leveraged systems in finance-dependent economies were the first to hit a wall, surprising many who had uncritically bought into the ‚ÄúGreat Moderation‚Äù ‚Äì the idea that macroeconomic and asset-market volatility had eased permanently. The bold policy action that countered the initial disorder prevented a global depression, but it encumbered public-sector balance sheets. As a result, highly indebted governments were the next to hit the wall. Some were pushed there by the high cost of containing the damage from banks‚Äô irresponsible behavior. Facing immediate credit rationing and large output contractions, they could be stabilized only by exceptional official financing from abroad, and, in some extreme cases, by defaulting on past commitments (including to bondholders and, most recently, bank depositors). For other countries, including the US, medium-term issues came to the fore. But, rather than catalyzing sensible policy discussions, these issues played into polarized and polarizing politics, creating new and more immediate headwinds to economic growth. Meanwhile, a highly interdependent and (now) less dynamic world economy has been limiting the scope for external growth drivers. Accordingly, even countries with sound balance sheets and manageable leverage have experienced a growth slowdown. The consequences have become painfully clear, especially in Western countries. With insufficient growth to deleverage safely, social costs have been considerable. Alarmingly high youth unemployment, shrinking social safety nets, and under-investment in infrastructure and human capital are burdening current generations and, in a growing number of cases, will adversely affect future generations as well. In the process, inequality has risen further. And yet, despite the urgent need for major policy adaptations at the national level, and much better regional and global coordination, progress has been disappointing. With the political context undermining the right mix of short- and longer-term measures, national policymaking has stumbled into partial approaches and unusual experimentation. The focus has been on buying time, rather than on implementing a sensible transition to a sustainable policy stance. And potential national outcomes would be less uncertain if excessive inequality were not treated as an afterthought. The regional and multilateral dimensions are similarly inadequate. The absence of well-articulated common analyses and policy coordination has accentuated legitimacy deficits, encouraging leaders and publics to opt for partial narratives and eroding confidence in existing institutional structures. Given these trends, the search for more robust growth models will take much longer and be more complicated than many recognize ‚Äì especially as the world economy pivots away from unfettered globalization and high levels of leverage. We should expect countries like the US to benefit from dynamic bottom-up entrepreneurship and traditional cyclical economic healing. Notwithstanding a dysfunctional Congress, the private sector will increasingly convert a paralyzing uncertainty premium, which impedes much investment, into a less disruptive risk premium. But, without a short-term economic turbo-charger, the recovery in growth and jobs will remain gradual, vulnerable to political and policy risks, and disproportionately beneficial to those with favorable initial endowments of wealth and globalized talents. Governments‚Äô role will be different in countries like China, where officials will guide a shift from dependence on external sources of growth to more balanced demand. As this requires some fundamental domestic re-alignments, the rebalancing will be both gradual and non-linear at times. The outlook for other economies is more uncertain. Undermined by a lack of policy flexibility, it will take a long time for countries like Cyprus to overcome the immediate shock of crisis and revamp their growth models. Left to their own devices, these multi-speed dynamics would translate into higher global growth overall, coupled with larger internal and cross-country disparities ‚Äì often exacerbated by demographics. The question is whether existing governance systems can coordinate effective intervention to counter the resulting tensions. Simultaneous progress on both substance and process is needed. Parliaments and multilateral institutions must do a better job at facilitating cooperative policy implementation, which will require a willingness to reform outmoded institutions, including political lobbying. No one should underestimate the growth challenge facing today‚Äôs global economy. The stronger sectors (within countries and across them) will continue to recover, but not enough to pull up the global economy whole. As a result, weaker sectors risk being surpassed at an ever-faster pace. These trends will become more difficult to reconcile and keep orderly if governance systems fail to adjust.
"America is drowning in debt!" It's a phrase you hear constantly regarding the Federal government's debt, household debt, corporate debt, financial debt, etc. Almost nobody challenges the premise. Capital Economics is out with a fantastic new report titled simply "America is not drowning in debt," which methodically debunks the myth. The firm was kind enough to let us run some of their excellent charts. The first two are the charts that everyone is already familiar with that yes, debt relative to GDP looks high. Capital Economics Capital Economics But remember, solvency isn't about debt. America has assets too. Capital Economics Capital Economics So as you can see, America has massively more assets than debt. And if you think that total debt of 350% of GDP sounds like a lot, then 550% net worth to GDP should be really comforting. Another myth is that America is massively in hock to foreigners. Capital Economics Bottom line: The US has far more assets and net worth than debt, and we don't really owe much to the outside world. Hooray! .Ruby Tuesday. / Flickr
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonShares of Herbalife opened for trading a few minutes ago after having been halted all morning. The halt had to do with a story broken earlier by Dealbook, that Herbalife's auditor KPMG is resigning, due to one of its partners allegedly leaking information to a third party. KPMG disclosed late Monday that it had fired the partner, who was based in Los Angeles, for providing inside information to an unnamed individual who then traded in shares of several West Coast companies. The firm did not name the fired partner, but described the individual as having led accounts for some clients in the region. If this is the extent of the story, it's unclear if this matters one way or another to Herbalife shareholders. Herbalife's statement says the resignation has nothing to do with accounting or anything like that. The halt started just before the Opening Bell rang at 9:30, and instantly there was all kinds of speculation about whether this had to do with the Herbalife fued between Bill Ackman (who is short the stock) and Carl Icahn (who is massively long the song. One followup nugget is that according to KPMG the person was not providing inside information with either Bill Ackman (who is short) or Carl Icahn (who is long). The stock remains halted. Here's the full statement from Herbalife: LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Herbalife (NYSE: HLF) today announced that KPMG LLP notified Herbalife on April 8, 2013 that KPMG was resigning, effective immediately, as Herbalife's independent accountant. KPMG stated it had concluded it was not independent because of alleged insider trading in Herbalife's securities by one of KPMG‚Äôs former partners who, until April 5, 2013, was the KPMG engagement partner on Herbalife's audit. KPMG advised the Company it resigned as Herbalife's independent accountant solely due to the impairment of KPMG's independence resulting from its now former partner‚Äôs alleged unlawful activities and not for any reason related to Herbalife's financial statements, its accounting practices, the integrity of Herbalife's management or for any other reason. None of KPMG‚Äôs audit reports on Herbalife‚Äôs financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 or KPMG‚Äôs audit reports on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, nor was any such report qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. In addition, at no point during the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and the subsequent interim period through April 8, 2013 were there any (1) disagreements with KPMG on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedures, which disagreement(s), if not resolved to the satisfaction of KPMG, would have caused it to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement(s) in connection with its reports, or (2) ‚Äúreportable events‚Äù as such term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K. As a result of the alleged insider trading activity by its now former partner and KPMG‚Äôs resulting resignation on April 8, 2013, KPMG notified Herbalife that KPMG‚Äôs independence had been impaired and it had no option but to withdraw its audit reports on Herbalife‚Äôs financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and that such reports should no longer be relied upon as a result of KPMG's lack of independence created by the circumstances described above. Herbalife‚Äôs Audit Committee and management continue to believe that the Company's financial statements covering the referenced periods fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as of the end of and for the referenced periods and may continue to be relied upon and that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective during these periods. As a result of the matters described above, Herbalife will be withdrawing the proposal to ratify the appointment of KPMG as Herbalife‚Äôs independent registered public accountants for fiscal 2013 originally planned to be submitted to Herbalife‚Äôs shareholders at Herbalife‚Äôs Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2013. ¬† For Bill Ackman's full presentation on why he's short the stock, see here &gt;
Goldman SachsCorporate profit margins are at all-time highs. Because earnings are extremely sensitive to small moves in this metric, investors and analysts alike will be eyeing this closely throughout earnings season. It's interesting to note that companies and their investor relations departments are actually much more conservative about profit margins than Wall Street. "Company managers are lowering estimates at a frantic pace," said UBS's Art Cashin in a note this morning.† "Wall Street skeptics, thinking the managers are playing possum, are holding to higher estimates." "The prospect that margins may have peaked was a consistent theme that emerged during the 4Q 2012 earning conference calls," says Goldman Sachs' David Kostin.† "We expect the trend will continue in management commentary this season as well." While it may be intuitive to think that margins will revert to the mean, analysts are actually split on margin sustainability. Wall Street strategists like Kostin, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco, Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite, and BMO's Brian Belski have all made the case that margins are sustainable. On the other hand, folks like John Hussman, GMO's Jeremy Grantham, and SocGen's Albert Edwards think they'll collapse. But like Cashin said, Wall Street's stock pickers think margins are heading higher. "The real question is can managers expand margins that are already at record levels?" asks Cashin.† "Is there more blood in that stone?† We've seen earnings are key to stock prices.† That's why this earnings season may be critical." Here's a chart from Goldman's Kostin showing the divergence between Wall Street strategists' (i.e. top-down) and stock pickers' (i.e. bottom-up) expectations. Goldman Sachs
In Tiger Woods' first nine Masters tournaments as a pro, he won four times. In the last seven attempts, he hasn't won once. What's changed? Well, the public found out that he was a serial cheater on his wife and his life fell apart. He's also changed his caddie and he's changed his swing. In addition to all that, Augusta National, home of the Masters, was significantly altered in 2002 and 2006 in an effort to "Tiger-proof" the course. Augusta National used to be a wide open course that let players bomb their drivers, then hit great recovery shots if they missed the fairway. That was part of the fun of the place. When Woods dismantled the course, the people running the tournament lengthened it, planted new trees, and grew rough. Illustrator Chris O'Riley drew up changes to Augusta National through the years for Golf Digest a few years back. He gave us permission to re-run some the illustrations. We're going to use them to show you how the course has changed. As a reminder of why the course was altered, here's Tim Rosaforte in 1997 describing Woods at Augusta National: "Woods reduced this once mighty track to an executive course. He was reaching the par 5s with wedges and driving it pin-high at the 360-yard third. All he did was go 18 under, set the tournament record, win by 12 strokes and turn Augusta into Indian Wells." Woods was just the first of a generation of long hitters aided by improvements in technology. If Augusta wasn't made longer, the course would be a joke for pros. The first changes in 2002 didn't really work. He won twice after those changes. The second changes in 2006 worked. He hasn't won since. Here's a run down of a few holes. Here's the second hole, a par-5. As you can see, through the years trees have been grown along the right edge making shots that slide out right, more problematic. The green has also been narrowed, making approaches more difficult. Chris O'Reilly And here's the famous thirteenth hole, the final part of "Amen Corner". It's a dog leg left. As you can see, through the years, the fairway has narrowed and trees have been grown on the right side. Also, take a look at the tee box in the back, and how it's been pushed further and further back. Chris O'Reilly Golf blogger Geoff Shackleford recently noted that when Jack Nicklaus won in 1986, he pulled his drive left on 17. Because there were no trees in the way, he was able to fire at the green. If the trees that exist today existed then, he would have been forced to punch a wedge out, then approach the green. We would have never heard the famous "Yes, sir!" call from Verne Lundquist as he nailed a birdie putt and went on to win. Chris O'Reilly And finally, here's the 15th hole. This is another par-5. It's been made longer through the years. When Tiger Woods first came to Augusta, he could bomb a drive and hit a short iron in. Now it requires an accurate tee shot, then a nerve wracking long iron, or fairway wood. Chris O'Reilly
As we wait for shares of Herbalife to reopen, following news that its auditor is resigning, you should really check out this great flowchart from Chartgirl, which chronicles every single event in the Herbalife saga. Click the flowchart to get taken to a super-larger version. Also follow @_chartgirl_ on Twitter. Chartgirl.com
Last week, new Bank of Japan governor Haruhiko Kuroda announced a massive bond buying program designed to help the Japanese economy overcome deflation. The announcement was significant because investors have been pricing this decision into Japanese currency and equity markets for months ñ but Kuroda and the BoJ managed to go even bigger than the market was expecting. The economics world is captivated by the monetary policy experiment underway in Japan. What's so special about it, though? Quantitative easing has been around for a while now, and the Federal Reserve already implemented open-ended bond buying in the United States in 2012. What makes Japan's program unique is its sheer size. The chart below illustrates this nicely. SG Cross Asset Research
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderThe big news of the morning is that accounting firm KPMG is resigning as Herbalife's auditor.¬† Herbalife's stock was halted on the news and the opening was delayed. Trading has not yet resumed.¬† According to DealBook, KPMG disclosed that one of its senior partners in Los Angeles was giving non-public information about Herbalife to a third party. ¬†That senior partner has been fired.¬† According to CNBC's Scott Wapner, that third party is not related to Bill Ackman, who is shorting Herbalife, or his rival Carl Icahn, who has snapped up a huge stake.¬† So who is the third party?¬† [Hat Tip: FTAlphaville]
Street Insider is reporting SAC Capital has taken a passive 5.1 percent stake in the firm. Click here for updates...
For those getting increasingly optimistic about the U.S. economic recovery, here's a pretty depressing chart from James Bianco (via The Gartman Letter). This chart shows that number of people dependent on food stamps has surged. The average monthly benefit amount has also increased. Bianco writes that the U.S. has become a country of "takers" and "expecters" instead of being a nation of "doers". Bianco Research via The Gartman Letter
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffHedge fund titan Bill Ackman, the CEO of $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, is having an epic morning.¬† Ackman, who is frequently in the in the media spotlight, is all over financial news for Herbalife and JCPenney.¬† Prior to the opening bell, shares of Herbalife, Ackman's big short, were halted for news pending and there was a delayed opening. At first, people were speculating that his long-time rival Carl Icahn was going to make a move since Ackman was already having a rough go of it with JCPenney this morning. ¬†That would have been a double whammy for sure. Anyway, the news is that Herbalife's auditor KPMG is resigning, DealBook reports.¬† The reason is a senior partner inside KPMG's Los Angeles offices was providing non-public information about Herbalife to an unnamed person. That person has been fired.¬† According to CNBC's Scott Wapner, the third party was not related to Ackman or Icahn, according to an unnamed source.¬† The stock hasn't resumed trading yet.¬† Ackman is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products. He believes the company is a pyramid scheme and has a price target of $0.¬† Not everyone agrees with Ackman's thesis on the nutrition company. ¬†A number of hedge funders, most notably Daniel Loeb (Third Point) and Carl Icahn, have snapped up big long positions. Then there's JCPenney, the biggest loser on the S&amp;P this morning. ¬†The retailer is down almost 10% this morning.¬† Ackman, who is on the retailer's board, is the biggest shareholder of JCPenney with an¬†18.11% stake, or 39,075,771 shares, according the latest¬†13F filing. JCPenney announced last night that its CEO Ron Johnson, who Ackman championed as a visionary leader, had stepped down effective immediately. The stock rose on the news, but tumbled after the retailer said its former CEO Mike Ullman would step in as the interim chief.¬†
Recent data show that the U.S. personal savings rate has been on its way down.¬† In other words, consumers have been spending more than they have been earning. This is one of the reasons why consumer spending has held up. Some economists warn that this is troubling and unsustainable. But for now, it's a trend that bolstering the economy. So, what's behind this? "Recent data has shown continued strength in consumption, but that strength may come from how consumers "feel" from rising wealth," write the analysts at BlackRock. "The strong inverse relationship between wealth and savings explains the historical erosion in the savings rate." The drivers of household wealth include rising home and stock prices. A lot of passive investors in the stock market will soon get their first quarter statements.¬† Many will probably be happy to see their equity allocations up around 10 percent since the beginning of the year. Here's the chart from BlackRock: BlackRock
Flickr/Dov HarringtonJCPenney is the biggest loser of the S&amp;P. The retailer opened down more than 6.5 percent on Tuesday.¬† News broke last night that CEO Ron Johnson, who joined the retailer from Apple, had stepped down. The stock initially rose on the news, but tumbled after the retailer said that form CEO Mike Ullman would step in during the interim period.¬† Johnson, who came one as JCPenney's CEO 16 months ago, was trying to turn around the retailer, but was unsuccessful.¬†¬†
Wikimedia CommonsThe "troika" of lenders at the EU, the ECB, and the IMF are back in Greece, and the Greek stock market is up 5.4 percent today. On Sunday, the troika and the Greek government froze a plan to merge Greece's two largest banks, National Bank of Greece and Eurobank. Now, the banks have to find another way to raise money to recapitalize themselves or face being nationalized. That sent shares of both banks tumbling 30 percent on Monday. However, by the end of the trading session, they had already erased their losses and posted big gains. Eurobank closed up 20 percent. Today, Eurobank is up another 30 percent, and National Bank of Greece is trading higher as well. However, the whole Greek stock market is getting a big lift. The boards of both banks plan to convene today to discuss a last-ditch attempt to avoid nationalization. Greek newspaper Kathimerini reports: Sources from National Bank said the country‚Äôs biggest lender will make a last-gasp effort to find funds, saying it is in constant contact with Greek and foreign investors. National‚Äôs requirements amount to 9.76 billion euros and those of Eurobank to 5.84 billion. Eurobank believes it has an outside chance of attaining the goal of finding 10 percent of its fund requirements from the private sector, given that it has not tried to tap the market recently due to the acquisition of 84.3 percent of its shares by National, which has already been completed. According to sources, Eurobank has already presented a plan as to how it will attract strategic investors: It intends to issue convertible bonds (CoCos) amounting to 1 billion euros, while only the remaining 4.8 billion will be covered via a share capital increase, which means that private investors will have to cover just 480 million euros. The Kathimerini article notes that the banks face tremendous difficulty raising funds in the open market. For now, though, given the share action today, investors seem relatively optimistic about their prospects.
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesMichael Block at Phoenix Partners gives the ultra-short guide to what traders are talking about this morning. ...few things on my mind...Yen almost to 100 now.¬† Econ Advisor to government calls this level appropriate.¬† How will exporters fare on earnings and guidance?¬† That‚Äôs the big question.China CPI light after Feb‚Äôs upside spike.¬† This will calm down the hawkish fears in China.Portugal and Greece back under control in Europe for the time being.¬† Soros speaks at 11:15AM ET. Bernanke says raising IOER will be first step in tightening, but economy has a lot of work to do before they think about doing that tomorrow.¬† MINUTES TOMORROW AT 2PM.¬† IF PEOPLE FREAK ON PERCEIVED HAWKISHNESS, BUYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYJury out on AA.¬† Focus turns to JPM and WFC Friday morning. For more on what's going on, see 10 things you need to know before the Opening Bell --&gt;
Quick heads up. It's now been 14 straight sessions of alternating up/down days for the market. Jonathan Krinsky of Miller Tabak calls this a "Christmas Tree" pattern and writes: †Monday continued the "Christmas Light Pattern" of red and green days for the SPX, making it 14 in a row. The result was a close back at 1563, a common level over the past month. While this could be considered a bullish consolidation, we continue to be concerned with the momentum that continues to wane on each push back to 1563. You can see the pattern on this chart (alas, in red and white, not red and yellow). Stockcharts.com
Following Friday's jobs report, there's been a renewed fear that the increase in the Payroll Tax is sapping the consumer. The primary reason for this is that retail employment actually fell significantly in March, as seen in this chart. FRED But there is contradicting data that suggests that the retail is not collapsing at all. Check out the recent monthly Gallup survey of self-reported consumer spending. In March, average daily spending continued to make new post-crisis highs. Gallup Meanwhile, the XLY (Consumer Discretionary ETF) hit a new all-time high yesterday, suggesting the market doesn't believe the consumer decline story. Yahoo Finance Bottom line: Friday's jobs report may have set off red flags. But the primary point of weakness has not yet been confirmed elsewhere. Also remember we have a big March retail sales number coming out Friday, which should be very edifying.
Reuters/Alessandro GarofaloGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
The Bitcoin boom continues. Just this weekend we were marveling over the fact that Bitcoin had passed $150. Then yesterday it hit $190. Today the digital currency breaks $200. From Clarkmoody.com. http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
From Steven Englander (Citibank), ìCurrency war, BoJ Styleî (4/7, not online): Japan is likely to be labeled as a currency warrior by major Asian trading partners. However, the new BoJ policy has been endorsed by the Fed and IMF and is very G7 compliant, so the BoJ has cover for its policy agenda, despite the aggressiveness of its balance sheet expansion and negative implications for JPY. One can see why Japanís trading partners might be annoyed. The Japanese yen has weakened substantially over the past few months. † Econbrowser Figure 1: USD/JPY, monthly averages (blue, left scale), and log real (trade weighted) Japanese yen (red, right scale). Down denotes a weakening of the yen. Source: St. Louis Fed FRED and BIS.  As is clear from many pronouncements by the Fed, IMF and G-7 (what Englander calls ìFIGî), BoJ adoption of unconventional measures such as quantitative easing/credit easing, and extended guidance are not considered currency manipulation by these institutions. From a theoretical standpoint, it's easy to understand why. Consider the simplified central bank balance sheet. Econbrowser The BoJ has stated its intent to purchase government securities of longer maturity, and private securities (real estate trusts, etc.) with reserves. Since no purchases of foreign exchange are planned, it is hard to argue that the proposed measures constitutes manipulation in the conventional sense. The countries with policymakers voicing a concern include China and Korea. [1] [2] Englander notes that for these countries' policymakers, it's the outcomes, rather than methods, that matter. Note that in contrast to Japan, China and Korea (and other emerging market economies) are accumulating reserves, more or less. Econbrowser Figure 2: Korean foreign exchange reserves (blue, left scale) and Chinese foreign exchange reserves (red, right scale), both in billions of dollars. Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics. To the extent that Korean Chinese reserve accumulation has tailed off while Chinese Korean reserves have continued to rise, I have slightly more sympathy for Korea Chinaís concerns. Nonetheless, the fact is that Japan is not intervening in foreign exchange markets. The impact on the Japanese exchange rate is a result of the reduction in interest rates at different horizons and along different asset classes, and possibly expectations of higher inflation in the future. (Glick and Leduc, 2013 document the impact of Fed unconventional policy measures on the dollarís value). China and Korea could offset those effects by intervening more aggressively in foreign exchange markets; of course, this is not a costless proposition. But it isnít Japanís obligation to make it easy for other countries to peg their exchange rates Econbrowser Figure 3: Korean won/Japanese yen (blue, left scale), and Chinese yuan/Japanese yen (red, right scale). Down denotes a depreciation of the yen. Source: St. Louis Fed FRED and authorís calculations. I also think that the impact on China, Korea, and the other East Asian economies, is a bit more ambiguous than what many policymakers consider. To the extent that Japanese monetary policy measures finally spur more rapid growth (through depreciation, and through domestic channels of monetary policy), Chinese and Korean economic growth should also rise, somewhat offsetting the negative impact on growth arising from any expenditure switching effects that might occur (I have to wonder how much Chinese and Japanese exports compete in third markets; the less marked this phenomenon, the smaller the expenditure switching from China to Japan). In my next post, I'll discuss my preliminary estimates of the impact of yen depreciation on Japan's trade balance (paper here), using conventional measures of the real effective exchange rate (discussion of REER measures accounting for vertical integration in this paper by Bems and Johnson). Further, as I noted in a previous post, the longer term impact on the exchange rate might be quite different from the short term as income rises. In sum monetary expansion in Japan, where output is arguably below full employment levels, does not mean we have a zero-sum outcome. Appreciation of the partner country currencies ñ particularly those of other emerging markets experiencing inflationary pressures ñ should lead to a beneficial re-allocation of aggregate demand. Keene &amp; Eisen/Bloomberg interview of Englander here. Update, 4/9, 9am Pacific: For a more extensive discussion of intervention vs. spillovers, see this paper by Richard Portes. Fed Chairman Bernanke's interpretation is examined in this post. And Greg Ip/Free Exchange's view through the lens of the 1930's.
As the end of the month rolls closer, you're bound to hear the famous phrase "Sell in May, and go away" debated a lot. The idea is that based on historical patterns, you do better if you're out of the market starting in May and re-entering through the summer. Of course, some will argue that this is just cherry picking and meaningless noise. We'll hold off debating that hear, but we did like this chart from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus, which compares a portfolio that "sold in May" vs. one that didn't going back to 2000. Selling in May and buying back in October has definitely been the better move. Dan Greenhaus, BTIG
APEurope is a wreck, but for the most part, people these days are talking about crises of democracy and growth, rather than sovereign debt. Borrowing costs for several nations (ones that have been bailed out and ones that haven't) have come in sharply. Italy, despite its government turmoil, is seeing yields near its lows of the year. France, which is a total wreck, and which sometimes gets lumped in with peripheral Europe is borrowing at prices pretty close to the US! (The French 10-year yields is 1.81%, the US's is 1.54%) Why are yields so low? Well lately people are citing Japan, and the BOJ's efforts to depress rates. But the bigger picture is that ever since last summer, yields have been falling thanks to the ECB's "OMT" announcement, whereby it said that it would backstop government bond markets (provided they agreed to austerity). Essentially, the ECB said it would kind of act like a real central bank, the likes of which backstop the US, the UK, and Japan. You can see the significance of the ECB's announcement in a chart of Italian borrowing costs. Mario Draghi made his "Whatever it takes" speech (a prelude to the OMT announcement) last July, and borrowing costs have been falling ever since. Bloomberg But Europe, despite its success in taming this crisis, refuses to admit what the ECB accomplished. Instead policymaker keep telling lies about what did it. Instead they keep trumpeting the success of austerity. From Paul Krugman: Via Mark Thoma, Francesco Saraceno marvels at the European Commissionís response to the Portuguese political crisis; the Commission praises the governmentís determination to impose austerity no matter what the courts say, because austerity is producing ìgrowing investor confidence in Portugalî. Say what? Well, pretty obviously theyíre referring to the narrowing of interest rate spreads. This is very similar to what European leaders said right after Mario Monti got smoked in the February Italian election, that even though the Italian economy was going down the tubes, and though Mario Monti was wildly unpopular, at least he helped restore investor confidence. EU's Van Rompuy says Italy's reforms restored confidence Europe keeps telling this lie about austerity and reform working to restore confidence, when actually the economy is getting worse and political crises are becoming more severe. An honest assessment would conclude that the ECB has done all the heavy lifting on reducing borrowing costs, and that a new growth idea is needed.
In addition to fresh new threats about "Thermo-Nuclear War", there's also a belief that North Korea will soon launch a missile as a test. YTN: #ROK gov't considers #DPRK may launch missile tomorrow (Wednesday). #Korea Yonhap quotes "multiple gov't sources" saying #ROK believes #DPRK "ready to launch missile" moved to east sea. #Korea
APNorth Korea said Tuesday the Korean peninsula was headed for "thermo-nuclear" war and advised foreigners in South Korea to consider evacuation, in the latest in a series of apocalyptic threats. It followed a similar warning issued last week to foreign embassies in its capital Pyongyang to consider evacuating by April 10, saying it could not ensure the safety of their personnel if a conflict broke out. "The situation on the Korean Peninsula is inching close to a thermonuclear war," the North's Asia-Pacific Peace Committee said in a statement carried by the North's official Korean Central News Agency. Saying it did not want to see foreigners in South Korea "fall victim", the statement requested all foreign institutions, enterprises and tourists "to take measures for shelter and evacuation in advance for their safety". The committee blamed the heightened war risk on the "warmongering US" and its South Korean "puppets" who were intent on invading the North. The "thermo-nuclear war" threat has been wielded several times in recent months -- most recently on March 7 -- despite expert opinion that North Korea is nowhere near developing such an advanced nuclear device. Last week's warning to embassies was also largely dismissed as empty rhetoric, with most governments involved making it clear they had no plans to withdraw personnel from their Pyongyang missions. "It's almost comic," Daniel Pinkston, a North Korea expert with the International Crisis Group, said of the latest threat. "They want to rattle the investment market, create pressure and make people nervous. "But it's just not working. It's as if they didn't get a rise out of the embassies in Pyongyang, so they're just moving on to the next target," Pinkston said. The South Korean stock market closed slightly up Tuesday, before the KCNA statement was published. The Korean peninsula has been locked in a cycle of escalating military tensions since the North's third nuclear test in February, which drew toughened UN sanctions. Pyongyang's bellicose rhetoric has reached fever pitch in recent weeks, with near-daily threats of attacks on US military bases and South Korea in response to ongoing South Korea-US military exercises. There has been no significant foreign investment fallout in South Korea from the current crisis, and Tuesday's threat was unlikely to cause any great consternation for a foreign community of around 1.4 million that has calmly weathered the rhetorical storm thus far. Earlier Tuesday, North Korean workers followed Pyongyang's order to boycott the Kaesong joint industrial zone with South Korea, signalling the possible demise of the sole surviving symbol of cross-border reconciliation. "Not a single worker showed up this morning," the manager of one of the 123 South Korean companies operating in Kaesong told reporters. The North announced Monday it was taking the unprecedented step of pulling out its 53,000 workers and shutting the complex down indefinitely, following a tour of the zone by senior ruling party official Kim Yang-Gon. Established in 2004, Kaesong has never been closed before. Pyongyang's move reflects the depth of the current crisis on the Korean peninsula, which has otherwise been more notable for fiery rhetoric than action. Located 10 kilometres (six miles) inside North Korea, Kaesong is a crucial hard currency source for the impoverished North, through taxes and revenues, and from its cut of the workers' wages. Turnover in 2012 was reported at $469.5 million, with accumulated turnover since 2004 standing at $1.98 billion. South Korean President Park Geun-Hye said the North's action on Kaesong was "very disappointing" and displayed a total disregard for investment norms that would return to haunt Pyongyang in the future. "If North Korea, under the full eyes of the international community, breaches international rules and promises like this, then there will be no country or company which will invest in North Korea," Park said. Pyongyang has blocked South Korean access to Kaesong since Wednesday, forcing 13 South Korean firms to halt production. Yu Chang-Geun, vice president of the association representing the South's companies, said operations would have to be normalised swiftly to prevent permanent collateral damage. "All firms have reached their limit. If things go on like this, all of us will face bankruptcy," Yu said. More than 300 South Korean workers have left Kaesong and returned to the South since North Korea banned access last week. Of the 475 remaining, the Unification Ministry said 77 had signed up to leave on Tuesday. Japan has deployed Patriot missiles in its capital as it readies to defend the 30 million people who live in greater Tokyo from any North Korean attack, officials said Tuesday. Two Patriot Advanced Capability-3 surface-to-air missile launchers were stationed at the defence ministry in Tokyo before dawn, a ministry spokesman said, while Defence Minister Itsunori Onodera said "we are proceeding with measures including deployment of PAC-3 as we are on alert". Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
A brief update on global Citi Economic Surprise indices courtesy of Societe Generale. ¬†The general trend show a sharp weakening in European economic surprises which is the only index that has correlated well with equity market so far this year. ¬†Given the importance of psychology in price movements, it‚Äôs worth noting the potential risk of a negative surprise environment in which investors have potentially priced in a bit too much optimism. Here‚Äôs SocGen with more thoughts: SocGen
Flickr/bobert1980It's a very quiet morning, in large part because Asia had an extremely quiet session, relative to what we're used to. There were no big Japan spasms (the Nikkei ended exactly flat) and China ended up a normal 0.6%. Korea was also basically flat. Europe is gaining this morning. Italy is up 0.7%. Germany is up 0.5%. US futures are up modestly. It's so far a very quiet day all around.
