Although the financial media attributed today‚Äôs steep market decline to the ‚Äústrong‚Äù growth in 3rd quarter GDP that supposedly makes earlier Fed tapering more likely, we doubt that this is the case.¬† As numerous observers have already pointed out the underlying details of the GDP report were not only quite weak, but pointed to even less growth in the current quarter.¬† Notably, the 10-year yield was down today, indicating that the bond market seemed unconcerned by the prospect of economic strength.¬† In our view the decline was foreshadowed by the recent weak technical condition of the market including the ‚Äúnothing can go wrong‚Äù attitude reflected in various current sentiment indicators.¬† In addition, contrary to consensus opinion, market valuations are significantly higher than historical norms on a wide variety of measurements. As widely reported, 3rd quarter GDP details continued the sluggish pace seen since the 2009 recession bottom.¬† Although top-line growth of 2.8% exceeded forecasts of 2.0%, the entire overshoot was attributed to the largest increase in inventories since the 1st quarter of 2012.¬† Consumer spending, accounting for 68% of GDP, rose by only 1.5%, the slowest rate in three years, while business spending on equipment was down for only the 2nd time since the start of the recovery. Moreover, the signs for the current quarter are not good.¬† With retailors reporting slow sales for the back-to-school and Halloween seasons, it is likely that the 3rd quarter inventory surge is involuntary and that stores were stuck with goods they couldn‚Äôt sell.¬† This means that inventories will probably be cut back in the 4th quarter.¬† Job gains were tepid in September, and indications so far for October appear bleak.¬† Although spending on¬†¬† residential construction was up 14.6% in the 3rd quarter, housing has weakened considerably and will likely impact GDP in the current period. In addition, the 3rd quarter results did not reflect the 16-day government shutdown that will show up in current quarter data. With a renewed fight over the federal budget and debt ceiling coming up early next year, we see little improvement in the economy in the 1st quarter as well.¬† While this may delay Fed tapering, we think that pervasive weakness in the economy will lead to little or no earnings growth, and, perhaps, even to an important earnings decline. Recently, we have seen an increased flight to safety and a move away from risk.¬† A lot of the momentum high-flyers have stumbled and the Dow has begun to outperform the Nasdaq by a wide margin.¬† Wednesday‚Äôs market action was particularly notable with the Dow up 128 points¬†at the same time that Nasdaq declined along with the Dow Transportation index. All of this is being accompanied by a big shift in sentiment to the bullish side.¬† Investors Intelligence shows bulls at 55% and bears at only 16%, an historically high disparity that has often presaged steep corrections or outright bear markets. In addition, the latest AAII Survey indicated retail investor equity allocations at 6-year highs, while net inflows to domestic equity mutual funds have recently been strong.  All in all, we believe that stocks show significant signs of an impending top, and for good reason.¬† In late 1999 and early 2000 the widespread belief was that the dot-com boom would go on indefinitely.¬† In 2007 almost everyone thought that the subprime mortgage market was too small to affect the economy.¬† Now everyone seems to think that the Fed can hold up the stock market forever.¬† In our view, the outcome will be similar to that of the prior two periods.¬†
Last week marked that special time of year when the World Series brings together two great teams. A three-run double on a hit to the Green Monster off the sweet spot of the bat of Shane Victorino helped the Boston Red Sox emerge victorious in a title-clinching 6ñ1 win over the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 6 of the World Series. The earnings season is also a special time of year with a sweet spot that can deliver game-changing results. Stocks slid lower from mid-September until the earnings season got underway with Alcoa, the company that traditionally marks the start of the reporting season, which released results after the stock market closed on October 8, 2013. The stock market then turned higher and has since steadily climbed 7%, as about three-quarters of the S&amp;P 500 companies reported results for the third quarter of 2013. Despite all the focus on the travails in Washington, it was earnings that market participants appeared to focus on most closely this October. The earnings news has been good; so far, about 70% of companies have reported earnings above analyst expectations. This is higher than the long- term average of 63% and is above the average over the past four quarters of 66%. The gain in stocks around the ìsweet spotî of the quarter as earnings are reported is no surprise. Stocks have been posting gains during the six-week sweet spot that runs two weeks before and four weeks after Alcoa reports since the bull market began around the start of the second quarter of 2009. In fact, 78% of the rise in the S&amp;P 500 Index since the second quarter of 2009 took place during these quarterly earnings sweet spotsówith only 22% of the gains coming from the other half of each of the quarters. Moreover, since the end of 2009, the entire gain in the index came during those quarterly sweet spots, leaving nothing, on average, but volatility during the other seven weeks of every quarter. LPL Financial The median gain in the S&amp;P 500 during the quarterly sweet spots was 4.7%. But between these sweet spots, during the other seven weeks of each quarter, the median gain in the stock market was only 0.6%. The batting average for the half of the quarter outside the sweet spot has deteriorated since the powerful rebound of 2009. Those weeks only posted gains 43% of the time since 2009, reflecting the increased focus by market participants on earnings after the risks of the Great Recession faded. While we expect stocks may continue to provide gains for investors, the pace of those gains is likely to slow and volatility may pick up now that the sweet spot of the earnings season will soon be behind us, as this week marks the end of the four-week period since Alcoa reported. The vast majority of companies will soon have reported their results, with 77 more S&amp;P 500 companies set to report this week. We believe this makes it a great time to consider the buying opportunities on any dips for the potential to score with your portfolio on the next quarterly sweet spot.
ReutersChina is gearing up to celebrate a holiday on Monday called Singles' Day, which started out in the 1990s as a protest to Valentine's Day, but has since morphed into the biggest online shopping day of the year.† Sales on Singles' Day last year for Alibaba Group, China's†biggest e-retailer,†totaled more than $3.1 billion, doubling the $1.5 billion spent by U.S. consumers on Cyber Monday in 2012, according to Alibaba spokeswoman Candice Huang. † This year, Alibaba's two ecommerce sites, Tmall and Taobao Marketplace, are expecting sales of at least $4.9 billion, according to a report by the Chinese news agency Xinhua. The websites will be offering 50% discounts on items like boyfriend body pillows and hoodies that read "I am single because I am fat," Foreign Policy reports. Bargain hunters can also find deep discounts on crystal chandeliers, French wines, and even BMWs.† The holiday hasn't always been about shopping. Five years ago, only about two dozen companies were offering discounts on Singles' Day, also known as "Double 11." Then Alibaba entered the game in 2009 and within three years, Singles' Day had become the biggest 24-hour shopping event in the world. † About 20,000 brands will be offering deep discounts on Singles' Day this year, according to Huang. American retailers planning to participate include†Microsoft, Gap, and Toys R Us.
TheFunkypineapple via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There's An Evolving Regulatory Concern For Financial Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) It's complicated advising clients who aren't native English speakers, reports Matthias Rieker at The Wall Street Journal. One of the issues is regulatory scrutiny. "It's an evolving new issue on our plate," Ronak Patel, deputy securities commissioner at the Texas State Securities Board, told The WSJ. "When we do a regulatory audit, I imagine it's going to be a question we are asking more often. It hasn't been a focus in the past." Advisors who speak foreign languages do have many opportunities as well. Many non-native speakers want advisors who can speak their language and understand cultural nuances. Wells Fargo Incoming Brokerage Chief Moves Advisors Away From Stock-Picking (Bloomberg)  Mary Mack, who is set to take charge of Wells Fargo Advisors plans on moving more retail clients to managed accounts, report Dakin Campbell and Zeke Faux at Bloomberg News. In this set-up brokers help select managers for client funds instead of picking individual stocks and bonds. This comes as Mack tries to move advisors away from stock-picking. This also makes it harder for brokers to take their clients with them if they jump ship, Campbell and Faux point out.¬† The Wall Street Journal previously reported that many were axioms about Mack taking the lead. "I have a great nervousness about anybody who was in charge of banking-type divisions being in charge of brokerage-type divisions," an adviser told Corrie Dreibusch at The Wall Street Journal. Mack is expected to take over in the new year, after Danny Ludeman retires. Investors Pulled Billions Out Of US Stocks This Week (Bank of America)  Investors pulled $7.5 billion out of U.S. equity funds in the week ending Nov. 6, with a large chunk coming from ETFs. Global equity funds saw $1.8 billion in redemptions. This was a "classic risk-off week," wrote BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett. Bank of America Last Month, Goldman Sachs Quietly Retired A Legendary Investment Strategy (Business Insider) Goldman Sachs has retired an investing style known as "growth at a reasonable price" (GARP) which was popularized by Peter Lynch. Goldman Sachs equity strategists began publishing monthly GARP screens back in 2004, reports Business Insider's Matthew Boesler.¬† "Since inception in January 2004, our GARP screen outperformed the S&amp;P 500 (89.8% vs. 79.9%), a positive excess return of 991 bp," wrote Goldman Sachs' Kostin in a note. "Through the first nine months of 2013 our GARP screen generated a total return of 21.4% versus 19.8% for S&amp;P 500, an excess return of 159 bp." Questions Every Investor Should Ask Before Picking A Robo-Advisor (Wealthbase) Robo-advisors are beginning to leave their footprint in the wealth management sphere. But John Rourke, CEO of NYC-based Gotham Tech Labs, thinks it is important that investors ask the right questions before they pick their robo-advisor. We picked four key questions. Here are some of the questions he thinks investors should ask. 1. "What services do you provide as a robo-advisor?" Does this go beyond passive investing and include financial planning around retirement, estate, insurance and so on. 2. "Can we schedule an in-person meeting?" 3. "What licenses, credentials, or other certifications do you have?" Rourke urges investors to ask about the robo-advisors' credentials in the context of "comprehensive financial planning" even if they are in the early stages of the market. 4. "Is the algorithm that animates you regulated by any entity?" Firms where robo-advisors work are regulated but the robo-advisors themselves are not.
Flickr/Quinn DombrowskiU Chicago claimed the number 10 spot, which is held by Cornell in our original list. This feature is a part of our¬†Best Colleges In America¬†series. For our fifth annual colleges survey, our readers throughout various industries ranked¬†the 50 best colleges in America¬†and deemed the¬†Massachusetts Institute of Technology¬†their top pick for helping students succeed in life. But our readers in financial fields, who made up nearly 30% of our survey respondents, also rated MIT as their number one choice. The top six remained the same, but the rest of their top ten varied from the overall survey results. UPenn and Columbia, which ranked 8th and 7th on¬†our original list, respectively, swapped in the eyes of our readers in finance. And among finance professionals, the University of Chicago claimed the number 10 spot, which was held by Cornell on the overall list. The colleges were ranked on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being the highest possible rating. Here¬†are the 10 best colleges in the U.S., according to finance professionals: Courtesy of SurveyMonkey Our readers in tech had a slightly different view.
threeforship.com Dartmouth College is an elite school with a beloved fraternity culture, which has contributed to the failure, arrest, suspension, or expulsion of countless students. The following candid account is excerpted from a new Dartmouth memoir called¬†"Three For Ship" by Crispus Knight from the class of 2003: www.amazon.comI make no excuses, nor can I adequately explain what happened. The truth of the matter is that I failed out of college. I ask myself how and why this happened over and over. The question still keeps me up at night. A young man who scored in the 98th percentile on his college entrance examination boards with no Kaplan classes or even serious prep work beyond a few home administered practice tests. A student enrolled in all honors and AP classes who finished with near a 100% weighted average. A national merit scholar and AP artist who had never been drunk or done drugs of any sort right up through his senior year of high school. This is your college flunk-out protagonist. While my experience was not at all typical of students at Dartmouth, the lifestyle I describe is common enough on campus. Not everyone was a Ship Professional [someone obsessed with a certain type of beer pong], but there were plenty of panarchists, shitbergs, gatesmen, hardguys and other disaffected students who adopted lifestyles that led them to flirt or fuck with failure. Perhaps mine is an extreme case, I'm willing to admit that. Not everyone feels compelled to write a Beer Pong themed memoir. Perhaps we should say that despite honest efforts by smart minds, some students will unavoidably fall through the cracks and that I am an example of that and nothing more. The fraternity is the obvious scapegoat in my story, and certainly the person I became was largely influenced by my environment and the people I surrounded myself with. Balls [Knight's fraternity nickname and alter ego] was the product of the Dartmouth fraternity system but it remains unclear how much responsibility my fraternity specifically has for the emergence of this usurper. Would this have been my fate if I pledged another organization? I have to say I think so. The truth is that I allowed this to happen to me and it could have been anywhere. For this reason I can't place one iota of blame on my fraternity or the brothers in the¬†house while I was enrolled or the Greek culture in general that was so pervasive at the school. I just wasn't ready for it and as a result, I abused the house‚Äîthe house didn't abuse me. My story was sad, yes. Sad and clearly my fault. threeforship.comIt happened at Chi Gam.The hardcore drinking and games that went along with it that eventually did me in were an inevitable conclusion given Dartmouth‚Äôs isolation, history, and almost complete lack of other social outlets. With the existence of the CFS [Coed, Fraternity, and Sorority] houses there was a well-developed delivery system in place¬† that could supply an unlimited amount of beer to the campus in a setting perfectly conducive to social interaction. With Beer Pong we had a highly accessible, campus wide game that was competitive, social and athletic but which invariably lent itself naturally to binge drinking. Then there was the pride of our drinking tradition‚Äîa sense that we all had to faithfully carry this torch to earn the distinction of becoming a ‚Äúreal Dartmouth student‚Äù‚Äîan accession to adulthood by way of a specific brand of debauchery we called ‚Äúraging‚Äù. These factors combined in such a way that Dartmouth without Greek organizations and excessive drinking seems unfathomable. We were smart kids, smart kids forced to learn to love to drink. And the vast majority went on to successful lives. Were they the ones who let me down? No, at various points my friends as well as the organization had all tried to help me. But a¬† clown continues to paint his own face, even when all the other freaks think his act has gotten out of hand The CFS system at Dartmouth will not vanish for a good many years, if ever. Alumni support is strong, and the frats themselves hold too many bargaining chips for the system to be dissolved outright. Ask the average student, male or female, and a healthy majority will tell you that they support the idea of a CFS system at Dartmouth. The alumni will tell you the same, though the specifics of what that idea entails may vary. We want the CFS system to be better but we don‚Äôt want it to disappear. I do think there is a mental health issue on college campuses that needs to be addressed. Why are so many students seemingly so willing to suddenly disengage from the larger world around them? You will find a Balls or two in almost every class of pledges in every fraternity on campus. Some made it through, others such as myself didn't. Is it okay to ignore these often troubled kids? Perhaps these Greek Organizations are a unique portal to access this at-risk student population on campus.¬†Administrations and student leaders can and should do more to provide support to these students. Often these dangerous behaviors are hidden within the context of a general sense of group chaos and can be difficult to identify but would exist on campus, fraternities or not. A specially appointed Greek mental health counselor is one idea I‚Äôve tossed around in my head whereby the administration could help fraternities identify kids who may be suffering from mental illness to provide resources for that student. Parents, usually footing the bill for this whole operation, can and should be involved if necessary. What I think I personally needed most of all was a sign, any sign really, that somebody out there cared enough about me and what I was doing to myself to talk to me about it with a real understanding of the complexities I faced in my everyday life. At the end of the day the decisions I made were mine alone. The result of my continued infatuation with a fucking drinking game. There was a fire burning deep inside me, a very real feeling that Ship itself was a sacred ritual and that my thirst to be running table was not only natural but something that should be continuously cultivated. Nothing purer has ever existed for me. Even ten years later, as I sit here putting the final touches on this swan song to Beer-Pong, my nostalgia for Ship has not abated in the slightest. threeforship.comShip is one variation of beer pong (with a paddle) played at Dartmouth College.The Chi-Gam legend of Balls existed for years after my departure and I think this has something to do with the fact that some part of everyone wanted to be Balls, and there was a sense that what I was doing was foolish and courageous at the same time. Sometimes it seemed that the only thing keeping my peers from sinking to my level was an evolutionary survival instinct. Both an internal and external expectation that you could and would at all costs maintain the persona of someone who had his shit together. I seem to lack this predisposition and suspect that I am not at all alone in this. Balls created himself using the raw materials of Hanover and nobody, especially not me, saw the transformation in time to save him. My story resembles that of a Stockholm victim. The Pong lifestyle came naturally to me, and I mean the whole wonderful idea of it‚Äîthe aesthetic principles of the game, its sacred rituals, and intense drinking requirements; the late night binges, missed classes, punishing drunken aftermath and obligatory hangovers‚Äîall set against an outlandish academic backdrop. It made sense in some¬†twisted way that by assuming this character of ‚ÄúBalls‚Äù in the basement of a Dartmouth fraternity each evening, I was accomplishing something much more meaningful than was perceptible, some substantive life-value that few others could ever pursue. I had an opportunity to try to become the very best at something. A truly elite Pong warrior and the most degenerate kid you've ever met. And all I had to give up in the process was the thing in life which I should have held most dear, my bright future. Balls I now know has always been inside of me and this has been our goal from the beginning. To out- best the Dartmouth kids at what they did worst. This was my fantasy and it had to be believed in totality to continue to perpetrate what amounts to an ongoing charade. A travesty unfolding on a Pong table, hidden from view behind a vainglorious curtain, which had been lifted to reveal nothing more than a scared little boy who had lost the ability and will to engage the outside world in any meaningful way. As I prepared to leave Dartmouth, I was a broken man. Editor's note: ¬†Six months after being separated from Dartmouth, Crispus Knight appealed his expulsion directly to the Dean of the College, citing the ‚Äúextenuating circumstances‚Äù that he had failed to present to the academic committee who had overseen his first appeal. The decision was reversed and Knight was cleared to enroll in classes the following term. Following the winter of 2005, seven years after first being accepted into the school, Chris Knight left Dartmouth College for good‚Äîa degree in hand. This excerpt was taken with permission from¬†"Three For Ship" by¬†Crispus Knight.¬†
ShutterstockIf you don't want to spend most of your paycheck on housing, move to the Midwest. But definitely don't move to California. That's according to¬†Coldwell Banker's annual Home Listing report, which ranks the cheapest and most expensive areas to live across the US.¬† The report compares the cost of a¬†four-bedroom, two-bathroom home across America. It surveyed over 1900 markets and 52,000 listings, and found that the US average for such a home was¬†$301,414.¬† We took a quick snapshot of each of the 14 most affordable housing markets in the country.
 Brace Hemmelgarn-USA TODAY Minnesota's Adrian Peterson rushed for 2 touchdowns in yesterday's win over Washington.Stocks climbed after a surprisingly strong jobs report.† First the scoreboard: S&amp;P500: 1,770.54 +23.39, +1.34%Dow: 15,761.72 +167.74, +1.08%NASDAQ: 3,919.23 +61.90, +1.60% And now the top stories: Don't miss: The 14 Most Affordable Places To Live In The U.S. ª BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
One of our favorite business reporters is CNBC's Mandy Drury. Because she spends most of her time sitting behind her anchor desk, most people have no idea how short she is. Drury just retweeted the image from @StreetSignsCNBC that puts her height in context. Mandy really is that short. #thatsoutrageous @mandycnbc @nancygilesnyc @sullycnbc pic.twitter.com/yinM1aZWd0
REUTERS/ Jonathan AlcornThe October jobs report crushed expectations today, with total non-farm payrolls coming in at¬†204,000 (versus 120,000 expected). "Job growth has averaged¬†202,000 per month over the past 3 months," according to a BLS report breaking down the job figures.  "In¬†October, leisure and hospitality, retail trade,¬†professional and technical services,¬†manufacturing, and health care added jobs. " Average hourly earnings in the private sector climbed by 2 cents in October, and are up 2.2% over the year. In the report, the BLS breaks down the state of American jobs one sector at a time.
Wednesday was a golden day for Wix CEO Avishai Abrahami, co-founder and CEO of Wix, a Tel Aviv-based company that offers a do-it-yourself website hosting service. The same day he took Wix public, selling almost 500,000 of his shares and pocketing about $8 million, he also sold a startup that he had invested in (and was on the board of), Soluto, he told Business Insider. Shortly after the NASDAQ bell rang, he was running around New York signing papers for the sale. "I was probably the first guy in history to have sold a company and IPO at the same time," he laughs. Soluto was reportedly bought for about $130 million by a U.S. company called Asurion, according to the Israeli news site Haaretz.¬†Abrahami didn't spill the exact sum but did confirmed it was over $100 million.He was an angel investor in the company founded in 2008. It had raised $18 million from a number of investors including Eric Schmidt's Innovation Endeavors fund. As for Wix's IPO, it was being heavily watched by investors in the U.S. and Israel and the results were inconclusive. Wix sold 7.7 million shares,¬†priced at $16.50. Shares didn't pop or sink. That can mean that shares were priced fairly. If shares pop too much after the opening bell, it means that the company could have priced them higher and made more money. Abrahami was happy with the IPO. "If we opened at $16.50 and closed the day at $30, we would have just given away for free a lot of money," he said. The Wix IPO raised $127 million total and the company will use the money to hire more engineers and build new features. As for his personal windfall on Wednesday, he's going to continue to be an angel investor in Israeli startups, he told us. Meanwhile, a number of other up-and-coming Israeli companies are contemplating going public soon. While Wix's IPO wasn't spectacular, it didn't flop. So we'll see how many more give it a go in 2014.
Goldman Sachs investor relations analyst Alex¬†Cadicamo,¬†placed 26th overall out of 20,000 women¬†at the ING NYC Marathon, DealBook's Will Alden first pointed out.¬† It was her first marathon ever.¬† Cadicamo, who ran Division I cross-country and track at Yale, finished the grueling 26.2 mile trek through the city's five boroughs with an impressive time 2:51:33. That's a 6:33 average mile pace. Goldman Sachs has just posted an interview with her on their¬†Careers Blog. ¬† She told Goldman that the longest race she had done before training for this was 6K. ¬†During her training, she was running half marathons fast enough to qualify for the professional division, which is a big deal to any seasoned marathoner.¬† What is your past experience as a runner and what made you want to try the marathon?In college, I was a runner and competed in Division I-AA Cross Country and Track and Field, running long distance, with the longest races being 5 or 6 kilometers‚Äîa lot shorter than a marathon!¬† Now I run for an established club team here in New York City. They have a group of professional athletes as well as a club team comprised of people like me who have jobs but who may have been athletes in college and still want to continue to compete at a high level.¬† I joined the team earlier this year and have been running various distances from the 5K to half-marathons. Having grown up in New York, I knew I wanted this to be my first marathon and I always wanted to try the distance, so I decided to do it. I ran fast enough times in half-marathons this year to qualify to run in the professional field, which was an incredible opportunity.¬† Now Cadicamo would like to qualify for the Olympic trials.¬† So what is your plan for other marathons? The Olympics trial time is my ultimate goal, and so I'm hoping to run another marathon to try to reach that goal. Hopefully I can hit 2 hours and 43 minutes needed to make the Olympics trials. I think it's within reach.¬† Read the full Q&amp;A at Goldman's website &gt;
REUTERS/Jim BourgStock-picking guru and famed mutual fund manager Peter Lynch.Peter Lynch is known as something of a legend in the mutual fund industry. The stock-picking guru was responsible for 29% annualized returns as the manager of Fidelity's Magellan Fund from 1977 to 1990, which he took from $18 million in assets under management to more than $14 billion in that 13-year span. Lynch popularized an investing style known as "growth at a reasonable price" (which is more or less exactly what it sounds like). Investors who adhere to GARP look for stocks that will grow faster than their peers, but are also undervalued relative to their peers. Goldman Sachs equity strategists started publishing monthly GARP screens for their clients in January 2004. In a note to clients last month, however, Goldman's chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin and his team said the screens would be discontinued. "We will no longer publish our screens as we have decided to deploy resources elsewhere," said Kostin. Despite the apparent lack of interest in the strategy, it still seems to be fairly successful. "Since inception in January 2004, our GARP screen outperformed the S&amp;P 500 (89.8% vs. 79.9%), a positive excess return of 991 bp," wrote Kostin in the note. "Through the first nine months of 2013 our GARP screen generated a total return of 21.4% versus 19.8% for S&amp;P 500, an excess return of 159 bp." Though Goldman is no longer bothering with it, GARP isn't completely dead on the Street ‚Äî BMO chief investment strategist Brian Belski, for one, believes stock-picking is making a comeback. "Our investment recommendations remain centered on more active strategies," he wrote in a November 1 note. "We continue to favor GARP-like and select beta strategies for the sort of market environment we expect to unfold through year-end and into 2014."
The Hedge Fund Research Index, published by fund analysts HFR, had it's highest gains since 2009,¬†according to reporting by the FT.¬† The monthly index, which proxies for hedge fund returns across sectors, gained 1.5% last month, which pushed up its year-to-date performance by 7.2%. Hedge funds haven't performed this well since 2009, when they were yielding returns of over 20%. As the S&amp;P has risen to ever higher all-time highs, hedge funds have had a hard time finding new sources of alpha.¬† Growth in returns on quant equity strategies pushed the index up, growing by 2.67% last month. Equity strategies in general performed very well, while returns on short strategies fell by nearly 2%.¬† Emerging markets strategies also had a good month, growing by 2.45%.¬† But compared to passive investing strategies, hedge fund returns remain mediocre. The FT writes: "With 60 per cent in Vanguard‚Äôs S&amp;P 500 tracker (VFINX) and 40 per cent in its Total Bond Fund (VBMFX) your passive portfolio would have quietly appreciated 11 per cent this year." All this hooplah and back-patting aside, all this means hedge funds still haven't beaten the S&amp;P 500 this year. So there's that.
REUTERS/ Mario AnzuoniBloomberg Businessweek's†Sheelah Kolhatkar has a great profile of Jordan Belfort, whose "Wolf of Wall Street" book has been turned into the highly-anticipated†Leonardo DiCaprio movie†of the same name (due out on Christmas day). Belfort went from a millionaire pump-and-dump schemer taking "drugged-out helicopter rides" and "hooker shopping with buttoned-up Swiss bankers" to federal prison. The entire story is worth a read, but perhaps the funniest nugget from the story is that Belfort's cellmate when he arrived at prison in 2004 was Tommy Chong. Chong, Belfort, and other celebrity inmates partied it up like the famous scene from Goodfellas. From Businessweek: Incredibly, his cellmate was Tommy Chong, of Cheech and Chong, who was serving a nine-month sentence for selling drug paraphernaliaóbongs in particular. As Chong describes it, the Taft Federal Correctional Institution would beat many Manhattan hotels for comfort. He says Belfortís arrival ìwas like Elvis coming to jailî and that his roommate spent his days playing tennis and backgammon, cleverly hiring other inmates to do his chores for him.ìHe would inspire salespeople to basically go rob peopleî ìWe were part of the elite gang,î Chong says, adding that for a stretch they ate meals ìGoodfellas-styleî with another famous inmate, the PGA Tour caddie Eric Larson, who was serving time related to drug charges. Larson ìworked in the garden, and he grew these fresh, delicious vegetables, and he used to cook them,î Chong says. ìWe had these beautiful vegetarian, healthy meals every night, and Jordan was part of the gang. We had a nice little hierarchy there, intelligent famous guys hanging out together.î Now Belfort hits the speaking circuit, netting around $30,000 a speech. Of course, as†Kolhatkar reports, Belfort is still struggling to pay restitution. Read the full profile at Bloomberg Businessweek†ª†
Central banks are doing their part, too. Monetary policy is extremely loose, with near-zero interest rates at every one of the Big 4 central banks ñ the Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of Japan and Bank of England. The Bank of Japan and Federal Reserve are both continuing with their unprecedented and massive monetary stimulus programs, while the European Central Bank has been assuring markets it is prepared to ease further, if necessary, by extending additional long-term loans to troubled banks and potentially even introducing negative deposit rates. And so here we are, in the sweet spotóthe threat of economic collapse has passed while the prospect of inflation is still a distant concernóand the flood of money is having the expected effect: ìFinancial assets ñ safe and risky, developed and emerging, bonds and stocks, have found their groove and are posting strong returns,î Credit Suisseís global strategists wrote in a recent note called ìMomentary Bliss.î But thereís the hitch: ìmomentary.î Indeed, the current rally could start to fade as early as the beginning of 2014, says James Sweeney, a global fixed income strategist at Credit Suisse. While he and his colleagues predict a soft landing in most markets, rather than a crash, they are predicting a landing nonetheless. Which will lose altitude first? For an answer to that question, one need only look to the summer scare. After the Federal Reserve said in May that it might slow down its monthly asset purchases later in the year, investors dumped emerging market stocks and bonds in a panic. At the same time, they briefly started demanding higher yields from less creditworthy borrowers in developed markets. Investors reversed course when the Fed backed off the ìtaper talk,î but the incident does suggest that any impending pullback will likely show up in relatively risky assets first. Credit Markets Surge  And in the meantime? The near-zero interest rates that major central banks have been enforcing for the last few years have been great for U.S. corporate borrowers. Whether in leveraged loans or high-yield bonds, investors have eagerly sought out riskier assets in search of decent returns. In doing so, theyíve driven down yields of even the lowest-rated corporate bonds while also accepting less onerous terms in leveraged loan deals than at any time in recent memory The U.S. leveraged loan market is on pace to hit a new record of $450 billion in issuance this year, well above the record-breaking $387 billion that came to market in 2007, Credit Suisseís Co-Head of U.S. Syndicated Loan Capital Markets Jeff Cohen said on a recent call with investors. Retail investors have plowed money into leveraged loan funds (both mutual funds and exchange-traded ones) for 71 weeks in a row, adding a net $45.8 billion so far this year. While nearly a third of the money raisedósome 29 percentóhas been used for strategic purposes such as mergers and acquisitions, a much larger portionó47 percent of the totalóhas gone toward refinancing. Meanwhile, 11 percent of leveraged loans this year were dividend recapitalizations. Bondholders arenít usually wild about borrowers taking on debt just so they can turn around and give it to equity holders, but by September, enough dividend-related loans had been completed to make 2013 a record year. ìInvestors are basically going along with whatever issuers want even if the use of proceeds is not ideal,î Cohen said. Another sign of the marketís risk cravings? Along with that increase in loans has come a decrease in investor protections, including fewer restrictions on collateral as well as more lenient debt-to-cash flow ratios. Borrowers have nabbed some $210 billion in covenant-lite loans this year, more than double the $87 billion issued in all of 2012. Most deals of more than $50 million are now covenant-lite, according to Cohen, who called them ìthe new standard.î And finally, there are high-yield bonds ñ which, thanks to plenty of investor interest this year, donít actually have particularly high yields. The Credit Suisse High Yield Index, which tracks the ìspread to worst,î or the difference between the lowest-yielding high-yield bonds and Treasuries, has hovered between 4.4 percent and 5.5 percent this year, even as investors were in a momentary panic over Fed tapering. That compares to levels in excess of 18 percent at the height of the recession in 2008, and even 8 percent as recently as 2011. This yearís nearly $300 billion in high-yield issuance is on pace to break all records save perhaps the $346.9 billion issued last year, according to Credit Suisseís Head of Global Leveraged Finance Strategy Jonathan Blau. While some of those bonds helped refinance existing corporate debt, there was new issuance, too: the total market grew by 5 percent, Blau said. Winds of Change So what are the potential catalysts for another change in the marketís mood? For its part, Sweeneyís fixed income strategy team keeps a close eye on the rate of change in global industrial production. Lately, itís been accelerating and fueling investor confidence, but the team expects momentum to peak in December. That doesnít mean factory production will fall off a cliff in 2014 ñ itíll just grow less slowly ó but nobody likes riding a trend downhill. ìAt momentum peaks, negative economic and earnings surprises tend to occur, driving risk appetites lower,î Sweeney said on a recent investor call. And then thereís the issue that has troubled global financial markets for the last six months ñ tapering, or a slowdown in the $85 billion in monthly asset purchases the Federal Reserve has been making to keep interest rates low and economic growth humming. Thus far, Sweeney pointed out, U.S. growth has been just sluggish enough to keep central bankers from dialing down QE3. In part due to a gap in data collection caused by the government shutdown, which has only complicated the already-challenging task of parsing the clues about the economyís health, itís unlikely that Fed officials will choose the remaining meeting of this year as the time to start tapering. Whatís more, Sweeney says, Janet Yellenís recent appointment as central-banker-in-chief is bolstering risk appetites for now, as she is perceived as relatively dovish. Credit Suisse† That said, with the U.S. economy expected to grow 2.5 percent in the first quarter of 2014 ñ far better than the 1.1 percent in Q1 2013 ñ Credit Suisse believes officials may be able to judge the patient healthy enough to get reduced medication by the end of the first quarter. Credit Suisseís chief Fedwatcher Dana Saporta believes the Fed could start reducing the central bankís asset purchases as soon as late January and wind up the program altogether by September. Markets have already gotten a taste of what that might feel like. A recent Fed survey of institutions that sell dollar-denominated securities showed that liquidity seized up after central bank officials first talked about phasing out the asset purchase in May. ìRenewed taper talk and rising rates would risk another illiquidity flare-up in credit markets,î the fixed income team wrote in its ìMomentary Blissî note. And if that happens, investors and issuers alike will find themselves reining in their current enthusiasm. ìSome of this bullish positioning weíre seeing right now will at least temporarily be interrupted,î Sweeney said. In other words, while there may not be a need for disaster planning quite yet, the risk-all-the-way on trade might soon have run its course.
Flickr/JohnConnell"Extra olives, please."Ordering a Martini seems simple enough. But when the bartender asks for specifics, suddenly you're fumbling ‚Äî vodka or gin? Shaken or stirred? And what in the world is a dry martini? Does it even matter? It does, according to Allen Katz, the director of Mixology and Spirits Education for Southern Wine &amp; Spirits of New York. He helped us break down the different types of martinis on a cocktail menu, and taught us how to order one without sounding like an idiot. The classic martini was created as a gin cocktail, so for those interested in having the typical martini experience, give gin a try. "Each gin you try will have a distinct flavor," Katz explains. "Different brands of gin are made using different botanicals so they all taste unique." If the herb flavor of the gin proves too strong for you, order a vodka martini instead. These three distinctions refer to how much and what type of vermouth you want in your cocktail. Vermouth is a type of wine that's flavored with botanicals, and can make a martini "dry" or "sweet." A modern martini usually calls for a splash of dry vermouth, which is known for its more bitter and less-sugary taste. "Where people get confused is that when you request a 'dry' martini, it doesn't mean you want more dry vermouth ‚Äî it means you want less vermouth," Kats says. A typical dry martini will have a drizzle of dry vermouth while an "extra-dry" martini will only have a drop or two of dry vermouth (sometimes even none at all). A wet martini then is the exact opposite ‚Äî you want more dry vermouth. Historically, martinis were quite wet, with old-school martinis prepared with an almost equal ratio of gin and vermouth. A perfect martini, on the other hand, is made with equal parts dry and sweet vermouth with your vodka or gin. ‚ÄúShaken‚Äù means the alcohol of your choice will be shaken in a cocktail shaker with ice before being strained into your glass. "There's a bit of an aplomb or style to a well-shaken cocktail," Katz told us. ‚ÄúStirred‚Äù means the gin will be placed in a cocktail shaker with ice and stirred for about 30 seconds before being strained into the glass. "This results in a smoother version, with less likelihood of ice shards in your cocktail," Katz said. ‚ÄúUp‚Äù means that your drink will be served in one of those familiar tall martini glasses that has been chilled. "On the rocks‚Äù means that it will be served in a tumbler over ice. "If you've got an appropriately diluted martini, you shouldn't need the ice," Katz said. "Of course, that being said, when it comes to cocktails people should drink them however they prefer." This just refers to how you want your martini garnished. Classic martinis are either garnished with an olive on a skewer or a small twist of lemon peel for an added pop of citrus. If you have a preference, just tell your bartender "with a twist" for the lemon peel, or "with an olive." These are the three famous types of martini that every bartender worth their salt will know how to make. Dirty: A little splash of olive juice in the martini. "You still have to ask for degrees depending on how 'dirty' you like it," Katz said. "I've found that people who really like dirty martinis like them really dirty, and then you just garnish with an olive to bolster that characteristic." Gibson: Can be made either with gin or vodka, but "instead of a classic garnish like a twist or an olive, you get a pearl onion," Katz said. "I've also seen Gibsons made with pickled onions and an olive." Vesper: For those wanting to order a martini like James Bond, this is the drink for you. First described in the book "Casino Royale," the vesper martini was originally made with gin, vodka, and Kina Lillet, a type of bitter wine aperitif. "Because Kina Lillet has become so rare, people nowadays will substitute another aperitif wine called Cocchi Americano," Katz told us. "And always remember if you order a Vesper, you're compounding the booze with gin and vodka." In other words, this is not the drink-of-choice for a lightweight. If you've never had a martini before, Katz recommended trying a traditional martini as a jumping-off point for future orders. "Tell the bartender you'll have a martini with a 3:1 ratio of vermouth," he advised first-timers. "Try it with gin, because a gin martini will be more interesting with the vermouth. Order it stirred, and straight up." And make sure to get a normal-sized cocktail, not one of those monster martinis the size of your head. That way, if you don't like it you can "simply move on to the next cocktail," Katz said.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderGrubhub Seamless, the restaurant delivery online and mobile app service, will file for an IPO in 2014, according to tweets from The Street and Jonathan Marino of The Deal. Seamless merged with rival GrubHub in May of this year.  Matt Maloney, GrubHub's CEO, became the new company's chief executive officer. Jonathan Zabusky, Seamless' CEO, became its president. Since then Yelp also entered the food delivery business ‚Äî so this is a category that is heating up. An IPO would swell Seamless' coffers for the fight against Yelp and other food delivery insurgents, like Eat 24.
Courtesy of Roman WilsonCollege athletes have a much different college experience than any other student. On top of classes, homework, and a social life, athletes have to go to practice, meetings, and games. Roman Wilson, a senior wide receiver for the Princeton football team, is no stranger to that busy lifestyle. Wilson, who has caught 37 passes for 649 yards so far this season, is on the go from the time he wakes up in the morning, to when he finally gets to sleep at night. The week before Princeton played (and beat) Harvard, Wilson took us through a normal day in his life. That Saturday in Boston, Wilson caught the game-winning catch in the third overtime to lead the Tigers to victory. Disclosure: The author's father is a football coach at Princeton.
We've discussed how awesome JP Morgan's Twitter #throwbackthursdays are on the site before ó lets do it again. This week, the bank tweeted out a map of New York City in 1928. On it, are all the locations of JP Morgan's offices. At the time, the firm was The Bank of Manhattan Company. The city was far less crowded with inhabitants, so this map definitely gives you a sense that the bank was a big force in the city. Here's the Tweet: #ThrowbackThursday: This 1928 map shows the offices of $JPM's oldest predecessor, The Bank of the Manhattan Company pic.twitter.com/mMhLl5OZ86                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        JP Morgan                                            Wall Street                                            New York City                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						1									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        This 1928 Map Of NYC Shows Where All JP Morgan's Offices Used To Be    This 1928 Map Of NYC Shows Where All JP Morgan's Offices Used To Be        HISTORY!
flickr, City of Toronto ArchivesGary Sirak‚Äôs primary insight in his book If Your Money Talked What Secrets Would It Tell ‚Äì an insight I happen to agree with ‚Äì is that the psychology of money, our personal relationship with money ‚Äì is usually our biggest personal finance problem. Financial insecurity often plagues the professional making half a million dollars per year, even while financial sufficiency is possible for a person earning one tenth of that per year. Whether you love money, or hate money, whether you accumulate it to excess like Scrooge McDuck or spend it wildly like Brewster, the underlying problem starts in our head, not in our paycheck. Each person‚Äôs own personal money secret may be what Sirak calls a ‚Äúself-limiting belief,‚Äù a deeply ‚Äì probably unconsciously ‚Äì held belief about money. Self-limiting beliefs, Sirak explains, form at an early age. To overcome self-limiting beliefs we need to commit to self-examination and ‚Äì one presumes ‚Äì the additional intervention of a financial professional and personal finance books. I particularly appreciated two things about If Your Money Talked. Brevity Sirak keeps this short enough to read on a flight between Chicago and New York. Pick this up at the airport bookstore, crack it open upon takeoff, and you‚Äôll be done before the wheels touch down, with extra time leftover to solve the easy Sudoku puzzle in your inflight magazine. Memorable Anecdotes Sirak ‚Äì just like anyone who has ever written a book like this ‚Äì has a set of ‚Äú8 Principles of Money,‚Äù common sense ideas not unlike ideas from, say, Thomas Stanley‚Äôs The Millionaire Next Door. To makes his principles concrete, however, Sirak tells good stories. Over a thirty-year financial-planning career for individuals, Sirak accumulated illustrative anecdotes about people and their unhealthy relationships to money. For each of his 8 Principles of Money, Sirak provides a brief and telling sketch from his own financial planning clients as illustration. Getting tricked by smooth-talking scammers? ‚Äì Sirak tells of his own gullibility about a start-up kids‚Äô sports camp. Worshipping money? Meet Roger, the ‚Äòsuccessful‚Äô businessman who literally decorated his home with cash, while neglecting relationships with his wife and 5 year-old son. Hiding debts from your spouse? ‚Äì Sirak describes Ron and Alison, a married couple with totally incompatible spending patterns masked by secretiveness. Spending money before you have it? We read about Dr. Allen, the newly minted MD who bought the twin BMWs instead of paying off student loan debt before the ink dried on his first paycheck because he felt he finally ‚Äúdeserved to live the good life.‚Äù Financial woes followed in short order. Through his own and the mistakes of his clients, Sirak cautions us about common personal finance errors. With a quick series of ‚ÄúHow Not To‚Äù stories, Sirak helps us begin to self-examine, exploring our self-limiting factors and money mistakes.
The New York Stock Exchange will always hold a special place in my professional heart (if that is not an oxymoron in this biz). † When I started working at SAC Capital in early 1997 as clerk, the first thing they did was send new recruits to the floor of the NYSE to shadow our floor brokers for a week or two. † As a young buck 18 months out of college this was an education to say the least, not only from an intellectual and professional standpoint, but from an endurance standpoint, these guys were on their feet from 8am to 4:30pm, either standing cramped in very tight spaces with 2 phones glued to their ears, or they were running around from post to post placing bids and offers, yelling, nudging and rushing back and forth to and from phone booths to give fills. † At that time there were hundreds if not maybe a thousand brokers, clerks and specialists doing a job that had been done the same way for decades, which sadly was all about to change, and most down there knew it with the increasing popularity of electronic exchanges. I consider the days down there at the dawn of my career as a sort of foundation for everything else that I would go on to do in the business, the diligence, attention to detail, persistence and the sense of urgency displayed by those hardworking peeps has been ingrained in what I still do today. †Which is why it gives me great joy to see the level of professionalism displayed by so many down on the NYSE yesterday getting the TWTR IPO off without a hitch, and very much putting a human touch on the opening pricing that was amazingly transparent for those of you tuned into CNBC all morning. † To be fair, this is exactly what the NYSE exists to do, and most pundits are only speaking about it because of the mismanagement of the May 2012 Facebook IPO, but regardless, the end result is that the professionals down there who work for the exchange, the underwriters and brokers representing customers from all over the world created a ìfair and orderly marketî regardless of what you think about the stockís valuation. Prior to this year I hadnít been down to the NYSE since the late 1990s, and it is most definitely a different place, 3 large rooms of specialists posts are now 1, obviously much fewer people, little commotion, a lot more technology and tricked out TV broadcasting sets right in the middle of the floor. †I will tell you though, as an active market participant over the last 17 years, it does give me a bit of solace to know that if we need it, there are still stewards of times past ready willing and very able on the NYSE to execute our orders whether the underlying stock is a fancy new issue or as boring as US Steel. So maybe I am just being a bit nostalgic, but †tonightís Options Action will be shot from the NYSE and I am excited for it and earlier in the week I was on the floor for Fast Money Halftime, and where else would a bunch of die hard Yankees and Mets fans be excited to see David Ortiz holding the championship Trophy from the Fall Classic? †Simple answer, at an institution that is a classic in its own right, the NYSE!
In his morning note UBS's Art Cashin beautifully captures the sheer insanity that was yesterday's trading day. In case you missed it, there was blood everywhere. The Dow fell 152.9 points, the S&amp;P fell 23.3 points, and the NASDAQ fell 74.6 points. The only bright spot was the Twitter IPO, which had everyone and their mother loving the NYSE, talking smack about the NASDAQ, and buying buying buying. Here's Cashin's play-by-play, which sounds like something straight off ESPN: Early Rally Collapses Into An Ugly Close ñ The bulls thought they had data on their side Thursday morning. The ECB had cut rates, sparking a rally across Europe. In the U.S., GDP spiked to 2.8% instead of the expected 1.9%. (A deeper look revealed 0.8% came from inventory build-up ñ stuff that was built and then put in the warehouse rather than being sold to a client.) That "good" news sparked only a mild uptick rally (very mild in the case of the Nasdaq). Most of America got swept up in the media events surrounding the Twitter opening. Ironically, just as Twitter was opening, the averages were reversing into negative territory. Once stocks hit the minus column, selling began to accelerate ñ aggressively so in the Nasdaq and the Russell. They managed to find some support around 11:15. The bulls regrouped and tried to restart the rally. That rally attempt failed shortly after noon at about the same level as the last rebound attempt before the 11:15 bottom. Here's what I wrote at midday: Twitter dominated the airwaves and lots of trader talk. Trading suggests it was well-placed for lock up. Floor rumors suggest that 75% may have been allocated to top 25 accounts in the nation. Internal market divergences continue to nag. Nasdaq and Russell get slammed again in what appears to be flight from both risk and momentum. Bulls need to continue to defend 1755 in S&amp;P and then punch up through 1777/1779 to regain full momentum. Run rate gains thanks in part to Twitter. At 12:30, the projection for the close of 730/810 million on NYSE. (More Twitter action and a nasty selloff in the final hour swelled the volume to over 900 million.) That 1755 support level in the S&amp;P would turn out to be a major battleground as the day wore on. As noted, stocks began to sink again ñ slowly at first but accelerating as they moved lower. Some media types tried to pin the new downdraft on rumors or statements out of Washington on new budget standoffs. Trading types saw the selling as internal and self-reinforcing. At 2:00, the S&amp;P began to test that 1755 support. Apparently, they didn't study for the test and the "support" evaporated almost instantly and a minor air pocket opened. This time they managed to circle the wagons around 1750. The rebound, however, found that the former 1755 support had turned into resistance ñ and rather fierce resistance at that. When the attempt to punch above 1755 failed around 3:00, the selling resumed and turned a bit ugly on increased volume. To demonstrate the level of ugliness, let's convert all the closes to equivalent Dow points. The Dow -152; the S&amp;P -208; the Russell -280 and Nasdaq -300. Now that's ugly. Sounds like you were right on the floor right?
REUTERSMost men spend a lifetime sticking to the casual Half-Windsor or the princely Balthus tie knot they learned as boys, without ever daring to experiment with something new. There's nothing wrong with that ñ a well-tied knot is never a faux pas ñ but, as with haircuts and glasses, changing knots often reveals a style that may better suit your look. Tie knots are a wonderful way to tinker with an outfit, creating something a bit punchier out of your older cravats. And a standout knot will always inspire awe because fanciful folding looks way harder than it actually is. Here are 10 classic knots that are a cinch to master (and even easier to pull off). Best Scarves for Winter How to Buy a Custom Suit How to Talk to Your Tailor The Best Affordable Tailored Suits 25 Easy Ways to Upgrade Your Style
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Tesla closed at an all-time high of $193.37 on Sept. 30. At the time, the stock was up over 470% year-to-date. However, the stock has been getting walloped, falling by 17% this week.† It's now down 27% since the Sept. 30 all-time high. And today, it's trading at around $136. So, what's gone wrong? The first big blow to the stock came from a Tesla Model S that caught fire after colliding with a large metallic object on† Washington State Route 167, in early October. This raised all sorts of concerns about battery safety. In its 10-Q Tesla has pointed out that the lithium ion battery cells "have been observed to catch fire or vent smoke and flame, and such events have raised concerns, and future events may lead to additional concerns, about the batteries used in automotive applications." Unfortunately for Tesla there were two other fires.†A Tesla Model S caught fire in Mexico after the car crashed through a concrete wall and into a tree. And another fire was reported on a Tesla Model S this week in Smyrna, Tenn. Tesla has repeatedly pointed out that these fires were the result of accidents and were not "spontaneous," but battery concerns have weighed on the stock. CEO Elon Musk took to the Tesla Motors Blog to defend his car. "For consumers concerned about fire risk, there should be absolutely zero doubt that it is safer to power a car with a battery than a large tank of highly flammable liquid," Musk wrote. Investors and traders also punished Tesla after its earnings report. The company delivered 5,500 Model S vehicles in the third quarter and said it's producing 550 cars per week. While this is up from 5,150 deliveries in the second quarter and a production rate of 500 vehicles per week, this fell short of analysts' expectations. Because the company is still young, investors are focused on vehicle deliveries over performance on the bottom line. Elon Musk has repeatedly tried to quell concerns by arguing that these delivery numbers were a function of supply, not demand. "We really are production constrained, not demand constrained,"† he said. The main constraint on production has been the battery cells. But investors are just as antsy about the supply chain as they are about demand for the product. The recent agreement with Panasonic to produce 2 billion lithium-ion battery cells through 2017 has helped alleviate some of the concerns. But there are other supply chain bottlenecks that some analysts argue could be its biggest risk over time. Then there is the stock's valuation. Price targets on Tesla run the gamut.† Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves has a price target of $200, while Goldman Sachs'†Patrick Archambault has a price target of $95.† NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran says Tesla is worth a fraction of its current price. Musk himself admitted that the stock is overvalued. "We believe that there has understandably been significant profit-taking over the last few weeks by investors that have made substantial returns over the last 6 months," Galves explains. He thinks "investor turnover may continue." Miller Tabak"Sellers unleashed about 31 million shares in Tesla Motors midweek," Andrew Wilkinson of Miller Tabak pointed out following the Q3 earnings release. The last two times we saw such volume, shares closed lower but "subsequently rose despite the high-volume sell-offs," Wilkinson told Business Insider. "Question is whether or not this time its prospects are more sinister." Tesla has arguably been the biggest momentum stock of the year, but it looks to be stumbling now. This comes at a time when many momentum trades are fading.  Musk told Bloomberg TV, "we're going to do our best to fulfill the expectations of investors and I think, in the long-term, that stock price is going to seem fair. It's difficult to predict where it goes in the short or medium-term but I do feel good having the company achieve that value and more in the long term."† While the company has disruptive technology that gives it "the potential to be at the leading edge of a paradigm shift in transportation," as Galves points out, there are still numerous risks to be aware of: The company's production chain is one, long-term demand is another, and cash generation another, to name a few. Until investors can realize the long-term value, Tesla might be whipsawed by speculators.
Screengrab Some people seem to be taking seriously a proposal to crowd-source a†$2,147,483,647 donation to WikiLeaks if it can leak details on the†controversial Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). It's certainly a plan with noble intentions ó it would be a leak almost on the scale of Edward Snowden ó but there's a huge problem with it, which we'll get to in a bit. First, some background. The average person may not have heard of the TPP, a proposed free trade agreement under negotiation by Australia,†Brunei,†Chile,†Canada,†Japan, Malaysia,†Mexico,†New Zealand,†Peru,†Singapore, the†United States, and†Vietnam. Experts believe it will be very important. Ian Bremmer has called it "most important trade agreement on the world agenda right now," for example, pointing out that almost 40 percent of world GDP would be involved in the deal. However, critics have two major concerns about the TPP. The first argument is that TPP's intentions are far more radical than most realize, with lobbyists pushing an agenda that would suit the globalization aims of multinational corporations, not the average person ó in particular with restrictive intellectual property laws. The second concern is that the process is being conducted in secret, and the public is being left in the dark ó as Cory Doctorow of Boing Boing points out, it's a deal "negotiated in utmost secrecy, without public participation, whose text is still not public." That a deal of this magnitude is being conducted in secret is understandably worrying, and there have been some leaks, but the full text of the proposed agreement remains out of the hands of the public. This is where Just Foreign Policy, who describe themselves as an "independent and non-partisan membership organization dedicated to reforming U.S. foreign policy," come in. The group are apparently behind a new website offering a crowd-funded reward to WikiLeaks if they leak the entire TPP agreement. The idea is that by giving the money to WikiLeaks rather than an individual leaker, the leaker cannot be accused of leaking for private profit (and should, hopefully, be a bit more protected from legal prosecution). Also, by crowdsourcing the money (and limiting the donations to less than $250 per individual), the group says they are able to "promote the idea we are all invested in the outcome of these negotiations." Understandably, the plan has attracted some attention, making its way to the front page of Reddit and being widely shared on Twitter. But ó here comes the bad part ó the way the plan has been implemented is laughably flawed. The biggest problem is most basic. The website is asking only that users "pledge" to donate that money if the TPP deal is leaked. There's no guarantee whatsoever that you actually have to pay that money, so already the final figure is going to be a bit suspect. What's worse, is that the website doesn't actually require a valid name or email address to donate. Hence, I was just able to pledge $250 as "Guy Incognito" with some phony email address. Anyone can do this. It gets worse. Reddit users noticed that a pledge of $2,147,483,647 seemed a little bit high ó in fact, it's the maximum value for a†32-bit†signed integer†in†computing, meaning that either the amount donated has reached its absolute maximum, or there is some other type of error. Another Reddit user noticed that if you turn off Javascript on the website, you can "pledge" to "donate" any amount of money you'd like (for example, Guy Incognito just pledged $100 billion). Amazingly, it appears that the website was designed on Adobe Dreamweaver. There are plenty of great ways to argue that leaking the text of the TPP would be a good thing to do, but unfortunately, no matter how noble this plan is, it's incredibly flawed. The best we can hope for from this current plan is that it raises awareness of a serious issue. We've reached out to both WikiLeaks and Just Foreign Policy to comment on the website, and will update if/when they respond. UPDATE:† Robert Naiman of Just Foreign Policy has emailed to say that the group has been working to remove bogus pledges (the number on the site now appears to be down to a more reasonable number). "We aren't a rich organization," he explained, "and we used the platform that we have, which means that we have to take its tools as a constraint." Naiman also said that he was aware that pledges may not be fulfilled, and that they had avoided third party platforms (such as Kickstarter) as they did not want to embroil them in any potential legal action. "If we find ourselves in the position that we have to try to collect on the pledges, it will mean that someone leaked the TPP to WikiLeaks, so that will be a delightful problem to have," he wrote. "We might not be able to collect every pledge. But I'm confident that if WikiLeaks publishes the TPP text, donations to WikiLeaks will come streaming in." "Our goal is to publicize to the public the fact that the controversial TPP text is being kept secret from public scrutiny. If our website is succeeding in calling attention to that, our website is working,"†Naiman added.
sskennel via flickrLast week, we told you about† REO-to-rental bonds, the new financial product created by private equity giant Blackstone. These securities pay investors with the revenue streams from folks renting out the 150,000-odd previously foreclosed homes the firm has snatched up. Nobel Prize winning economist Robert Shiller called them "revolutionary," telling us they could help the housing market become more liquid and make home prices less noisy, a problem he's been writing about for 25 years. † Well, the bonds are on the market, and investors seem to love them. The FT's Tracy Alloway and Anjli Raval report Blackstone sold $479-worth of the securities Thursday, backed by rents from more than 3,000 single-family Sun Belt properties. And Reuters' Adam Tempkins says the securities are already trading higher, and the activity is exceeding expectations. †"This deal firmly establishes that capital markets are ready for this new asset class," an unnamed RMBS investor told Tempkin. "It is massively better execution than bank-finance alternatives. It shows that the securitization markets are open for rental-finance strategies, and that there is significant capital downstream for this sector." The bond issue got a lift from ratings agency Moody's, which prior to the first sale†bestowed a Triple-A rating on the most senior tranche of the security. Other ratings agencies were more skeptical but investors seem to have shaken that off.† "This is a positive signal that increases capital creation and capital flowing into this part of the housing market," the source told Tempkin.
A better-than-expected result from the October jobs report out at 8:30 AM has markets moving around a lot this morning. Initially, stocks, bonds, and gold all tanked on the news. However, stocks have come all the way back and then some, while bonds and gold continue to drift lower and lower. The idea in the market is that this jobs report makes it more likely that the Federal Reserve will begin to wind down its quantitative easing program sooner than the FOMC's March meeting ‚Äî perhaps in December or January. While markets seem to be pricing in this sort of shift in the timeline for tapering bond purchases, economists we've heard from so far are largely sticking to their calls. "Although we maintain our view that the Fed will taper its purchases beginning next March, with a three-month average pace of payroll growth now at 202k, we see the October data as modestly increasing the likelihood that it begins to taper its asset purchases in December," says Barclays economist Michael Gapen. "We‚Äôll stick with a January taper, thank you," says UBS economist Drew Matus. The charts below show what markets are doing right now. On top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. On the bottom, gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and WTI crude oil futures. Thinkorswim
Eddie Adams / APThe value of the electronic currency Bitcoin has hit a new high of $340. This is not surprising. Earlier this spring, when Bitcoin was in the middle of its last price spike, I "raised my Bitcoin target" to $400. This was an inside joke ‚Äî I don't have a Bitcoin target. But I was getting at a more profound point. $400 is a perfectly reasonable target for Bitcoin. As is $1,000. As is $10,000 or $100,000 or $1 million.  And as is $0.01. This is because Bitcoin has no intrinsic value. Bitcoin's adherents refer to it as a "store of value," but Bitcoin is only a "store of value" because, right now, its price keeps going up. Unlike gold or dollars or other things that have widely accepted utility, Bitcoin's price is currently determined entirely by what someone else is willing to pay for it. Right now, because Bitcoin's price is going up, and Bitcoin is in relatively short supply, people are willing to pay $340 for it. And the ever-increasing demand for Bitcoin will keep driving the price up until people don't want to buy or hold it anymore. At that point, by the way, unless Bitcoin has become widely accepted as a legal means of exchange (as "money"), the price of Bitcoin will collapse. And anyone who thinks the price of Bitcoin can't collapse all the way to zero is delusional. I have written extensively about Bitcoin. I have explained why Bitcoin is the "perfect asset bubble." (Because there is no real way to value it.) I have explained why Bitcoin speculators are just laughing at everyone who thinks they are idiots for buying Bitcoin. (Because Bitcoin's price could theoretically rise 1,000%, 10,000%, 100,000%, or more, whereas the most you can lose on your Bitcoin investment is 100%) And I have explained that Bitcoin prices could go "vastly higher from here." (I first said this when Bitcoin was $90. It's just as true today, at $340.) I also think, however, that that Bitcoin will probably prove to be a gigantic bubble, like Beanie Babies, Pogs, or, yes, tulip bulbs. Bitcoin has all the hallmarks of bubbles, including: I have also described some of the major risks that could break the Bitcoin spell and lead to a price collapse. The biggest of these, I think, is that Bitcoin won't ever become widely accepted as a means of exchange ‚Äî either because governments ban it or because it remains complicated and shadowy. (One of the biggest advantages of "dollars" is that they are accepted everywhere and are extremely easy to use. Bitcoin isn't.) I do think the world is ready for a simple, global, electronic currency, and that Bitcoin has a shot at becoming that. But this success is the farthest thing from guaranteed. Having said that, I want to be clear about something: In the months and years before we know the ultimate fate of Bitcoin, the price could do absolutely anything. There is no limit to the price that Bitcoin could attain. There is no theoretical difference between a price of $1 per Bitcoin and $1 million per Bitcoin. The only thing that will determine Bitcoin prices is what people are willing to pay for Bitcoins. And if enthusiasm about Bitcoin continues to move beyond a small group of digerati, cryptologists, and hard-money fanatics, Bitcoin's price could go vastly higher. How high? It is perfectly reasonable to think that Bitcoin's price could go to $1 million or more. That's not a prediction. It's just a fact. (I have no idea what Bitcoin prices are going to do. I also don't own Bitcoin, so I don't care what the price does. And I'm not "encouraging speculation." I couldn't care less whether you buy or don't buy Bitcoin.) So, there, I've said it. Bitcoin is probably a gigantic bubble that will leave its early religious devotees looking and feeling like fools. But in the meantime, Bitcoin could make people dynastically rich. Because the price of Bitcoin could go all the way to $1 million or more. Just as it could go (back) to $0.01. SEE ALSO: Bitcoin Is A Joke
The other day I argued that Bitcoins were fundamentally valueless. I won't repeat the argument here, but I thought it would be worth pointing out what kind of reaction I got. Max Keiser said it would be good if I committed suicide in public. Max Keiser One guy called me Joe WeisenF- and then perhaps intimated that I be killed? Twitter A guy on a Bitcoin message board is trying to turn me into a meme. Bitcointalk Some people are really excited about rubbing this into my face. Bitcointalk Someone on Reddit said this, which I don't understand. Reddit Anyway, this is just a small sampling of message boards, my Twitter responses, and my email inbox over the last day. Just remember: One hallmark of a bubble is angry, religious fanatacism over the asset of choice.
Photo courtesy of Austin Schwab17-year-old trader Austin SchwabMillennials these days are taking a proactive approach to investing and trading to continue the 40-year trend¬†of individuals taking a more active stance in their investments.¬† Now armed with more technology than their predecessors and tools like Twitter and Google, millennials are arguably poised to become the most active generation of individual investors.¬† We recently profiled a young global macro trader who seems to get the markets like a seasoned veteran trader.¬† After speaking with him, we were introduced to a bunch of teens who actively trade the markets while attending high school and college. ¬†They're all members of a community of young investors and traders called Leaders Investment Club.¬† So we've decided to put together our first ever "20 Under 20" in finance. ¬† Many of these teens said that they look up to idols such as Paul Tudor Jones and Warren Buffett. The most popular investing books among them were Reminiscences of a Stock Operator and¬†Market Wizards. Most of them said that they want to study finance and economics in college and get into the hedge fund industry.¬†
Yesterday, New York Federal Reserve Chair William Dudley gave an ominous speech about the danger of 'Too Big To Fail' on Wall Street, in part blaming the industry's very nature for its continuation. The speech was long, but his points were simple ‚Äî TBTF is alive, and while coming up with a doomsday plan and making banks hold more money is important, it's not enough. Regulators must find a way to change management incentives on Wall Street so that risk is mitigated far before a bank comes close to failing. If that can be achieved, questions about the size of U.S. banks are less important (though worth discussing with appropriate respect for their complexity). But how do you change management on Wall Street? Before that question can be answered, Dudley asks his listeners to accept an assertion that the industry has continuously denied. The Fed Chair said that TBTF is, in part, due to a more sinister, root problem ‚Äî one that exists deep below the surface of Wall Street firms where regulators can't go. It is a problem with Wall Street's culture. From Dudley's speech: Some argue that what I have proposed‚Äîhigher capital requirements and better incentives that reduce the probability of failure combined with a resolution regime that makes the prospect of failure fully credible‚Äîare insufficient.¬† Perhaps, this is correct.¬† After all, collectively these enhancements to our current regime may not solve another important problem evident within some large financial institutions‚Äîthe apparent lack of respect for law, regulation and the public trust.¬† There is evidence of deep-seated cultural and ethical failures at many large financial institutions.¬† Whether this is due to size and complexity, bad incentives or some other issues is difficult to judge, but it is another critical problem that needs to be addressed.¬† Tough enforcement and high penalties will certainly help focus management‚Äôs attention on this issue.¬† But I am also hopeful that ending too big to fail and shifting the emphasis to longer-term sustainability will encourage the needed cultural shift necessary to restore public trust in the industry. Changing a culture is a difficult multi-generational process ‚Äî best to start working on it now.
Getty ImagesThe preliminary results of the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 72.0 in November from October's 73.2 reading. Economists expected it to bounce back to 74.5 after getting slammed in October by the government shutdown. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 87.2 from October's 89.9 reading. The economic outlook sub-index fell to 62.3 from 62.5. Inflation expectations one year ahead edged up to 3.1% from 3.0%, while inflation expectations five years ahead edged up to 2.9% from 2.8%. "The survey breakdown also shows buying intentions suffering during the month, with home purchase expectations slipping further to 148K from 156K and auto purchase expectations falling to 123 from 136," says TD Securities strategist Gennadiy Goldberg. "Durable purchase expectations also edged to 135 from 136, though this index already saw a notable slip in October from 143 in September. We believe that the deceleration in purchase expectations is worrying as a protracted period of lower consumer confidence could weigh further on Q4 economic growth, forecasts of which are already being revised lower due to slowing consumer spending momentum in Q3." TD Securities, University of Michigan
Are you consumed with reading about how much money you need to save today in order to retire luxuriously? Do you religiously track what you spend on Mint.com? Are you bored with the way Personal Finance is covered on the web? We're looking for a writer for Business Insider's lively Personal Finance section. The ideal candidate has at least 2 years of professional web experience preferably at a national website, and is an exceptional writer who is a pro at coming up with story ideas and framing them for a general business audience. This person would also be packaging content from syndication partners and outside contributors. We're looking for someone who not only understands the world of personal finance but also has the smarts to be creative and innovative with it. We want someone to cover an often dry and jargon-filled subject in a surprising, personal and accessible way ‚Äî someone who has ideas for exciting ways to share information, whether it's through infographics, photo slide shows, or video interviews. Other necessities: this person should be a team player with a great attitude and a strong work ethic. Familiarity using Content Management Systems is a plus, as is experience with basic Photoshop. If interested, please send a resume and 3 writing clips to jliebman@businessinsider.com. In your brief email, make the case for why you're the one for the job.
Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisThe October jobs report is out, and the numbers ó while noisy due to the government shutdown ó were generally strong. But some uninformed skeptics are already freaking out about the labor force participation rate (LFPR), which plunged to 62.8% from 63.2% a month ago. During the period, a whopping 720,000 people apparently dropped out of the labor force. The falling participation rate ó which comes from the BLS's household survey ó has helped bring the unemployment rate ó which also comes from the household survey ó fall during the economic recovery. For now, the drop in the the LFPR should be seen as a temporary symptom of the shutdown and not a major shift in the labor market.† Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth explains: Apparently, the near three-week Federal government shutdown had little, if any, impact on payrolls. Manufacturing increased by a healthy 19,000, construction increased by 11,000 and retail increased by 44,000. Federal employment fell by a modest 12,000, because those workers affected by the shutdown received their back pay when they returned, which means they were counted as employed in the establishment survey. In contrast, the alternative household survey defines employment slightly differently and, as a result, those Federal workers were not counted as employed or in the labour force. That explains the 720,000 drop in the labour force and the 735,000 decline in the household survey measure of employment. As a result, the unemployment rate ticked up to 7.3%, from 7.2%, and the participation rate plummeted to 62.8%, from 63.2%. With those Federal employees back at work now, however, all of this will be reversed in November's report. Now, if these numbers don't reverse, then we'll actually have something to talk about.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR GlobalIn the week ended November 6, investors pulled $1.8 billion out of global equity funds. U.S. equity funds were hit the hardest, recording a whopping $7.5 billion in redemptions ‚Äî and the majority of those outflows were from ETFs. BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett describes it as a "classic risk-off week," pointing to "outflows from equities, cyclicals, HY bonds &amp; EM debt vs flight to govie, IG bonds &amp; money-markets." Below is a complete breakdown of this week's fund flows, via Hartnett. Asset Class Flows  Equities: $1.8bn outflows (note $3.0bn ETF outflows vs $1.3bn LO inflows) (Table 1)  Bonds: $1.7bn inflows (largest inflows in 6 weeks) Precious metals: $0.2 outflows (8 straight weeks) MMF: third straight week of inflows post debt-ceiling resolution Equity Flows Europe: 19 straight weeks of inflows ($2.8bn) (Table 2) Japan: 9 straight weeks of inflows US: $7.5bn outflows (majority out of ETF‚Äôs ‚Äì SPY, IWM, UWM) EM: $1.0bn outflows (largest in 5 weeks) By sector, chunky outflows from cyclicals (Tech &amp; Financials); in fact, largest weekly outflows from Tech funds¬†($1.2bn) since Sep‚Äô08 Fixed Income Flows Largest inflows to IG bond funds since May‚Äô13 ($1.5bn) 72 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt First outflows from HY bond funds in 9 weeks (Table 3) First inflows to govt/tsy funds in 9 weeks ($0.9bn)  6 straight weeks of outflows from EM debt funds 30 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS
APOn Nov. 24, Swiss voters will go to the polls to vote on a radical new idea ‚Äî limiting the monthly pay of the highest earners in Swiss firms to no greater than the yearly pay of the lowest earners. It's being called the 1:12 Initiative ‚Äî and it sure has some people worried. To understand the context of the vote, you need to know two things about Switzerland. First, the country has a relatively unique system of direct democracy ‚Äî if 100,000 people sign a proposed change to the constitution, or "popular initiatives," a referendum is held. If a majority of voters and cantons (Swiss states) agree with the proposal, the change can become law. The second factor is how these Swiss initiatives have been used recently. Earlier this year Swiss voters agreed to an idea proposed by entrepreneur Thomas Minder that limited executive (in his words, "fat cat") salaries of companies listed on the Swiss stock market. On the other end of the spectrum, a proposal to give every Swiss adult an unconditional income of $2,800 a month recently gained enough signatures to be voted on. The 1:12 Initiative lies somewhere between these two extremes in terms of its radical ambition, but its core idea comes from the same place ‚Äî an angst in Switzerland, a country most famous for centuries of private banking, that executive pay and income inequality are out of control. To understand the thought process, Business Insider called David Roth, the leader of the youth wing of Swiss party the Social Democrats, and one of the architects of the plan. Roth explained that high executive salaries only became a big issue in 2002 or so, and by 2006/7 they became a public issue. The preparation for the 1:12 Initiative began in 2009. "It's really just a thought process that says no-one should earn more in a month than the lowest-paid person in the same company does in a year," Roth says. "You shouldn't just say a maximum salary, because what we really want is a relationship between the lowest and the highest. There are others who say that people shouldn't earn over, say, a million, but in our opinion it is not really the number." That sounds nice, but what would it look like in reality? Statistics published in the Swiss press suggest that many companies currently pay their CEOs salaries that are hundreds of times the salaries of their lowest-paid workers; for example, the ratio for health care company Roche is reportedly 1:236, and for pharmaceutical giant Novartis it's said to be 1:219. So, would a company where the CEO earns 12 million Swiss francs a year suddenly start paying its receptionist 1 million Swiss francs a year? Or will the receptionist's salary of 40,000 Swiss francs a year result in a CEO with a 480,000 Swiss franc salary? "It's wrong to say it will do one of those extremes," Roth counters. "I think it will be both. First of all the high salaries will go down, but then what will happen with the money that is available after that? We hope that some of it will go to the lower-paid workers." "The government of my district is predicting that if the initiative is accepted we would have lower tax of around 9 million Swiss francs. Next week I will be there in parliament and we will discuss tax reductions for companies and rich people, which will cost hundreds of millions of francs," Roth says. "[People] always think that the money that [executives] wouldn't be earning would just disappear, and that's just not the reality. The money won't just disappear. It'll probably go to lower-paid workers, it may also stay within the company and be reinvested. That ought to have a good effect on our economy." Others disagree. According to World Radio Switzerland, Novartis, Nestle, Bobst, and SBB sent thousands of employees letters asking them to vote no to the 1:12 initiative, arguing that it would make Switzerland a less desirable place to do business. Earlier this year the CEO of commodities giant GlencoreXstrata said the company would consider leaving Switzerland if the law passed. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt believe that Switzerland would cause such great harm to its economy,‚Äù Ivan Glasenberg said in an interview with the SonntagsZeitung. ‚ÄúAnd I say that not just as the head of a company, but as a Swiss citizen.‚Äù "I think it's quite arrogant of some people to think that big companies will disappear," Roth says of that criticism. "Big companies are not here because they can pay the managers high salaries. Big companies are in Switzerland because we create really good conditions for those companies. We have really well-educated people, we have a really good level of infrastructure, we have a health care system that is working, we have social security, and public security, of course, because of the social security. You are able to walk the streets ‚Äî it doesn't matter how rich you are, you are safe here in Switzerland. Well-educated people, good infrastructure, that is the reason why these companies are here, not because they can pay those high salaries." There's a bigger question though. Anyone who's ever been to Switzerland knows that life is nice there; in a recent OECD poll, the country came in at the top for "life satisfaction." So why does Switzerland need to change? "In the past in Switzerland, it was usual that someone showed off their wealth," Roth says. "They had some modesty in Switzerland 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, there was a relation between the highest and the lowest salary ‚Äî a relation of 1:6." For decades, Roth argues, as production rose in Switzerland, normal pay and executive pay rose in proportion, and that only changed 10-15 years ago. "So you see, it's really not Switzerland, this latest development." Whether Switzerland agrees is another matter. It's relatively rare for initiatives to pass, but recent polls have shown the yes and no votes are nearly tied, and Minder's "fat cat" initiative passed with 67.9% in March. "I'm optimistic," Roth says. "We have our chance. We're up against the big companies who spend millions. I can tell you that our opponents are nervous. I had a radio talk show before, and my opponent became a little aggressive. " "I think she's a bit nervous," he explains.
@NYSEcamIt's too high, fellows! I'm scared!Twitter stock closed at $45 a share after its first day as a public company. This price values the company at about $31 billion. This price also gives Twitter a "revenue multiple" of about 15X 2015 estimated revenue of about $2 billion. That's a significantly higher multiple than the stocks of Twitter's closest comparables, Facebook (~10X) and LinkedIn (~10X). There are some future scenarios in which Twitter can justify this valuation ó namely, if the $2 billion revenue estimate for 2015 turns out to be very low ó but these scenarios don't seem particularly likely. And even if the $2 billion revenue estimate does prove low, the upside for the stock from this level doesn't appear to be particularly compelling. So, although I wouldn't be rushing to short Twitter at $45 (as I explained two days ago, there's a massive growth story here), I certainly wouldn't be elbowing people out of the way to buy it at this level.† Some Wall Street analysts, meanwhile, have an even less rosy view. Yesterday, in the middle of the trading day, one bravely downgraded Twitter to SELL. And, this morning, another, Daniel Ernst of Hudson Square Research, initiated at SELL. Mr. Ernst also headlined his note with one of the most amusing research report headlines ever. (Back when I was an analyst, the compliance folks would have freaked out if you used language like this. I remember trying to smuggle the word "roadkill" into a report, for example, only to see it replaced with "likely to experience downside volatility" or some similar euphemism). "Flip The Bird," Mr. Ernst says. $TWTR Flip The Bird, Initiate @ Sell pic.twitter.com/jxk0RfeyjA SEE ALSO: Think Twitter's IPO Price Is Silly? Then You Don't Get It
The U.S. economy added 204,000 jobs in October, which was much stronger than the 120,000 expected. The September number was revised up to 163,000 from an earlier estimate of 148,000. The labor force participation rate dropped to 62.8% from 63.2% a month ago, but the unemployment rate climbed to 7.3% from 7.2%. Despite the improvements in the numbers, the U.S. labor market remains anemic. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This graph shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. "The dotted line is ex-Census hiring. This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis." Calculated Risk
The October jobs report is out, and the numbers massively beat expectations. Below is a snapshot of what markets are doing. Top left is S&amp;P 500 futures, followed by the dollar-yen and euro-dollar exchange rates. The bottom three from left to right are gold, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and WTI crude oil futures. Wall Street's top strategists thought nonfarm payrolls number¬†in excess of 150,000 could wreak havoc¬†on markets, as it would move up the Federal Reserve's timetable for tapering down quantitative easing in the minds of market participants. Needless to say, today's 204,000 reading, as well as positive upward revisions to the August and September reports, are doing just that. Right now, S&amp;P 500 futures are down 0.3%, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are down 0.7%, and gold is down 1.3%. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is at 2.73%, up 13 basis points from yesterday's close. Thinkorswim
REUTERS The October jobs report is out, and it was a huge beat at 204,000. Part-time jobs fell 127,000¬†in October, according to the BLS' household survey. Workers are considered "part time" if they work under 35 hours per week. We like to look at this figure every month, as people often point to it as a sign of how healthy job growth is. Last month, most new jobs were full-time and part-time jobs fell. Though, this month the household survey data is a little nosiy thanks to the government shutdown. The report has full-time jobs falling 623,000. Read our Sam Ro explaining why the household survey data (skewed by the government shutdown) may reverse next month.¬† Earlier this year when we were seeing a so-called "shift" from full-time job growth to part-time job growth, some argued that the trend was due to the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act. Under Obamacare, employers with over 50 employees will have to offer health insurance or face penalties (though the mandate has been delayed until 2015). But as a result, some speculated that companies would reduce their full-time staff to below the 50-person threshold or simply scale back hours. But as we pointed out last jobs report (via the Wall Street Journal's Ben Casselman), part-time workers as a share of total workers has actually gone down.¬†
Official U.S. Navy Page/FlickrThe October Jobs Report is out, and it is much stronger than people had expected. Total non-farm payrolls came in at 204,000. That's well ahead of the 120,000 that was expected. Private payrolls were up 212K, which means that the public sector is still a bit of a drag on the labor picture. Critically, there were strong upward revisions to previous months that totaled 60,000. What's big about all this is that everyone expected October to be extremely weak with the government shutdown, and yet in all of the data, that weakness is not showing up. Stocks are falling on the news, as people think that the Fed's "taper" could come sooner than expected. Bonds and gold are both dropping as well, which is also consistent with expectations of the Fed moving sooner than expected. Here's the full report from the BLS. ¬†
Flickr/luis perezThe September personal income and spending report is out. Income jumped by 0.5%, beating expectations for a 0.3% gain. Spending climbed by 0.2%, which was right in line with expectations. The savings rate jumped to 4.9% from 4.7% a month ago.
Creative ToolsTwitter is bearish on today's jobs report. The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is +111,000, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of +120,000. The mean estimate is also +111,000, and the standard deviation is 39,569. These numbers were calculated from 81 tweets using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 7:50 AM ET this morning. The jobs report is out at 8:30. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ª
REUTERS/ Carlos Barria A recent report on the number of super-rich around the world found that China was second only to the U.S. in sheer numbers of billionaires, with 157 billionaires compared to 515 in the states. That's impressive, but the report found something else perhaps more impressive. According to the Wealth-X and UBS World Ultra Wealth Report, 89% of Chinese billionaires were self-made. The report says that's the highest percentage in the world, far higher than the U.S. which has around 68%. It makes sense, of course, when you remember that China only began making its first steps toward capitalism in the early 1980s, and most of the historically wealthy classes of China had been decimated by years of war, the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution. It is remarkable, however, that so much wealth could have been "self-made" in a little over 30 years ‚Äî it compares extraordinarily well to Russia, which emerged from communism 20 years ago but where less than 67% of billionaires are self-made (the country with the lowest percentage of self-made billionaires in the report was Switzerland at 31%). So, China may well be the land of opportunity, but it's also worth bearing something else in mind too: The report doesn't make a distinction between a hard-working entrepreneur and the government corruption in China that has become notorious around the world.
REUTERS/NOAA/Handout via ReutersTyphoon Haiyan is pictured in this NOAA satellite handout image taken November 8, 2013 at 01:57 UTC. Haiyan, potentially the strongest recorded typhoon to make landfall, slammed into the Philippines' central islands on Friday, forcing millions of people to flee to safer ground or take refuge in storm shelters.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Business Insider VideoHere's another cool sign of how Twitter is breaking seriously into the world of finance. See, every month on Jobs Day, Twitter does this thing called #NFPGuesses which is, obviously, where people enter in their guess for the Non-Farm Payrolls gain. This week, Agostino Rusconi of BofA sent a note to clients telling them about this, and where Twitter stood. Here's the email that was sent to traders yesterday: Subject:BullPoint : NFP Estimates: Wall St. vs Main St. BOTTOM LINE: Reuters NFP estimates compiled surveying economists for this Fridayís data release show a mean of 119k, and 120k median estimate (vs 110k BofaML). Itís interesting to compare the 90 Wall Street economists estimates against Main Street, and that is possible by aggregating Twitter estimates preceded by the #nfpguesses hashtag. (see http://www.financemonk.com/) Currently the Twitter average stands at 133k, and median at 125k, that means that the street feels more upbeat about Septemberís employment data, but that increases the downside risk on a dissapointing report. The data points available are still limited, considering that the ECB is under the spotlight at the moment, and dispersion is still considerable. I will provide an update once we start to see more data flowing in.
Flickr/h080The October jobs report will be marred by data collection issues caused by the government shutdown. However, the headline gauge of nonfarm payroll creation ó the one the market likes to pay attention to ó should be relatively clean. The BLS "establishment survey" from which the nonfarm payroll number is derived counts as employed those who were paid during the survey period, and since federal workers furloughed by the shutdown received back-pay, they won't drag down the payroll numbers. "The only way the payrolls data could have been adversely affected by the shutdown is if private-sector government contractors laid off some of their own employees," says Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at research firm Capital Economics. "The spike in weekly initial jobless claims in October appears to suggest that this was a factor. That said, the most recent claims figures have also been distorted by a couple of states working through a backlog of claims after switching their IT systems. The upshot is that we can't say for sure how much of the most recent surge in claims is shutdown-related." Given that, and an October FOMC statement last week that, on balance, moved up the probability that the Federal Reserve begins to taper down its quantitative easing program before the FOMC's March meeting, the Friday nonfarm payrolls report is probably going to be a market mover. If one word characterizes the market's likely reaction, it's†asymmetric. Most seem to agree that, as Citi global head of G-10 FX strategy Steven Englander puts it, "a good number is unambiguously good, whereas a bad number is ambiguously bad." That is, an unambiguously good number should cause the dollar to rally, Treasuries to sell off, and rates to rise as investors re-calibrate toward the possibility of tapering sooner rather than later ó whereas a bad number may or may not have the opposite effect. Englander thinks a "good number" would be a nonfarm payroll print in excess of 150,000. For comparison, the median estimate of Wall Street economists polled by Bloomberg is 120,000, and September's number was 148,000. Priya Misra, head of U.S. rates strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch, also has 150,000 on her radar. "Anything above 150,000 should result in higher rates," says Misra. "A number below 90,000 will be a rally." Tom di Galoma, managing director and head of fixed income rates sales at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets, expects a print even lower than that, and he thinks the threshold to spark a rally in the bond market is also a bit higher. "My view is the NFP figure will be weak (around 50,000) and the [Treasury] market will pop higher in price but will be met with selling due to long-end Treasury supply next week and the ongoing new-issue corporate supply, which has been extremely robust," says di Galoma. "That said, a print below 100,000 should keep the Fed from tapering until March 2014." On the other hand, a good number will likely move up the tapering timetable in the minds of market participants. "FX will take its cue from dataís implications for the timing of tapering," says Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank. "Any private payrolls number at 170,000 or more will confirm that December tapering is a very real possibility." Ruskin believes the October FOMC statement, which failed to acknowledge the effects of the government shutdown on the economy, has lowered the threshold for tapering in the minds of market participants. "[There is] a little more willingness to entertain thoughts of a December/January tapering," says Ruskin, as there is "less expectation that NFP has to print 200,000 per month for them to taper." A good number need not necessarily cause a big sell-off in Treasuries, though, according to Gennadiy Goldberg, a strategist at TD Securities. "I think the market reaction to Fridayís nonfarm payroll report risked being a bit asymmetrical earlier in the week, but the market seems to have adjusted as Treasury yields moved higher so far in the week," says Goldberg. "This is largely due to the more encouraging ISM surveys suggesting that the government shutdown did less damage to the economic recovery than previously anticipated." How are investors positioned heading into the release? SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, CFTC, FXCM, TFX, and local central bank data"The market is long EUR/USD and long USD/EM," says Sebastien Galy, senior forex strategist at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale. "If the NFP is strong, EUR/USD will break sharply lower. Similarly in EM, long USD/EM positions are hedges against EM fixed income flatteners. These EM curves could steepen in line with the U.S. Treasury curve, however the market is already positioned for a bearish outcome. If the NFP data is good but not overly strong, this bearish positioning, which is fairly massive, will start to come under pressure." Citi's Englander agrees. "The most active part of the FX market now looks to be long USD, short EUR, but the market as a whole still has USD to buy, EUR and EM to sell if yields keep backing up," he says. In the rates space, BAML's Misra says investors are positioned for carry trades, which do well in periods of low interest-rate volatility. "People expect the Fed to be paralyzed due to the lack of clean data and therefore a low vol environment," she says. "That could be a risky position ahead of a volatile payroll report."
REUTERS/Kim Hong-JiIm Chan-soo gives lectures on Samsung job interviews at his private cram school in Busan, about 420 km (261 miles) southeast of Seoul October 28, 2013.BUSAN,†South Korea†(Reuters) - In a cram school in the South Korean port city of†Busan, 70 college students packed into a classroom, chanting "We can do it!" as they studied for an exam they hope will guarantee them a job for life with†Samsung Group. The promise of Samsung, whose sprawling business empire spans consumer electronics to ships, offers not only a good salary and benefits but also holds the key to a good marriage in this Asian country where Confucian traditions run deep. The twice-a-year recruitment rounds by the "chaebol", conglomerates such as Samsung and Hyundai, have spawned a cottage industry worth millions of dollars as young Koreans do what they have done from the age of 5 - cram to get ahead. "I came here at 10 this morning and will be preparing for the interview until 8 p.m.," said 25-year-old†Shin Seong-hwan, whose father is a Samsung employee near†Busan. Shin has already passed the company's aptitude test and now faces gruelling interviews that end late in November. In its current recruitment round, Samsung will hire 5,500 young people from more than 100,000 applicants, adding to the pressure cooker environment. "Jobs at conglomerates can save face for you and your parents," said†Hur Jai-joon, a senior researcher at theKorea Labor Institute, a government-funded research body. It is an impossible dream for most to achieve as the top 30 conglomerates employ just 6.8 percent of the total workforce, the†Federation of Korean Industries†says. Samsung has not always used such rigorous tests. Thirty years ago, according to former employees, a fortune teller who specialized in reading faces sat in on the interviews. Now, spots at the top conglomerate are so coveted that students spend heavily on cram schools, workbooks and online lectures. The phrase "Samsung Gosi" describes the arduous process, borrowing from the term "gosi" that refers to public service exams that South Koreans study for years to pass. "If you don't come here, you won't have the right information," said†Im Chan-soo, head of LCS Communication, which runs private classes for Samsung job interviews in†Busan. Aptitude test workbooks cost around $20 each and figure prominently in every bookstore in†South Korea. Private tutoring costs can run into thousands of dollars. "I had doubts about going to cram school. It wasn't cheap but they are professional and I am learning a lot," saidHan Nam-gyu, a 27-year-old engineering graduate who paid 280,000 won ($260) to LCS Communication. Critics of the system say it adds yet another layer of misery for graduates, who have crammed from pre-school all the way through high school to try to get into a top university. In†South Korea, 65 percent of those in the 25 to 34 age group went to university, the highest rate among theOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development's 34 member states. That is a huge shift in a generation. Just 13 percent of people in the 55 to 64 age group went to university. Samsung appears to recognise that the super-competitive process may not be healthy for the country's young people, warning recently of rising "social and financial costs" of the recruitment system. Still, it did not identify a solution. For many students like Han the engineer, "Plan B" is to come back again next year for another shot at Samsung. "My mother cried after I passed the second stage. She was really happy," said Han, who applied to Samsung C&amp;T Corp, the group firm that handles engineering, construction, trading and investment. "I want to get into Samsung so my mother will be able to boast about her son." ($1=1,060.75 Korean won) (Editing by David Chance and John O'Callaghan and Clarence Fernandez)
(Reuters) - As Twitter Inc's &lt;TWTR.N&gt; chief financial officer planned the company's initial public offering this year, he had one overriding goal: to avoid becoming the next Facebook Inc &lt;FB.O&gt;. Twitter CFO Mike Gupta grilled banks about how to sidestep the problems that beset Facebook's IPO from start to finish, asking detailed questions about everything from how to pick an exchange to how to communicate with analysts. "They were really information and data hogs," said one person who worked on the process. "They wanted a lot of different perspectives and to make sure that they did this right." In the end, Twitter made different choices from its rival social networking site. Facebook selected Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; as its lead underwriter, while Twitter picked Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;. Facebook listed on Nasdaq, where trading glitches marred the initial hours of trading, while Twitter listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Twitter made sure its shares were sold for a low enough price to attract strong interest and keep shares high in their early days of trading, after Facebook's shares dropped in the days after its IPO. Bankers said Gupta and Twitter's director of investor relations†Nils Erdmann†also looked closely at what worked - and what did not - for other Internet companies that went public, including Pandora Media Inc &lt;P.N&gt;,†Zynga†Inc &lt;ZNGA.O&gt; and LinkedIn Corp &lt;LNKD.N&gt;. A key player in the IPO was Goldman's lead Twitter banker,†Anthony Noto. The New York-based Noto was a former top ranked equity research analyst who left Goldman in 2008 to serve as an executive for the†National Football League. He rejoined the firm just two years later to serve as the co-head of global technology, media and telecom investment banking. Noto has built the team into the number one U.S. underwriter for tech IPOs so far this year, over Morgan Stanley and rival banker†Michael Grimes†who led the Facebook IPO, as well as other high profile deals including Google &lt;GOOG.O&gt; and LinkedIn. Goldman has taken over 16 technology companies public since January, including software darling Tableau Software Inc &lt;DATA.N&gt;. For the same period last year Goldman was fifth, according to Thomson Reuters data. Those that have worked with Noto praise his low-key, no-nonsense style. "Every banker talks about wanting to build a relationship but after you do a deal with them, you are dropped like yesterday's newspaper," said Ed DiMaria, the chief financial officer of Bankrate Inc &lt;RATE.N&gt; who first worked with Noto when he helped take his company public in June 2011. "With Anthony, it's not about getting paid or the next deal - it's about the relationship and how he can be helpful to the company." Twitter could not be reached for immediate comment. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley declined to comment. Goldman quietly began working with Twitter in May, helping the company to draft its S-1 registration statement and submit it confidentially to regulators. News in late August that the company's IPO was already underway caught most other investment banks by surprise. There was no formal pitch process to fill out the rest of the syndicate, bankers said, as other banks - Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Bank of America &lt;BAC.N&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; - were approached by the company and told that they needed a credit commitment if they wanted to be part of the deal. The company delved into areas many companies rarely consider, including how its shares should be allocated among the underwriters, and whether overpricing or underpricing a deal would hurt its brand. Noto and his team were loath to take any risks that would jeopardize the deal such as putting too many shares in the hands of retail investors that would flip the stock on the first day of trading. In the end, Noto got his wish as half of the 70 million shares that Twitter sold during the IPO ended up in the hands of large long-term holders. Twitter decided to price its IPO at $26, a relatively conservative figure as underwriters were weighing pricing the deal at as high as $28, according to investors. But underwriters decided that it made sense to price the deal at a lower point and leave room for a larger first day pop rather than follow in Facebook's footsteps even if it meant leaving more than $1 billion on the table. Facebook, which priced its deal at $38, saw underwriters battle to keep its shares from dipping below the IPO price on the first day of trading. The shares continued to drop to fall as low as $17.55 in the months following the company's public debut. It took over a year for the stock to recover. (Reporting by Olivia Oran in New York; Additional reporting by Sarah McBride and Alexei Oreskovic in San Francisco; Editing by Tim Dobbyn)
Rob and Stephanie Levy/FlickrAt 8:30 a.m. ET, we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report for October. Analysts expect to see the unemployment rate tick up to 7.3% on 120,000 new jobs. There are two other interesting data points that are also coming out today. From Calculated Risk, they are: ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 a.m., the Personal Income and Outlays report for October. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in personal income, and for a 0.2% increase in personal spending. And for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.1%.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 a.m., the Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (preliminary for November). The consensus is for a reading of 75.0, up from 73.2 in October.
A couple days ago we were stunned when Bitcoin hit $250. Then yesterday we were shocked when it rose to above $300. This morning? Over $333. We're in awe. Here's a chart going back a way ‚Äî the last big peak was in May ‚Äî from Clark Moody: Bitcoin
fdecomite at www.flickr.comFrance continues to stage one of the less impressive recoveries in Europe. Today's been not so good. A few quick bullets:
Yesterday we got GDP data for Q3. The headline reading of 2.8% growth was better than expected. However, most of the "beat" was due to the accumulation of inventories, rather than robust demand, so excitement was actually muted. So what's the deal with Q4? Goldman Sachs economists Sven Jari Stehn and Kris Dawsey have put together a "road map" for Q4, talking about the various forces and pressures currently at play in the economy. Here's what they see going on: Currently Goldman is seeing 1.4% GDP growth for the quarter.
NASAMANILA, Philippines (AP) ó The strongest typhoon this year slammed into the Philippines on Friday, setting off landslides, knocking out power in several provinces and cutting communications in the country's central region of island provinces. Four people died. Telephone lines appeared down as it was difficult to get through to the landfall site 650 kilometers (405 miles) southeast of Manila where Typhoon Haiyan ó one of the strongest typhoons ever ó slammed into the southern tip of Samar island before barreling on to Leyte Island. Two people were electrocuted in storm-related accidents, one person was killed by a fallen tree and another was struck by lightning, official reports said. Close to 720,000 people had been evacuated from towns and villages in the typhoon's path across the central Philippines, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council said. Among them were thousands of residents of Bohol who had been camped in tents and other makeshift shelters after a magnitude 7.2 earthquake hit the island province last month. Southern Leyte Gov. Roger Mercado said 31,000 people were evacuated in his landslide-prone mountainous province before the super typhoon struck, knocking out power, setting off small landslides that blocked roads in rural areas, uprooting trees and ripping roofs off houses around his residence. The dense clouds and heavy rains made the day seem almost as dark as night, he said. "When you're faced with such a scenario, you can only pray, and pray and pray," Mercado told The Associated Press by telephone, adding that his town mayors have not called in to report any major damage. "I hope that means they were spared and not the other way around," he said. "My worst fear is there will be many massive loss of lives and property." Television images from Tacloban city on Leyte Island showed a street under knee-deep floodwater carrying debris that had been blown down by the fierce winds. Tin roofing sheets ripped from buildings were flying above the street. Visibility was so poor that only the silhouette of a local reporter could be seen through the driving rain. Weather officials said that Haiyan had sustained winds at 235 kilometers (147 miles) per hour, with gusts of 275 kph (170 mph) when it made landfall. That makes it the strongest typhoon this year, said Aldczar Aurelio of the government's weather bureau. Gener Quitlong, another weather forecaster, said the typhoon was not losing much of its strength because there is no large land mass to slow it down since the region is comprised of islands with no tall mountains. The typhoon ó the 24th serious storm to hit the Philippines this year ó is forecast to blow toward the South China Sea on Saturday, heading toward Vietnam. Jeff Masters, a former hurricane meteorologist who is meteorology director at the private firm Weather Underground, said the storm had been poised to be the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded at landfall. He warned of "catastrophic damage." But he said the Philippines might get a small break because the storm is so fast moving that flooding from heavy rains ó usually the cause of most deaths from typhoons in the Philippines ó may not be as bad. As it approached the Philippines, the storm was one of the strongest on record. The U.S. Navy's Joint Typhoon Warning Center said shortly before the typhoon made landfall that its maximum sustained winds were 314 kilometers per hour (195 mph), with gusts up to 379 kilometers per hour (235 mph). Those measurements are different than local weather data because the U.S. Navy center measures the average wind speed for 1 minute while local forecasters measure average for 10 minutes. Hurricane Camille, a 1969 storm, had wind speeds that reached 305 kph (190 mph) at landfall in the United States, Masters said. Officials in Cebu province have shut down electric service to the northern part of the province to avoid electrocutions in case power pylons are toppled, said assistant regional civil defense chief Flor Gaviola. President Benigno Aquino III assured the public of war-like preparations, with three C-130 air force cargo planes and 32 military helicopters and planes on standby, along with 20 navy ships. __ Associated Press writers Jim Gomez in Manila, Philippines, and Seth Borenstein in Washington contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Rail traffic is seen as a great gauge of the economy, since it represents moving goods that people are buying and selling in the real economy. And at least by this measure, it looks like things are going well. Cullen Roche at Pragmatic Capitalist flags the fact that rail traffic just hit its best level in seven months, with a 10.8% weekly surge. One thing that seems clear is that the economic impact of the shutdown is not showing up in a significant way in the data yet. PragCap
APFederal Reserve vice chair Janet Yellen assumes the top spot at the central bank in January.It's hard to overstate the importance of the October jobs report. With the FOMC getting closer to announcing the first move to taper down the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program (QE3), markets are hinging on economic data releases that would push them closer or further from such a decision, and the monthly jobs report is king among those releases. This one will be tainted by the government shutdown that spanned the first two weeks of October. The shutdown caused some problems with data collection, which means the numbers will be skewed. Specifically, the unemployment rate is expected to tick up to 7.3% from 7.2%, and some economists predict it will go as high as 7.6%. This is NOT indicative of actual job losses, but rather a reflection of the way data for the "household survey" ó the one that determines the unemployment rate ó are collected. Workers who were furloughed for the government shutdown during the survey period are counted as unemployed in the household survey, even though they received back-pay for their time off during the shutdown and went back to work as soon as it ended. The "establishment survey," on the other hand ó the one that contains the payrolls figures that markets like to pay attention to ó will be relatively unaffected. The only way the shutdown will have affected those numbers is if private-sector government contractors laid off employees in response. Below are consensus expectations for each datapoint: How is the report expected to move the market? Citi's Steven Englander, BofA Merrill Lynch's Priya Misra, Deutsche Bank's Alan Ruskin, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale's Sebastien Galy, TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg, and ED&amp;F Man Capital's Tom di Galoma all weigh in on that question here. In short, the strategists think a nonfarm payrolls number in excess of around 150,000 should cause some fireworks, because it suggests that the economy shrugged off the shutdown in October, which may help give the FOMC the "all-clear" for announcing tapering in the next few meetings. What do previously-released survey data have to say about the state of the American labor market in October? Here are the big three: Finally, one thing to note: there has been growing concern about the seasonal adjustments†the Bureau of Labor Statistics is using to compute the data. In a nutshell, the timing of the financial crisis and attendant job losses in 2008 is causing seasonal adjustments to overstate the jobs numbers during certain parts of the year and understate them during other parts of the year. In the past few months, seasonally-adjusted jobs numbers have shown a deterioration in job growth. But take a look at this chart of the year-over-year change in the unadjusted data: it shows fairly steady year-over-year gains of 1.6-1.7% in each of the last 18 months. St. Louis Fed The jobs report is due out Friday morning at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ª
Peter Wallis/REUTERSGood morning and happy jobs day! Today at 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the latest Non-Farm Payroll figures for October. Analysts are expecting 120,000 new jobs, and for the unemployment rate to tick up to 7.3% from 7.2%. A full preview is here. Meanwhile, in the U.S. and Europe, markets are pointing up. One laggard in Europe is France, which has been downgraded by S&amp;P 500. Today's action comes after a fairly wild day yesterday, which saw solid losses despite a good GDP report and a rate cut from the ECB.
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelRiders fall during the first stage of the Tour de France cycling race from Rotterdam to Brussels, July 4, 2010.PARIS (Reuters) - Standard &amp; Poor's lowered its long-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings on France on Friday by one notch to 'AA' from 'AA+', citing high unemployment as undermining support for needed structural reforms. French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici reacted by saying his country's debt remained among the safest and liquid in the world, criticizing what he said were "inaccurate criticisms" of Europe's number 2 economy. "During the last 18 months the government has implemented major reforms aimed at improving the French economic situation, restoring its public finances, and its competitiveness," he said in a statement. He added that French debt, which has yet to start trading, benefitted from historically low rates. Ratings agency Fitch last week upgraded the outlook on Spain's credit rating, pointing to a convergence between France - typically considered a core euro zone member - and Spain, usually described as a peripheral state. (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon and Nick Vinocur, editing by Elizabeth Piper)
