Archimedes said that if he had a lever long enough and a place to put his feet, he could move the world. Investors have access to incredible pools of capital and can lever immensely. They thought they had some place to put their feet. The foothold was made of several planks. The unorthodox monetary experiment and large deficit were inflationary. The debasement of paper money among the high income countries would boost the price of gold and spur flows into the emerging markets. If the large deficits were not brought under control, interest rates would rise and growth would slow. Japanese investors, in particular, would respond to the return of the previous Liberal Democrat strategy, now on put on steroids, by protecting their savings by sending it abroad. Intuitively these all made sense and perfectly consistent with neo-liberal orthodoxy and, ironically, perfectly consistent with the ordo-liberalism which has come to dominate the euro area (if not the EU) through Germany's influence. Yet, over the past week or so each one these planks has been shaken. Individually, it might not be a big deal, but collectively, it is shaken investors and economists and may impact policy, going forward. With the exception of the UK, measured inflation in the high income countries is falling not rising. ¬†Japan, Switzerland, and Greece have deflation. ¬†The US and the euro area are seeing CPI slip further below 2%. ¬†Last month, Sweden said its consumer prices in February showed no change on a year-over-year basis. ¬†Last week, Canada report its consumer prices have risen 1% in the year through March.¬† China, the world's second largest economy, recently reported that its non-food inflation is up less in the past 12 months (1.8% in March). ¬†Other emerging market countries are facing greater challenges, including Russia and Brazil, where the central bank hiked rates last week. ¬†India's consumer prices increases may have peaked, but remain high. It is difficult to find much evidence for assertions seen from time to time that easy monetary policy among the high income countries is effectively exporting inflation to low and middle income countries. The channel of transmission is understood to be the capital markets. ¬†Yet capital flows into the emerging markets has been trending lower and, while the major equity markets have rallied to new record highs, as in the US, or multi-year highs as in Europe and Japan, the emerging markets have under-performed. ¬†The MSCI Emerging Market Index is 14% below the 2011 high and is currently at five month lows. ¬† Rather linking this under-performance to QE, a more compelling narrative is more grounded in ¬†specific developments, such as the Apple product cycle and pressure on the supply chain, largely in Asia. ¬†Weaker Chinese growth is another source of specific and local pressure. ¬†The decline in commodity prices has taken a toll on equities in many emerging markets, including Russia, Brazil and South Africa. ¬† The CRB Index has fallen nearly 9% over the past three months. ¬†Copper has shed a fifth of its price seen in early February, which as an industrial metal may be saying something about Chinese demand. ¬†However, it is the dramatic drop in the precious metals, and especially gold, that has shaken the ideological belief system of many investors. ¬†¬† Gold's recent precipitous drop did not come from record highs set last year as the Fed launched an open-end program of long-term asset purchases and then doubled it at the end of the year. ¬†Nor was the recent sell-off from highs set when the ECB unveiled a program of Outright Market Transactions last summer; nor when an Abe victory first seemed likely in Japan in middle of Q4 12. ¬†No, gold's record high was set in September 2011 and it is now down about 30% from the high water mark. ¬†And despite the neo-liberal rhetoric and analyses, many investment houses are suggesting the price of gold has peaked. ¬† Just like we did not read much into gold's ascent, we do not read much into its descent. ¬†If analyzed as any other commodity, stripped of its magical powers often attributed to it, what happened to gold is understandable. ¬†Three events took place that spurred the sell-off. ¬†First, was a violent short-covering of the yen in the foreign exchange market. ¬†The yen had been used as a financing currency over the past several months to fund other investments, including gold. ¬†The unwinding of this carry trade hit a vulnerable market. ¬† Around the same time, it became clear that countries in Europe seeking aid would be under more pressure to raise funds through asset sales. ¬†Those assets are not only commercial in nature, but also include the gold reserves. ¬†The 10 tonnes of gold Cyprus may sell is a relatively modest about for the gold market, with a value of about 400 mln euros. ¬†It is also a relatively small amount relative to the size of the Cypriot contribution to its assistance program of now estimated around 26 bln euros. ¬†However, the gold holdings of other periphery countries and assumed to be a new source of overhead supply. ¬† Lastly, the performance of competitive assets, like equities, in a low inflation environment, and slowing growth, also seemed to reduce the conviction that gold was where to be now. ¬†As it has done for the past couple of years, the US economy is appears to be slowing markedly in early spring. ¬†Europe continues to contract. ¬†China's growth has downshifted. In this context, the distinction between decline in paper claims on gold (futures and ETFs) and physical demand (gold bullion and coins) that some gold proponents have resorted to is not very helpful. ¬†It is similar to contending that the drop in the corn futures is somehow less significant because consumers are still buying corn on the cob or cornflakes. ¬† The behavior of Japanese investors has also gone against the conventional view as well. ¬†The ¬†Bank of Japan's program that entails doubling of its asset purchases and the doubling of the average maturity of those purchases was going to force Japanese investors to export their savings to protect the value. ¬† Contrary to the numerous claims that attributed the decline in European bond yields or the rally in some emerging market bonds to Japanese investors, the most authoritative data shows Japanese investors have continued to sell foreign bonds. ¬† In fact, the weekly Ministry of Finance data shows that Japanese investors have sold bonds every week this year, with three exceptions and two of those were in January. ¬†The benchmark indices that many Japanese institutional investors use give only a small weighting to emerging markets. ¬† There is a clear preference for the liquidity and safety of core bond markets in the North America and Europe. ¬†The investment proposition does not seem particularly attractive as these bond offer near-record low yields and the quality is suspect, as the downgrade of the UK's credit rating by Fitch (following Moody's move last month) illustrates. ¬† Japanese insurance companies and pensions do seem likely to boost their foreign allocation in the coming weeks as the FY13 plans are implemented. ¬†However, the combination of a weak yen and strong foreign asset prices may also encourage some investors to book profits on the large stock of foreign investments that have been accumulated. ¬†Moreover, as the recent data indicates, the foreign appetite for Japanese shares remains strong. ¬†The latest weekly report showed record foreign buying of Japanese stocks . The questions raised over the Rogoff-Reinhart work have also shaken the neo-liberal and ordo-liberal analyses and prescriptions. ¬†The first response by the ideologues is that the critique raises narrow issues, such as is 90% debt/GDP a tipping point, not the general and important claim that high levels of debt cause¬†coincide with weak growth. Even though the austerians in the US and Europe frequently cited Rogoff and Reinhart's work to support their agenda, it did not create the agenda in the first place. ¬†Nor will any criticism of their work negate the contention that one cannot solve a debt crisis through the creation of more debt. ¬†¬† Nevertheless, just like Rogoff and Reinhart's essay "Growth in the Time of Debt" (2010) and their book "This Time is Different: ¬†Eight Centuries of Financial Folly" was a touchstone austerians, the critique of the work is part of the coalescing push-back. ¬† Recall that over the past year, the IMF, which previously seemed to act as that its acronym really did stand for Its Mostly Fiscal, has 1) admitted that it had under-estimated the fiscal multiplier, or how much tightening of fiscal policy would have on the overall economy, and 2) urged some countries to balance the austerity efforts with growth measures, and 3) has been increasingly critical of the UK's austerity drive. ¬† In the euro area, the EU is conceding extensions to several countries that are over-shooting this year's deficit targets. ¬†Several members have simply refused to enact any more spending cuts or tax increases. ¬† In Japan, Abenomics is not simply about monetary policy, but it also includes more fiscal stimulus, even though debt/GDP stands near 230%. ¬† Ironically, the austerians have moved into ascendancy in the US. ¬†The fiscal drag from the US this year will be greater than from Europe. ¬†Indeed, the deficit is falling faster than many expected and this is prompting economists to lower their forecasts for the current fiscal year. ¬† Half way through the fiscal year and revenues are greater than expected ¬†and expenditures less than anticipated. ¬†The nominal growth rate in spending is the lowest in decades. ¬†Revenues are up 12% ¬†in the current fiscal year. ¬†This means that the full year deficit may come in below 5% of GDP. ¬†It is not just a function of the end of the payroll tax holiday as revenue was increasing prior to January 1. Similarly the spending decline preceded the sequester. ¬†Making some conservative assumptions, it is possible the US budget deficit fall below 3% (of GDP) in FY15, which may be before this is achieved by many euro area members. ¬† In any event, the point Rogoff and Rinehart's works was not ideologically neutral and the criticism of also has ideological implications. ¬†The key issue is not really over tipping points or even broader methodological questions, but over the causal narrative that is told (including in speeches and essays by Rogoff and Rinehart) between high debt and slow growth. ¬†As many, including ourselves, noted, the causal arrow often seems the reverse; that slow growth creates larger debt burdens. ¬†Stronger growth in the US (than Europe) is one of the reasons why the US deficit is falling quicker. ¬† It may take some time for investors to regain their balance after being discombobulated by recent events. ¬† ¬†Neo-liberalism and ordo-liberalism have a flexibility that is often under-appreciated. ¬†Nor should our ability to manage cognitive dissonance be under-estimated. ¬†Nevertheless, the foothold for investors and policy makers seem less secure than before.¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Getty Images / Win McNameeThe stock market is coming off of a rare down week, with the S&amp;P 500 falling 2.1% by Friday's close. Meanwhile, the latest reports continue to suggest that the U.S. is heading for a spring swoon.† As such, everyone will be looking for clues of a pick-up or slowdown in economic activity. Indeed, this week will be busy with economic data, and major companies like Caterpillar, Apple, Boeing, Starbucks, and ExxonMobil all announcing their Q1 financial results. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update "Of the 102 companies that have reported earnings to dat for Q1 2013, 72% have reported earnings above the mean estimate and 45% have reported revenues above the mean estimate," said FactSet's John Butters. Despite the beats, growth is expected to be just above break even.† And this is as corporate profit margins sit at record highs.† This is a combination that has market skeptics like John Hussman concerned. "This fragile equilibrium that we're in because of monetary policy, because of fiscal policy, and because of the combination of yield-seeking plus the apperence of yield through forward operating earnings because profit margins are elevated ó this creates an environment where stock returns prospectively are very low," he argued in a recent presentation. Hussman sees 3.5% average annual returns in the stock market over the next ten years.
Via Matt Yglesias this chart from a BEA Presentation on the U.S. economy debunks the myth that foreigners own a huge stake in the nation. On net, foreigners only own 5.8% of America's net worth. BEA
The market disturbances of the first half of last week seem to be fading into memory a bit. Things have calmed down, and the bull market trends are returning a bit. The yen is weakening (with USDJPY nearing 100) and the Nikkei is on a huge tear. Also, U.S. futures are currently pointing to a green open, although that's still a long way away. Nikkei
The week begins, and once again, the yen is nearing a major milestone. USDJPY (Dollar vs. Yen) is near 100, a level that has been neared sevearl times, only to see the yen strengthen, and the pair repelled downward. FinViz
In the U.S., the big question is whether the economy is flagging again (whether there's a "spring swoon" to use the popular parlance). If the economy were to fade again, it would mean that this was just the latest in a series of false-dawns since the crisis, where we thought that we'd finally broken out of the malaise, only to return to sub-trend growth. SocGen's Michala Marcussen argues that this time, the recovery won't stall out. She writes: Recent softness in the data has sparked concerns that the US economy, in a replay of previous years, is about to stage a return to stall-speed growth. In our opinion, however, this time will be different as the foundations for a sustainable recovery are now in place, with much of the private sector deleveraging completed and credit channels largely repaired. The one remaining headwind is fiscal consolidation, but heading into H2, we should see the positives of (1) housing recovery, (2) fading policy uncertainty and (3) the positive supply side shock from shale gas drive a path to 3% growth. Hopefully this is true. The recent tumble in commodities has caused people to start seeing the world economy in a dim light once again. And even to Marcussen's first point, the housing recovery, there's some evidence that things are flagging a bit.
I don't think it's politics (mostly). I don't think it's the culture of consensus and hierarchy. I don't think it's too much math or too little math. I don't think it's the misplaced assumptions of representative agents, flexible prices, efficient financial markets, rational expectations, etc. Fundamentally, I think the problem is: Uninformative data. I was planning to write a long post about this, and I never got around to it, and now Mark Thoma has written it better than I could have. So I'll just steal most of his excellent, awesome post, and add some boldface: The blow-up over the Reinhart-Rogoff results reminds me of a point Iíve been meaning to make about our ability to use empirical methods to make progress in macroeconomics...it's about the quantity and quality of the data we use to draw important conclusions in macroeconomics.† Everybody has been highly critical of theoretical macroeconomic models, DSGE models in particular, and for good reason. But the imaginative construction of theoretical models is not the biggest problem in macro ñ we can build reasonable models to explain just about anything. The biggest problem in macroeconomics is the inability of econometricians of all flavors (classical, Bayesian) to definitively choose one model over another, i.e. to sort between these imaginative constructions. We like to think or ourselves as scientists, but if data canít settle our theoretical disputes ñ and it doesnít appear that it can ñ then our claim for scientific validity has little or no merit.† There are many reasons for this. For example, the use of historical rather than ìall else equalî laboratory/experimental data makes it difficult to figure out if a particular relationship we find in the data reveals an important truth rather than a chance run that mimics a causal relationship. If we could do repeated experiments or compare data across countries (or other jurisdictions) without worrying about the ìall else equal assumptionî weíd could perhaps sort this out. It would be like repeated experiments. But, unfortunately, there are too many institutional differences and common shocks across countries to reliably treat each country as an independent, all else equal experiment. Without repeated experiments ñ with just one set of historical data for the US to rely upon ñ it is extraordinarily difficult to tell the difference between a spurious correlation and a true, noteworthy relationship in the data.† Even so, if we had a very, very long time-series for a single country, and if certain regularity conditions persisted over time (e.g. no structural change), we might be able to answer important theoretical and policy questions (if the same policy is tried again and again over time within a country, we can sort out the random and the systematic effects). Unfortunately, the time period covered by a typical data set in macroeconomics is relatively short (so that very few useful policy experiments are contained in the available data, e.g. there are very few data points telling us how the economy reacts to fiscal policy in deep recessions).† There is another problem with using historical as opposed to experimental data, testing theoretical models against data the researcher knows about when the model is built...Itís not really fair to test a theory against historical macroeconomic data, we all know what the data say and it would be foolish to build a model that is inconsistent with the historical data it was built to explain ñ of course the model will fit the data, who would be impressed by that? But a test against data that the investigator could not have known about when the theory was formulated is a different story ñ those tests are meaningful...† By today, I thought, I would have almost double the data I had [in the 80s] and that would improve the precision of tests quite a bit...† It didnít work out that way. There was a big change in the Fedís operating procedure in the early 1980s...† So, here we are 25 years or so later and macroeconomists donít have any more data at our disposal than we did when I was in graduate school. And if the structure of the economy keeps changing ñ as it will ñ the same will probably be true 25 years from now. We will either have to model the structural change explicitly (which isnít easy, and attempts to model structural beaks often induce as much uncertainty as clarity), or continually discard historical data as time goes on (maybe big data, digital technology, theoretical advances, etc. will help?).† The point is that for a variety of reasons ñ the lack of experimental data, small data sets, and important structural change foremost among them ñ empirical macroeconomics is not able to definitively say which competing model of the economy best explains the data. There are some questions weíve been able to address successfully with empirical methods, e.g., there has been a big change in views about the effectiveness of monetary policy over the last few decades driven by empirical work. But for the most part empirical macro has not been able to settle important policy questions...† I used to think that the accumulation of data along with ever improving empirical techniques would eventually allow us to answer important theoretical and policy questions. I havenít completely lost faith, but itís hard to be satisfied with our progress to date. Itís even more disappointing to see researchers overlooking these well-known, obvious problems ñ for example the lack pf precision and sensitivity to data errors that come with the reliance on just a few observations ñ to oversell their results. (emphasis mine) This is the clearest and based statement of the problem that I've ever seen. I'd like to add one point about the limits of time-series econometrics. To do time-series, you really need two assumptions: 1) ergodicity, and 2) stationarity. Mark addressed the ergodicity problem when he talked about trend breaks. As for stationarity, it sometimes matters a lot - for example, if technology has a unit root, then positive technology shocks should cause recessions. But the statistical tests that we use to figure out if a time-series has a unit root or not all have very low power. There are some pretty deep theoretical reasons for this. Anyway, that's just yet one more reason macro data is uninformative. That problem isn't going to be solved by gathering more accurate data, or by seeking out new macroeconomic aggregates to measure (though we should probably do both of those things anyway). So what are the implications of this basic fundamental limitation of macro? I think there are three. 1. Beware of would-be prophets from outside the mainstream. There are a number of people, usually associated with alternative or "heterodox" schools of thought, who claim that macro's relative uselessness is based on an obviously faulty theoretical framework, and that all we have to do to get better macro is to use different kinds of theories - philosophical "praxeology", or chaotic systems of nonlinear ODEs, etc. I'm not saying those theories are wrong, but you should realize that they are all just alternative theories, not alternative empirics.†The weakness of macro empirics means that we're going to be just as unable to pick between these funky alternatives as we are now unable to pick between various neoclassical DSGE models.2. Macroeconomists should try to stop overselling their results. Just matching some of the moments of aggregate time series is way too low of a bar. When models are rejected by statistical tests (and I've heard it said that they all are!), that is important. When models have low out-of-sample forecasting power, that is important. These things should be noted and reported. Plausibility is not good enough. We need to fight against the urge to pretend we understand things that we don't understand.3. To get better macro we need better micro. The fact that we haven't fond any "laws of macroeconomics" need not deter us; as many others have noted, with good understanding of the behavior of individual agents, we can simulate hypothetical macroeconomies and try to do economic "weather forecasting". We can also discard a whole slew of macro theories and models whose assumptions don't fit the facts of microeconomics. This itself is a very difficult project, but there are a lot of smart decision theorists, game theorists, and experimentalists working on this, so I'm hopeful that we can make some real progress there. (But again, beware of people saying "All we need to do is agent-based modeling." Without microfoundations we can believe in, any aggregation mechanism will just be garbage-in, garbage-out.) After the financial crisis, a bunch of people realized how little macroeconomists do†know. I think people are now slowly realizing just how little macroeconomists†can know. There is a difference.
Flickr/raruschelFrom Sebastien Galy of SocGen, a quick meditation on the current state of world markets, and what seem to him as clear signs of a bubble. Why do bubbles accelerate when identified? The cost of not participating is too high as performance falls vs peers or benchmark.¬† Timing the correction and its intensity is also much harder than participating, while I am sure a bunch of behavioral biases are at work (see James Montier books from GMO). The mad dash higher in bitcoins from 100 with multiple warnings of a bubble to 250 and back down is the most recent example.¬† You know you are in a bubble when the G20 expresses concerns about the consequences of ultra loose policy for too long. A Forbes survey shows money managers to be at their most bullish over the past 20 years. Gold coins are all the rage from India to Germany (why?). CFTC positioning confirms this view of extended risk taking (long commo and usd vs mainly jpy), while equity ETF flows shows that the US has been the clear darling vs the rest of the world and this for a while. In parlance discouraged by the Economist Style Guide, we are on Hopium squared.
Monthly data releases for March in the last week included Leading Economic Indicators, down -0.1, the first decline in half a year. These in turn were influenced by a decline in housing permits. Housing starts, on the other hand, rose to over 1 million annualized for the first time in over 5 years. Industrial production and capacity utilization rose. Consumer prices in March actually declined slightly, led by a drop in gasoline prices.  Let's start this week's look at the high frequency weekly indicators by looking at employment data, which completely flipped this week vs. last week: Employment metrics Initial jobless claims ¬† American Staffing AssociationIndex  Initial claims have established a new lower range of between 330,000 to 375,000 this year. In the last two years, beginning at the end of the first quarter there has been a spike of 20,000+ in jobless applications, and we certainly did see a big increase two weeks ago for one week. As in the past two springs, we now seem to be moving sideways in the new range. ¬†The ASA is still running slightly below 2007, and slightly ahead of last year, although the comparison is deteriorating a small amount. Daily Treasury Statement tax withholding ¬† These are good YoY comparisons compared with the last two months. While my best estimate is that collections should be up 15% due to the payroll tax increases that took effect on January 1, since that may not be accurate, now that we have enough data from this year I'm starting to make comparisons with earlier this year, and those comparisons have been improving. Transport Railroad transport from the AAR ¬† ¬† ¬† Shipping transport ¬† Rail transport returned to its recent pattern of being just barely positive. ¬†The Harpex index remains slightly off its 3 year low of 352, and the Baltic Dry Index remains above its recent low. Consumer spending ¬† ¬† Gallup had been very positive for 3 months, and after more mildly positive readings in the last couple of weeks, this past week was strongly positive again. ¬†The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012. In the last month it was near or even below the bottom of this range, but rebounded this week. The JR report this week is in the upper part of its typical YoY range for the last year. ¬†None of these match the poor March retail sales report. Housing metrics Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and have averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012, but the YoY comparison has been as high as +5.8% in March this year.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: ¬† ¬† Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. ¬†In the last month these completely stalled but in the last two weeks increased again.  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association: ¬† ¬† Purchase applications had been going sideways for 2 years. In the last couple of months they have finally broken out of that range slightly to the upside. ¬†Refinancing applications were very high for most of last year with record low mortgage rates, but have decreased slightly recently. Interest rates and credit spreads ¬† ¬† Interest rates for corporate bonds have generally been falling since being just above 6% two years ago in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. ¬†Treasuries have fallen from about 2% in late 2011 to a low of 1.47% in July 2012. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012. ¬†The ¬†last several months saw a marked increase in rates and credit spreads have widened, but this week yields came down and the spread narrowed slightly. Money supply M1 ¬† ¬† M2 ¬† ¬† Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and has generally been easing off since. ¬†This week's YoY reading remained above a new low set a month ago. ¬†Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. ¬†Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. Oil prices and usage ¬† ¬† The price of a gallon of gas has declined sharply since the end of February, and is actually down 10% YoY. The 4 week average for gas usage turned negative after nine weeks in a row of being positive YoY. Bank lending rates ¬† The TED spread recently increased slightly off its 18 month+ low. ¬†LIBOR remained at its new 52 week low and is close to a 3 year low. JoC ECRI Commodity prices ¬† The weekly indicators have shown evidence that the economy was beginning to soften starting from the first week of February, and the high frequency indicators became more neutral in the weeks since then. Two weeks ago they came close to a critical mass of negativity. Last week that entirely reversed, with every single indicator at least slightly positive. This week we returned to the prior pattern of generally very mildly positive data.  The positives include housing prices and mortgage applications, gas prices lower than one or two years ago, and money supply remaining positive, although less so than previously. Consumer spending is positive. Rail turned positive as well. Real estate loans improved, as did credit spreads.  Basically neutral indicators include shipping rates, interest rates and temporary jobs. Overnight banking loans haven't budged. Initial claims were generally neutral this week.  Tax withholding remains a question mark. It is negative after my best estimated adjustment. But relative to the last few months, this past week was one of the most positive comparisons. Commodities, although positive YoY, have weakened recently.  Overall, this is the same lukewarmly positive data we have seen since the beginning of this year. Have a nice weekend.
BloombergTVBillionaire private equity tycoon Steve Schwarzman has donated $100 million to endow a scholarship program similar to the Rhodes Scholars at¬†Tsinghua University in Beijing, according to a press release.¬† Instead of Rhodes Scholars, the students will be called "Schwarzman Scholars."¬† According to the release, the program will pay for¬†200 students every year to study for a one-year Master‚Äôs program at Tsinghua University. Most of the students in the program will come from the U.S. They will also come from¬†Europe, South Korea, Japan, India and other countries. Schwarzman is seeking a $300 million endowment for the scholarship program. So far, he and other private donors have raised $200 million, the release said. According to Tsinghua University, they will be constructing the teaching building for the program. It's being designed by Professor Robert Stern, the dean of the School of Architecture at Yale University (Schwarzman's alma mater).¬† The building is scheduled to be completed by 2015 and the¬†first class of Schwarzman Scholars is expected to be in 2016.¬† Here's the full release:¬† Blackstone founder Stephen A. Schwarzman today announced a $100 million (¬•600 million) personal gift to build and endow an elite scholarship program in China inspired by the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship program created in 1902 by British statesman Cecil J. Rhodes. A simultaneous fundraising campaign with a goal of raising $200 million (¬•1.2 billion) will make the program the largest charitable effort in China‚Äôs history with funds coming largely from outside the country. The ‚ÄúSchwarzman Scholars‚Äù program will be housed at Tsinghua University in Beijing, one of China‚Äôs most prestigious universities, dedicated to academic excellence and integrity, and the interaction between Chinese and Western cultures. ‚ÄúSchwarzman Scholars will prepare future leaders to interact in a constructive and collaborative way - learning to balance healthy competition with being able to forge lasting partnerships.‚Äù Said Stephen A. Schwarzman, ‚ÄúWhen Cecil J. Rhodes created the Rhodes Scholarship program in 1902 to promote international understanding, Europe was at the center of gravity for the world‚Äôs economy, and the United States, the British Empire and Germany were the world‚Äôs most influential global players. While the 20th century was defined by U.S. ties to Europe, there is no question that the nature of China‚Äôs international relationships will play at least as important a role in this century.‚Äù He continued, ‚ÄúChina‚Äôs economy is growing at three times the rate of the West, and if that growth continues, China will become the largest economy in the world within the next couple of decades. Disproportionate levels of growth often create global imbalances and tensions, which will need to be addressed in the decades ahead. Looking to the future, it is crucial that both countries and others around the world work hard to build on a foundation of interdependence, to foster stronger and deeper relationships, and to develop a real and full understanding of each other‚Äôs cultures among the next generations of business and political leaders. In the 21st¬†century, China is no longer an elective course, it‚Äôs core curriculum. ‚ÄúFor the West, this means developing a far richer and more nuanced understanding of China‚Äôs social, political and economic context. A win-win relationship of mutual respect between the West and China is vital, benefiting Asia and the rest of the world, and enhancing economic ties that could lead to a new era of mutual prosperity. ‚ÄúLeveraging the world-class resources and talented people at Tsinghua University, one of China‚Äôs most prestigious universities, the program will bring together an exceptional group of students who, we hope, will one day have the power to change the course of history.‚Äù Schwarzman Scholars will support 200 students annually for a one-year Master‚Äôs program at Tsinghua University under the direction of Dean David Daokui Li, a prominent Chinese economist and former member of China‚Äôs currency board. Students will hail predominantly from the U.S., but also from Europe, South Korea, Japan, India and other areas of the globe. Students will live in Beijing for a year of study and cultural immersion, attending lectures by heads of state, traveling throughout the country, and developing a true understanding of China. The first class of students is slated for 2016, upon the completion of Schwarzman College, a residential building designed specifically for the program. Robert A.M. Stern, Dean of Yale‚Äôs School of Architecture, designed the building, which is based on the residential colleges at Harvard, Yale, Oxford and Cambridge. The admissions season will open in 2015. Schwarzman Scholars has a world-class Advisory Board whose members have unparalleled insight and experience in international policy and diplomatic challenges. Members of the Advisory Board include: Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair commented: ‚ÄúSchwarzman Scholars will prepare future leaders to interact in a constructive and collaborative way - learning to balance healthy competition with being able to forge lasting partnerships.‚Äù Said Ambassador Gary Locke, U.S. Ambassador to China:¬†‚ÄúThe Schwarzman Scholars program will help the United States and China strengthen ties in all aspects of our bilateral relationship by deepening mutual understanding between both countries, and by creating the interpersonal connections from which a shared vision of future engagement and cooperation can emerge.‚Äù Added Condoleezza Rice, former U.S. Secretary of State: ‚ÄúThe rise of China presents both opportunities and challenges. The future of our countries is intertwined both economically and politically. There is no better way than through the development of the next generation of leaders to ensure mutual respect and understanding going forward. That is the critical mission of the Schwarzman Scholars.‚Äù Said Henry Kissinger, former U.S. Secretary of State: ‚ÄúThe rise of China is one of the central challenges of our time and as global citizens, we need to forge a deeper understanding between the U.S. and China, and diminish cultural biases to mitigate possible tensions and create opportunities for both countries. Close relationships, cultural understanding and open communication are required to sustain a peaceful world and to avoid conflict. Our hope is that, based on the knowledge, relationships and perspectives gained through this pivotal experience, Schwarzman Scholars will one day help shape the future of international discourse and interaction.‚Äù Said Dr. John Hood, Chair of the Rhodes Trustees: ‚ÄúThe Schwarzman Scholars program is visionary, timely and sure to capture the competitive enthusiasm of those who are among the most outstanding international and Chinese graduate students, in the same way as the world's great Scholarship programs have done during the past century.‚Äù Additional endorsements can be found below. Students will have a choice of four academic disciplines: Public Policy, International Relations, Economics &amp; Business and Engineering. Additional disciplines will be added in future years. The academic program was developed in consultation with an Academic Advisory Council comprised of individuals from prestigious institutions of higher learning such as Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Stanford, Duke and Oxford. Said President Jining Chen of Tsinghua University: ‚ÄúThe world is at an important crossroads that calls for institutions of higher education to step forward and play a significant role in shaping the future of international relations. Tsinghua is honored to partner with Mr. Schwarzman to establish a scholarship program that will help educate and prepare the next generation of global leaders.‚Äù Said David Daokui Li, Dean of Schwarzman Scholars: ‚ÄúConstructive cooperation should be a key cornerstone of Sino-U.S. relations for the future, and I am very excited to join President Chen, Mr. Schwarzman and the illustrious Advisory Board of Schwarzman Scholars to build a new center for scholarship and international discourse.‚Äù Members of the Academic Advisory Council are: As of April 21, 2013, the Schwarzman Scholars program has achieved $200 million (¬•1.2 billion) toward its overall $300 million (¬•1.8 billion) capital and endowment campaign goal. In addition to Mr. Schwarzman‚Äôs personal gift of $100 million (¬•600 million), the program has succeeded in raising $100 million (¬•600 million) from private donors over six months. Cornerstone Partner donors include BP. Founding Partner donors include: Chan Soon-Shiong Family Foundation; EMC Corporation; and Ray Dalio. Partner donors include: Bank of America Merrill Lynch; The Boeing Company; China Resources (Holdings) Company Ltd.; and GE. Funder donors include: Bloomberg Philanthropies; Digicel; J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co.; and Margarita Louis-Dreyfus. Other donors include: Caterpillar; Credit Suisse; Deloitte LLP; Fluor Corporation; and Sun Capital Partners Foundation, Inc. There are numerous donors at various levels that have asked to be anonymous. The Chinese and other international markets will be approached for philanthropic support following the announcement. Said Iain Conn, Managing Director, BP plc.: ‚ÄúBP is very pleased to be a Cornerstone Partner in the Schwarzman Scholars Program. Enhancing the understanding between China and the World through the development of Chinese and international talent at Tsinghua University will be invaluable over time to all international institutions with Chinese interests, and therefore also to BP. This involvement also deepens BP's long-standing collaboration with Tsinghua University. ‚ÄúBP is honored to be supporting the Schwarzman Scholars Program, and in doing so deepening our commitment to China's future through the advancement of education and international relationships. Together we hope to build a unique platform for future leaders to gain real-life global experiences and have interaction with political, business and thought leaders, with the vision of fostering greater understanding and more meaningful dialogue between China and the world. Through our involvement, BP will assist in advising the School, support 14 BP Fellows each year as part of the program, and engage with successive cadres of Scholars.‚Äù Said W. James McNerney, Jr, Chairman, President and CEO, The Boeing Company: ‚ÄúCollaboration is a bridge that enables the United States and China to grow and prosper together. Boeing supports the Schwarzman Scholars program because it will help develop future leaders with global sensibilities and further strengthen the ties between our two countries.‚Äù Schwarzman and Chen commented: ‚ÄúWe thank our Cornerstone and Founding Partners, and all of our donors for their early support. Their intuitive recognition of the importance of this program and generosity will help ensure the Schwarzman Scholars program is endowed in perpetuity.‚Äù
Nicolas Ryan-Schreiber alerted us to the video below, which is from the Swatch Skiers Cup. Both competitors trigger avalanches and then ski out of them. The second skier does so in a particularly breathtaking way. His run starts at 1:55. 
If setting up a hedge fund were easy, more people would do it: bar inheritance or winning the lottery, there are few swifter paths to immense riches. Sadly for aspiring plutocrats, it is getting ever harder to launch a fund. Swaggering financiers once joked that launching with less than $1 billion of outside money to invest was hardly worth their time. Debuts that splashy are now notable only for their scarcity. A new fund typically opens with $50m-100m in assets under management. Even so, and despite buoyant stockmarkets, the number of launches is declining (see chart). Punier funds make for a less attractive business model. A $50m pile might once have been enough to sustain a small firm. Creaming off 2% of assets and 20% of profitsóthe standard hedge-fund fee formulaócould generate around $2m a year given decent performance. No longer. Declining fees and low industry-wide returns have halved that amount. The EconomistExpenses have risen, too. Thanks to the Bernie Madoff swindle, investors want to see sturdier back-offices staffed by compliance types. Gone are the days when two traders with a Bloomberg terminal and some banking contacts could brand themselves as a hedge fund and attract outside money, says Kent Clark of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, the bankís investment arm. Paying for all this box-ticking requires more like $100m in assets. The industryís investor base has also changed, which makes it hard for those firms that do get off the ground to soar. Hedge funds used to get most of their money from rich people; nowadays, institutions such as pension funds are the dominant investors. They are often more risk-averse, preferring to invest bigger sums in fewer, large managers with a longer record. Although over half of hedge funds manage less than $100m, they represent only 1.4% of the industryís $2 trillion or so in assets, according to Hedge Fund Research, a data provider. The ranks of potential hedge-fund managers have also thinned. Post-crisis rules banning banks from wagering their own money prompted many of their star traders to leave and set up their own funds. That exodus is pretty much over; many of these new funds have already shut up shop after delivering underwhelming performance. The most favoured potential managers of new hedge funds these days are the key lieutenants at existing large funds, says Dominic Freemantle of Morgan Stanley. Enough new funds are still launching to raise a question: why would any investor prefer managers at an established firm to set up their own shop? Data are patchy but suggest that start-ups do deliver better results. This may be down to newcomers being smaller and nimbler, or hungrier for the returns that will earn them mega-bucks. And many of the most sought-after funds are closed to new money, points out Ted Seides of ProtÈgÈ Partners, a hedge-fund investor. Backing their most promising offshoots is the next best thing. Indeed, a handful of specialist investors are looking to back new hedge funds in the same way that venture capitalists back start-ups. Blackstone, Goldman Sachs and others have pots of money dedicated to ìseedingî new managers, entrusting them with $20m-100m of funds to invest in return for a share of revenue, typically 20%. Such seed funds had $5 billion to invest last year, estimates Acceleration Capital Group, an advisory firm. But even they have struggled to deploy money profitably. Many suggest that bright traders make lousy entrepreneurs. ìOften they have a long track record but havenít run their own business before,î says Lisa Fridman of Paamco, a fund investor. Running a successful hedge fund is still fabulously lucrative, however. The top 25 managers globally last year took home a combined $14 billion in pay and profits, according to Institutional Investorís Alpha óand that was the worst year since 2008. Nine made over $500m. Even if the going is tougher, aspiring managers will keep trying their luck.
John HussmanJohn Hussman of Hussman Funds has maintained a bearish slant toward the market for quite a while. "I'm¬† known as somewhere between permabear and prophet of doom," said Hussman as he opened his presentation during Mish Shedlock's Wine Country Conference. "I'm actually an inordinately optimistic person who actually believes there is virtue in finance," he added. In his thought-provoking presentation, Hussman very clearly argues that distortions in the financial markets have created an environment with very low prospective returns. "This fragile equilibrium that we're in because of monetary policy, because of fiscal policy, and because of the combination of yield-seeking plus the apperence of yield through forward operating earnings because profit margins are elevated -- this creates an environment where stock returns prospectively are very low," he says. "That's really the point of QE," he reiterated. "It creates discomfort as a search for yield." Thanks to Sitka Pacific for giving us permission to feature this presentation. The Wine Country Conference was hosted by Mike Shedlock of Mish‚Äôs Global Economic Trend Analysis and Sitka Pacific Capital Management to raise funds in the fight against ALS, the disease that took Mish‚Äôs wife Joanne.¬† In total, Mish has raised nearly a half million dollars for the Les Turner ALS Foundation ‚Äî¬† please consider making a donation. Please check out www.winecountryconference.com for videos of the speaker presentations and more information about the April 2014 event where Mish and John Hussman will team up to raise money for Autism research and programs.
The bankrupt Tribune Company has put its bundle of eight huge newspapers on the block. One of the expected bidders for these papers, Amy Chozick of The New York Times reports, is Koch Industries, the massive energy and manufacturing conglomerate owned by the conservative billionaires David and Charles Koch. The Kochs may bid for the newspapers, a person who attended a recent seminar held by the Koch brothers in Aspen said, to "make sure that [the libertarian] voice is heard." The Tribune's newspapers include: Buying the papers is expected to cost only about $625 million, which would be a rounding error for the gigantic Koch Industries, which generates a staggering $115 billion of revenue per year. The focus of the Koch's recent Aspen seminar, Chozick reports, was to put together a 10-year plan for achieving a goal of lower taxes and less regulation. The seminar produced a three-point plan: The acquisition of the Tribune papers would obviously go a ways toward supporting the latter tactic. As many Koch supporters point out, the brothers are not technically "Republicans" ó they support gay marriage and other socially progressive freedoms. But there is no mainstream libertarian party in the United States, and the Koch's donations go to the GOP (which is very far from libertarian.) So Democrats will undoubtedly get their knickers in a twist about this. You can read Amy Chozick's story here &gt;
APAmerica is truly an exceptional nation.† It's not because of our education system, our economy or our scientific establishment.† No, America is really only exceptional when it comes to the number of guns, the frequency of gun murders, and the shockingly high number of annual gun deaths. Other countries don't have the problems that the United States does. Other industrialized countries don't have tens of thousands of gun deaths per year, or regular mass shootings, or a population as armed as it is violent.† Other countries don't have America's gun problem.† Here, we take a look at the data that shows why America is so unlike the rest of the world when it comes to the popularity and the abuse of guns. We'll look at the role that policy-makers play in the gun control debate, and we'll look at what can be done.† It isn't pretty, but it's important. Hundreds of thousands of American lives hang in the balance.†
Flickr / AndrewHA'sMajor debt restructuring for both Cyprus and Greece will probably force the struggling euro zone countries to leave the single currency, according to Citigroup's latest economic outlook, which warned markets could again be hit by escalating fears. Stocks on both sides of the Atlantic have remained relatively sanguine in March as the so-called Troika (the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund) agreed to give Cyprus a 10 billion euro ($13 billion) bailout. The country also imposed credit controls and a levy on large deposits. But the story is far from over, according to Citi, with the euro area's economic prospects remaining far from healthy. (Read More: Cyprus Bailout in Danger as Opposition Grows) "We continue to assume that Greece and Cyprus will leave EMU (European Monetary Union) over time," Citi said in the note published late Wednesday. "We expect the euro area to stay in recession for this year and 2014 - with deep recessions in most periphery countries - and with further episodic flare ups of financial market tensions." Cyprus at some stage will probably undergo its first restructuring of sovereign debt, which could put its place in the monetary union in jeopardy, Citi added. This could be prompted by a collective recognition that severe economic weakness will throw the current reform program badly off track or by a political decision in Cyprus to abandon the Troika's plan. Germany's parliament backed the bailout for Cyprus by a large majority on Thursday but concerns still remain with the Cypriot parliament set to vote on the final package. Cyprus' attorney general, Petros Clerides, released details of an unscheduled vote on Wednesday, according to Reuters, with early signs that nearly half the members of the 56-seat parliament may oppose the bailout. (Read More: German Parliament Backs Cyprus Bailout) The Cypriot Greens Party, with just one member in parliament, became the first to openly announce its intentions to reject the deal. "There are numerous possible triggers that could cause market strains to escalate again. But even if financial tensions do not worsen further, we expect that the ECB (European Central Bank) will soon cut rates again, probably at the May meeting," Citi said. The bank believes that various "credit easing measures" could come into play as central banks and regulators take a more lenient view on the indebted nations. Strict austerity measures in the euro zone have received growing attention this week with EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn telling Reuters on Thursday that budgetary belt-tightening could be slowed to help reinvigorate economic growth. (Read More: Troika 'Blackmailing' Greece: Opposition Party) Spain and Italy won't escape unscathed, according to Citi, with a continuing vicious circle between poor bank credit availability, economic weakness and rising unemployment in most peripheral countries. "Italy and Spain eventually will enter some form of ESM (European Stability Mechanism) program this year. Some restructuring of government debts and/or bank liabilities remains likely in a range of countries over time, including Portugal, Cyprus, Italy, Spain and Ireland," Citi said.
