China Daily Information Corp - CDICHSBC China flash PMI climbed to a 4-month high of 50.1 in August. This showed that manufacturing is expanding again. After a string of weak economic data earlier this year, economists had begun to slash their GDP forecasts for the Asian giant. Bank of America's Ting Lu now expects Street economists to start boosting their Q3 GDP forecasts. "We are confident to maintain our above-consensus 7.6% and 7.5% yoy growth forecasts for 3Q and 4Q (a sequential recovery to 1.9% QoQ in 2H from 1.7% in 2Q). We also expect further improvement in both HSBC and NBS/CFLP PMI in coming months. Many Street economists will likely to revise up their overly pessimistic 3Q GDP growth forecasts soon. We are confident to maintain our 7.6% yoy GDP growth forecasts for 3Q and 7.5% for 4Q. "At present, Premier Li will continue his current pro-growth policies featured with a mini fiscal stimulus for rail and urban FAI, tax cuts and no monetary tightening until he feels confident that growth in 2H13 will be around 7.5%. That said, good data in July and August also means that markets should not expect a big stimulus package." He also said the breakdown of the report showed that this was driven by an improvement in domestic demand, rather than external demand. And that we're starting to see the impact of the Li Keqiang put. Premier Li Keqiang said would be the growth floor for 2013.
 REUTERS/China Daily HSBC China flash manufacturing PMI surged to a four-month high of 50.1 in August. This beat expectations for a modest rise to 48.2. A reading below 50 shows contraction. This is up from an 11-month low of 47.7 in July. "China's manufacturing growth has started to stabilize on the back of modest improvements of new business and output," said HSBC chief economist for China, Hongbin Qu.¬† "This is mainly driven by the initial filtering-through of recent fine-tuning measures and companies‚Äô restocking activities, despite the continuous external weakness. We expect further filtering-through, which is likely to deliver some upside surprises to China's growth in the coming months." The sub-indices showed that new export orders contracted, and at a faster rate. Employment too decreased, although at a slower rate. Here's the breakdown: Markit Economics/HSBC Here's a look at the improvement in manufacturing PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC ¬† The official and HSBC PMI had been moving in different directions, with the official data showing an expansion in manufacturing. With China's Q2 GDP slowing to 7.5%, economists are watching every data point for signs of growth below 7.5% which Premier Li Keqiang said would be the growth floor for 2013. The HSBC Flash PMI reflects the responses of 85 - 90% of those surveyed.
Markets continue to be wobbly. To start with, the Nikkei is falling to a 2-month low, following a down-day in the US. Nikkei.com The big event, of course, in the US was the release of the minutes from the last FOMC meeting, which were generally interpreted as suggesting that the Fed's "tapering" (commencement of a slowdown in bond purchases) would begin in September. This coincided with a rise in US interest rates that continues this evening, as the yield on the 10-year Treasury hits 2.9%, the highest level in 2 years. All of this is part of a cycle we're seeing in markets, whereby taper/higher interest rates are causing dollar strength, and violent emerging market weakness, as money whooshes back out.
From Morgan Stanley, here are two charts that should have you a bit concerned about corporate debt in Asia. First, Corporate Asia is the most leveraged in the world. Morgan Stanley And second, growth is slowing, while real interest rates (borrowing costs) are rising. Morgan Stanley So between massive leverage, slowing growth and rising rates... there are some reasons to be concerned.
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Mutual Fund Companies Are Keeping A Big Secret (Advisor Perspectives)  Gary Halbert of Halbert Wealth Management shared a FINRA quiz on economic and investment basics with his readers and one of the questions many of them missed was on drawdowns. "Maximum (or max) drawdown refers to the worst-ever losing period for any given investment," he writes. Mutual funds according to Halbert try hard to hide this statistic because "it doesn‚Äôt fit into their ‚Äúrelative return‚Äù view of the world." "Mutual funds like to compare their performance to stock and bond market indexes. Think how often you hear commercials for mutual funds bragging that they beat this or that market index. Sounds impressive, doesn‚Äôt it? "That is until you realize that a mutual fund can beat the market even if it loses money. In 2008, the S&amp;P 500 Index dropped 37% for the year. Given that performance, a mutual fund could truthfully claim that it ‚Äúbeat the market‚Äù by incurring a loss of only 20% or even 30%. "Plus, revealing drawdown statistics would often show that many mutual funds have drawdowns near or exceeding those of the unmanaged indexes. The sad fact is that many mutual funds don‚Äôt beat the market when it‚Äôs going up and often match losses when the market is going down." North Carolina-Based Investment Adviser Charged With Misleading Fund Board About Algorithmic Trading Ability (SEC) The SEC today announced charges against North-Carolina based investment advisor, Chariot Advisors LLC and its former owner Elliot L Shifman. The SEC accuses the advisor of misleading the fund's board about "the nature, extent, and quality of services that the firm could provide as he touted the competitive benefits of algorithmic trading in two presentations before the board." "Contrary to what Shifman told the directors, Chariot Advisors did not devise or otherwise possess any algorithms capable of engaging in the currency trading that Shifman was describing.¬† After the fund was launched, Chariot Advisors did not use an algorithm model to perform the fund‚Äôs currency trading as represented to the board, but instead hired an individual trader who was allowed to use discretion on trade selection and execution.¬† The misconduct by Shifman and Chariot Advisors caused misrepresentations and omissions in the Chariot fund‚Äôs registration statement and prospectus filed with the SEC and viewed by investors." Bond Funds Lost $30.3 Billion In August (Investment News) U.S.-registered bond mutual and exchange-traded funds saw $30.3 billion in redemptions for the month through August 19, according to a report by TrimTabs cited by Investment News. This follows on $69.1 billion in withdrawals in June. "Lulled into complacency by a 30-year bull market, many of these investors probably did not understand the risks they were assuming and regarded bond funds as 'safe'," TrimTabs said. "Now they seem to be reacting very quickly to losses." Septembers Are The Worst (Guggenheim Partners) "Historically, September is the worst month for U.S. stock market performance," according to Scott Minerd at Guggenheim Partners. "Since 1929, the S&amp;P Composite Index has averaged -1.1 percent for September, making it one of only three months with negative average returns over that time. The worst performing single month over this time period was September 1931, when the S&amp;P composite fell 30 percent." Of course this September there is uncertainty surrounding the Fed taper, the budget debate and the German election. Guggenheim Partners It's Crazy How Many Americans Have No Clue What Rising Interest Rates Are Doing To Their Investments (Business Insider) 63% of Americans don't know how rising interest rates will affect their retirement portfolios, including their 401(k)s, IRAs, etc, according to a new study by Edward Jones. 24% don't know what rising interest rates mean.¬† "I have had more than one high-net-worth broker tell me that his clients think the 'Risk Free Rate' means that you never see a mark down in the value of your Treasury portfolio," ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas said. "They are only now discovering their error, and the realization is unwelcome."
MIAMI (AP) ‚Äî Florida International University officials have suspended the school's Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity chapter following a series of Facebook posts. An anonymous e-mail recently sent to local media and members of the FIU community included screenshots of Facebook posts that appeared to show fraternity members discussing the hazing of new members, which is prohibited by university policy. The Miami Herald (http://goo.gl/4OtT1K ) reports that posts also refer to drug use and make offers to sell drugs. Several posts were of half-nude women who had apparently dated fraternity members. FIU said in a statement Wednesday that it is investigating possible violations of the university's code of student conduct. The investigation includes the police. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity's national headquarters in Tennessee says the FUI chapter would fully comply with the temporary suspension and subsequent investigation. ___ Information from: The Miami Herald, http://www.herald.com Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 

The last thing Senate hopeful Cory Booker wants to do is associate himself with former New Jersey politician Jon Corzine. Corzine, once the CEO of commodity futures brokerage MF Global, faces a civil suit over a little mishap where $1.2 billion of "sacrosanct" customer funds vanished in 2011 as the firm descended into bankruptcy. But Booker probably doesn't have that many photos with President Obama to use for his campaign website. So, they went†with†this gem †ñ now removed ñ†and a conveniently-placed text box over Corzine's face†(via†Lachlan Markay). The Corzine signs in the background were a dead giveaway. Lachlan Markay
Emerging markets (EM) have been front-and-center in global markets this week as the sell-off that roiled the asset class for much of the summer has picked up again. The big losers today: Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey, and India. The U.S. dollar is up 2.4% against the Brazilian real today, 2.0% higher against the Mexican peso, 1.8% higher against the South African rand, 1.6% higher against the Turkish lira, and 1.3% higher against the Indian rupee. Though the sell-off across EM has been going for the past week or so, the dollar got an additional boost today from the release of the minutes from the Federal Reserve's July FOMC meeting, which markets are interpreting as a sign that the Federal Reserve is on track to taper the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under quantitative easing perhaps as soon as the central bank's September FOMC meeting. The chart below shows the action in the U.S. dollar-Brazilian real exchange rate in 2013, including the big surge today on the far right. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Alex Davies / Business InsiderThe remarkable efforts of Citi Bike operators to keep stations stocked around New York City was highlighted last week in the New York Times.†Despite their good work, however, many stations still often run out of bikes.†My nearest station at 57th and Broadway is typically empty if I don't get there before 8 o'clock, and other stations are worse. To identify the hardest places to get a bike, we turned to†UCL CASA digital cartography researcher Oliver O'Brien, who already runs a real-time map showing how many bikes are at every station. O'Brien offered the following map of the most frequently empty stations. He notes that emptiness rate may be elevated for new stations that were not immediately stocked after they were installed, such as two high readings in Brooklyn. "The more significant pattern is the clustering around Central Park ó clearly a genuine problem there," O'Brien writes. † Empty bike racks are annoying, but full bike racks can be an even bigger problem. "If the station's empty, you can just go and get the subway or a bus. If it's full, and you are on a bike, you have to cycle around (with the meter running!) to find a nearby one that is not full. †That's more of an issue and the reason why the world's more popular systems tend to reduce the bike/dock ratio ó somewhat counterintuitive, but sometimes a system works better with fewer bikes in it," O'Brien writes. Below is a map of the places where it's hardest to park a bike, led by Alphabet City. TIME SPENT FULL:†Green = 0-2%, Yellow = 2-3%, Red = 3-4%, Red pin = 4%+ <iframe width="700" height="800" frameborder="no" src="https://www.google.com/fusiontables/embedviz?q=select+col2+from+1dMAk2tYGyjs8U-segJKTi2DdoQYlrusQN997PcI&amp;viz=MAP&amp;h=false&amp;lat=40.72429622977999&amp;lng=-73.99203527832039&amp;t=1&amp;z=13&amp;l=col2&amp;y=2&amp;tmplt=2&amp;hml=GEOCODABLE">
REUTERS/Gary CameronImages of Federal Reserve Board of Governors Chairman Ben Bernanke are seen on a video control board monitor while he delivers a luncheon speech on "Resilience and Rebuilding for Low-Income Communities Conference Agenda" in Washington April 12, 2013.Volatility spiked after after the Federal Reserve published the minutes of its July Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Hong Kong student Tsang Tsz-Kwan is blind, has impaired hearing, and lacks sensitivity in her fingertips. But that didn‚Äôt stop her from learning how to read braille with her lips. In an interview with CNN (via Shanghaiist), the 20-year-old discusses how she aced her high school tests. ‚ÄúI tried many other different methods, but in the end could only resort to using my lips,‚Äù Tsang told CNN in English. Tsang, who is cooler than everybody, hopes to study English/Chinese translation at university. Watch the video: 
When it comes to the stock markets, history is a guide but never gospel. In his latest weekly Macro View comment, Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd offers this interesting bar chart of average monthly stock market returns. "Historically, September is the worst month for U.S. stock market performance," wrote Minerd. "Since 1929, the S&amp;P Composite Index has averaged -1.1 percent for September, making it one of only three months with negative average returns over that time. The worst performing single month over this time period was September 1931, when the S&amp;P composite fell 30 percent." This year, September promises to bring uncertainty. "There are several macroeconomic uncertainties facing the United States and the global economy as we head into September," continued Minerd. "The potential tapering of the U.S. Federal Reserve‚Äôs asset purchase program, the budget debate in Washington, and the German election could all increase volatility in global financial markets." But more often than not, its the unknown uncertainties that do the real damage. Guggenheim Partners
REUTERS/Jim YoungFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.LATEST: The minutes from the Federal Reserve's July FOMC meeting are out. The minutes say that while a few on the FOMC urged patience, and others favored tapering of quantitative easing soon, there was broad support for the tapering timeline that Bernanke laid out in June, which would probably see the Fed begin reducing bond buying later this year ‚Äì possibly as soon as September. In the wake of the release, bonds are selling off, sending yields higher. Stocks are also selling off a bit. Meanwhile, the dollar is strengthening. Below is the full text of the release. Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª ---------------------------------------- A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, July 30, 2013, at 2:00 p.m. and continued on Wednesday, July 31, 2013, at 9:00 a.m.PRESENT: Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanJames BullardElizabeth DukeCharles L. EvansEsther L. GeorgeJerome H. PowellSarah Bloom RaskinEric RosengrenJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJanet L. Yellen Christine Cumming, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Sandra Pianalto, and Charles I. Plosser, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively William B. English, Secretary and EconomistDeborah J. Danker, Deputy SecretaryMatthew M. Luecke, Assistant SecretaryDavid W. Skidmore, Assistant SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselThomas C. Baxter, Deputy General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist Thomas A. Connors, Troy Davig, Michael P. Leahy, Stephen A. Meyer, Daniel G. Sullivan, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors James A. Clouse and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Maryann F. Hunter, Deputy Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Adviser to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Joyce K. Zickler, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Michael T. Kiley, Thomas Laubach, and David E. Lebow, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Joshua Gallin, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Edward Nelson, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Stacey Tevlin, Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Laura Lipscomb, Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Marie Gooding, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta David Altig, Jeff Fuhrer, and Loretta J. Mester, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Boston, and Philadelphia, respectively Lorie K. Logan, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Todd E. Clark, William Gavin, Evan F. Koenig, Paolo A. Pesenti, Julie Ann Remache,1 and Mark Spiegel, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, St. Louis, Dallas, New York, New York, and San Francisco, respectively Robert L. Hetzel and Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Senior Economists, Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and Minneapolis, respectively Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on June 18-19, 2013. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. In support of the Committee's longer-run planning for improvements in the implementation of monetary policy, the Desk report also included a briefing on the potential for establishing a fixed-rate, full-allotment overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility as an additional tool for managing money market interest rates. The presentation suggested that such a facility would allow the Committee to offer an overnight, risk-free instrument directly to a relatively wide range of market participants, perhaps complementing the payment of interest on excess reserves held by banks and thereby improving the Committee's ability to keep short-term market rates at levels that it deems appropriate to achieve its macroeconomic objectives. The staff also identified several key issues that would require consideration in the design of such a facility, including the choice of the appropriate facility interest rate and possible additions to the range of eligible counterparties. In general, meeting participants indicated that they thought such a facility could prove helpful; they asked the staff to undertake further work to examine how it might operate and how it might affect short-term funding markets. A number of them emphasized that their interest in having the staff conduct additional research reflected an ongoing effort to improve the technical execution of policy and did not signal any change in the Committee's views about policy going forward. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed for the July 30-31 meeting indicated that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in the first half of the year. Private-sector employment increased further in June, but the unemployment rate was still elevated. Consumer price inflation slowed markedly in the second quarter, likely restrained in part by some transitory factors, but measures of longer-term inflation expectations remained stable. The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) released its advance estimate for second-quarter real gross domestic product (GDP), along with revised data for earlier periods, during the second day of the FOMC meeting. The staff's assessment of economic activity and inflation in the first half of 2013, based on information available before the meeting began, was broadly consistent with the new information from the BEA. Private nonfarm employment rose at a solid pace in June, as in recent months, while total government employment decreased further. The unemployment rate was 7.6 percent in June, little changed from its level in the prior few months. The labor force participation rate rose slightly, as did the employment-to-population ratio. The rate of long-duration unemployment decreased somewhat, but the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons moved up; both of these measures remained relatively high. Forward-looking indicators of labor market activity in the near term were mixed: Although household expectations for the labor market situation generally improved and firms' hiring plans moved up, initial claims for unemployment insurance were essentially flat over the intermeeting period, and measures of job openings and the rate of gross private-sector hiring were little changed. Manufacturing production expanded in June, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization edged up. Auto production and sales were near pre-recession levels, and automakers' schedules indicated that the rate of motor vehicle assemblies would continue at a similar pace in the coming months. Broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were generally consistent with further modest gains in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased more slowly in the second quarter than in the first. However, some key factors that tend to support household spending were more positive in recent months; in particular, gains in equity values and home prices boosted household net worth, and consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers rose in July to its highest level since the onset of the recession. Conditions in the housing sector generally improved further, as real expenditures for residential investment continued to expand briskly in the second quarter. However, construction activity was still at a low level, with demand restrained in part by tight credit standards for mortgage loans. Starts of new single-family homes were essentially flat in June, but the level of permit issuance was consistent with gains in construction in subsequent months. In the multifamily sector, where activity is more variable, starts and permits both decreased. Home prices continued to rise strongly through May, and sales of both new and existing homes increased, on balance, in May and June. The recent rise in mortgage rates did not yet appear to have had an adverse effect on housing activity. Growth in real private investment in equipment and intellectual property products was greater in the second quarter than in the first quarter.2 Nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft continued to trend up in May and June and were running above the level of shipments. Other recent forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, were mixed and pointed to modest gains in business equipment spending in the near term. Real business expenditures for nonresidential construction increased in the second quarter after falling in the first quarter. Business inventories in most industries appeared to be broadly aligned with sales in recent months. Real federal government purchases contracted less in the second quarter than in the first quarter as reductions in defense spending slowed. Real state and local government purchases were little changed in the second quarter; the payrolls of these governments expanded somewhat, but state and local construction expenditures continued to decrease. The U.S. international trade deficit widened in May as exports fell slightly and imports rose. The decline in exports was led by a sizable drop in consumer goods, while most other categories of exports showed modest gains. Imports increased in a wide range of categories, with particular strength in oil, consumer goods, and automotive products. Overall U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, were unchanged from the first quarter to the second and were about 1 percent higher than a year earlier. Consumer energy prices declined significantly in the second quarter, although retail gasoline prices, measured on a seasonally adjusted basis, moved up in June and July. The PCE price index for items excluding food and energy rose at a subdued rate in the second quarter and was around 1-1/4 percent higher than a year earlier. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed in June and July, as were longer-term inflation expectations, which remained within the narrow range seen in recent years. Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages and employee benefits remained modest. Foreign economic growth appeared to remain subdued in comparison with longer-run trends. Nonetheless, there were some signs of improvement in the advanced foreign economies. Production and business confidence turned up in Japan, real GDP growth picked up to a moderate pace in the second quarter in the United Kingdom, and recent indicators suggested that the euro-area recession might be nearing an end. In contrast, Chinese real GDP growth moderated in the first half of this year compared with 2012, and indicators for other emerging market economies (EMEs) also pointed to less-robust growth. Foreign inflation generally remained well contained. Monetary policy stayed highly accommodative in the advanced foreign economies, but some EME central banks tightened policy in reaction to capital outflows and to concerns about inflationary pressures from currency depreciation. Staff Review of the Financial SituationFinancial markets were volatile at times during the intermeeting period as investors reacted to Federal Reserve communications and to incoming economic data and as market dynamics appeared to amplify some asset price moves. Broad equity price indexes ended the period higher, and longer-term interest rates rose significantly. Sizable increases in rates occurred following the June FOMC meeting, as investors reportedly saw Committee communications as suggesting a less accommodative stance of monetary policy than had been expected going forward; however, a portion of the increases was reversed as subsequent policy communications lowered these concerns. U.S. economic data, particularly the June employment report, also contributed to the rise in yields over the period. On balance, yields on intermediate- and longer-term Treasury securities rose about 30 to 45 basis points since the June FOMC meeting, with staff models attributing most of the increase to a rise in term premiums and the remainder to an upward revision in the expected path of short-term rates. The federal funds rate path implied by financial market quotes steepened slightly, on net, but the results from the Desk's July survey of primary dealers showed little change in dealers' views of the most likely timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate target. Market-based measures of inflation compensation were about unchanged. Over the period, rates on primary mortgages and yields on agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) rose about in line with the 10-year Treasury yield. The option-adjusted spread for production-coupon MBS widened somewhat, possibly reflecting a downward revision in investors' expectations for Federal Reserve MBS purchases, an increase in uncertainty about longer-term interest rates, and convexity-related MBS selling. Spreads between yields on 10-year nonfinancial corporate bonds and yields on Treasury securities narrowed somewhat on net. Early in the period, yields on corporate bonds increased, and bond mutual funds and bond exchange-traded funds experienced large net redemptions in June; the rate of redemptions then slowed in July. Market sentiment toward large domestic banking organizations appeared to improve somewhat over the intermeeting period, as the largest banks reported second-quarter earnings that were above analysts' expectations. Stock prices of large domestic banks outperformed broader equity indexes, and credit default swap spreads for the largest bank holding companies moved about in line with trends in broad credit indexes. Municipal bond yields rose sharply over the intermeeting period, increasing somewhat more than yields on Treasury securities. In June, gross issuance of long-term municipal bonds remained solid and was split roughly evenly between refunding and new-capital issuance. The City of Detroit's bankruptcy filing reportedly had only a limited effect on the market for municipal securities as it had been widely anticipated by market participants. Credit flows to nonfinancial businesses showed mixed changes. Reflecting the reduced incentive to refinance as longer-term interest rates rose, the pace of gross issuance of investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds dropped in June and July, compared with the elevated pace earlier this year. In contrast, gross issuance of equity by nonfinancial firms maintained its recent strength in June. Leveraged loan issuance also continued to be strong amid demand for floating-rate instruments by investors. Financing conditions for commercial real estate continued to recover slowly. In response to the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks generally indicated that they had eased standards on both commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) and commercial real estate loans over the past three months. For C&amp;I loans, standards were currently reported to be somewhat easy compared with longer-term norms, while for commercial real estate loans, standards remained somewhat tighter than longer-term norms. Banks reported somewhat stronger demand for most types of loans. Financing conditions in the household sector improved further in recent months. Mortgage purchase applications declined modestly through July even as refinancing applications fell off sharply with the rise in mortgage rates. The outstanding amounts of student and auto loans continued to expand at a robust pace in May. Credit card debt remained about flat on a year-over-year basis. In the July SLOOS, banks reported that they had eased standards on most categories of loans to households in the second quarter, but that standards on all types of mortgages, and especially on subprime mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit, remained tight when judged against longer-run norms. Increases in total bank credit slowed in the second quarter, as the book value of securities holdings fell slightly and C&amp;I loan balances at large banks increased only modestly in April and May. M2 grew at an annual rate of about 7 percent in June and July, supported by flows into liquid deposits and retail money market funds. Both of these components of M2 may have been boosted recently by the sizable redemptions from bond mutual funds. The monetary base continued to expand rapidly in June and July, driven mainly by the increase in reserve balances resulting from the Federal Reserve's asset purchases. Ten-year sovereign yields in the United Kingdom and Germany rose with U.S. yields early in the intermeeting period but fell back somewhat after statements by the European Central Bank and the Bank of England were both interpreted by market participants as signaling that their policy rates would be kept low for a considerable time. On net, the U.K. 10-year sovereign yield increased, though by less than the comparable yield in the United States, while the yield on German bunds was little changed. Peripheral euro-area sovereign spreads over German bunds were also little changed on net. Japanese government bond yields were relatively stable over the period, after experiencing substantial volatility in May. The staff's broad nominal dollar index moved up as the dollar appreciated against the currencies of the advanced foreign economies, consistent with the larger increase in U.S. interest rates. The dollar was mixed against the EME currencies. Foreign equity prices generally increased, although equity prices in China declined amid investor concerns regarding further signs that the economy was slowing and over volatility in Chinese interbank funding markets. Outflows from EME equity and bond funds, which had been particularly rapid in June, moderated in July. Staff Economic OutlookThe data received since the forecast was prepared for the previous FOMC meeting suggested that real GDP growth was weaker, on net, in the first half of the year than had been anticipated.3 Nevertheless, the staff still expected that real GDP would accelerate in the second half of the year. Part of this projected increase in the rate of real GDP growth reflected the staff's expectation that the drag on economic growth from fiscal policy would be smaller in the second half as the pace of reductions in federal government purchases slowed and as the restraint on growth in consumer spending stemming from the higher taxes put in place at the beginning of the year diminished. For the year as a whole, the staff anticipated that the rate of growth of real GDP would only slightly exceed that of potential output. The staff's projection for real GDP growth over the medium term was essentially unrevised, as higher equity prices were seen as offsetting the restrictive effects of the increase in longer-term interest rates. The staff continued to forecast that the rate of real GDP growth would strengthen in 2014 and 2015, supported by a further easing in the effects of fiscal policy restraint on economic growth, increases in consumer and business confidence, additional improvements in credit availability, and accommodative monetary policy. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to lead to a slow reduction in the slack in labor and product markets over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually. The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed from the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting. The staff continued to judge that much of the recent softness in consumer price inflation would be transitory and that inflation would pick up somewhat in the second half of this year. With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be modest, and significant resource slack persisting over the forecast period, inflation was forecast to be subdued through 2015. The staff continued to see numerous risks around the forecast. Among the downside risks for economic activity were the uncertain effects and future course of fiscal policy, the possibility of adverse developments in foreign economies, and concerns about the ability of the U.S. economy to weather potential future adverse shocks. The most salient risk for the inflation outlook was that the recent softness in inflation would not abate as anticipated. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn their discussion of the economic situation, meeting participants noted that incoming information on economic activity was mixed. Household spending and business fixed investment continued to advance, and the housing sector was strengthening. Private domestic final demand continued to increase in the face of tighter federal fiscal policy this year, but several participants pointed to evidence suggesting that fiscal policy had restrained spending in the first half of the year more than they previously thought. Perhaps partly for that reason, a number of participants indicated that growth in economic activity during the first half of this year was somewhat below their earlier expectations. In addition, subpar economic activity abroad was a negative factor for export growth. Conditions in the labor market improved further as private payrolls rose at a solid pace in June, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. Participants generally continued to anticipate that the growth of real GDP would pick up somewhat in the second half of 2013 and strengthen further thereafter. Factors cited as likely to support a pickup in economic activity included highly accommodative monetary policy, improving credit availability, receding effects of fiscal restraint, continued strength in housing and auto sales, and improvements in household and business balance sheets. A number of participants indicated, however, that they were somewhat less confident about a near-term pickup in economic growth than they had been in June; factors cited in this regard included recent increases in mortgage rates, higher oil prices, slow growth in key U.S. export markets, and the possibility that fiscal restraint might not lessen. Consumer spending continued to advance, but spending on items other than motor vehicles was relatively soft. Recent high readings on consumer confidence and boosts to household wealth from increased equity and real estate prices suggested that consumer spending would gather momentum in the second half of the year. However, a few participants expressed concern that higher household wealth might not translate into greater consumer spending, cautioning that household income growth remained slow, that households might not treat the additions to wealth arising from recent equity price increases as lasting, or that households' scope to extract housing equity for the purpose of increasing their expenditures was less than in the past. The housing sector continued to pick up, as indicated by increases in house prices, low inventories of homes for sale, and strong demand for construction. While recent mortgage rate increases might serve to restrain housing activity, several participants expressed confidence that the housing recovery would be resilient in the face of the higher rates, variously citing pent-up housing demand, banks' increasing willingness to make mortgage loans, strong consumer confidence, still-low real interest rates, and expectations of continuing rises in house prices. Nonetheless, refinancing activity was down sharply, and the incoming data would need to be watched carefully for signs of a greater-than-anticipated effect of higher mortgage rates on housing activity more broadly. In the business sector, the outlook still appeared to be mixed. Manufacturing activity was reported to have picked up in a number of Districts, and activity in the energy sector remained at a high level. Although a step-up in business investment was likely to be a necessary element of the projected pickup in economic growth, reports from businesses ranged from those contacts who expressed heightened optimism to those who suggested that little acceleration was likely in the second half of the year. Participants reported further signs that the tightening in federal fiscal policy restrained economic activity in the first half of the year: Cuts in government purchases and grants reportedly had been a factor contributing to slower growth in sales and equipment orders in some parts of the country, and consumer spending seemed to have been held back by tax increases. Moreover, uncertainty about the effects of the federal spending sequestration and related furloughs clouded the outlook. It was noted, however, that fiscal restriction by state and local governments seemed to be easing. The June employment report showed continued solid gains in payrolls. Nonetheless, the unemployment rate remained elevated, and the continuing low readings on the participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio, together with a high incidence of workers being employed part time for economic reasons, were generally seen as indicating that overall labor market conditions remained weak. It was noted that employment growth had been stronger than would have been expected given the recent pace of output growth, reflecting weak gains in productivity. Some participants pointed out that once productivity growth picked up, faster economic growth would be required to support further increases in employment along the lines seen of late. However, one participant thought that sluggish productivity performance was likely to persist, implying that the recent pace of output growth would be sufficient to maintain employment gains near current rates. Recent readings on inflation were below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent, in part reflecting transitory factors, and participants expressed a range of views about how soon inflation would return to 2 percent. A few participants, who felt that the recent low inflation rates were unlikely to persist or that the low PCE inflation readings might be marked up in future data revisions, suggested that, as transitory factors receded and the pace of recovery improved, inflation could be expected to return to 2 percent reasonably quickly. A number of others, however, viewed the low inflation readings as largely reflecting persistently deficient aggregate demand, implying that inflation could remain below 2 percent for a protracted period and further supporting the case for highly accommodative monetary policy. Both domestic and foreign asset markets were volatile at times during the intermeeting period, reacting to policy communications and data releases. In discussing the increases in U.S. longer-term interest rates that occurred in the wake of the June FOMC meeting and the associated press conference, meeting participants pointed to heightened financial market uncertainty about the path of monetary policy and a shift of market expectations toward less policy accommodation. A few participants suggested that this shift occurred in part because Committee participants' economic projections, released following the June meeting, generally showed a somewhat more favorable outlook than those of private forecasters, or because the June policy statement and press conference were seen as indicating relatively little concern about inflation readings, which had been low and declining. Moreover, investors may have perceived that Committee communications about the possibility of slowing the pace of asset purchases also implied a higher probability of an earlier firming of the federal funds rate. Subsequent Federal Reserve communications, which emphasized that decisions about the two policy tools were distinct and underscored that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy would remain appropriate for a considerable period after purchases are completed, were seen as having helped clarify the Committee's policy strategy. A number of participants mentioned that, by the end of the intermeeting period, market expectations of the future course of monetary policy, both with regard to asset purchases and with regard to the path of the federal funds rate, appeared well aligned with their own expectations. Nonetheless, some participants felt that, as a result of recent financial market developments, overall financial market conditions had tightened significantly, importantly reflecting larger term premiums, and they expressed concern that the higher level of longer-term interest rates could be a significant factor holding back spending and economic growth. Several others, however, judged that the rise in rates was likely to exert relatively little restraint, or that the increase in equity prices and easing in bank lending standards would largely offset the effects of the rise in longer-term interest rates. Some participants also stated that financial developments during the intermeeting period might have helped put the financial system on a more sustainable footing, insofar as those developments were associated with an unwinding of unsustainable speculative positions or an increase in term premiums from extraordinarily low levels. In looking ahead, meeting participants commented on several considerations pertaining to the course of monetary policy. First, almost all participants confirmed that they were broadly comfortable with the characterization of the contingent outlook for asset purchases that was presented in the June postmeeting press conference and in the July monetary policy testimony. Under that outlook, if economic conditions improved broadly as expected, the Committee would moderate the pace of its securities purchases later this year. And if economic conditions continued to develop broadly as anticipated, the Committee would reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps and conclude the purchase program around the middle of 2014. At that point, if the economy evolved along the lines anticipated, the recovery would have gained further momentum, unemployment would be in the vicinity of 7 percent, and inflation would be moving toward the Committee's 2 percent objective. While participants viewed the future path of purchases as contingent on economic and financial developments, one participant indicated discomfort with the contingent plan on the grounds that the references to specific dates could be misinterpreted by the public as suggesting that the purchase program would be wound down on a more-or-less preset schedule rather than in a manner dependent on the state of the economy. Generally, however, participants were satisfied that investors had come to understand the data-dependent nature of the Committee's thinking about asset purchases. A few participants, while comfortable with the plan, stressed the need to avoid putting too much emphasis on the 7 percent value for the unemployment rate, which they saw only as illustrative of conditions that could obtain at the time when the asset purchases are completed. Second, participants considered whether it would be desirable to include in the Committee's policy statement additional information regarding the Committee's contingent outlook for asset purchases. Most participants saw the provision of such information, which would reaffirm the contingent outlook presented following the June meeting, as potentially useful; however, many also saw possible difficulties, such as the challenge of conveying the desired information succinctly and with adequate nuance, and the associated risk of again raising uncertainty about the Committee's policy intentions. A few participants saw other forms of communication as better suited for this purpose. Several participants favored including such additional information in the policy statement to be released following the current meeting; several others indicated that providing such information would be most useful when the time came for the Committee to begin reducing the pace of its securities purchases, reasoning that earlier inclusion might trigger an unintended tightening of financial conditions. Finally, the potential for clarifying or strengthening the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate was discussed. In general, there was support for maintaining the current numerical thresholds in the forward guidance. A few participants expressed concern that a decision to lower the unemployment threshold could potentially lead the public to view the unemployment threshold as a policy variable that could not only be moved down but also up, thereby calling into question the credibility of the thresholds and undermining their effectiveness. Nonetheless, several participants were willing to contemplate lowering the unemployment threshold if additional accommodation were to become necessary or if the Committee wanted to adjust the mix of policy tools used to provide the appropriate level of accommodation. A number of participants also remarked on the possible usefulness of providing additional information on the Committee's intentions regarding adjustments to the federal funds rate after the 6-1/2 percent unemployment rate threshold was reached, in order to strengthen or clarify the Committee's forward guidance. One participant suggested that the Committee could announce an additional, lower set of thresholds for inflation and unemployment; another indicated that the Committee could provide guidance stating that it would not raise its target for the federal funds rate if the inflation rate was expected to run below a given level at a specific horizon. The latter enhancement to the forward guidance might be seen as reinforcing the message that the Committee was willing to defend its longer-term inflation goal from below as well as from above. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity expanded at a modest pace during the first half of the year. Labor market conditions showed further improvement in recent months, on balance, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector was strengthening, but mortgage rates had risen somewhat and fiscal policy was restraining economic growth. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth would pick up from its recent pace, resulting in a gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. With economic activity and employment continuing to grow despite tighter fiscal policy, and with global financial conditions less strained overall, members generally continued to see the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished since last fall. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, partly reflecting transitory influences, but longer-run inflation expectations were stable, and the Committee anticipated that inflation would move back toward its 2 percent objective over the medium term. Members recognized, however, that inflation persistently below the Committee's 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance. In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members judged that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy was warranted in order to foster a stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a context of price stability. In considering the likely path for the Committee's asset purchases, members discussed the degree of improvement in the labor market outlook since the purchase program began last fall. The unemployment rate had declined considerably since then, and recent gains in payroll employment had been solid. However, other measures of labor utilization--including the labor force participation rate and the numbers of discouraged workers and those working part time for economic reasons--suggested more modest improvement, and other indicators of labor demand, such as rates of hiring and quits, remained low. While a range of views were expressed regarding the cumulative improvement in the labor market since last fall, almost all Committee members agreed that a change in the purchase program was not yet appropriate. However, in the view of the one member who dissented from the policy statement, the improvement in the labor market was an important reason for calling for a more explicit statement from the Committee that asset purchases would be reduced in the near future. A few members emphasized the importance of being patient and evaluating additional information on the economy before deciding on any changes to the pace of asset purchases. At the same time, a few others pointed to the contingent plan that had been articulated on behalf of the Committee the previous month, and suggested that it might soon be time to slow somewhat the pace of purchases as outlined in that plan. At the conclusion of its discussion, the Committee decided to continue adding policy accommodation by purchasing additional MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month and to maintain its existing reinvestment policies. In addition, the Committee reaffirmed its intention to keep the target federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and retained its forward guidance that it anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. Members also discussed the wording of the policy statement to be issued following the meeting. In addition to updating its description of the state of the economy, the Committee decided to underline its concern about recent shortfalls of inflation from its longer-run goal by including in the statement an indication that it recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, while also noting that it continues to anticipate that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. The Committee also considered whether to add more information concerning the contingent outlook for asset purchases to the policy statement, but judged that doing so might prompt an unwarranted shift in market expectations regarding asset purchases. The Committee decided to indicate in the statement that it "reaffirmed its view"--rather than simply "expects"--that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. The Desk is directed to continue purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month and to continue purchasing agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $40 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June suggests that economic activity expanded at a modest pace during the first half of the year. Labor market conditions have shown further improvement in recent months, on balance, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has been strengthening, but mortgage rates have risen somewhat and fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Partly reflecting transitory influences, inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will pick up from its recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished since the fall. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action: Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, James Bullard, Elizabeth Duke, Charles L. Evans, Jerome H. Powell, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Eric Rosengren, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action: Esther L. George. Ms. George dissented because she favored including in the policy statement a more explicit signal that the pace of the Committee's asset purchases would be reduced in the near term. She expressed concerns about the open-ended approach to asset purchases and viewed providing such a signal as important at this time, in light of the ongoing improvement in labor market conditions as well as the potential costs and uncertain benefits of large-scale asset purchases. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, September 17-18, 2013. The meeting adjourned at 12:30 p.m. on July 31, 2013. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on July 9, 2013, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on June 18-19, 2013.
According to a new study by Edward Jones, one of the country's biggest retail brokerages, 63% of Americans don't know how rising interest rates will affect their retirement portfolios ñ†their 401(k)s, IRAs, et al. ñ†and 24% say they feel completely in the dark about what rising interest rates mean. Bond yields have soared on the back of a big sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market this summer as markets price in a return to normalization following years of low rates and excess liquidity in the wake of the financial crisis. And as Treasuries have declined in value, many bond investors have been caught off guard by something they aren't used to seeing: negative returns in their monthly statements. Meanwhile, Wall Street is telling clients to brace themselves for more. "The secular 30-yr bull market in bonds likely ended 4/29/2013," tweeted Bill Gross, who runs PIMCO, the world's biggest bond manager. "PIMCO can help you navigate a likely lower return 2 - 3% future." AMG/Lipper, BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchIn recent years, Americans have poured money into bond funds, which have been billed as a "safe-haven" investment in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.Yet it's clear from the Edward Jones survey and other anecdotes that everyday Americans ñ and even more sophisticated investors ñ still don't know what the sell-off in the Treasury market means for their portfolios. "I have had more than one high-net-worth broker tell me that his clients think the 'Risk Free Rate' means that you never see a mark down in the value of your Treasury portfolio," says ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas. "They are only now discovering their error, and the realization is unwelcome." (The "risk-free rate" is a theoretical concept used in ubiquitous financial calculations like the capital asset pricing model to value securities. The "risk-free rate" in these models usually refers to the yield on U.S. Treasuries, where the rate of return ñ the yield on the bond ñ is viewed as "riskless" because Treasuries don't contain default risk.) If the sell-off continues, and the Federal Reserve does decide in September to begin to slow the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program ñ as the consensus on Wall Street expects ñ more and more Americans will be waking up to the reality that bond funds can in fact lose money. The full press release from Edward Jones is included below. ------------------------------------------------------------------ St. Louis, MO, ñ†August 21, 2013†ñ According to a recent survey by†financial services firm Edward Jones, 63 percent of Americans donít know how rising interest rates will impact investment portfolios such as 401(k)s, IRAs and other savings platforms. In fact, a full 24 percent say they feel completely in the dark about the potential effects. ìWhile itís hard to know exactly where interest rates will go in the coming weeks and months, we believe over the long-term that rates will continue to rise," said Tom Kersting, Fixed Income Strategist at Edward Jones. ìFixed income is still an important part of an overall investment portfolio, but we want to remind investors that now is the time to consider buying shorter- and intermediate-term bonds, rather than just longer-term bonds. Our financial advisors are focused on making sure investors have properly laddered their fixed income investments across various maturities.î Why Interest Rates Matter Bond prices typically move inversely to interest rates. This means that as interest rates rise, the price, or value, of bonds will decrease. Higher interest rates mean higher current income for an investor purchasing new bonds. For investors who already own a significant amount of fixed income, rising rates and corresponding falling bond values may mean lower overall portfolio value. Shorter-term bonds, while offering lower income opportunities, are less impacted by the drop in bond value seen in longer-term investments. The survey of 1,008 Americans conducted by ORC International, gauged how well they understood the impact potential rising interest rates would have on investment portfolios. Age and Awareness One-third of respondents between the ages of 18 and 34 replied they have ìno ideaî how interest rate changes will impact a portfolio. As respondentsí age increased, their level of awareness increased as well with the exception of the oldest age group. One-quarter of those 65 and older also indicated they had ìno idea.î Gender Breakdown Men and women are evenly matched when it comes to respondents who, while understanding there will be some impact to portfolios, do not quite understand the specifics (40 percent and 39 percent, respectively). A division occurs among respondents who admit they ìdo not understand at allî what those impacts may be. While 29 percent of women admitted they do not understand the issue, just 19 percent of their male counterparts did. Income Discrepancy Respondents in the lowest income bracket were most likely to misunderstand the impact of rising rates, with 35 percent of Americans surveyed identifying as such. Just 13 percent of those with household incomes of $100,000 or more indicated the same. Additional survey results are available upon request. Editorís Note Survey was based on 1,008 telephone and cell phone interviews of U.S. adults conducted between July 26 and July 29, 2013. The margin of error was +/-3%.† About Edward Jones† Edward Jones provides financial services for individual investors in the United States and, through its affiliate, in Canada. Every aspect of the firm's business, from the types of investment options offered to the location of branch offices, is designed to cater to individual investors in the communities in which they live and work. The firm's†12,000-plus financial advisors†work directly with nearly 7 million clients to understand their personal goals - from†college savings†to†retirement†- and create long-term†investment solutions†that emphasize a well-balanced portfolio and a buy-and-hold strategy. Edward Jones embraces the importance of building long-term, face-to-face†relationships†with clients, helping them to understand and make sense of the investment solutions available today.† Edward Jones, which ranked No. 8 on FORTUNE magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For 2013," is headquartered in St. Louis. The Edward Jones Web site is located at†www.edwardjones.com, and its recruiting Web site is†www.careers.edwardjones.com. Follow on Twitter @EdwardJones. Member SIPC.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at Bloomberg terminals on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, May 13, 2013. This morning, Bloomberg released the findings of an internal investigation into conflicts of¬†interest between the news-gathering and terminal sectors of the company, and to its credit, there¬†was really only one thing that stood out as scary to Wall Street. But it was pretty scary. On page 40 of the 102-page report there's a section that addresses Bloomberg reporters accessing¬†anonymous trader chat rooms. Only one specific incident is really described ‚Äî when about 50¬†reporters gained access to an anonymous chat room for commodities traders in 2011. The intention was that they use the chat room not to interact with traders, but to get ideas for¬†stories and watch the market in real time. Chats weren't used as source material, but journalists¬†did not have to identify themselves before they entered chat rooms. Basically, they were lurking. Access to this was revoked in 2013 ‚Äî from Bloomberg's report: ...each editor spoke to his or her own reporters, either in team meetings or as reporters were granted access to the chat room. At one point, reporters were told by editors to enter a code when joining the room that would prevent the reporters from posting comments. The editors with whom Hogan Lovells spoke stated that monitoring the room did provide a few ideas for articles and alerted them to articles that competitors were carrying. The chats themselves do not appear to have been used as source material, and there is no indication that reporters conducted interviews while using the anonymous feature of the room. Indeed, journalist activity on the site seems to have been limited to posting articles that had appeared elsewhere on the terminal without comment... Click here to check out Bloomberg's video message about the report, which was conducted by Clark Hoyt, previously Editor-at-Large at Bloomberg News and a former Public Editor of The New York Times. As Jamie Dimon would say, they're going "full kimono." Who wouldn't after the media frenzy about even the potential of conflict of interest in Bloomberg's systems earlier this year. Now ‚Äî A lot of traders on Wall Street go into anonymous chatrooms with hundreds of people. The traders are identified only by their numbers and they know some people in the room are just flies on the wall. It's just that they probably think those are trader flies. Do with that what you will.
Going out on your first job interview can be stressful. The clothing you wear to the interview shouldn't be. For guys, there's just one appropriate thing to wear: A suit. There's a difference between buying a first suit for interviews and a whole wardrobe of suits once the job has started. Think of a first suit as a springboard, giving the wearer the necessary look to shine in an interview, without making an impression on its own. ¬† The last thing an interview suit should do is stand out. Here are a few things to consider when you're shopping for the perfect interview suit: Colors and Patterns Blue or medium to dark grey, two buttons, no pinstripes. Black is too formal for interviews, and earth tones are too casual. Two button suits are the professional standard. Though you will see three button and one button suits, they should only be considered when your wardrobe requires multiple suits. ¬† The same goes for patterns like pinstripes. Once you're wearing a suit regularly, they're fine, for the first suit, basic is best. Price A solid price point for the first suit should be around $500, give or take a little. There are plenty of options around and below that amount, but avoid very inexpensive suits, as they are often poor quality and will look cheap. ¬† You want a suit that will last you through multiple rounds of interviews, not one that will come apart at the seams after a few marathon interview days. ¬† On the other side of the spectrum, you don't want to spend thousands on this suit. What will an interviewer think if you show up at an interview for an entry level position in a suit that's more expensive than theirs? It's not a risk worth taking, as it may have a negative impact on your candidacy. Fit Jacket: The best method for determining fit for an off-the-rack suit is to start with the jacket.¬† Bring a dress shirt with you when you go to the store so you can recreate how it'll be worn. The jacket won't fit the same way with a T-shirt underneath as it will with a dress shirt. ¬† Put on the jacket and button the first button. Take your fist and put it between your torso and the jacket at the point where it buttons. Can you fit it there comfortably? If so, size down until you can't, at which point you know what's too small. ¬† Buy the size larger than the one where your fist no longer fits. The point of this exercise is to make sure the suit looks normal when buttoned. If it is too tight in the torso, it'll pinch, making you look like Chris Farley.¬† Pants:¬†It's better to buy larger rather than smaller, since it's much easier to have pants taken in than it is to have them let out. If a pair feels a little tight, size up. Most suit pants come unfinished, meaning you'll need to take them to a tailor anyway to have them hemmed to your desired length.¬† If they are not unfinished, go with what feels right. The general rule is to have a little bit of break (how much of the pant leg sits on top of your shoe). More fabric than that, and the pants will look too baggy around the ankles, which will make you look shorter. A perfectly fitting jacket can be undone by baggy pants, and vice versa. Accessories Leave them at home, unless it's interesting socks. The important thing to consider with interview suits is that they are meant to make you look polished, professional ,and no more, so that you can get down to business and impress the interviewer with your skills and attitude. ¬† The suit has done its job perfectly if the interviewer can't remember it, since you want them to remember you rather than what you wore. This keeps them focused on your abilities, with the added benefit being that you'll be able to wear the suit again with a different shirt/tie combination when they ask you back for round two.
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExisting home sales crushed expectations climbing 6.5% in July to an annualized pace of 5.39 million units. This was up 17.2% year-over-year.¬† June's numbers were revised lower to show a 1.6% fall to 5.06 million units. Meanwhile, total housing inventory was up 5.6% at the end of July to 2.28 million. This represents a 5.1-month supply at the current sales pace. The median time that most homes spend on the market was 42 days in July, this is up from 37 the previous month The national median price for existing homes was 13.7% higher than a year ago at $213,500. This is the seventeenth straight monthly rise. A key finding was that first time buyers were down from 34% of all purchases a year ago, to 29% this time around. Distressed homes, which include foreclosures and short sales accounted for 15% of July sales, the same as June.  Economists have been watching for the impact of the run up in mortgage rates on existing and new home sales. The 30-year mortgage rate stands at 4.4% according to Freddie Mac's primary mortgage market survey (PMMS). "Mortgage interest rates are at the highest level in two years, pushing some buyers off the sidelines," said Lawrence Yun chief economist at NAR in a press release.¬† "The initial rise in interest rates provided strong incentive for closing deals.¬† However, further rate increases will diminish the pool of eligible buyers." Economists at Credit Suisse expect existing home sales to fall to the lowest level in three months and post the first consecutive decline in over two years. "One percent increases in mortgage rates over a two-month span are rare," they write. "When they have happened in the past, home sales ‚Äî both existing and new ‚Äî usually register a monthly decline in the second month of the two-month back-up (in our case, that's July)." But their July monthly survey of real estate agents showed that most buyers don't expect mortgage rates to go much higher and they're waiting to see if there's a pullback in rates that could create a buying opportunity. "There is still not a lot to choose from for homebuyers, and this tight inventory continues to limit sales gains.¬† Other headwinds include tight underwriting standards, protracted bank approval processes, and a delayed selling process." Existing home sales account for a larger share of the market than new homes.
Of all the horrifying scenarios that hackers could pull off ‚Äî from launching nukes to spoofing air traffic control ‚Äî the one that poses the biggest risk for Wall Street would be a cyber attack on equity markets. In the summer issue of hacker magazine 2600, pseudonymous writer "Eightkay" shows how such a scenario could pan out: Now imagine this attack scenario. Agents of an enemy of the United States successfully break into the mainframes of a High Frequency Trading Company, Dark Pool Crossing Network, or Brokerage Company. They infect the system with rogue trading algorithms or change the code on currently deployed algorithms. In a single coordinated attack, they buy and sell millions of shares of a single company or multiple companies, causing trading to halt or decimating the value of a single stock. Multiply that by 100 stocks of the top Fortune 500 companies and we have market collapse. Trading for the day would halt and Uncalculated economic damage would be done. The days of screaming floor traders have long passed as computers now make financial moves in microseconds. The shift has already given way to (non-hacker initiated) computer glitches costing serious money: Knight Capital lost $450 million in 2012, and Goldman Sachs is still trying to get to the bottom of¬†$100 million in botched trades.¬† Hackers were able to "repeatedly [penetrate] the computer network" of the Nasdaq Stock Market in 2011 ‚Äî although they luckily weren't able to make it into the exchange trading platform. And a report from Reuters in July of this year found 53% of the world's securities exchanges had experienced at least one cyberattack in the last year. Most were simple denial-of-service or virus attacks ‚Äî but they are getting better. "Cybercrime also appears to be increasing in terms of sophistication and complexity, widening the potential for infiltration and large-scale damage," the report read. While there are safeguards such as market monitors and circuit breakers, "Eightkay" writes, "this attack could happen quickly, rapidly, and across multiple fronts" laying waste to investor confidence and damaging the economy. It's also worth noting that "Eightkay" doesn't advocate such an attack or show how it can be pulled of in his column. He's simply sounding the alarm bell.
Reuters/Mike BlakeToll Brothers, one of America's largest homebuilders, announced fiscal Q3 financial results that were stronger than expected. Earnings came in at $0.26 per share versus analysts' expectation for $0.25. Total revenues surged 24% to $689 million, and units climbed by 10%. Toll is obviously benefiting from the ongoing U.S. housing recovery. But in recent months, interest rates have been climbing, pulling mortgage rates up with it. Currently, the average 30-year mortgage rate is 4.4%, up from 3.6% a year ago. In theory, this should be bad for builders as it raises the cost of the home for home buyers. But Toll Brothers CEO Douglas Yeardley isn't breaking a sweat. "Sales volumes and pricing power both increased this quarter from one year ago, a pattern consistent with recent quarters," he said. "We believe the recovery is real and we are in the early stages of the rebound. Our average sales contracts per community are about where they were in 1997-1998, several years into the previous cyclical recovery. From there, over the next seven years, through August 2005, a period when mortgage rates averaged between 5.8% and 8.1%, sales contracts per community continued to increase, eventually peaking at twice that pace." "The University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey, though down slightly from last month's six-year high, is up significantly from one year ago, as is the Conference Board's similar survey," noted executive chairman Robert Toll. "Inventory levels are still tight in almost all of our markets and housing remains very affordable. Unemployment trends are slowly improving and demand, based on household formations, is compelling, especially given the still very-low volume of industry home production." Every month, the Federal Reserve has been buying $85 billion worth of bonds in its efforts to keep interest rates low. But in May, it began signaling that it could soon taper or reduce those purchases. This has sent mortgage rates higher.
Joe HillebrandA trader playing pokerCollateralized debt obligations, the complex financial instruments that cratered disastrously in the financial crisis, are back. The market for the instruments, which were based on subprime mortgages, shrank from $520 billion in 2006 to just $4.3 billion in 2009 after the housing bust. Warren Buffett once called CDOs "financial weapons of mass destruction" because of their riskiness. This time around, the investment has shifted from a mortgage-based CDO into a "collateralized loan obligation," a cash-generating asset structured similarly to CDOs, but consisting of loans to businesses. Financial institutions have issued $50 billion in CLOs in the US in 2013, estimates the Loan Syndication and Trading Association, a trade group. The LSTA estimates the industry will issue $70 billion-worth in the US overall in 2013 and $100 billion worldwide. Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Barclays and Citigroup are among the banks most active in structuring CLOs in 2013. Citigroup alone has sold about 20 of the instruments this year. "There really isn't a CDO market anymore," but "the CLO market has been quite active" for a couple of quarters, said an executive at a major Wall Street bank, who asked not to be named. Still, observers note the comeback is only partial. "There's an uptick, but it's still small compared with the pre-crisis peak," said Campbell Harvey, a finance professor at Duke University. CLOs are structured financial products in which financial institutions pool loans of varying risk and market the securities to investors. The securities can be sliced into tranches of different underlying loan risk levels. The riskiest "junior" or "equity" tranches -- which were at the heart of the financial crisis of 2008 -- remain popular with speculative funds because they pay higher yields. "With interest rates still very low and borrowing costs so cheap, some investors are searching for risk," said Ruben Marciano, a trader at Societe Generale. Tranches packed with loans of moderate risk are known as "mezzanine" loans, while "senior" tranches are the safest. Before the financial crisis, many CDO slices that were categorized "senior" and rated highly by credit ratings agencies were actually high-risk and contained many subprime mortgages that ended up in default. Moreover, because all of the loans packaged in the same derivative products were in the same sector -- housing -- the instrument itself was vulnerable when the housing market collapsed. An analyst who specializes in CDOs for a large British bank said the investments are better bets when they contain loans from different sectors. Buyers of the current batch of CLOs have hired independent specialists to analyze the instruments and no longer rely on credit-rating agencies, said the analyst. Even as new CDO issues have vanished, Marciano said there remains an active secondary market since the crisis. "There are investors out there who have made a lot of money from buying low-quality CDOs at very low prices," Marciano said. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Eric Hauser/FlickrThe plight of brick and mortar retailers continues. Office supply retail chain Staples announced Q2 financial results that were weaker than expected. Earnings from continuing operations came in at $0.16 per share, missing expectations for $0.18. The company's sales fell 2% to $5.3 billion. Comparable store sales excluding Staples.com fell 3%. "We drove online sales growth and aggressively managed expenses during the second quarter, but this progress was offset by weakness in our retail stores and international businesses," said CEO Ron Sargent. Management also cut guidance. "The company‚Äôs second quarter results were weaker than expected, and as a result the company is adjusting its sales and earnings outlook," they said. "The company expects full year 2013 sales to decrease in the low single-digits compared to 2012 sales on a 52 week basis of $23.9 billion. The company expects full year 2013 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.21 to $1.25." Shares are down 8% in pre-market trading. Here's the chart via MarketWatch. MarketWatch
Now that we know more about yesterday's options trading error could cost Goldman Sachs hundreds of millions, we know that it looks a lot like another massive trading mistake ó Knight Capital's $450 million trading glitch from 2012. Both Goldman's mistake yesterday ó a system programming error that set incorrect price limits in a number of ticker symbols ó and Knight's mistake ó also a system programming error that sent algorithms buying high and selling low ó highlight the fact that complex, high speed computer software has the power to set markets into a tizzy. Here's how far Goldman's faulty trade, which were sent to options exchanges around the country, reached yesterday (from Bloomberg): The trading may have affected about 400,000 contracts for companies such as JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co., Johnson &amp; Johnson and Kellogg Co., based on data for the 500 biggest trades. Nasdaq OMX PHLX is reviewing a list of about 1,225 unique contracts on 51 underlying stocks, according to its trader alert email. About 240 September $103 put contracts for the iShares Russell 2000 Exchange-Traded Fund traded at $1 at 9:32 a.m. New York time today, down from as much as $3.32 two minutes earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The next trade was executed at $3.27 at 9:33 a.m. For Knight Capital, a programming error cost the firm its own existence. Goldman, on the other hand, says the error†ìwould not be material to the financial condition of the firm." The bank is known for having some of the most sophisticated and powerful trading technology on the Street, but we're talking about trading high speed in the options market here. As firms try to build programs to become the fastest and the baddest, say some experts, mistakes can be made. Back around Knight time, Business Insider spoke to†Lev Lesokhin. He works for†CAST,†a company that visualizes inherent risks in financial software systems. Lesokhin explained that some of these financial firms aren't paying close attention enough to what's under the hood of their computer programs ó and that means bizarre things can happen. At Knight, that bizarre thing was Frankenstein code. "Most IT applications have dead code," Leskhin said. "It's in there just hanging out in the code base but none of the live modules are calling it. If you don't have structural oversight then you don't know if your new live code could be calling the dead code." In Knight's case, it was. The live code called the dead code back to life and the program started trading on that. We'll wait to see what happened with Goldman. As for the trades, they could all be busted (canceled) depending on the rules for what constitutes an official "error" at the exchanges in question (NYSE, NASDAQ, CBOE). More on this to come.
REUTERS/Kimimasa MayamaA radiation monitor indicates 131.00 microsieverts per hour near the No.4 and No.3 buildings at the tsunami-crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co. (TEPCO)'s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima prefecture, February 28, 2012.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Here's a useful chart real quick from SocGen, which accomplishes two things. One it shows the various performance numbers for emerging market currencies (the worst of which is the Brazilian Real) since the start of May. It also establishes that not only are emerging market currencies weak, developed market ones are strong. The Swiss Franc, the pound, and the euro have all strengthened against the US dollar during this timeframe. SocGen
One of the biggest stories in global markets is the weakness in emerging market currencies. A factor driving their weakness is believed to be the Federal Reserve, and the likely fact that it will before too long embark on a path to unwind its ultra-aggressive policies, which has served to strengthen the US dollar, while sucking money out of emerging markets. Equity markets have been quiet, but on the currency front we're seeing weakness again. The US Dollar just hit a brand new high against the Indian Rupee. From XE.com, here's a look at the US Dollar vs. the rupee over the last week. XE.com Other big, bellwether EM currencies such as the Turkish Lira and the South African Rand are also getting bopped this morning.
In case you missed it ‚Äì Jeremy Siegel of ‚ÄúStocks for the Long Run‚Äù fame wrote a piece in the FT on Monday blasting Robert Shiller‚Äôs famous CAPE valuation metric. ¬† This isn‚Äôt the first time someone has torn into the metric. ¬†For a more thorough view I would highly recommend seeing this post¬†in which Merrill Lynch said the metric was flawed¬†and then this follow-up by JJ Abodeely. Anyhow, I won‚Äôt go into the CAPE and my personal views too much since I don‚Äôt really use any valuation metrics in my macro analysis (I find them largely unreliable for practical strategy application), but I did want to point out something that John Hussman highlights ‚Äì if the Shiller CAPE is wrong then several other metrics are probably also wrong‚Ä¶because they‚Äôre telling the exact same story! First off, here‚Äôs the Q Ratio which measures the market value of a company divided by the replacement value of firm assets¬†(via Smithers): Smithers Warren Buffett‚Äôs favorite valuation metric, GNP to total market cap is telling a similar story: And revenues relative to U.S. equity prices tells a similar story: Of course, these metrics aren‚Äôt all calculated the same way, but they tend to correlate very closely over time. ¬†When one is overvalued they all tend to be overvalued. ¬†The CAPE Shiller ratio might be misleading, but one thing that‚Äôs certain is that the high market values it currently shows are confirmed by several other indicators. ¬† The bigger question is whether any of these metrics are actually all that useful for practical purpose. ¬†I have my doubts. ¬†As for ‚Äústocks for the long-run‚Äù, well, let‚Äôs just say I don‚Äôt have time to debunk that one here.
Reuters Bill Ackman has been getting a lot of heat lately for a couple of reasons. For one thing, he's had some major losing bets (Herbalife and JCPenney) and they've been very high-profile. Furthermore, in the case of JCPenney, he's been accused of ruining the company (a sort of valid charge, since he took a big stake and urged the board to go in a disastrous direction with the hiring of Apple's retail chief as CEO) and thus destroying jobs. Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz has been particularly tough on Ackman in public. So to anyone out there who would accuse Bill Ackman of being a job and company destroyer, the investor has a chart for you. In his latest letter to investors, he produces a complete table of his activist investments. Bill Ackman Part of the purpose of this table is to show that he's had several winning bets so far., and that Herbalife and JCPenney are outliers. But note the existence of the far-right column, which shows the price of many of these companies today (even the ones in which he's no longer involved). The point there (as you can see with stocks like Wendy's, Fortune, and McDonald's) is that several of the companies he's been involved in, are even higher today, suggesting his activism does not put them on some short term path that's ultimately destructive.
Flickr / wrumsbyThe last two days, US market participants have woken up to some pretty notable market swings in key economies. Today? Not so much. In Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, Italy, and Germany, basically nothing is happening. At one point, The Nikkei had been down a bit on jitters about the severity level for the Fukushima spill being raised, but the market came back at the end of the day. And Jakarta stocks did rally 1.8% after two huge down days. But basically, things are quiet. The big event today is the Fed minutes, which we've previewed here.
