Thanks to Apple's recent tumble, its market value is now neck and neck with oil giant ExxonMobil once again. John Stoltzfus of Oppenheimer threw together this chart tracking 20 years of Apple versus Exxon. "Over the illustrated time frame, Exxon Mobil‚Äôs market cap has steadily increased," wrote Stoltzfus.¬† "Apple‚Äôs relative market cap grew at exponential 1.30% rates from 2009 with little signs of resistance until its shares started trading above $700 in mid-September 2012. The units on the y-axis are in $billions. Oppenheimer
Jakob E via flickrAsian markets have opened modestly higher, after the S&amp;P 500 ended its 8-day winning streak. The Nikkei is modestly higher. Remember it has been up after Shinzo Abe came to power on promises of more aggressive stimulus policies. Australia's stocks are up as trading resumes after a three-day weekend.
Last year was particularly brutal for the industry, which performed just 1.3 percent better than the S&amp;P 500 and saw hundreds of offices shuttered as a result of poor returns. But there were at least a small fraction of firms that had something to smile about ‚Äì‚Äì those owned by women.¬† A new report by financial services firm¬†Rothstein Kass shows female hedge fund managers netted an average 8.95 percent return in the third quarter of 2012, while the¬†HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index (released by Hedge Fund Research) showed a 2.69 percent net return through September. ‚ÄúOur report certainly displays the dichotomy facing women in the alternative investment industry,‚Äù said Kelly Easterling, principal-in-charge of Rothstein Kass‚Äô Walnut Creek office. ‚ÄúWe definitely see increased demand for women-owned and -managed funds from institutional investors, although the pace of investments is not as fast as many of the women we polled would hope." As investors, women have time and again proven they have one weapon in particular that sets them apart from the opposite sex: patience.¬† ‚ÄúThe fact that women-owned or managed hedge funds have been able to handily outperform their male counterparts is not particularly surprising,‚Äù said Meredith Jones, director at Rothstein Kass and author of the study. ‚ÄúThere have been a number of studies that show women investors to be more risk adverse, and therefore potentially better able to escape market downturns and volatility.‚Äù  And yet, there's still a glaring imbalance between female and male leadership roles in the investment business ‚Äì‚Äì with fewer than 20 percent of C-level positions at hedge funds filled by women. Women are even scarcer at venture capital and private equity firms, where they make up 13 percent and 12 percent of C-level desks, according to the index.¬† The reason? Rothstein asked 366 senior-level women in the alternative investment industry for their points of view, and nearly half admitted their gender made it "more difficult to succeed" in the business. More specifically,¬†in an industry where reputation and track record weigh so heavily on moving up, there aren't enough open positions for women to get their feet in the door. And it doesn't help that not many women grow up dreaming about working in finance.¬† "While there are signs of increased interest in women-owned¬†and -managed alternative investment funds, the pace of¬†asset flows, combined with the historical lack of supply of¬†women in the industry, has not yet kicked off a revolution," said Jones. Still, there has arguably never been a better time for women to take the reins.¬† "It¬†seems as if the right ingredients are in place," she added. "Strong performance, generally positive investment outlook¬†and emerging manager mandates ... there can¬†be little doubt that women should become more commonplace in finance." SEE ALSO: These are the 10 worst mistakes individual investors can make &gt;
Everyone has been celebrating the recent increase in U.S. home prices. But in the latest RPX monthly housing market report, Quinn Eddins, Director of Research at RadarLogic writes that it is too early to call a housing recovery. Looking at the 25-MSA RPX composite home prices that are up 9.2 percent as of November 21, Eddins writes that the "public discussion has missed a critical point", that the gain reflects the weakness of home prices in 2011, more than the strength in 2012.¬† "In each year since the end of the housing boom, the RPX Composite has weakened during the second half of the year. In 2011, it weakened more than usual. "So when we talk about a 9.2 percent year-over-year gain in the RPX Composite, it is a gain off an unusually low base. It does not simply reflect strength in housing prices during the 2012, but also extreme weakness in housing prices during the second half of 2011." RadarLogic ¬† What's more the rise in home prices has been driven by a shift in the composition of sales driven by institutional investors trying to build up rental property portfolios. In a report released earlier this month Eddins wrote: "Investors appear to be purchasing properties mostly from two sources: financial institutions selling REO and investors trading distressed properties purchased earlier in the housing crisis. They have not purchased significant volumes of homes from builders and households. "Thus, it is hard to see a direct connection between the current increase in institutional demand and future gains in household demand, especially at a time when traditional buyers are faced with high down payment requirements and tight standards for mortgages."
People with shopping addictions love it mostly for the "high" it brings. They falsely believe the high will last, and their happiness levels inevitably return to a baseline level, continuing a vicious cycle. Psychologists call this cycle "hedonic elevation and decline." University of Missouri Marketing Professor Marsha Richins looks at this phenomenon in a new paper†in the Journal of Consumer Research, "When Wanting Is Better Than Having," where she compares high- and low-materialist shoppers. "High-materialist" consumers have much higher expectations of what a product will do for their overall happiness, which is why positive emotions peak and then fall again after a purchase.† According to research, materialists are "more likely to believe that acquisition will change the kind of person they are, improve their relationships with others, enable them to have more pleasure in their lives, and enhance the effectiveness with which they carry out daily tasks." They also experience "more negative emotions, such as anxiety, fear, and envy." In one experiment, Richins surveyed 350 consumers across the demographic spectrum. They purchased a range of items, from cars to TVs, with a median purchase price of $990. Here's what she found: Journal of Consumer Research  These findings support other research on happiness. Most people return to their baseline level after positive and negative life events, no matter how positive or negative. This implies that people should find more purpose and meaning in their everyday lives, rather than wait for specific circumstances to make them happier.
Dynasties Of The SeaJohn Fredriksen, CEO of Frontline Ltd.Approximately 95 percent of world trade occurs by sea.¬† However, little is known about the world's shippers because only a fraction are traded publicly. In her new book Dynasties Of The Sea, CNBC's Lori Ann LaRocco profiles 21 of the biggest players of the notoriously secretive shipping industry. LaRocco also got the priceless insight of these players who are intimately familiar with what's going on in the world economy. "One of the biggest themes that came out of this book is how these shipping titans are worried about the health of the global economy and the bloated balance sheets of the United States and Europe," LaRocco says. From the book, we pulled some key quotes from the biggest players of the shipping industry.
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderThousands of Ferrari lovers flocked to Palm Beach this weekend for the annual Cavallino Classic, one of the largest Ferrari conventions in the world. The centerpiece of the event was the Concorso d'Eleganza at the Breakers Hotel on Saturday morning, where some 150 rare Ferraris from the past seven decades were on display on the front lawn. Spectators milled around, snapping photos and watching as pairs of judges inspected each vehicle and awarded points for originality and elegance. We were on hand to take in the scene, which was completely over the top.
Wythe HotelWhat made this weekend's opening of the new Williamsburg club, Output, so interesting wasn't that Brooklyn's been waiting for it ó it's that all of New York City has been waiting for it. City music freaks have been talking about a new club in Williamsburg since this summer. Of course, at that time it had no name, and was only described in details. The word was that the club would be large (a 452-person capacity is big by NYC standards) and music/sound oriented ó no bottles, no doormen, no nonsense. There would be no fist pumping either. Electro yes, fist pumping no. After months of waiting, Output finally opened its doors this weekend. The club sits on Wythe Avenue next to another monument to Williamsburg's ascendancy, the Wythe Hotel. On Saturday night, when the wisest partiers showed up to stand in line at an ungodly hour (10:30?!!!? No one goes out in NYC til 12:00), it seemed like that one block's transformation was complete. Output showed that Williamsburg was no longer an outpost. In a word, the place was loud ó loud because of an incredible sound system in an incredible space, loud because of the insane lights, and loud because what was billed as a $30 party ended up being free with an open bar that lasted all night long. It may have seemed even louder because everything was new and the ceilings were high. From the second floor looking down, everyone on the dance floor looked like a swarm of moths fluttering toward the flaming wall of light behind the DJ booth. There was no hassle at the door. This is an important thing to many New Yorkers, and this is what many of them have been waiting to see at a proper, large-scale club. Before the financial crisis hit and every kind of discretionary spending in town was squeezed, doors were everything. Either look fabulous or buy a bottle, those were a party-goer's choices. All that mattered to many clubs, was paying Manhattan rents and playing music that everyone liked. Club goers had shown up, after all, mostly to be seen. You do not go to Output to be seen. You go to dance. Some of New York's nightlife scene moved that way during the recession when everything went bust, and that's how many people want it to stay. That's why the the bouncers at Output don't care what you're wearing. That's why there were no pictures or hip magazines to cover the opening. The only coverage we saw was from Williamsburg Blogs, where not everyone was pleased. Here's one less than thrilled tweet:  Okay, fair enough. Thing is, Output admits it's not for everyone, especially not for people who care how plush a club is. Here's how they put it on the event page for Saturday night's soiree on party networking site, Resident Advisor: Output is open to anyone, but is not for everyone. Output welcomes individuals who value the communal experience of music over cameras, ropes, and bottles. For more proof of this attitude you need only look at their Saturday night line up. First up was Justin Strauss, an NYC dance scene veteran who's made remixes for Tina Turner and played at clubs since the 1980s; Benoit and Sergio, a DJ duo that splits time between Washington DC and Berlin; Mike Simonetti, fresh off an epic birthday party at The Standard Hotel's club, Le Bain, last week; and Justin Miller, a musician who manages to straddle being an uber hip Fashion Week face while also starting an underground house label called 'Have A Killer Time.'† None of those DJs, or any of the DJs you're likely to see at Output, are from the Tiesto/Swedish House Mafia crowd. Most have a particularly Brooklyn flavor. They play for the same partiers that Output is catering to ó hardcore dancers, French people, music nerds, Australian tourists from Melbourne, German tourists from Berlin, hipsters that like to shake it, recovering 90s club rats, kids that never want to hear the same thing twice, and anyone who got really into LCD Soundsystem. There are a lot of those people in New York City, and they've been waiting for Output. If you're one of them, head over. If you're not, don't. If you're curious, feel free... it's not like anyone will care what you look like or anything. Oh, and a little before 3:00 a.m., everyone went absolutely nuts to this: 
Viet Capital macro analyst†Phong Nguyen has a stark warning for Vietnamese investors today: "We believe itís time to get out of gold before itís too late." The reason? Vietnam's domestic price of gold has been much higher than the international price of gold ñ and Vietnamese authorities have been struggling to control gold speculation as the spread between domestic prices has widened (see chart).† Nguyen thinks the latest effort to close that gap could smash Vietnamese gold investors. Viet Capital Securities In October, it was revealed that Vietnamese banks had been selling gold held by depositors in their vaults for cash, and the banks were then forced to start buying back gold to return to their clients. Since then, the State Bank of Vietnam, the country's central bank, has been trying to get a handle on the gold market. While the SBV has been having trouble taking control, Nguyen believes that is all about to change. In a note to clients, he writes (emphasis added): Banks would benefit. Commercial banks have to close out all of their gold deposit positions by 30 June 2013 per Doc. 7019/NHNN-QLNH. Banks like ACB, who have large gold operations, have been rushing to buy gold in the last few months to comply. This led to the wide spread in domestic/intíl prices. The SBV had also requested some banks to sell gold to help stabilise the market. Some of these banks even incurred losses as they bought back gold needed to cover gold withdrawals. Under the circular, the SBV would have the right to import gold from global markets to resell to domestic banks (and authorised gold traders). This would help banks avoid losses as they close out positions to meet the deadline.  Investors long on gold would lose. Going forward, banks would have no need to go out on the domestic market to purchase gold anymore. We think the domestic/intíl spread will narrow rapidly and may be eliminated altogether. Furthermore, international gold prices have been on a downward trend, dropping 7% since early October 2012. Expectations that the rechanneling of investments from gold to stocks was one of the main reasons the stock market reacted quite positively on Friday. Gold investors around the world have been feeling the pain as the market has sold off since October. Now, the Vietnamese ñ around 31 percent of which are gold holders ñ may be about to get a taste of the same.
One of the most striking illustrations we've seen so far of the recent rally in stocks and risky assets comes courtesy of Deutsche Bank rates strategists Francis Yared and Dominic Konstam. Lately, stocks have staged a big upward move as perceptions of tail risks in the market have diminished and investors have turned bullish on economic growth prospects. This has Wall Street buzzing about the "Great Rotation," a big shift out of bonds and into stocks that is becoming widely expected sometime in 2013. But bond yields still haven't really gone anywhere, and a lot of bond market participants are worried about what will happen when they finally do. A repeat of the "1994 moment" ‚Äì when there was a total bloodbath in the bond market as yields screamed higher ‚Äì is weighing heavily on many minds right now. To read more about what happened in 1994, click here &gt; On to the chart, then, which can be understood thus: The USD 5s30s slope refers to the spread between yields on 30-year bonds and 5-year bonds. The spread should rise in response to a "risk-on" move as investors move out of long-term bonds and yields on those bonds go higher. Deutsche Bank For their part, Yared and Konstam don't necessarily think a "1994 scenario" in which the bond market crashes is in the cards. In a note to clients, the strategists write: The market dynamics seems to be driven by an excessive focus on the benefits of central bank liquidity and reduced tail risk combined with a relative skepticism about the growth outlook. For instance, core curves appear dislocated relative to equities. ... The question therefore is whether this divergence (the new abnormal) can persist for much longer. In our view, the market is probably placing too much emphasis on future central banks‚Äô support and not enough on growth. If this is indeed the case, then some of the gap between¬†core real rates and risky assets will need to close. Given our constructive view on the growth outlook, we would expect core rates to converge towards risky assets rather than the other way around. On the other hand, Morgan Stanley analyst Huw Van Steenis was just in Davos for the World Economic Forum last week, and he said every single investor he talked to was concerned about the same thing: a repeat of 1994. SEE ALSO:¬†The '1994 Moment' Is Keeping More And More Bond Traders Awake At Night &gt;
 Roadsidepictures via FlickrTwo bidders just offered to buy divisions of Hostess, the famous baked goods chain that's going through bankruptcy.¬† McKee Foods, which is best-known for Little Debbie cakes, offered to pay $27.5 million for Hostess' Drake brand. That includes Ring Dings, Yodels and Devil Dogs products, according to the Associated Press.¬† United States Bakery made a $28.9 million bid for the Sweetheart, Eddy's, Standish Farms and Grandma Emilie's brands, Bloomberg reported.¬† But that doesn't mean the brands are safe just yet.¬† "The ‚Äòstalking horse' bid by McKee would set the floor for an auction process that lets competitors make better offers," the AP wrote.¬†A judge will have to approve the final sale.¬† The fate of Twinkies, Hostess' most famous product, is still up in the air as bidders duke it out, according to the AP. Hostess shut down business late last year as it struggled through Chapter 11 bankruptcy and a baker's strike. DON'T MISS: Everything You Wanted To Know About Working At Taco Bell &gt;
John Nelson and the wizards at IDV Solutions have created a series of maps plotting economic data (via AGS) by Census county level. Here's one we found particularly interesting: the ratio of property taxes to property values. John Nelson/IDV Solutions This map was achieved by "dividing" this map ‚Äî property taxes: John Nelson/IDV Solutions ...into this map ‚Äî property values: John Nelson/IDV Solutions As you can see, the ratio is high in both Tennessee and Long Island ‚Äî but for different reasons: land is dirt cheap in the former, taxes sky high in the latter. Nelson writes on the IDV blog, "Typically property tax is commensurate with its value, more or less. Here's a look at that 'more or less' across the country. Some places really stand out and the coloration scale had to be pretty heavily tiered to pull out any of the middling values." SEE MORE: Why There Has Never Been A Better Time To Buy A Home In U.S. History &gt;
Courtesy of AirPanoBig time drug dealers risk life in prison and the inability to look themselves in the mirror, but they can get rich too. NYPost's Madeleine Scinto talks with a runner and a distributor working around New York University for some intel on the ecstasy trade.¬†Here's how it breaks down, according to the Post: It starts with the makers in Vancouver, who sell ecstasy powder for $5,000 a pound. The drugs are carried accross the Canadian border by the connect, Nick, who sells it in America for up to $15,000 a pound, locking in a monthly profit of up to $200,000. Next drugs are bought by the middle man, Chad, who runs distribution in the tri-state area. He sells powder for $1,400 an ounce, for a monthly profit of up to $350,000‚Äîannual profit of more than $4 million. "I'm making a killing," Chad tells Scinto. Finally the drugs go to runners like a young woman named Ragan, who sells for up to $100 a gram. She earns up to $41,000 in a month. Read the fascinating full article here &gt; For other dubious lines of work, check out: Here's What Porn Stars Get Paid &gt;
APIn addition to the upcoming sequestration and May's debt limit negotiation, there is another fiscal crisis coming up that ó unlike the sequestration and debt limit ó could†actually force a government shut down.† By March 27, Congress must vote on a new continuing resolution that will appropriate money to continue the funding the government. If that doesn't happen ó or if negotiations hit an impasse ó the government will shut down.† Last week, Senate Budget committee chair Patty Murray†sent a letter to her Democratic colleagues†detailing the upcoming fights that Congress is slated to have over the next several weeks.† In the memo, Murray notes that†as it stands, the current continuing resolution ó a "CR," or the bill that funds the government in the absence of a full omnibus spending bill ó expires on March 27, and unless Congress acts to appropriate funds by that date the government will face a full shutdown.† She writes: A government shutdown could have a devastating impact on our still-recovering economy and cut off access to social security for new filers, loans for small business owners and families trying to buy a home, food-safety inspection, and so many other programs that families and seniors across the country count on. Essentially, Congress needs to pass a bill appropriating either another full year of funding or another continuing resolution for 2013. If not, federal employees will be furloughed and government spending will be cut off or reduced.† Republicans have demonstrated a willingness to see the government shutdown to get cuts, and it's possible that they will use the threat of shut down this time around. In fact, a recent poll found more than half of Republican respondents were willing to shut the federal government down as a negotiating tactic to score spending cuts. In addition to a potential shutdown, there's a second issue that needs to be settled by the 27th: The so-called "little sequester," which could slam all defense and security aspects of government with across the board spending cuts of $7 billion. The Budget Control Act ó BCA ó that ended the 2011 debt ceiling fight limited overall funding to $1.04 trillion, capping defense funding at $546 billion and non-defense funding at $501 billion. Exceeding the limit in either category triggers automatic across-the-board cuts.† The American Tax Relief Act ó ATRA ó switched the categories from defense/non-defense to security/non-security and reduced the overall 2012 BCA spending limit by $4 billion. As a result, the current funding level for security in 2013 exceeds the ATRA limit for the category ó which involves all military, homeland security, and other security funding ó by $7 billion.† Unless Congress aligns appropriation levels within the security category to be lower than the ATRA limit, a full $7 billion security sequester will be triggered and automatic cuts go into place for each and every program.† As explained by Senate Budget Committee Majority Press Secretary Eli Zupnick: When Congress extends the current CR, it will either have to alter the CRís spending rate so that the new CR complies with the new security/non-security firewalls OR further delay ìlittle sequesterî. If Congress were to simply extend the current CR with no changes but fail to delay the date by which OMB must determine whether a sequester is in order, then security would face a $7 billion sequester. Essentially, Congress needs to eliminate $7 billion worth of security spending. Either they can find specific programs to target and reduce, delay the crisis, or slow the rate of spending. Otherwise, every security program would face a cut. †
YouTubeI remember doing informational interviews on the Merrill trading floor back in 1999. Now, that was one great trading floor, have you ever been there? It was like a big bowl in the financial center, with different levels of desks, so you could achieve something of a vista across the floor. It looked like what a trading floor should look like. So some guy from credit was pointing out the various groups on the fixed income floor, rates over here, mortgages over there, and I saw, in the top row, a bunch of guys packing up their stuff, putting it in boxes, and leaving. ìWho are those guys?î I asked. ìOh,î he said, ìThose are the commodities guys. We donít need them anymore.î Like I said, it was 1999. Wall Street is notorious for hiring on the top and firing on the bottom. In 2001, when I joined Lehman Brothers, the associate class was the biggest ever, over 300 MBAs. Even Joe Gregory knew it, and had a laugh at our expense. ìYou guys are the last ones in,î he said; it was a known fact at the time that stocks were already entering a bear market. And now , banks are blowing out people (especially equities people) left and right. The employment situation on the Street is as dire as I have ever seen it. Banks are in ruins. And, just like before, people are saying that the jobs are never coming back, owing to market microstructure changes in the market. After 14 years or so doing this, I have learned to never say never. In fact, Iím downright optimistic. The financial stocks have been rallying for a while now, and the stock market is pretty good at discounting these sorts of things. Without getting too much into the details, households are deleveraging, the housing market is levitating, and mortgages that were once underwater are coming up for air. The S&amp;P just printed 1500, the first time in 5 years. Things seem to be getting better, financially speaking, which can probably be attributed to aggressively easy monetary policy, but they are getting better, nonetheless. But itís no secret that our business, the financial business, is under assault from all quarters. Democrats hate Wall Street. Republicans hate Wall Street, though to a lesser extent. And even modern economic libertarians, our so-called ideological cousins, have turned on Wall Street because of bailouts, crony capitalism, and government subsidies, particularly in the form of zero interest rates. The public is beyond skeptical. My dentist is convinced the whole thing is rigged. And even amongst ourselves, many of us are in such a state of disillusionment that we would, ideologically, prefer a gold standard and a drastically smaller financial industry, but those are not the cards we are currently dealt. Letís be truthful with ourselves. Some of it we deserve. A lot of it, maybe, we deserve. But the Street does not deserve all the blame it gets. There are a lot of good people in this business, people who work hard and care about their families and care about their country, and who are deeply saddened by the events of the last five years. It is hard to work in finance, these days, to know that people donít like you at all, to be aware, in a visceral sense, of the crowds in the park downtown, who, if not separated from you by steel barricades and lines of uniformed police, might wish to do you physical harm. It hurts when people paint the industry with a broad brush; the epithet ìbanksterî is a new one, and when you dehumanize people like that, when you strip them of all their individuality, usually bad things follow. So we think to ourselves: do I deserve this? Iím not a bad person. I have a talent for money and a head for numbers and I love what I do. What is wrong with that? Nothing used to be wrong with it, not in sort of-recent past, the days when financiers, with a tailwind from supply-side tax policy and free-market economics (so the mythology goes), built the staggeringly successful society that we live in today. These men and women were supermen. They bought companies. They merged companies. They issued stock and bonds. They literally built, from the ground up, entire industries. They undid, singlehandedly, the mysterious ìmalaiseî of the Seventies, the sense of impotence that we all had back then. They developed liquid secondary markets. They innovated, financially, in ways that were beneficial, not in ways that were superfluous, speculative, or systemically dangerous. There is a school of thought that has grown in the last several years that finance is irrelevant, that the real economy of nuts and bolts and physical labor is indeed the only economy, that we should annihilate all financial products, going back to before paying interest was legal, that the world of finance should be detonated in a giant mushroom cloud, and we believe this because finance has become so maddeningly complex as to render itself nearly irrelevant. Paul Volcker says the last good financial innovation was the ATM. I think heís a donut, but I will say that if you trade a product that is so nonlinear that only 25 people in the world know or even care about it, and yet you can change the shape of the earth; you are one of 25 people that can literally affect the course of human history, you should think seriously about what you are doing. I am no financial Luddite, as you know, so this means a lot, coming from me. I donít think Wall Street folks are satisfied with this state of affairs. I also donít think that they really know how we got here, either. The reflexive response from the general public is greed, greed, greed, but as we all know, it has little to do with that at all. We just like to have fun with numbers and come up with ways to do things better. But the one question that has never adequately been answered, by anyone, ever, is this: is there a limit to financial and technological innovation? Loosely translated, is a world with HFT and CDS more dangerous than a world with paper tickets and non-callable bonds? Nobody knows. And everybody knows that capitalism relentlessly replaces labor with capital. Efficient markets are better, right? Isnít this what we wanted, moving quotes in a matter of microseconds? Iím not here to answer these existential questions. They cannot be answered, even by the smartest among us (though the boldest will try, annoying everyone in the process). What we can do is look backwards in time, to the golden age of Wall Street, whether you consider that to be the eighties or the fifties or the twenties, and to celebrate Wall Street as it once was, a place where wealth was created, and not merely moved around from one pile to the next. We want to celebrate Wall Street where banking was about relationships, where money was only lent to people who we believed could pay it back. We want a Wall Street where finance is not an end in itself, but a means to an end; a world teeming with economic activity, with factories running at full capacity utilization. We want to celebrate a pure meritocracy, where a man with a brain and an attitude can make himself a millionaire. And most importantly, we can visualize a period of time where Wall Street and modern finance achieves that once again. Click here to read the rest of this post at Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Harold Cunningham / Getty ImagesMorgan Stanley bank analyst Huw Van Steenis attended the World Economic Forum in Davos last week, and there was one concern he said kept coming up over and over in meetings with investors. The dreaded "1994 scenario." In 1994, against the backdrop of a strengthening U.S. economy, the Federal Reserve surprised investors by hiking interest rates, causing a bloodbath in the bond market. The Fed was trying to ward off inflation ‚Äì even though no real sign of rising prices had yet emerged. Van Steenis says this concern was voiced by "every single long-term asset owner" that he met. In a note to clients today titled "What I Learned at Davos," Van Steenis writes: The consensus of much of the official sector and investors at Davos was that central banks have maxed out and should be soon start focusing on exit, given the unprecedented size of this experiment and its impact on asset prices.  Every single long-term asset owner I met, and numerous longer-term investors, voiced concern about asset prices and the risks from a huge knock from rates backing up (a super-sized version of 1994). While so far one can argue that the monetary injection was vital to offset massive deleveraging, it is clear that the risks for debasement of currencies remain high. However, the vibes Van Steenis picked up from policymakers painted a decidedly different picture. Van Steenis continues (emphasis added): One of the most debated topics in the corridors of Davos was the dramatic changes in Japan, with the new government keen to jumpstart the economy with a new 2% inflation target which has led to a material depreciation in the Yen.  And yet several central bankers argued there is more they can do. In one public debate, Angel Gurria of the OECD argued that the world had probably reached the limits of monetary policy. But Mark Carney contradicted Mr. Gurria saying ‚ÄúThere continues to be monetary policy options in all major economies and they have to be framed in the context of the [monetary policy] mandate.‚Äù This flexibility should be used until their economies reach ‚Äúescape velocity‚Äù.  While Mr. Carney was speaking at a generic level for all central banks, I came away from this debate and other meetings with central bankers that that this quantitative experiment is far from over. Not only in Japan are we seeing a bold new experiment but that the new Bank of England governor is likely to give it an extra nudge with a de facto or de jure change in mandate. My colleague Charles Goodhart wrote about options on this early in January. What does it mean for UK banks ‚Äì in the longer term a stronger economic recovery is a clear positive; however, the market may underestimate that the normalisation in rates and margins may take longer to come through. In other words, though it's the biggest fear on everyone's mind right now, a "1994 moment" may be kept at bay longer than most expect as central bankers continue to experiment with monetary policy in a bid to spur growth. Of course, that doesn't mean that those experiments can't backfire ‚Äì but so far, at least with regard to interest rates, they haven't. READ MORE:¬†The '1994 Moment' Is Keeping More And More Bond Traders Awake At Night &gt;
APThe S&amp;P 500's 8-day win streak ended today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,881, -14.0, -0.1 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,500, -2.7, -0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,156, +4.5, +0.1 percent And now the top stories:
The World Economic Forum at Davos isn't necessarily a winner-loser kind of conference... but competition is human nature. Perhaps that's why The Economist couldn't resist calling out a win for activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb: Happiest hedge-funder. Dan Loeb, of Third Point, who in the past year has shaken up Yahoo! and defended Herbalife, was over the moon at he and his hedge fund brethren being described as a "stabilizing force" in the world economy by Mark Carney, the new Governor of the Bank of England. We're happy you're happy, Dan.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Shipping Titan Says The Only Debt To Worry About Is American Debt (Lori Ann LaRocco, CNBC) Even though 95% of all world trade is done via sea, only a fraction of shipping companies are traded publicly. Dynasties Of The Sea, a new book by CNBC's Lori Ann LaRocco, profiled 21 of the biggest players of the notoriously secretive shipping industry and got their thoughts on the global economy and financial advisors. Charles Fabrikant, Chairman of SEACOR Holdings is quoted saying: "The only sovereign debt that worries me is Americaís. My biggest concern there is at some point our creditors will call to question on us. If they do, it will re-orient the cost of capital...I do worry that someday Iím going to wake up and see America not paying zero percent for borrowing, but 6, 7 or even 8%.... In the future, the U.S. may still be paying at zero or if I woke up in 2014 and Uncle Sam was paying 8% for treasury bills, it wouldnít knock me over. In planning my business, Iíve got to be prepared for, in my view, both eventualities." Those Calling For A 'Great Rotation' Don't Understand How Markets Work (John Hussman) Mutual Fund owner John Hussman, a noted bear, said that strategists and fund managers who believe that 2013 is the year of the 'Great Rotation,' or that money will flow out of bonds and into equities this year, just don't understand how the market works. The outstanding quantity of bonds and equities is always held by someone or the other at any given point of time, he said. "The idea of a 'rotation' out of bonds and into stocks begs the question of who will buy the bonds and sell the stocks, as someone must be on the other side of that trade. Similarly, to 'move cash into the market' requires a seller of stock who becomes the new holder of said cash." There Are Several Indicators That The Global Economy Is Exiting Crisis Mode (Mark Dow) Traders are shifting away from what are traditionally considered safe bets, according to trader Mark Dow. US Treasury yields are on their way up, which is associated with positive growth and risk taking, and the Euro is falling with respect to the Swiss Franc and the Australian dollar. While the latter is also in part due to weakness in the Eurozone, there's a more exotic version of the EURCHF and EURAUD exchange rate spreads that tells a similar storyóthe Turkish Lira and South African Rand exchange rate. The Rand is strengthening with respect to the Lira, which indicates global normalization from crisis mode. This change in attitude towards risk could also mean that commodities are unlikely to bounce back as forcefully as they have in the recent past, according to Dow. Yahoo Finance There Will Be More Bears In The Bond Market (Nomura) Primary dealers, foreign central banks, domestic and foreign commercial banks are turning bearish on US Treasury bonds, according to Nomura's George Goncalves. "Current market positioning for bonds has turned to an overall bearish bias as four out of the six key investor types we track had bearish flows in their latest updates," said Goncalves, in a note released this morning. "Net, selling pressures have turned decided negative for USTs." Financial Advisors Are Profiling Their Clients Based On Their "Financial Personalities" (The Wall St. Journal) Veteran Wealth Advisor Tamara Surratt changes how she communicates with her clients based on their financial personalities, she told the Wall St. Journal. Some advisors segment their clients by asset class, advisors like Surratt and those who work at Canada-based Danielson Group, an Assante Wealth Management team, find it more effective to differentiate clients based on how they make financial decisions. M&amp;A Volume Fell In 2012, But Value Of AUM Climbed 34% (Financial Advisor) The total value of assets under management from mergers and acquisitions deals done last year rose 34 percent versus the prior year, to $58.8 billion, according to data released today by Schwab Advisor Services. But the volume of transactions completed dropped to 45 last year, compared to 57 in 2011, and 70 in 2010. The biggest driver in last year's M&amp;A activity were a category referred to as the national acquiring firms. "We see the national acquiring firms providing a good overall alternative in the industryís growth because it gives financial advisors a choice regarding succession and theyíre a growth catalyst because theyíre grabbing advisors who are going independent," Jon Beatty, senior vice president of sales and relationship management at Schwab Advisor Services. "That means weíre adding new advisors to the marketplace."
Yes, world leaders need to talk about the most important issues of our time, but they also need to blow off a little steam. That's why there are parties at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Usually, as the Washington Post reports, the most epic of those parties is thrown by Google. Not so this year. This year the buzz was all about mysterious "Russian Parties". Russia sent 12 billionaires to the conference including its richest man, Alisher Usmanov, and you know those guys know how to spend cash on a good time. These blowouts had to be huge, because even The Economist couldn't ignore them: Euphemism of the week: Translator. When any of the army of beautiful, lightly clad young ladies flown in for the "Russian party" were asked what they did, they answered "l'm translator". At one Friday night party, Russian punk band Leningrad from St Petersburg played a live set. Sounds wild!
Private landowners are reaping billions of dollars in royalties each year from the boom in natural gas drilling, transforming lives and livelihoods even as the windfall provides only a modest boost to the broader economy. In Pennsylvania alone, royalty payments could top $1.2 billion for 2012, according to an Associated Press analysis that looked at state tax information, production records and estimates from the National Association of Royalty Owners. For some landowners, the unexpected royalties have made a big difference. "We used to have to put stuff on credit cards. It was basically living from paycheck to paycheck," said Shawn Georgetti, who runs a family dairy farm in Avella, about 30 miles southwest of Pittsburgh. Natural gas production has boomed in many states over the past few years as advances in drilling opened up vast reserves buried in deep shale rock, such as the Marcellus formation in Pennsylvania and the Barnett in Texas. Nationwide, the royalty owners association estimates, natural gas royalties totaled $21 billion in 2010, the most recent year for which it has done a full analysis. Texas paid out the most in gas royalties that year, about $6.7 billion, followed by Wyoming at $2 billion and Alaska at $1.9 billion. Exact estimates of natural gas royalty payments aren't possible because contracts and wholesale prices of gas vary, and specific tax information is private. But some states release estimates of the total revenue collected for all royalties, and feedback on thousands of contracts has led the royalty owners association to conclude that the average royalty is 18.75 percent of gas production. "Our fastest-growing state chapter is our Pennsylvania chapter, and we just formed a North Dakota chapter. We've seen a lot of new people, and new questions," said Jerry Simmons, the director of the association, which was founded in 1980 and is based in Oklahoma. Simmons said he hasn't heard of anyone getting less than 12.5 percent, and that's also the minimum rate set by law in Pennsylvania. Simmons knows of one contract in another state where the owner received 25 percent of production, but that's unusual. By comparison, a 10 to 25 percent range is similar to what a top recording artist might get in royalties from CD sales, while a novelist normally gets a 12.5 percent to 15 percent royalty on hardcover book sales. Simmons added that for oil and gas "there is no industry standard," since the royalty is often adjusted based on the per-acre signing bonus a landowner receives. While many people are lured by higher upfront bonuses, a higher royalty rate can generate more total income over the life of a well, which can stretch for 25 years. Before Range Resources drilled a well on the family property in 2012, Georgetti said, he was stuck using 30-year-old equipment, with no way to upgrade without going seriously into debt. "You don't have that problem anymore. It's a lot more fun to farm," Georgetti said, since he has been able to buy newer equipment that's bigger, faster and more fuel-efficient. The drilling hasn't caused any problems for the farm, he said. Range spokesman Matt Pitzarella said the Fort Worth, Texas-based company has paid "well over" $1 billion to Pennsylvania landowners, with most of that coming since 2008. One economist noted that the windfall payments from the natural gas boom are wonderful for individuals, but that they represent just a tiny portion of total economic activity. For example, the $1 billion for Pennsylvania landowners sounds like a lot, but "it's just not going to have a big impact on the overall vitality of the overall economy," said Robert Inman, a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school. "I think the issue is, what difference does it make for the individual families?" Pennsylvania's total gross domestic product in 2011 was about $500 billion, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce. Inman noted that total gas industry hiring and investment can have a far bigger effect on a state or region, and companies have invested tens of billions of dollars just in Pennsylvania on pipelines, infrastructure, and drilling in recent years. For example, in North Dakota the shale oil and minerals boom contributed 2.8 percent of GDP growth to the entire state economy in 2011, according to Commerce Department data. Another variable in how much royalty owners actually receive is the wholesale price of gas. That has dropped significantly over the past two years even as production has boomed in Pennsylvania and many other states. Average wholesale prices went from about $4.50 per unit of gas in 2010 to about $3 in 2012. For many leaseholders, that meant a decline in royalties. The boom in natural gas royalties has even led to niche spinoff companies that look for lease heirs who don't even know they're owed money. Michael Zwick is president of Assets International, a Michigan company that searches for missing heirs. "It was an underserved niche," Zwick said of oil and gas leases. When a company can't find an heir to lease royalties, the money often goes to state unclaimed property funds. Zwick said he has found a few dozen people whose gas lease money was being held in escrow, including one who was owed about $250,000 in drilling royalties. But the average amount, he said, is far lower. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing.
Bloomberg TVJP Morgan's Tom LeeJPMorgan Chief U.S. Equity Strategist Tom Lee is known for his bullish views on the stock market. Today, for example, he called for Dow 20,000 in four years during an interview on CNBC. However, his note to clients today strikes a different tone ñ at least in the short term. In the note, titled "CESI below zero - taking some risk off the table - moving Cyclicals to UW,"†Lee writes, "It certainly feels that the bullish sentiment is overpowering, supported by the calls for an imminent asset allocation shift out of bonds/cash into stocks, as well as the recent run of strong macro indicators." Lee says his clients are having trouble finding a "red flag" that could send the market lower ñ which is all the more reason for caution. Lee highlights four reasons investors in stocks should consider "taking some risk off the table" here: 1) US [Citigroup Economic Surprise Index] has moved below zero. On the past 7 occasions when this happened the near-term equity upside was capped. The average maximum upside of 1% and average drawdown of 8% seen over the following 3 months demonstrate the asymmetric risk-reward in our view. 2) Q4 results are beating the conservative expectations. However, EPS upgrades are failing to materialize. Many more companies are cutting guidance than raising it. Third quarter was the first one in 4 years where global profit margins have fallen. 3) Equities had a very strong run over the past few months. Given that EPS revisions stayed in negative territory, the P/Es have rerated. The latest equal- weighted P/E multiple for MSCI Europe, at 13.2x, has just moved to an outright premium vs the last 10 year average. 4) A number of technical and sentiment indicators are starting to signal caution. Bullish sentiment has become completely consensus as seen in AAII Bull index which is now in the top 5% of the observed readings. The backtest shows that forward equity returns from this level of Bullishness are significantly below normalized. The Equity Skew is at 10-year lows and VIX near historic lows. Lee joins others on Wall Street in suggesting the rally may be coming to an end, like BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Rich Cochinos. You can read his take on the first cracks BofA is seeing in the current market rally here &gt; SEE ALSO: A Huge S&amp;P 500 Winning Streak Is On The Line Right Now... &gt;
Davos Man and Woman have come down from their Swiss mountain high and headed home, including our correspondent. What were the main memories and insights they took away from this year's World Economic Forum? Glass half full. The general mood was at its most upbeat since January 2008, when the financial system was as frozen as the Davos streets. Relief that most experts judged the financial crisis to be over at last outweighed concern that economic growth and job creation seems likely to remain sub-par for the foreseeable future. (Christine Lagarde, boss of the International Monetary Fund, spoke of a "fragile and timid recovery".) Angela Merkel was among several European leaders to express optimism about the continent's economic and political prospects. Even the finding of the Edelman Trust barometer that less than one in five people trust political and business leaders to tell the truth seems to have been shrugged off. Bankers instead took comfort in the finding that trust in banks has actually risen in the past year. Leadership vacuum. There was hardly anyone from the Obama administration, though a few Republicans turned up, including Eric Cantor, the House majority whip. Bill Clinton, a Davos regular, also stayed home, apparently looking after Hillary. The ongoing power transition in Beijing may have explained the light Chinese presence. The Russians were out in force, making sure everyone knows they are leading the G20 this year. Dmitry Medvedev, the prime minister, showed up, but President Vladimir Putin stayed home. Euphemism of the week: Translator. As in when any of the army of beautiful, lightly clad young ladies flown in for the "Russian party" were asked what they do, they answered "l'm translator". French foreign legion. Business people from France were this year's tragic heroes, embraced and encouraged to persevere by their fellow capitalists from abroad, whilst their government's assault on wealth creators was widely condemned. Groups of French business men huddled together, sharing tales of adjusting to life in Belgium. Stand up comedy. Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, enhanced his reputation as the world's favourite comedy politician with his French bashing Franglais routine; catchphrase: "Donnez-Moi un break‚Äîas we used to say in Brussels.‚Äù He also called Davos a "cyclotron of egos". Mr Johnson generally overshadowed David Cameron, Britain's prime minister, who perhaps picked the wrong audience for his earnest lecture on the evils of tax evasion. Happiest hedge funder. Dan Loeb, of Third Point, who in the past year has shaken up Yahoo! and defended Herbalife, was over the moon at he and his hedge fund brethren being described as a "stabilising force" in the world economy by Mark Carney, the new Governor of the Bank of England. Young global leader. Whilst the official WEF Young Global Leaders were exiled to Klosters to contemplate our Schumpeter columnist's sage advice to be humble, the stage was left to 11 year old Pakistani, Khadia Niatzi, who explained how Massive Open Online Courses such as Udacity and Coursera could usher in world peace. She had got her degree in physics through online learning. When asked to leave the stage in order to make room for Bill Gates, she rightly seemed unimpressed. Celebrity corner. No Bono. No Mick Jagger. No Brangelina. This year's top celebrity was Charlize Theron, a South African film star, who turned up to support the Global Fund for Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Second, in absentia, was Justin Timberlake, who, it was widely noted, no longer looks anything like the now 30-something Sean Parker, famous Silicon Valley investor and co-founder of Napster, who did show up for a few headline-grabbing hours. Party central. The official WEF theme this year was "dynamism and resilience". That was an apt description of the partygoing. Mr Parker allegedly blew $1m throwing an exclusive bash, co-hosted with Mark Benioff, the founder of Salesforce.com, and Ian Osborne, a youthful British PR svengali. A faded Davos night club was tarted up with stuffed animals sporting laser-beam eyes, drinks were free, and John Legend and Mark Ronson, a DJ, supplied the music. The party was billed as a celebration of "the future of philanthropy", presumably ironically. Elsewhere, Google not only lost Marissa Meyer to Yahoo!, where she is now chief executive; it let her steal its traditional Friday night party slot. The McKinsey Party, with the same fabulous band for the umpteenth year, once again supplied the most reliable fun and packed, sweaty dance floor. Shadow Davos. Over the years, a vast "fringe" of events and parties has grown up in Davos independent of the official WEF agenda. This "shadow Davos" was bigger than ever this year, with a growing number of people doing like Mr Parker and not even bothering with the official event and its huge fees. As with the world of banking, at Davos increasingly the real action‚Äîfrom doing deals to having fun‚Äîis happening in the unregulated shadow system. The WEF seems in two minds about how to respond to this, with some hosts of unofficial events grumbling about WEF officials telling them to tone things down. That is the instinct of the monopolist. Yet the WEF exists in an increasingly competitive marketplace for providing opportunities for the global movers and shakers to get together. A better strategy would be to deliver an even better official Davos in 2014. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Business InsiderEveryone's always complaining about how horrible flying is--especially "economy class" flying. And compared to other ways that one can spend one's time, flying is indeed often unpleasant and aggravating. Absent a need to get somewhere else, it's hard to imagine choosing to fly. Among the common complaints about flying are lousy service, cramped seats, yucky food (if any), egregious add-on fees, frequent delays and cancellations, and a general impression that one is less a customer than a herd animal. But! If we airline customers have demonstrated anything over the past few decades it's that what we care about most is cost. Given the choice between paying more for better service, food, space, etc., or suffering and saving, today's flyers almost unanimously choose the latter. So you can't blame airlines for cutting amenities. Especially when, even with these cuts, airlines still go bankrupt all the time--like American Airlines. What's it really like to fly international "economy class" these days? And what's it like to fly on a bankrupt airline? I always fly economy, unless someone else is footing the bill. And, yesterday, I flew American from Zurich to New York. So this was a good opportunity to step back and assess the experience.
Wikimedia CommonsOrel Hershiser, MLB record holder for most consecutive scoreless innings pitchedThe S&amp;P 500 has closed in the green for eight trading sessions in a row. The last time that happened was in November 2004. If the S&amp;P 500 closes up today ‚Äì it's currently trading around 0.1 percent lower on the session ‚Äì the win streak will extend to nine days (which also happened in November 2004). The S&amp;P 500 has had 40 such nine-day win streaks since 1928. One has to go all the way back to September 1995 to find a streak of consecutive gains longer than nine days. That has only happened 22 times since 1928. The longest streak ever was in April 1971, when the S&amp;P 500 went 14 days in a row without sinking. That is also the only occurrence ever where the S&amp;P 500 has closed up more than 12 days in a row. According to Bespoke Investment Group, the average S&amp;P 500 return on the ninth day of a streak¬†like this is slightly negative. However, the median return is positive: ...the average return of the S&amp;P 500 the day after eight straight days of gains is a decline of 0.13%. ¬†While the average return is negative, the index has actually been positive on day nine (20 times) more often than it has been down (15 times). ¬†So more often than not, the S&amp;P has been positive on day nine than it has been negative. ¬†Overall, the longest winning streak for the S&amp;P 500 over the last fifty years has been 14 trading days in April 1971. The histogram below shows the frequency of win streaks over seven days in a row. The length of the win streak is plotted along the x-axis and the number of streaks is displayed on the y-axis. Bloomberg, Business Insider The current win streak may end today, but if not, the S&amp;P 500 could be set to break more records this week. SEE ALSO: Bank Of America Sees First Signs That The Rally Could Reverse &gt;

cherrylet via FlickrBrunch is a cherished meal in New York City, when friends gather together to recap the events from the night before over Mimosas and eggs. The experts at Zagat have found the best brunch places in Manhattan, from downtown to uptown. Here are their top picks, organized by location (downtown, midtown, uptown).
The S&amp;P 500 has been grinding steadily higher in 2013 as no real bearish catalyst has yet given investors reason enough to sell stocks. For weeks, while Wall Street strategists have mused that this may be the beginning of a "Great Rotation" out of bonds and into equities, they've also warned that a correction is near. Though we haven't seen much in the way of selling in the equity market recently, the brief bouts of weakness we have seen in intraday trading have usually been brought about by spikes in the U.S. dollar, which has been mostly weak to start the year. Today, BofA Merrill Lynch FX strategist Richard Cochinos says his team is seeing "the first signs of a reversal" in a note to the bank's clients. "Bottom line," Cochinos writes, "Several indicators are calling for a risk correction. USD selling has reached previous reversion levels and greater buy-backs are to come." Cochinos first points to U.S. dollar selling by "real money" investors (i.e., pension funds, mutual funds, insurance companies, et al.), which has reached extreme levels recently ‚Äì 1.8 standard deviations from the mean, to be exact. The chart below shows that historically, 1.8 standard deviations is typically a level where selling reverses, according to Cochinos, which means one big source of dollar weakness, and hence, strength in risk assets, may soon be removed from the market.  Note: the chart above graphs the trade-weighted U.S. dollar index (USD TWI) in orange ‚Äì as opposed to the standard U.S. dollar index. The standard index gives more weight to the euro ‚Äì which has been climbing in January ‚Äì than the USD TWI, which is why the chart above shows a climbing dollar, while the standard dollar index has been weak. Furthermore, Cochinos says hedge fund positioning has a stronger correlation than any other with changes in the value of the currency ‚Äì and for the past two weeks, hedge funds have been buying dollars after selling them for the past 5 months. Finally, with regard to the dollar, Cochinos notes that USD buying by corporates has been running below average recently, writing, "With month-end upon FX markets, greater dollar buying by US corporates could provide a near term trigger." Meanwhile, flows into equity markets, which have been strong in the past few weeks, are looking stretched, says Cochinos: BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchThe confluence of all these factors suggests to Cochinos that the correction in risk assets everyone has been waiting for may finally be at hand. DON'T MISS:¬†The '1994 Moment' Is Keeping More And More Bond Traders Awake At Night &gt;
Traders and economists around the world have been slashing their forecasts for the yen and cranking up their forecasts for Japanese stocks.¬† This is largely due to the return of Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has promised a inflation in his effort to boost the economy. In theory, inflation results in a weaker currency and higher stock prices. Here's Goldman's outlook for the yen and Japanese stocks (as measured by the TOPIX): Goldman Sachs The stock market forecast assumes a stable yen.¬† However, the analyst note how the stock market would move given changes in the yen.¬† From a recent note: This week our Japan equity strategist Kathy Matsui again raised her earnings forecast and price target for the TOPIX. Our revised EPS estimates now reflect 14% growth for FY 2014. Our new year-end 2013 target of 1100 represents a 23% return from current levels. The new TOPIX EPS and index forecasts assume a stable USD/JPY exchange rate of 88. However, every ¬•10 shift in the exchange rate equals roughly 6-8% growth in earnings. For example, if the yen continues to weaken and averages 100 or 110, our earnings estimates would rise and our TOPIX target would increase to 1190-1270. However, policy actions have yet to keep pace with the political pronouncements. Skeptics ask why this round of stimulus and QE will result in a different outcome than in the past. Policy decisions during the next few months will determine whether the latest rally will continue (see Abe-nomics: Raising TOPIX target to 1100, 23-Jan). SEE ALSO: The True Story Of The 1980s, When Everyone Was Convinced Japan Would Buy America &gt;
Nassim Taleb is known for thinking outside the box, so when he gives his take one something, the Street expects to hear something fresh. This afternoon he was on CNBC and, since everyone is talking about it, Taleb was asked about last week's epic live blowout fight between billionaire investors Bill Ackman and Carl Icahn. A lot of financial pros told Business Insider that, on top of feeling amused and shocked while Icahn and Ackman went at it, they also felt a little queasie. Not Nassim ‚Äî no, he told CNBC that he loved it. "A lot of readers of my book have e-mailed me the story and my reaction is... you should commend these people... they speak in public the way they would do it in private and that's rare...it's refreshing. People have a lot of fake dignity on the air, bureaucrats cannot do that, these people are free. They're human, if you hate someone and you can say it in private. They can afford to do it, God bless them... I don't like people to speak in public a different way than they would speak in private. I do not like people to speak in print different than they would at dinner." Definitely a thought.
Meggings are so last year.† Metropolitan men in Europe and the U.S. are rushing to buy "mantyhose," which are tights for men.† ìItís definitely become a trend for men in Europe. Itís fun for them to wear, and you can see the color and patterns standing out [from] their shoes...They wear the tights with shorts, under jeans that have holes, under pants to stay warm in colder climates, or just to lounge around,î Designer Lisa Cavallini told Women's Wear Daily. ìThe interest is also growing in the U.S. market, and weíve had so many requests for mantyhose that weíve added an extra-large size for men who are 6 feet tall and weigh up to 198 pounds.î Lisa is the daughter of legendary menswear designer Emilio†Cavallini and runs his namesake brand. The Emilio Cavallini tights retail for $40 and come in prints including barbed-wire, dots, and crossword puzzle.† A website called mantyhose.net†offered a few tips for men looking to capitalize on the trend.† DON'T MISS: Jos. A Bank's Worst Nightmare Is Coming True &gt;
UrthecastCaterpillar, a global manufacturing powerhouse, is a reliable bellwether of economic conditions around the world. This morning, the company announced better-than-expected 4Q financial sales and earnings. The company also published its detailed outlook for the global economy, commenting on everything from interest rates, commodity prices, central bank policy, and emerging markets. "Overall, we expect the world economy will begin the year with weak growth and improve as 2013 unfolds," they write. "We anticipate overall world economic growth of at least 2.5 percent‚Äîa small improvement from our estimate of 2.3 percent for 2012."
Sotheby'sDauntless real estate blog The Real Estalker reports that former Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack put his 9-bedroom Upper East Side penthouse condo on the market for $22.5 million. But that's wrong. The house belongs to John Mack's son, a photographer and author.  We can see where the confusion comes from. In 2009, John Mack Senior bought one of Bunny Mellon's (seemingly endless) real estate holdings, a "carriage house" on East 70th Street for $13.5 million. Mack has mentioned having an apartment in the city before too (along with holdings in Westchester and North Carolina), so it wouldn't be surprising if he sold his old holdings and moved into new, remodeled digs. Even though that's not the case, John Mack Jr.'s pad is definitely fit for a CEO. There's an awesome view from the top, 11 foot ceilings, the only fireplace in the building, and great big windows.
UPDATE 1: CNBC's Herb Greenberg,¬†citing an unnamed source, reports that the FTC's press conference about an allegedly illegal pyramid scheme does not have to do with Herbalife.¬† UPDATE 2: The Kentucky AG presser is about¬†¬†Fortune¬†Hi-Tech¬†Marketing. Watch it here &gt; Shares of Herbalife, the multi-level marketing firm that hedge fund titan Bill Ackman is shorting because he thinks it's a "pyramid scheme", were getting smoked moments ago. The stock was trading down about 9%. ¬†It's now down about 4.5%.¬† Another multi-level marketing company, Nu-Skin, was getting slammed as well. ¬†It was last down 4.4%. Nobody had any idea what was going on. Traders got jitters about an FTC announcement in Kentucky that will target an allegedly illegal pyramid scheme. There was no evidence that it had anything to do with Herbalife, which is based in California, but the news of the FTC going against anyone was being cited as an excuse for the selloff. From the release:¬† The Federal Trade Commission will co-host a¬†press conference in Lexington, KY, today at 1 p.m. ET (Noon Central Time), with the Kentucky Attorney General‚Äôs office, to announce a major action against an allegedly illegal pyramid scheme. Steve Baker, Director of the FTC‚Äôs Midwest Region Office, and Kentucky Attorney General Jack Conway will be available to answer reporters‚Äô questions. Check out the HLF chart here.¬† Yahoo Finance Here's NuSkin's chart:¬† Yahoo! Finance
WikimediaGoebbels with his family. Harald Quandt is far left.The step-grandchildren of Nazi propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels are billionaires, although their wealth comes mostly from their biological relatives, Bloomberg's David de Jong reports. Here's how the relationship works: That included ownership of two large manufacturing firms as well as stakes in Daimler-Benz and potash miner Wintershall AG. Today, Herbert's widow Johanna Quandt, 86, and their children Susanne Klatten and Stefan Quandt remain BMWís dominant shareholders, de Jong says. Meanwhile, he writes, "the billionaire daughters of Harald Quandt -- Katarina Geller-Herr, 61, Gabriele Quandt, 60, Anette-Angelika May-Thies, 58, and 50-year-old Colleen-Bettina Rosenblat-Mo -- have kept a lower profile." Goebbels poisoned himself and his biological children as the war was ending. Click here to read the full story from de Jong &gt;
In the apparel industry, most companies are known for their clothes. Suitmaker Jos. A Bank, however, is best known for its outrageous promotions. But these popular promotions may be losing their effectiveness. Shares of Jos. A Bank are getting punished today after the company announced a shocking warning regarding its recent financial performance.† In their own words: However, many of the promotional items and a large part of our holiday assortment were items that sell best in cold weather and the weather was unseasonably warm. Historically, we have had strength with these types of items, but our customers (specifically at our stores) didn't respond as well to our promotional offers as they had in the past. Our customers responded well to our suit promotions during this period, but our non-suit customers responded poorly to our holiday season offerings, even at very low prices on products such as sweaters, outerwear, hats, gloves, scarves, and jackets made of heavier fabrics such as camel's hair and cashmere. Promotional pricing usually works if the customer believes it will soon go away.† However, Jos. A Bank offers similar promotions on a rolling basis. Perhaps, the customer is finally realizing that they'll never miss out on a Jos. A Bank deal. The Business Model You may have heard of one of their recent promotions: Buy 1, Get 7 Free.† You buy 1 suit at regular price, and they give you 2 more free suits, 2 dress shirts, 2 silk ties, and an Android smartphone. More common promotions include 70% off all suits and buy one suit, get two free. How can a company like this make money? Three words: higher initial markups. You'll see those three words all over their regulatory filings. The markup is the difference between the cost of a good and the price it's sold at.† The higher the markup, the more you can discount and still make a profit. For example, a typical store might sell you a $400 suit and offer 25% off.† In Jos A Banks' world, they'd rather price a suit at $1,000 and offer it at 70% off. Either place you shop, you pay $300 for a suit that might be of identical quality to the one sold at the other place. But the $1,000 initial price tag gives the perception of higher quality.† And the 70% discount gives the illusion of a great deal.† Combine those two things and it's no surprise why the bargain-hunting American male would be seduced by Jos A Bank's offering. This business model had been working for quite a while.† Sales and profits have been climbing for years. And more importantly, the gross profit margin has trended up from 58% to 62%.over the last five full fiscal years. Jos A Bank, SEC However, any profit margin is no good without sales. And if the secret of Jos. A Bank's success is out, then they may have lost their ability to differentiate themselves from the competition. SEE ALSO: Jos. A Bank's Worst Nightmare Is Coming True &gt;
flickr/willbeardphotoThe Financial Times is out with its latest rankings of the world's business schools, with Harvard taking the top spot from Stanford. As always, these rankings are somewhat idiosyncratic, Bloomberg Businessweek puts Chicago Booth in the top spot, and it barely makes the top 10 in the FT. Our rankings¬†had Stanford at number one.¬† But of course, salary reigns supreme, and despite recent depressing news about MBA pay, grads from top schools are doing pretty well for themselves.¬† Here are the top 10 schools ranked by average salary, along with the increase in graduate's salaries from their pre-MBA days.  NOW READ: The Reported Million Dollar MBA Is Actually Making Less Than $90,000
But the Frenchówith their economy spiraling deeper into crisisóexpressed disdain for their political class, as they call it, in another way: with a desire for authoritarian leadership, a ìreal leaderî who would ìreestablish order.î The survey, ìFrance 2013: the New Divisions,î conducted by Ipsos and others for Le Monde (PDF of PowerPoint) caused a bout of soul-searching and political maneuvering. Explanations and rationalizations flew about, as frustrations were boiling over on all sides: unemployment above 10%; heavily contested plant shutdowns and layoffs; a fiscally inspired exodus with hostile rhetoric [ìTrench Warfareî Or ìCivil Warî Over Confiscatory Taxes In†France], and on and on. The cultural and economic ìdeclineî of France set the scene: 51% of the respondents thought that in the coming years, the decline of France was ìinevitable.î Among those who supported the right-wing National Front (FN), 77% thought so. By comparison, supporters of President FranÁois Hollandeís Socialist Party (PS) were outright gung-ho: only 41% considered it ìinevitableîóstill chilling. It wasnít a new trend, something Hollande might have instigated during his eight-plus months in power. According to the survey, it has been going on for ten years, a period during which mostly conservative presidents occupied the ElysÈe, a period that also coincided largely with the euro in French wallets. A sobering 63% thought that ìFrench cultural influenceî had declined over that period; and a stunning 90% believed ìFrench economic powerî had declined. They point the finger at ìglobalization,î which 61% considered a ìthreat to France.î Opinions diverged in a hopscotch manner: 82% of those on the far right, 49% of those supporting Nicolas Sarkozyís right-of-center UMP, and 53% of the Socialists were so inclined. The solution? 58% agreed that France would have to ìprotect itself more from the world.î The range went from 38% among PS supporters to 92% among FN supporters. Then a litany of deep and troubling issues emerged: 62% thought that ìmost politicians are corruptîóthe other 38% were ìoptimists,î groused FN President Marine Le Pen; 72% complained that ìdemocratic systems function badly in Franceî; and 82% lamented that ìpoliticians act mainly in their own self-interest.î Graciously, the survey offered these hapless and frustrated respondents an appetizing and easy solution: ìWe need a real leader in France to reestablish order.î 87% agreed! Le Monde tried to make us believe somewhat ineffectually that it shouldnít be surprising, that this was, in fact, just another logical step forward in a movement that started as a counter-trend to the anti-authoritarian 60s and 70s. The desire to have a ìreal leaderî that would ìreestablish orderî was almost unanimous on the right. Among UMP supporters, 98% agreed with it. Sarkozy, their man, had campaigned in 2007 on reestablishing order, and as president had tried to be a strong leader. Instead, he got tangled up in the financial crisis and the subsequent debt crisis. By 2011, the economy started going south again. Dissatisfied, the people booted him out. On the right wing, 97% agreed with it. ìIt would be indeed high time,î Marine Le Pen quipped as she detailed how the survey results reflected what the FN had been pointing out all along. Even among supporters of the Socialists, 70% wanted a real leader to reestablish order. Sarkozy had failed; now it was Hollandeís turn. But he has been sinking into unpopularity faster than Sarkozy. Then the survey linked the desire for a ìreal leaderî who would ìreestablish orderî to the concept of authoritarian rule via an otherwise innocuous question: ìAuthority is a value that is too often criticized today,î it stated. And 86% agreed; the French want a strongman to solve their problems. ìA significant rejection of the democratic system,î is what Ipsos called that debacle in its comment on the survey. The survey plowed into a bevy of other topics as well. For example, it laid bare the dire level of confidence the French have in the mainstream mediaó73% thought that journalists caved to pressures from political powers. It exposed the French exasperation with immigrants. And it got caught up in the thorny thicket of religion, particularly Islamó74% considered it intolerant. The survey ìdraws a much darker portrait of the country,î Le Monde warns. French society ìis slipping from distrust to rejection, from worry to anxiety, from withdrawal to fear of the other, from pessimism to catastrophism.î ìThe effect of the crisis is not surprising, but itís striking just how profound the anxiety has become,î said Pascal Perrineau, director of the Center for Political Research at Sciences Po (Cevipof), which was involved in conducting the study. And so, he said, ìresentment gives way to hostility.î Already in January, 2012, as presidential candidate, Hollande presented himself as real leader whoíd reestablish order. So he shook up the banks: ìIt has no name, no face, no party, it will never be candidate, it will never be elected, yet it governs: that enemy is the world of finance,î he said. Freed ìfrom all rules,î it ìtook control of the economy, of society, and even our lives.î Heíd fight it, and promised tough reforms. But these days, youíd think he is being tutored by JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon.... A Year After Declaring War On The†Banks.
You've probably heard that the Nikkei has been one of the hottest stock markets in the world. That's in large part due to the expansionary policies of new PM Shinzo Abe. But what's really impressive is the action among Japanese small caps, which trade on an index known as Mothers (Market of the high-growth and emerging stocks). That index, as SocGen pointed out this morning, has been going completely bananas, and hardly anyone has noticed. They're up as a group nearly 50% this year! Aggressive buying of small caps is a sign of aggressive risk appetite, and arguably exuberance. Watching the Mothers fly like this is a great sign of how animal spirits are taking over. 
Bloomberg TelevisionIndustrial machinery behemoth Caterpillar announced its Q4 2012 financial results this morning. And in its announcement were some macro economic observations. "Overall, we expect the world economy will begin the year with weak growth and improve as 2013 unfolds," they wrote. "We anticipate overall world economic growth of at least 2.5 percent‚Äîa small improvement from our estimate of 2.3 percent for 2012." They attribute some of this acceleration to global low interest rate policy by the world's central banks. Here are the three relevant bullets from their announcement: SEE ALSO: The Mysterious Titans Of Shipping Reveal The Truth About The Global Economy &gt;
People frequently ask how a sector that currently accounts for 2.5% of the US economy can be so important. First, residential investment has large swings during the business cycle, and will probably†increase sharply†over the next few years. Second, there are spillover effects from housing - meaning housing has a much larger impact on overall economic activity than just "residential investment". We are starting to see some signs of spillover from Kate Linebaugh and James Hagerty at the WSJ: From Power Tools to Carpets, Housing Recovery Signs Mount Companies that sell power tools, air conditioners, carpet fibers, furniture and cement mixers are reporting stronger sales for the fourth quarter, providing further evidence that a turnaround in the housing market is taking hold. ... executives at companies exposed to housing are growing more optimistic. Improvement in the sector could help broad tracts of the economy by creating jobs, improving consumer confidence and boosting property-tax receipts for municipalities. Construction typically is a big job creator during expansions, though the industry has been slow to staff up during the current recovery. "The housing recovery will help lift businesses that have long been dormant," said Mark Vitner, senior economist at Wells Fargo. "People will be fixing up homes to put them up for saleóbuying new air conditioners, painting, fixing roofs. As the new-home market picks up, that really feeds into [gross domestic product]." Weekend: ï Summary for Week Ending Jan 25th ï Schedule for Week of Jan 27th ï Thresholds for QE ï Me, Me, Me
It also lies with the billions who don‚Äôt attend the forum, including the more than 2 billion people around the world who lack access to basic financial services such as savings accounts, credit cards, insurance, and a way to make or receive payments. Many work, but can‚Äôt save for their children‚Äôs education, access credit to make important large purchases, or rely on insurance when a natural disaster hits‚Äîholding back local and national economies to the detriment of our interconnected global economy. The good news is that today, the conditions exist to bring these people into the tent. Indeed, to truly make our global economy resilient, we must ensure financial inclusion: universal access to quality financial services at affordable prices, delivered with convenience and with client protections in place. The notion of financial inclusion is an idea whose time has come, thanks to several defining trends in developing countries: millions of people are moving out of extreme poverty, small businesses continue to be the lifeblood of many local economies, and technological innovations are spreading quickly, making access to them cheaper and easier.¬†Financial inclusion promises to be more than just a bridge for a single person; it can serve as a multiplier for the economy as a whole, helping entrepreneurs succeed, generating more income in the formal economy and raising GDP levels. That‚Äôs why we are now working alongside the Center for Financial Inclusion at Accion to spearhead the Financial Inclusion 2020 campaign‚Äîa broad movement to achieve full financial inclusion for all by the year 2020. While just seven years away, this goal is actually within reach, but only if the right groups‚Äîincluding public- and private-sector actors across industries ranging from technology and consumer goods to banking and insurance‚Äîcome together. We are under no illusion that the task will be easy. The barriers to financial inclusion are varied and entrenched. In many countries, client protections are weak, infrastructure remains outmoded, and there is a general lack of understanding of customer needs, including the critical need for financial education to complement access to products and services. Most importantly, until increased coordination across industries and geographies is achieved, meaningful progress toward greater financial inclusion will be difficult to attain. Yet we remain encouraged, as previously underserved markets are poised to benefit from rapid advancements in the provision of basic banking services.¬†¬† For example, many argue that application of technologies already available will allow poor populations to develop financial services previously only accessible in the developed world. Technology is bringing the price to reach unserved populations to a point that makes business sense. With mobile subscriptions exceeding 86 percent of the global population and growing, there is tremendous opportunity to reach more people, even in the most remote parts of the world. Other trends show increasing momentum toward access to additional financial services. The International Labor Organization reports that microinsurance is now reaching half a billion people, providing a previously unavailable safety net for the world‚Äôs most at-risk groups. The potential market for microinsurance, according to Lloyds, is between 1.5 billion and 3 billion policies. Fast-moving consumer goods companies increasingly are buying from and selling to the customers who make up the ‚Äúinvisible market‚Äù that is excluded from financial services. Additionally, ‚Äúbig data‚Äù has the potential to revolutionize credit reporting, which can form the basis for financial profiles for those otherwise excluded from opaque reporting systems. Financial inclusion is also gaining prominence among policymakers. For example, the G20 has backed a broad policy initiative that goes as far as integrating financial inclusion into mainstream standard-setting bodies such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). In addition, over 80 countries from Armenia to Zambia have supported The Maya Declaration, the first global and measurable set of commitments by developing and emerging country governments to unlock the economic and social potential of over 2 billion people who could benefit from financial inclusion. Advancing financial inclusion is not only a social imperative. By stimulating formal economic activity, financial inclusion makes sound business sense. Unlocking access to hard-to-reach markets is as much a business development strategy as it is a way to bolster economic stability for individuals and communities‚Äîboth local and global. This is smart long-term business planning with massive social benefits. Building on the good work of the G20 and many private, public and non-profit actors, we call on the business community, microfinance institutions, NGOs and policymakers to join us in envisioning a world of full financial inclusion for all by 2020.¬†This is a major task, and one that no single sector or institution can solve alone. But the pay-off will be significant: if we do this, we have the possibility to grow economies and¬†transform lives. We welcome you to join us in this effort. Pamela Flaherty Director of Corporate Citizenship, Citi President &amp; CEO, Citi Foundation ¬† Bill Gajda Head of Global Mobile Product, Visa Inc.
Byways.orgThe decline in inventory helped boost home prices in 2012 and has in large part factored into analysts' upward revision to home price forecasts for this year. But declining affordable housing inventory is said to have been behind the huge decline in December's pending home sales index. In a press release, Lawrence Yun chief economist at National Association of Realtors said "supplies of homes costing less than $100,000 are tight in much of the country, especially in the West, so first-time buyers have fewer options". Yun said the month's supply was lowest in the West, where the index fell 8.2 percent on the month. Supply was down to 3 months, while prices were up 17.3 percent. "The month(ly) supply is the lowest in the West region, and it is the west region that is seeing the strongest price increase," he said. "Clearly implying that it is supply restrain slowdown rather than demand deceleration." Yun said he sees a sellers market developing.
Will Bo Xilai go on trial today in Guiyang? Ta Kung Pao reported last week that he would and Reuters followed on with a story in which it wrote that: A Beijing-backed Hong Kong newspaper, the Ta Kung Pao, reported on Friday that Bo's trial would begin on Monday in the southern Chinese city of Guiyang. But the government has not confirmed or denied this, belying recent efforts to promote transparency and openness, and at least two well-informed sources said on Sunday the reports were not true. However, a third source, who has ties to the leadership, said the trial would in fact begin on Monday in Guiyang. The Global Times says Bo will not stand trial until sometime after the March NPC/CPPCC meetings: The trial of Bo Xilai, former Party chief of Chongqing municipality, is expected to open after the "two sessions" in March, a source close to the country's top judicial body told the Global Times Sunday, denying rumors that the trial would start on Monday in Southwest China's Guizhou Province. "The information in terms of the date and location for the trial will certainly be made public in advance, and it's unnecessary to make speculations," the source said. We will find out today though given the recent precedents of Chen Xitong and Chen Liangyu I do not expect such an early trial, nor does Beijing need to rush things. Meanwhile, Chongqing has moved on, according to Hang Qifan: Chongqing's municipal government vowed Saturday it would shake off the impacts of the Bo Xilai scandal and make law-abiding governance the priority alongside further reform. Huang Qifan, mayor of Chongqing, described 2012 as an "extremely extraordinary year" for Chongqing's development in his report on the work of the municipal government, at the opening ceremony of the 4th Chongqing Municipal People's Congress. There have been rumors since the start of 2013 that the corruption crackdown would net a big fish near the end of January. Politburo member Li Jianguo may be that fish, as MingPao reports (Reuters) that he is under investigation. Li, a¬† a protege of Li Ruihuan (Dr. Victor Shih on Twitter), was accused on Sina Weibo (South China Morning Post) in December of nepotism. Today's Links:THE ESSENTIAL EIGHTTripling in Debt to $1.7 Trillion Drags on Economy: China Credit - Bloomberg - Total short- and long-term borrowing by 3,895 publicly traded non-financial companies rose to almost $1.7 trillion in their latest filings, from $604 billion at the end of 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Financing costs, including interest, on all forms of debt climbed to the highest level as a percentage of gross domestic product last year, according to Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. Bernstein says that means less cash for investment to fuel the world‚Äôs second-largest economy, while Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc says the threat of defaults will hold back interest- rate liberalization. The average 10-year yield for top-rated company bonds is near a 13-month high at 5.27 percent, compared with the 2.6 percent yield in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch global corporate index.Hong Kong Journalists Plan Petition Against Privacy Law Proposal - Bloomberg - a very bad sign for future of transparency and capitalism in Hong Kong if this passes//¬† The plans, put forward by the Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau and the city‚Äôs Companies Registry to ‚Äúenhance protection of the privacy of personal information,‚Äù were proposed in November as part of a consultation paper on a new companies ordinance. The move comes amid growing media scrutiny of the assets of China‚Äôs leaders.40-day Spring Festival travel rush starts in China - Xinhua | English.news.cn -wish the pundits and analysts who say China has too many railways and roads would travel in China this week...how does China efficiently build infrastructure when it has to plan for such tremendous surges in demand?ÈôïË•øÁ•ûÊú®Ê∏ÖÁêÜÂèåÈáçÊà∑Âè£ ÂΩìÂú∞ÂØåË±™Êã•ÊúâÂ§ö‰∏™Êà∑Âè£_ÁΩëÊòìÊñ∞Èóª‰∏≠ÂøÉ - sounds like many people in Shenmu, Shaanxi, home of housing elder sister gong aiai, have multiple hukous...just shenmu? of course not? relentless media coverage of this case exposing serious corruption in the ministry of public security..zhou yongkang might not be pleased...//Ê†∏ÂøÉÊèêÁ§∫Ôºö1Êúà27Êó•ÔºåËÆ∞ËÄÖ‰ªéÈôïË•øÁ•ûÊú®ÂéøË≠¶ÊñπËé∑ÊÇâÔºåÁ•ûÊú®ÂÖ¨ÂÆâÂ±ÄËøëÊó•ÂºÄÂ±ïÈáç‰∫∫ÈáçÊà∑Ê∏ÖÁêÜÊï¥È°øÂ∑•‰ΩúÔºåÂÖ®Èù¢Ê∏ÖÁêÜÂèåÈáçÊà∑Âè£ÁöÑÊ†∏Êü•Â∑•‰ΩúÔºåÂÖ¨Âä°Âëò„ÄÅ‰ºÅ‰∏öËÄÅÊÄª„ÄÅ‰∏™‰ΩìËÄÅÊùøÁ≠âÊàê‰∏∫Ê∏ÖÊü•ÈáçÁÇπÂØπË±°„ÄÇÊçÆÁü•ÊÉÖ‰∫∫Â£´ÈÄèÈú≤ÔºåÁ•ûÊú®ÂâçÂá†Âπ¥Êà∑Á±çÁÆ°ÁêÜÊØîËæÉÊùæÔºåËä±Êï∞‰∏áÂÖÉÊâòÂÖ≥Á≥ªÔºåËΩªÊòìÂ∞±ËÉΩÂäûÁêÜÂèåÈáçÊà∑Âè£„ÄÇWastelands of Beijing | Danwei - This article is a tour through some of the more spectacular wastelands of contemporary Beijing, places that will surely be developed into something entirely different at some point in the future, when the interest groups that control the land and construction finally make a deal they can live with.China‚Äôs population: Peak toil | The Economist - ON JANUARY 18th the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) announced that the number of working-age Chinese shrank last year by a total of 3.45m. In the slow-moving world of demography, that is a big turning point. The mobilization of Chinese labor over the past 35 years has shaken the world. Never before has the global economy benefited from such an addition of extra human exertion. Now the additions are over‚Äîand not just in China (see article).The Tijuana Connection, a Template for Growth - NYTimes.com - But my company, like many manufacturers, is faced with a familiar challenge: its main competitors are Chinese companies that have the dual advantages of cheap labor and top-notch engineering. So, naturally, when we were raising a round of investment financing last year, venture capitalists demanded a plausible explanation for how our little start-up could beat its Chinese rivals. The answer was as much a surprise to the investors as it had been to me a few years earlier: Mexico. In particular, Tijuana.ÂÜõÂßî‚ÄúÁ¶ÅÈÖí‰ª§‚ÄùÊª°ÊúàÔºö‰∏çÁî®‰∏∫‚ÄúÂñù‰ªÄ‰πàÈÖí‚ÄùË¥πÂøÉÊÄù ÊàòÊñóÂäõÊèêÈ´ò‰∫Ü-Ë¥¢ÁªèÁΩë - Âõ¢‰øùÈöúÈÉ®ÈÉ®ÈïøÊùéÈîêÊ∑±ÊúâÊÑüËß¶Ôºö‚Äú‰ª•ÂâçÂ∫îÈÖ¨ÊÄªÂ∞ë‰∏ç‰∫ÜÂñùÈÖíÔºåËÄΩËØØ‰∫Ü‰∏çÂ∞ëÂ∑•‰Ωú„ÄÇÊúâ‰∫Ü‚ÄòÁ¶ÅÈÖí‰ª§‚ÄôÔºåÊàëÂèØ‰ª•ÁêÜÁõ¥Ê∞îÂ£ÆÂú∞‰∏ÄÂ§¥ÊâéÂú®ËΩ¶ÁÇÆÂú∫ÔºåÊ≥°Âú®‰øÆÁêÜÈó¥„ÄÇ‰∏çÂà∞‰∏Ä‰∏™ÊúàÔºåÊüêÂûãÁÅ´ÁÇÆÂ∫ïÁõòÁöÑÊäÄÊúØÈù©Êñ∞Â∞±ÂèñÂæó‰∫ÜÂÆûË¥®ÊÄßÁöÑËøõÂ±ï„ÄÇÂæóÊÑüË∞¢‚ÄòÁ¶ÅÈÖí‰ª§‚ÄôÔºÅ‚Äù
This post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>¬† It can be a bit tough to recommend Wall Street as a career choice for new graduates these days. But there‚Äôs one job there that I think is the perfect first (or, for me, third) job out of school: sellside research. Here‚Äôs why: To be a successful research analyst, you have to analyze, write, present and be able to interact with really smart people. You have to make and defend your case. It‚Äôs great training for future jobs. You have to make lots of decisions based on imperfect information. By no means do you ever have all the information needed to make a stock recommendation. But you do have (mostly) the same information as your competitors, and your job is to pull together that information in a coherent way. And then based on that, you have to determine if the stock of the company is a Buy or a Sell. (Forget about Hold‚Äôs; they translate into ‚ÄúI have nothing to say.‚Äù) And the pertinent information can change often. A company reports earnings, you learn something from a supplier survey, or the stock price goes up a lot. Just because a stock was a Sell yesterday doesn‚Äôt mean that it is today. And so you have to keep incorporating new information rapidly and, from there, reaffirm or change your recommendations. If you‚Äôre going to be successful, you learn to do it quickly and unemotionally. And you do all of this in public. There is nowhere to hide, so those lessons are learned pretty quickly. (And since people love to point out your mistakes, you get lots of help on this.) To be successful, you have to get very comfortable having a different view than the (generally pretty smart) consensus. The non-consensus calls are the great ones. You have to be a self-starter. To be successful, you learn to cut out the low-value work. (Honestly, who cares that a company you follow reported earnings exactly in line with expectations?) Instead you have to focus on analyzing the things that can make a big difference to the stock. Winning and losing are pretty clear cut. Did the stocks you recommend go up? Did the ones you said to sell go down? Did clients "vote" for you? And, since success is pretty clear, corporate politics tend to be pretty tame, at least on a Wall-Street-adjusted basis. While ‚Äúteamwork‚Äù seems to be is listed in the dictionary next to ‚Äúmom‚Äù and ‚Äúapple pie,‚Äù there is a lot also to be learned by taking on significant personal responsibility. If you‚Äôre a junior person on a big team, the drivers of success can get pretty muddy. As a research analyst, it‚Äôs a lot of you. And, finally, unlike other Wall Street jobs, the job has some flexibility, even though you work like a dog. I never had a client complain that I wrote a research report from home on a Sunday night rather than from the office on a Thursday afternoon.
They all say, ìItís structural this time.î Safe Haven Exodus. Yes, I know a correction could happen at any time. I myself got caught out jumping off the train a little too early back in late December. But longer-term, if you do the impossible and look out over the news cycle, these four charts below tell us a structural shift in risk allocation is afoot. The Policy Bears, the Central Planning Truthers, are either getting tapped on the shoulder or rounded up to be executed. How fitting: Death by stocks. I am not talking about short- and medium-term positions, the kinds that get picked up in sentiment surveys and overbought/oversold oscillators. I am referring to the structural hedges big, slower-to-move strategic investors have had on to protect against the next macro crash. These massive structural tradesóand make no mistake, they are measured by the ëyardíóappear to be in a fairly early phase of unwinding. YCharts.com Above is the yield spread between the 2yr and 10yr UST yields, charted on a weekly basis back 5yrs. Moving higher is referred to as curve steepening, and is associated positively with growth expectations and risk taking. If you think about where this spread was in 2011 and how much better we feel about todayís economy and financial landscape, this spread could easily get back to well north of 200bps. Another structural Safe Haven position has been to be short EURCHF. In size. Long CHF and short EUR. The reasoning is clear. Europe bad, Switzerland safe. I donít think Europe is anywhere near out of the woods, but between the LTRO and the OMT, they have ìmerelyî a growth problem nowóor, at least for the next year or two. Rightly or wrongly, people are assigning a higher probability to Europe muddling through, causing the macro monsters to unwind the flight-to-Zurich trade. Yahoo Finance †A first cousin of the EURCHF position is short EURAUD. Again, the logic is clear. Europe has no growth prospects and risked imminent financial meltdown. AUD, on the other hand, lives where the growth is, with a commodity kicker/China play thrown in. It has also trended for a long time, suggesting that a lot of trend following CTAs and hedgies have been riding it. The chart here two, suggests this trade too is now in the early phases of getting unwound. YCharts.com Lastly, a move exotic version of these Safe Haven positions is Short TRYZAR. This, too is unwinding. This trade is trickier because there are idiosyncratic moving parts in both countries, especially South Africa. But it does reflect global normalization from crisis mode coupled with modest growth. It also suggests, as do the 2s10s steepener and long EURAUD, that commodities will not bounce back as forcefully as they have in the past few years on bouts of risk appetite. Yahoo Finance But I should finish by being clear about my views: Donít confuse me with a growth bull. Both the developed and developing economies have ìdigestiveî issues they need grind through, and economic expectations have improved to the point that when fiscal drag in the US starts kicking harder there will be room for disappointment. But the incipient unwind of these positions is nonetheless a strong long-term positive. It tells us a broader investing audience is, in deed and not just in word, coming around to the realizing the next financial calamity, the Lehman II, that lurking ìother shoeî is just not on the horizon.
APUPDATE: The Dallas Fed's regional manufacturing activity index reading for the month of January is out. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; The headline index rose to 5.5. Last month's figure was revised down to 2.5 from 6.8. Gains were led by big jumps in new orders (+13.2), capacity utilization (+11.9), delivery time (+11.2), prices received for finished goods (+11.1), and employment (+11.0). Below is a breakdown of the sub-components of the index (click to enlarge): Dallas Fed Below is the full text from the release: This month‚Äôs survey data include annual seasonal factor revisions. In January of each year, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas revises the historical data for the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey after calculating new seasonal adjustment factors. Annual seasonal revisions result in slight changes in the seasonally adjusted series. Read more information on seasonal adjustment.Texas factory activity rose sharply in January, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 3.5 to 12.9, which is consistent with faster growth. Other measures of current manufacturing activity also indicated stronger growth in January. The new orders index jumped 13 points to 12.2, its highest reading since March 2011. The capacity utilization index shot up from 2.1 to 14.0, implying utilization rates increased faster than last month. The shipments index rose 9 points to 21.9, indicating shipments quickened in January. Perceptions of broader business conditions were more positive in January. The general business activity index increased from 2.5 to 5.5, its best reading since March. The company outlook index also rose sharply to 12.6, largely due to a drop in the share of firms reporting a worsened outlook from 10 percent in December to 6 percent in January. Labor market indicators reflected a sharp increase in hiring but flat workweeks. The employment index jumped out of negative territory to 8.7, with about 20 percent of employers reporting hiring and 11 percent noting layoffs. The average workweek index edged down to a reading of 0.8, which is consistent with unchanged hours worked. Price and wage pressures increased in January. The raw materials price index moved up from 21.9 to 27.8, indicating input costs rose faster this month. The finished goods price index rose sharply from about zero to 10.2, its highest reading since February 2012. The wages and benefits index rose four points to 19.2, reflecting rising wage pressure, although the great majority of manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs. Looking ahead, 44 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 25 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions improved slightly in January. The index of future general business activity ticked up from 7.1 to 9.2. The index of future company outlook rose from 15.4 to 20.8. Indexes for future manufacturing activity moved up strongly this month. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state‚Äôs factory activity. Data were collected Jan. 15‚Äì23, and 88 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted as necessary. Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the January reading of the Dallas Fed Manufacturing Activity index, due out at 10:30 AM ET. Economists expect the index to fall to 4.0 from last month's 6.8 reading. Many of the other regional indices of manufacturing activity ‚Äì like Philly Fed¬†and Empire Fed, as well as Kansas City Fed ‚Äì have unexpectedly surprised to the downside this month. However, Markit's flash U.S. PMI, a nationwide measure of manufacturing activity, got a big boost in January. In other words, manufacturing indicators have been diverging this month, so this one should be interesting to watch. We will have the full release LIVE at 10:30 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Fox Business NewsFox Business News senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino,†who has a reputation for getting big scoops and exclusives on Wall Street, is known for busting chops. Even Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein once said he's "tired of Gasparino" and that he wishes he would quit. Still, Gasparino manages to get the biggest names to talk to him. And if you're brave enough to go on air with him, he even admits that's going to be an añhole. Cigar Aficionado's Mervyn Rothstein reports:† When heís reporting a story, when heís doing a TV interview, heís tough and persistent. ìYou come on the air, and Iím there, Iím going to break your chops,î he says. "Iím going to be an asshole. A lot of times, TV invites these people on and theyíre considered guests. I donít look at you as a guest." You've been warned.
China's fourth-quarter GDP release two weeks ago showed a rebound in the Chinese economy at the end of last year. Electricity consumption data, which observers tend to trust more than China's official GDP growth numbers, seemed to confirm the turnaround. Over the weekend, China's National Bureau of Statistics released industrial earnings growth figures for the fourth quarter. The data showed that profits surged 20.4 percent in Q4 after negative growth over the first three quarters. BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu broke down the details this weekend: Upward momentum was sustained in Dec 2012.¬†China‚Äôs NBS today released 2012 annual sales and earnings data of industrial companies above certain sizes. December data could be derived from year-to- date (YTD) data. Earnings growth moderated slightly to 19.0% yoy in Dec from 22.4% Nov, but small volatility in monthly data derived from YTD data should be downplayed. Quarterly data, which is less subject to data irregularities, displayed impressive turnaround: Industrial earnings growth surged to 20.4% in 4Q12 from - 1.0% in 3Q12 and -1.8% in Jan-Sep 2012. These NBS earnings data bode well for China‚Äôs listed companies‚Äô earnings to be released in coming weeks. We expect the NBS industrial earnings growth to peak in 1H13 at around 25%.  Why do the NBS industrial earning growth data matter?¬†As shown in Chart 1, the NBS industrial earnings growth moves fairly closely with¬†that of non-financial listed companies. Since the NBS data are monthly (although¬†they need to be derived from YTD data), they provide an early guidance for¬†quarterly earnings of listed companies. Based on the correlation, we expect listed non-financial companies‚Äô earnings growth could turn the corner in 4Q12, likely jumping to around 10% yoy from -16% in 3Q12. The Shanghai Composite surged 2.4 percent in overnight trading, but the gains were led by financials as opposed to industrials. Ting Lu expects industrial earnings growth to peak in mid-2013 near 25 percent.
BloombergAswath Damodaran, the legendary NYU finance professor, started accumulating shares of Apple in 1997. And just under a year ago, he dumped the stock. "I sold because I'm very uncomfortable with the other people who are holding Apple shares right now," he said in an April 2012 appearance on Bloomberg Television. "The new investors of Apple scare me.† They're momentum investors.† They've shifted the game. Once stocks become a momentum play, intrinsic value goes out the window." Apple was trading above $600 per share back then.† And today it's right around $440. And in a new blog post, Damodaran has revealed that he is bullish once again. "Based on my estimates, and they could be skewed by my Apple bias, at its current stock price of $440, there is a 90% chance that the stock is under valued," he writes. He characterizes himself as a "value optimist" on the stock.† From his post: The Value Optimists: This group believes that Apple is a bargain at $440 and that its true value is much higher. Some, in this group, base this judgment on simple comparisons. At a market cap of $413 billion, with a cash balance of $120 billion and net income of $42 billion, they note that Apple is trading at roughly seven times earnings, cheap in a market where the median PE ratio is about 16. Some are basing their views on cash flow based valuations and I am one of that group, as you probably already know from my post at the end of 2012. In that post, I valued Apple at $609/share and the latest earnings report barely changes that estimate. I did a follow up simulation, bringing in the uncertainty about my estimates about revenue growth(-2% to +14%), margins (25% to 35%) and cost of capital (11%-14%) into the mix, with the following outcomes: Musings on Markets Damodaran warns that being a value optimist won't be easy. "If, like me, you are [a value optimist], you are being tested mightily now, torn between a belief that the stock is under valued and a market that does not seem to care." Apple investors will be faced with gut check and a confidence check, he writes. Damodaran offers a bunch of advice on what Apple investors should do. Read more at Damodaran's Musing on Markets blog &gt;
David McNew/Getty ImagesPending home sales fell 4.3 percent month-over-month in December, according to the latest release from NAR.  This missed expectations for the index to stay flat. Stocks declined on the news. Last month's number was revised down to 1.6 percent. For the year, December pending home sales were up 6.9 percent. In a press release, NAR chief economist Lawrence Yun said that supply limitation is the biggest obstacle to contract signings in the last month. "Supplies of homes costing less than $100,000 are tight in much of the country, especially in the West, so first-time buyers have fewer options," he said. "We expect a seasonal rise of inventory in the spring to help, but a seller's market may be developing. Much of the West is already a seller's market for homes priced under a million dollars, but conditions are much more balanced in the Northeast." A regional breakdown shows that the index was down 5.4 percent in the Northeast, the Midwest index was up 0.9 percent. In the South it was down 4.5 percent, and in the west it tumbled 8.2 percent. Investors care about the index because it acts as a leading indicator of existing home sales activity. By definition a pending sale refers to one in which a contract was signed but not closed. Here is a chart showing a change in pending home sales index since 2007: NAR SEE ALSO: There Has Never Been A Better Time To Buy A Home In America &gt;
Jos. A Bank is facing a horrible dilemma as its business model shows signs of cracking.† One sentence from the company's Friday release reveals just how bad the suit shop's problems are.† "Historically, we have had strength with these types of items, but our customers (specifically at our stores) didn't respond as well to our promotional offers as they had in the past," the company said.† Jos. A Bank's business model is centered around promotions, particularly its famous "buy one, get seven free" deal. The idea behind the company's marketing is to make customers an offer they can't refuse.†In reality, Jos. A Bank relies on higher initial mark-ups before offering discounts to make money. The higher mark-ups also create the perception of better quality. While other retailers might offer a suit for $600 and offer 25 percent off, Jos. A Bank's $1000 suit with 70 percent off seems like a better investment to customers. The strategy has worked for years. Until recently, the company reported healthy gains in profit and sales.† But if these extreme promotions can't even hold consumer interest, Jos. A Bank might have to rethink its entire strategy.† "It comes down to the investment perhaps in†a job where income growth is next to nothing," said Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions. "Or, for a job interview that they may never call back." Investors aren't happy with the retailer, either. Shares are plummeting†after the company's Friday warning. Sozzi also said that the shopping experience at Jos. A Bank might be turning off consumers. "It could take two to three weeks to receive the suit since it has to be tailored and the store associates also try and sell you add-on items," Sozzi said. "So, that alleged 'great deal' you are getting has hidden costs, in addition to the fact you can't leave that day with the suit." SEE ALSO:†How Jos. A Bank Makes Money Buy Selling 1 Suit And Giving 7 Away For Free &gt;
¬†~ Oliver Cromwell, to the General Assembly of Kirk It‚Äôs interesting when traders (and investors) blow up. Sometimes you can see it coming, based on telltale actions or statements. For instance, I remember reading Vic Niederhoffer‚Äôs ‚ÄúEducation of a Speculator‚Äù in the ¬†mid-1990s and telling multiple friends and colleagues: ¬†‚ÄúThis guy is definitely going to blow up.‚Äù In various spots, Niederhoffer bragged about his near-death experiences ‚Äî wearing them as a weird badge of pride ‚Äî including a story in which George Soros tells him point blank: ‚ÄúGet out‚Ä¶ You‚Äôre in over your head!‚Äù Soros was right. Niederhoffer‚Äôs bragged about almost-blow-ups later became actual blow-ups ‚Äì more than one, for more than one trading fund ‚Äì in a multi-year sweep of self-fulfilling prophecy. (A habit of selling naked option premium played a role too.) Another well-telegraphed example is Bill Miller of the Legg Mason funds. At one point Miller was a mutual fund superstar, famous for having beaten the S&amp;P 15 years in a row. His reputation was built on long side contrarianism ‚Äî taking positions at odds with the general consensus. But Miller was also terminally arrogant. He considered himself a student of poker, latticework, and multidisciplinary study ‚Äî and was even a supporter of the Santa Fe Institute ‚Äî yet proceeded to completely ignore every risk control lesson these pursuits had to offer. When convinced he was right, the chance of being wrong never crossed Miller‚Äôs mind. On being asked how long he would keep adding to a position going against him, the reply was: ‚ÄúUntil there is no longer a price quote.‚Äù You can‚Äôt invent that kind of hubris‚Ä¶ which helps explain why Miller loaded his funds with black-box financial positions, then plunged headlong into the abyss. And then, of course, you have the Long Term Capital Management guys. As the old joke goes, LTCM had not one, but TWO Nobel laureates. With one they might have had a chance‚Ä¶ with two they were doomed from the start. ¬† Smart traders and investors take a keen interest in blow-ups for a simple reason: They don‚Äôt want to blow up themselves. Witnessing and dissecting other blow-ups, then, is akin to careful drivers analyzing a fatal car accident. The question is, ‚ÄúCould that have been me in some unforeseen circumstance? What could I have done differently to ensure my survival?‚Äù In trading and investing, excellent risk control requires walking a fine line between confidence and paranoia. On the one hand, you take confidence in knowing that you never flirt with blow-up risk, ever‚Ä¶ and that your risk-mitigating processes and protocols are so strong you never touch the borderline. On the other hand, you never want to become so confident as to think ‚Äúthat can‚Äôt happen to me no matter what‚Äù‚Ä¶ because a sense of permanent vigilance is one of the things that guarantees survival in the first place. If you lose that sense of vigilance ‚Äì a sort of healthy paranoia of the Andy Grove variety ‚Äì it can be problematic. This discussion comes about in relation to the¬†Herbalife¬†spectacle.¬†In case you haven‚Äôt been following it,¬†Herbalife¬†(HLF) is a publically traded multi-level-marketing company with a slightly dodgy business model. As a business, HLF is cash-rich. The questions revolve around whether¬†Herbalife¬†actually makes money from its products, or merely milks its ‚Äúdistributors‚Äù ‚Äì i.e. get new recruits to buy product, find more recruits ad infinitum ‚Äì which would make the company a pyramid scheme. Bill Ackman, an extremely high profile hedge fund manager, publically announced a massive¬†Herbalife¬†short in December. In essence Ackman declared himself ‚Äúall in‚Äù ‚Äì shorting more than a billion dollars worth of shares ‚Äì and pounded the table for the company as a ‚Äúzero‚Äù (in the assumption the SEC would take Ackman‚Äôs side, though Herbalife has been around since 1980, and shut the company down). Herbalife¬†shares plummeted on Ackman‚Äôs high profile presentation ‚Äì a full on media event ‚Äì then later reversed as other hedgies pushed back. Robert Chapman, of Chapman Capital, put out an extensive piece titled ‚ÄúHerbalife: Why I Made It a 35% Position After the Bill Ackman Bear Raid.‚Äù And Dan Loeb of Third Point Advisors, another hedge fund heavyweight, announced an 8% longside stake. Here are some background articles for the timeline: And a recent chart (to the right). The acapulco cliff dive is Ackman‚Äôs big-gun presentation against HLF. The V-shaped rebound is the reassessment and Chapman / Loeb one-two punch. (Full disclosure: We took a small long-side trading postion in HLF this week.) Some of the best work on the¬†Herbalife¬†story has been done by John Hempton of Bronte Capital (who took a long HLF position shortly after the Ackman news). In a piece titled ‚ÄúNotes on visiting an¬†Herbalife¬†nutrition club in Queens,‚Äù Hempton comes to this devastating conclusion: Herbalife¬†is a company which combines a lot of good (think the life-saved diabetic above) with some pretty ugly features. But this is not really a story about¬†Herbalife¬†-¬†Herbalife¬†will survive globally. Like all multi-level marketing schemes it will have its ups and downs. There will be all sorts of problems (such as tax compliance throughout the scheme, cash handling, perhaps¬†even using¬†Herbalife¬†accounts to launder money). What this has (deservedly) become is the story about how Bill Ackman can be so wrong. He spent (by his own admission) a year and a half analysing this company and his thesis can be falsified by visiting a few clubs in his home city. Bill Ackman‚Äôs thesis is the most easily falsified bear-thesis I have seen from a major hedge fund ever. You have to wonder how this happened. So I am going to tell you:¬† Bill Ackman a Harvard educated (magna cum laude) billionaire New York hedge fund manager bet over a billion dollars on a short position (imperilling his fund and his reputation) without checking the facts. And he did not check the facts because he was so rigid with a misplaced silver spoon that he could not stoop to sit on a subway for thirty minutes and talk with poor people for ninety minutes. Let‚Äôs take a minute to discuss the mechanics of short selling here. Many investors are afraid to sell short, pointing to the potential for unlimited capital loss. In most cases this fear is overblown and a canard, because it is just as likely for stocks to fall sharply as rise sharply ‚Äì think ‚Äúaccounting scandal‚Äù as the flipside of ‚Äúcorporate buyout‚Äù ‚Äì and it is possible to manage one‚Äôs shorts with a high degree of risk control. (Those same investors who ‚Äúfear‚Äù going short often show little fear of getting hurt by oversized long positions with no risk point.) To sell short responsibly, one can do things like 1) make sure your position is small relative to total assets; 2) make sure your position is small relative to share float; 3) make sure to use stop losses and only short liquid names; or even 4) use options to define your risk of loss 100%. Ackman, however, did none of these things. Instead he eagerly made himself the poster-boy of short seller blow-up risk: Yours truly was a wet-behind-the-ears commodity broker in 1998. Some early market memories thus formed around the Long Term Capital Management (LTCM) unraveling. One wild aspect of that LTCM unwind was the bottle-rocket price action in the Japanese yen. Basically, all of Wall Street knew LTCM was massively short yen‚Ä¶ and all of Wall Street also knew LTCM would have to unwind those yen positions (buy them back) at any cost.¬†The result was a bloodbath (for trapped yen shorts) as USDJPY went vertical, in a moonshot reminiscent of the energizer bunny ‚Äî it just kept going, and going, and going‚Ä¶ Time will tell, but the same thing could happen to Ackman with¬†Herbalife. If the Chapman / Loeb base case is correct, a reassessment of HLF fundamentals, combined with the potential for HLF share buybacks and knowledge that a great white whale (Ackman) is vulnerable, could lead to a historical recounting of Colonel Vanderbilt‚Äôs merciless squeeze of Daniel Drew, complete with the phrase: ‚ÄúHe who sells what isn‚Äôt his‚Äôn / Must buy it back or go to pris‚Äôn.‚Äù It‚Äôs fascinating, really. Why would any super-successful money manager (or businessperson of any kind) willingly put their neck in a noose? Messiah complex? Compulsive need for attention? Megalomania? As with Niederhoffer and Miller, the warning signs went back a long way (years and years)‚Ä¶ ¬† Ackman is a billionaire, with a track record of great success. Now he is risking it all on a reverse asymmetric bet. If he wins, he gets another boost to his ego. If he loses, potentially everything he has built goes up in flames. In a recent review of ‚ÄúAntifragile,‚Äù we discussed the importance of optionality ‚Äì finding situations that offer large upside with limited and defined downside. One can build a career, and a life, from basic optionality principles. With Herbalife Ackman managed to do the EXACT OPPOSITE‚Ä¶ taking the mother of all ‚Äúconcave‚Äù positions (limited upside, non-trivial potential for absolute disaster) for reasons that are hard to fathom. So what are some lessons from the¬†Herbalife¬†spectacle ‚Äì useful takeaways regardless of how things play out? Here are a couple: BE WARY OF ARROGANCE. ¬† This should go without saying, but in hiring managers to run their money, investors fail to heed the basic lesson over and over again. When seeking a financial professional, you want confidence born of excellence and an ability to do the job. But confidence and arrogance are not the same thing. Guys who are so arrogant they act as if they can walk on water (ahem, Ackman, cough) are prime candidates for blow-up risk, because their supreme smugness eventually gets the best of them (or fuels the situation that invites disaster in the first place). For examples of confidence with humility (rather than arrogance), keep reading‚Ä¶ PUT PROCESS OVER OUTCOME.¬† The enduring lesson of LTCM is that understanding process is every bit as important, if not far more important, than pure track record. This is because bad habits, hidden hubris, and gross deficiencies of risk control can lay in wait for years before blowing up in investors‚Äô faces. Worse still, a bad process ‚Äì rife with hubris ‚Äì can contribute to the illusion of reliable profitability in the first place, before the fullness of time calls forth catastrophe. DON‚ÄôT PICK GNAT SHIT OUT OF PEPPER.¬† Never has the expression felt more appropriate. As Hempton points out, Ackman spent more than a year and a half researching the Herbalife short thesis (by his own admission), and yet missed major disconfirming factors right under his nose. The clear lesson here is that knowledge, especially fundamental knowledge of a trade or investment, has absolute limits. You can never get all the puzzle pieces ‚Äî and even if you could, there‚Äôs no guarantee you will weigh all the variables correctly (one might dominate the others), or anticipate the X factor that derails your thesis. As we wrote of Ackman on a message board last year (well before Herbalife unfolded): That kind of granular activity makes sense for, say, private equity, where you are actually diving into the guts of a company, restructuring it and rebuilding it from the inside out ‚Äî or for distressed debt investing, where the visibility is seriously opaque and it takes real forensics to get a true sense of risk levels ‚Äî but from the stock-picking perspective as to which investment valuations will rise or fall, it‚Äôs the racehorse handicapper fallacy writ large: The false idea that if 10 variables are helpful, 60 variables are even better etc ‚Äî or in Ackman‚Äôs case 600 variables. If he were a handicapper he would be sticking a periscope up the horse‚Äôs ass and taking bacterial cultures, then writing a 10,000 word thesis on the petri dish findings...¬†For all his digging, Ackman is congenitally optimistic, to a potentially dangerous degree, and has happily admitted as much. Overkill on the micro side does not cancel out disregard of the macro side, though many seem to think it does, mainly because it can take a long time to see who‚Äôs swimming naked. EMPHASIZE RISK CONTROL, MISTAKES, AND SURVIVAL.¬† Paul Tudor Jones: ‚Äú‚Ä¶at the end of the day, the most important thing is how good you are at risk control. Ninety percent of any great trader is going to be the risk control.‚Äù Michael Steinhardt: ‚ÄúOne of the advantages of trading the way I do ‚Äî being a long-term investor, short-term trader, individual stock selector, market timer, sector analyst ‚Äî is that I have made so many decisions and mistakes that it has made me wise beyond my years as an investor.‚Äù Ray Dalio: ‚ÄúAnyone who has been involved in the markets knows that you can never be absolutely confident. There is never a trade that you know you are right on. If you approach trading that way, then you will always be looking at where you mght be wrong. You don‚Äôt have a false confidence. You value what you don‚Äôt know.‚Äù And last but not least, Howard Marks: ‚ÄúSun Tzu said if you sit by the river long enough, you‚Äôll see the bodies of your enemies float by. The key is ‚Äúlong enough.‚Äù If you live long enough, you have to be the survivor‚Ä¶¬†¬†if you look at distressed debt where we started in 1988, I could tell you who our number one competitor was in every year through 1995 and not one is a main competitor today. And it‚Äôs not because of what we did; all we did is perform consistently. They crapped out. It sounds simplistic to say, but the first requirement for success is survival‚Ä¶‚Äù There‚Äôs a reason those guys are all legends‚Ä¶ JS (jack@mercenarytrader.com) p.s. Like this article? For more,¬†visit our Knowledge Center!  p.p.s. If you haven't already, check out¬†the Mercenary Live Feed!  Similar articles you might like: ¬† Read more posts on Mercenary Trader ¬ª
The gas flaring byproduct of shale oil and gas drilling can now be seen from space, the FT's Ed Crooks and Ajay Makan observe. Here's what Bakken, North Dakota ó home of the country's most intense shale oil drilling ó looked like in 2003: NASAAnd today ó way more lit up.NASA The situation is actually not ideal, the pair say ó†flaring in North Dakota has increased the state's greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent. Bismarck legislators are considering laws to help curb the practice, they write. SEE MORE:†Why Shale's Potential Cannot Be Overhyped &gt;
Everyone knows that overall hedge fund performance has been lackluster since the financial crisis, but there are differing explanations as to why. Last week, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, George Soros threw in his two cents (but it was obscured by some other news). Soros' bottom line was that hedge funds can't beat the market, in part, because there are so many of them and they are now a dominant force in the market. The other reason why Soros says they can't beat (which is sure to make some managers upset) is that the famous hedge fund "2 and 20" compensation scheme is eating into profits (2 and 20 = 2% of AUM charged for management fees, 20% returns above a certain benchmark go to the fund). Check out the video below, and keep in mind, Soros only manages his own money now, so he doesn't have to worry about the fees he charges investors. From Bloomberg:
Wikimedia CommonsOn Friday, everyone across Wall Street was absolutely transfixed when hedge fund titans Bill Ackman and Carl Icahn, who have been notoriously feuding for a decade now, went head-to-head on CNBC's "Halftime Report." The insults were flying with Icahn calling Ackman a "crybaby in the schoolyard" and dropping curse words left and right. ¬†Ackman, who refrained from using profanity, mostly called Icahn dishonest and not a nice person. The best part, though, was that you could hear the floor brokers and market-makers at the New York Stock Exchange oohing in the background as the epic battle of the billionaires played out.¬†¬† Of course, Icahn and Ackman aren't the first to fight on Wall Street. With big money and reputations at stake, it's no surprise that disagreements and quarrels have broken out in the world of high finance. Sometimes the fights are between bank execs and fund managers and other times the financial media and politicians get pulled into it, too.¬† What's more is the fights between high-powered individuals tend to get thrown into the public spotlight. We've rounded up some of the best feuds in financial industry. Who doesn't like a good knock-down, drag out?
Late Friday night, Jos. A Bank released a huge warning regarding its current year's financial results. Specifically, they said that earnings for the year would be down by 20 percent. Analysts were looking for a gain. The stock is down around 16 percent in pre-market trading.¬† SEE ALSO: How Jos. A Bank Makes Money Buy Selling 1 Suit And Giving 7 Away For Free &gt; From MarketWatch: MarketWatch
UBS floor guy Art Cashin poses a theory for the selloff in Apple that's making the rounds among traders. Basically the idea is that Apple had become such a powerful force in people's portfolios during the last few years, that just the return to normalcy requires ongoing selling. There is also another, less pervasive theory about Apple.† It suggests that Apple may have become a kind of mini-index, which is now being unwound.†† The very heavy correlation among stocks and the indices had forced many active managers to become closet "partial indexers" for survival.† They would use an index, usually the S&amp;P, as a base and then enhance it with "active" personal picks.†† Jump forward now to the last three years when Apple became a dominant force in the market, rising day after day in an almost parabolic fashion.† That, says the thesis, led some managers to try to strip out the Apple energy.† They bought Apple and shorted a basket of stocks against it.†† That worked fabulously well when Apple soared relentlessly toward $700 and more.† But, when Apple stumbled, the arbitrage had to be undone.† Thus, the managers would become steady sellers in Apple and buyers of the stocks in the basket.†† The proponents of the thesis didn't have much hard data or manager names but it made for interesting cocktail speculation over the last few weeks.
UBS floor guy Art Cashin poses a theory for the selloff in Apple that's making the rounds among traders. Basically the idea is that Apple had become such a powerful force in people's portfolios during the last few years, that just the return to normalcy requires ongoing selling. There is also another, less pervasive theory about Apple.† It suggests that Apple may have become a kind of mini-index, which is now being unwound.†† The very heavy correlation among stocks and the indices had forced many active managers to become closet "partial indexers" for survival.† They would use an index, usually the S&amp;P, as a base and then enhance it with "active" personal picks.†† Jump forward now to the last three years when Apple became a dominant force in the market, rising day after day in an almost parabolic fashion.† That, says the thesis, led some managers to try to strip out the Apple energy.† They bought Apple and shorted a basket of stocks against it.†† That worked fabulously well when Apple soared relentlessly toward $700 and more.† But, when Apple stumbled, the arbitrage had to be undone.† Thus, the managers would become steady sellers in Apple and buyers of the stocks in the basket.†† The proponents of the thesis didn't have much hard data or manager names but it made for interesting cocktail speculation over the last few weeks.
Big milestone for the selloff in US debt. *DJ 10-Year Treasury Yield Rises Above 2% First Time Since April 2012 As the economy improves, and it becomes clear that the acute crises we were facing fade, the demand for safe-haven US Treasuries is dissipating. Note that this happened on the same day as a German 1-year bond auction drew a positive yield fo the first time in ages. All of the classic safe havens: Swiss Franc, Japanese Yen, German bonds, US bonds, are fading.
Accompanying oil and gas consulting firm PFC's new list of the largest energy companies in the world is a charts showing company growth ‚Äî and the top ones all have one thing in common: infrastructure. While Colombian firm Ecopetrol led the entire industry, pipeline players have dominated in both one-year and three-year growth. The reason, of course is explosive production growth in North America (which is why all the leaders are North American). Here's the chart: PFC Energy SEE MORE: Why Shale's Potential Cannot Be Overhyped &gt;
Stephen Brashear/Getty ImagesUPDATE:¬†December durable goods orders data are out. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; The headline number rose 4.6 percent, exceeding expectations of a 2.0 percent rise. Core capex (nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft) rose 0.2 percent versus expectations of a 0.4 percent decline. Durable goods excluding transportation rose 1.3 percent versus expectations of a 0.8 percent gain. However, nondefense capital goods shipments excluding aircraft rose 0.3 percent, missing expectations of a 0.8 percent gain. Below is the text from the release: New Orders  New orders for manufactured durable goods in December increased $10.0 billion or 4.6 percent to¬†$230.7 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau announced today. This increase, up seven of the last eight months, followed a 0.7 percent November increase. Excluding transportation, new orders increased 1.3 percent. Excluding defense, new orders increased 1.2 percent. Transportation equipment, up following two¬†consecutive monthly decreases, had the largest increase,¬†$8.1 billion or 11.9 percent to $75.9 billion. Shipments Shipments of manufactured durable goods in¬†December, up five of the last six months, increased $2.9¬†billion or 1.3 percent to $230.6 billion. This followed a¬†1.8 percent November increase. Primary metals, up three of the last four months, had¬†the largest increase, $1.2 billion or 4.2 percent to $30.7¬†billion. This followed a 5.0 percent November increase. Unfilled Orders Unfilled orders for manufactured durable goods in¬†December, up six of the last seven months, increased¬†$8.2 billion or 0.8 percent to $992.0 billion. This increase followed a slight November increase. Transportation equipment, also up six of the last seven¬†months, drove the increase, $9.0 billion or 1.6 percent to¬†$588.8 billion. Inventories Inventories of manufactured durable goods in December, down following 14 consecutive monthly increases, decreased $0.1 billion to $374.5 billion. This decrease followed a 0.1 percent November increase. Machinery, down four consecutive months, drove the decrease, $0.4 billion or 0.6 percent to $66.1 billion. Capital Goods Nondefense new orders for capital goods in December increased $2.7 billion or 3.8 percent to $73.8 billion. Shipments increased $0.5 billion or 0.7 percent to $71.9 billion. Unfilled orders increased $1.9 billion or 0.3 percent to $585.7 billion. Inventories decreased $0.6 billion or 0.3 percent to $173.0 billion. Defense new orders for capital goods in December increased $8.7 billion or 110.4 percent to $16.5 billion. Shipments increased $0.5 billion or 6.1 percent to $9.1 billion. Unfilled orders increased $7.5 billion or 4.6 percent to $171.5 billion. Inventories decreased $0.3 billion or 1.4 percent to $21.2 billion. Revised November Data Revised seasonally adjusted November figures for all manufacturing industries were: new orders, $477.4 billion (revised from $477.6 billion); shipments, $484.3 billion (revised from $483.7 billion); unfilled orders, $983.9 billion (revised from $984.5 billion); and total inventories, $614.9 billion (revised from $615.2 billion). Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the release of durable goods orders data for the month of December, due out in the U.S. at 8:30 AM ET. Economists estimate that orders expanded 2.0 percent in December after a 0.8 percent rise in November. The widely-tracked measure of nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft ‚Äì commonly called "core capex" ‚Äì¬†is expected to post a 0.4 percent decline after expanding 2.6 percent in November. We will have the full release LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
CNBCThe title of fund manager and noted bear John Hussman's weekly note: "Capitulation Everywhere." After a steady grind higher in stock markets to start 2013, Hussman is feeling pretty lonely in the bearish camp. He writes, "The bears are gone, extinct, vanished. Among the ones remaining, many are people whom even I would consider to be either permabears or nut-cases. And yet, the historical evidence for major defensiveness has rarely been stronger." Hussman also takes aim at the biggest catchphrase to emerge in recent market commentary: the "Great Rotation." The idea is that 2013 will finally be the year where large amounts of investment funds flow out of bonds, which have had an incredible run over the past 30 years, and into stocks. This rotation largely underpins Wall Street's call that stocks (proxied by the S&amp;P 500) will appreciate another 10 percent in 2013. Hussman says strategists and fund managers touting the "Great Rotation" idea ñ even including Ray Dalio ñ seem to misunderstand how markets work altogether. In his note, Hussman writes: The newest iteration of the bullish case is the idea of a ìgreat rotationî from bonds and cash to stocks, as if the outstanding quantity of each is not held by†someone†at every point in time. The head of a ìtoo big to failî investment firm argued last week that stocks are ìunderownedî ñ as if every share of stock presently in existence is not actually owned by someone. To assert that stocks can be ìunderownedî seems to reflect either a misunderstanding of how markets work, or a desire to distribute overvalued institutional holdings onto the unwashed muppets. Likewise, the idea of a ìrotationî out of bonds and into stocks begs the question of who will buy the bonds and sell the stocks, as someone†must†be on the other side of that trade. Similarly, to ìmove cash into the marketî requires a seller of stock who becomes the new holder of said cash. Quite simply, the reason that pension funds and other investors hold more bonds relative to stocks than they have historically is that there are more bonds†outstanding, relative to stocks, than there have been historically. What is viewed as ìunderinvestmentî in stocks is actually a symptom of a rise in the gross indebtedness of the global economy, enabled and encouraged by quantitative easing of central banks, which have been successful in suppressing all apparent costs of that releveraging. The "rotation" fallacy has emerged even in the work of analysts that we admire. Ray Dalio of Bridgewater talked on CNBC last week of a move ìout ofî cash and ìintoî stocks, seemingly reversing comments he made only weeks ago at the†Dealbook†conference (h/t PragCap) where he suggested that risk premiums are likely to expand, that the effects of QE are diminishing as we do more rounds, that weíre facing austerity, that growth is flagging, that the economy is facing unprecedented risk, and that we face a slowdown with very little room to maneuver. Meanwhile, Albert Edwards of SocGen suggested that there has been an excessive ìmove away from equitiesî in recent years ñ instead of noting, for example, that the volume of U.S. government debt foisted upon the public (even excluding what has been purchased by the Fed) has†doubled†since 2007, not to mention other sources of global debt issuance, while the market capitalization of stocks has merely recovered to its previously overvalued highs. ... But the problem with the ìgreat rotationî argument is that†somebody†has to hold the debt.†Somebody†has to hold the cash. It cannot†go†anywhere, and it is impossible ñ in aggregate ñ for the markets to ìrotateî out of it. Hussman says conditions are ripe for a sell-off in the stock market. Click here to read more from his latest note &gt;
Peter Macdiarmid/GettyGood morning! Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the top stories that people are talking about today. We summarize in bullets. For more on what's going on this morning, see the 10 things you need to know &gt;
Tom Keene, host of Bloomberg Surveillance, gives you a look from the host's chair. vine.co/v/bJ1Bn9j2Klz
CaterpillarUPDATE: Caterpillar's Q4 2012 earnings release is out. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; The company reported earnings of $1.91 per share ‚Äì excluding a recently-announced writedown on a Chinese investment ‚Äì versus expectations of $1.70. Sales came in at $16.08 billion, a bit better than the consensus expectation of $16.06 billion. Caterpillar gave guidance for 2013 earnings of $7.00-9.00 per share versus estimates of $8.54. The company also says it sees the level of sales in Q1 2013 well below that in Q1 2012. Turning to the global economic outlook, Caterpillar sees economic growth of at least 2.5 percent in the U.S. in 2013, with Japan expected to grow near 1 percent and China expected to grow 8.5 percent. However, the company says it could be a "tough year" if the growth outlook deteriorates in the second half of 2013. Shares are moving lower in pre-market trading. "The range of our 2013 outlook reflects the level of uncertainty we see in the world today. We're encouraged by recent improvements in economic indicators, but remain cautious. While we expect some improvement in the U.S. economy, growth is expected to be relatively weak. We believe China's economy will continue to improve, but not to the growth rates of 2010 and 2011. We also remain concerned about Europe and expect economies in that region will continue to struggle in 2013," said Caterpillar CEO Doug Oberhelman. Below is the full text from the release: PEORIA, Ill., Jan. 28, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Despite economic and political uncertainty in the United States, continued economic turmoil in much of Europe and slower growth in China, Caterpillar Inc. (NYSE: CAT) today announced record 2012 sales and revenues of $65.875 billion, an increase of 10 percent from $60.138 billion in 2011. Profit per share of $8.48 was also an all-time record, including the impact of the previously announced goodwill impairment charge of $0.87 per share related to Siwei. The 2012 profit per share of $8.48 was up 15 percent from $7.40 in 2011. Profit was $5.681 billion, an increase of 15 percent from $4.928 billion in 2011. Fourth-quarter 2012 sales and revenues were $16.075 billion, down $1.168 billion from $17.243 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011. The impact of changes in dealer new machine inventories lowered sales by about $1.4 billion as dealers reduced inventories about $600 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, compared with an increase of about $800 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Fourth-quarter 2012 profit was $697 million compared with $1.547 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011. Profit was $1.04 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with profit per share of $2.32 in the fourth quarter of 2011. Fourth-quarter 2012 profit was negatively impacted by the previously announced goodwill impairment charge of $580 million, or $0.87 per share. Lower sales and revenues and the cost impact from sharply lower production and the $2 billion decline in Caterpillar inventory also had a negative impact on fourth-quarter profit. Those impacts were partially offset by a $300 million positive impact related to the settlement of prior-year tax returns. "From an operational standpoint, 2012 was a very successful year with record sales and profit in a tough economic climate. Considering the weak economy in the United States, along with much of Europe in recession and China slowing, we had a solid year. Our incremental operating profit pull through was very good, we made progress adjusting inventory levels, and our quality and safety indicators continued to improve," said Caterpillar Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Doug Oberhelman. "I'm extremely pleased with our performance on reducing inventory $2 billion in the fourth quarter. As the world economy began to soften at mid year, we increased our focus on reducing inventory. Cat dealers also worked to lower their inventories, and, as a result, reduced their order rates during the second half of 2012. The result was a substantial reduction in our production levels and inventory. The reductions had a significantly negative impact on fourth-quarter sales and profit. The $2 billion inventory reduction in the fourth quarter was a remarkable effort, but we're not done. Reduced production levels are likely to continue at least through the first quarter of 2013 until inventories and dealer order rates move back in line with end-user demand," Oberhelman added. 2013 Outlook The outlook for 2013 is sales and revenues in a range of $60 to $68 billion and profit per share of $7.00 to $9.00. "The range of our 2013 outlook reflects the level of uncertainty we see in the world today. We're encouraged by recent improvements in economic indicators, but remain cautious. While we expect some improvement in the U.S. economy, growth is expected to be relatively weak. We believe China's economy will continue to improve, but not to the growth rates of 2010 and 2011. We also remain concerned about Europe and expect economies in that region will continue to struggle in 2013," said Oberhelman. "If the recent improvement in economic indicators continues, 2013 could be another record year for Caterpillar. We expect the first half of 2013 will be weaker than the first half of 2012, with better growth in the second half. However, if, like the last two years, growth and confidence decline in the second half, 2013 could be a tough year. Either way, as we demonstrated with inventory reductions in the fourth quarter, our team is prepared to execute and deliver," Oberhelman added. Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from Caterpillar's fourth-quarter 2012 earnings results, expected at 7:30 AM ET. The global construction equipment manufacturer is expected to announce earnings of $1.70 per share, down from $2.26 in the third quarter. Q4 sales are expected to clock in at $16.06 billion, down slightly from sales of $16.45 billion in the third quarter. Given the nature of Caterpillar's business, its¬†earnings releases are always closely watched for signs on the health of the global economy. Furthermore, the company just announced a $580 million writedown on an investment in China, which will come out of Q4 2012 earnings. We will have Caterpillar's results at 7:30 AM ET. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt;
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Susanne Miller/USFWS via FlickrInteresting note from Nomura's George Goncalves this morning, who notes a bear "pile-on" in the US Treasury market. †Current market positioning for bonds has turned to an overall bearish bias as four out of the six key investor types we track had bearish flows in their latest updates. Specifically, both primary dealers and foreign central banks reduced UST positions on the week, while Japanese investors were net sellers of foreign bonds (after being buyers the prior week). In addition, both domestic and foreign commercial banks reduced their Treasury/Agency holdings. There was, however, some buying from specs earlier last week and bond mutual funds saw the largest net inflow since April. Net, selling pressures have turned decided negative for USTs. This is something that's going to be closely watched. There's a lot of talk about a "Great Rotation" out of bonds and into stocks. But so far there hasn't been that much selling in bonds. Watch this space.
smithereen11 | FlickrFriday night is a classic time for companies and government to take out the trash ó release some bad news so that people forget about it over the weekend. Still, 8:05 on a Friday night is a very unusual time to drop a big earnings warning, which is exactly what suits retailers Jos. A Bank did last week. Sam Ro wrote up the warning, which basically had two main points. 2012 net income was going to be about 20% lower than it was in 2011. Customers stopped responding as much to the company's promotions, and it blamed stuff like the election, the fiscal cliff, and the weather. We're eager to see how the market reacts to this huge news, as well as the unusual timing of the release. For more on the earnings warning, see here &gt;
Flickr / Tony Fischer PhotographyWe wrote about this yesterday, but if you're just tuning in now, here's a reminder that it's going to be a huge week for the economy. There's been a lot of talk about how the economy is mending. Now it's time for the data to do the talking. Here's what we got. -------------------- Monday: Durable Goods Orders, analysts expect 1.6% growth. Tuesday:¬† Case-Shiller Home Price Index, analyst expect a 5.2% growth. Consumer Confidence. Wednesday: ADP Jobs Report, GDP advance reading. Thursday: Challenger Job Cuts, Initial Jobless Claims, Personal Income and Spending, Chicago PMI FRIDAY: This is the big day. Starting in Asia its PMI day, when countries all around the world reveal the health of their manufacturing activity. That starts with China and Korea, and then goes through Asia, ending up in the US Friday morning. This will give us a great read on how things have gone in January for the entire globe. In addition to PMI day that day, we'll get Non-Farm Payrolls (analysts expect 180K), the unemployment rate (expected to stay flat at 7.7%), Construction Spending and Car and Truck Sales.
Japan's main stock index, the Nikkei, has been on a surge since last autumn. But if you want to see action, check this out. Japan's small-cap index is called the MOTHERS index, and SocGen points out in a note today that it's going bananas. Small-caps, of course, surge when there's a lot of risk-taking and speculative fever. From SocGen: In Japan the Nikkei 225 was essentially flat after the much anticipated announcement from the BOJ proved a bit of a damp squib. However the Mothers index of small cap companies continued to fly. Indeed despite this index being up 12.6% last week and having gained 80% since May last year. Japanese small caps are booming, yet no one really seems to have noticed. Check out this insane parabolic move just since the beginning of the year (via Bloomberg): Bloomberg
By now you must already know the deal with the sagging Japanese yen. Japan has a new Prime Minister who has embarked on a promise of aggressive fiscal and monetary easing in order to beat deflation. The yen has been plummeting since November. That's one currency that everyone's bearish on. The other story, and this is just getting started in the last few weeks is the British pound. Last week, the country came out with a negative GDP print, and people are talking about a "triple-dip" recession. Furthermore, its new central bank chief Mark Carney is seen as being potentially aggressive in how he uses monetary policy to strengthen the economy. At Davos this weekend, he raised eyebrows by saying that monetary policy wasn't "maxed out." Those comments aren't really that surprising, but that line does seem to be the biggest one from the conference. Anyway, the pound is diving again today. Here's a longer-term chart, you can see how the pound has been doing since the beginning of the year. FinViz
mtsofan/flickrFrom Dan Greenhaus at BTIG, a great rundown of earnings season stats so far: †Earnings Update: Approximately 150 S&amp;P 500 companies have reported thus far while another 110 or so will report during the upcoming week. Thus far, roughly 67% of companies have beaten expectations (despite AAPLís disappointing performance, the company still beat EPS estimates) while roughly 20% have missed (this compares to 62% and 28% respectively in Q4 2011). By our measure, the S&amp;P 500 is on pace to earn roughly $99-$100 in 2012, up from $96 in 2011, an increase of about 4%. Margins are not necessarily declining this quarter, holding steady at about 8.9%. Financials have once again been an important contributor towards the indexís earnings. Ex-financials, share weighted EPS growth is thus far negative (semiconductors and insurance names have hurt thus far). Sales per share are up through $280, driven higher by growth in tech and financials, offsetting negative sales growth in materials names.
Something we've been tracking lately is the fact that folks on both sides of the aisle are talking less and less about the urgent need to slash the debt right now. It's still a widely held belief that the US has a big long-tern debt problem (owing to healthcare costs) but the need to make big cuts now is a passing fad. The latest to shift? Of all people, it's House Majority leader Eric Cantor. NYT's Jonathan Weisman (via Morning Money) reports: After more than two years of budget fights, the majority leader, more than anyone else in the leadership, is said to want to broaden the discussion. His mantra behind closed doors is ‚ÄúHow do we make life work better?‚Äù aides say, and he would like the next two years to be at least as much about job creation and economic opportunity as about spending cuts and changes to entitlement programs. This isn't to say that Cantor doesn't care about the debt, but clearly the message is changing. The cut-first political message has dramatically lost its appeal. And remember, during the debt limit fight of 2011, it was widely seen that Cantor was driving the much harder bargain than Boehner was. That Eric Cantor was about to make this shift started becoming clear last week. His interviews from Davos were a tad more conciliatory than usual. And as we noted a few days ago, a top Cantor ally, Brad Dayspring, tweeted: Conservatives would be wise to focus on economic growth and job creation instead of austerity/cuts alone. ow.ly/h3NpL The US "fiscal cliff" battle isn't over. There's the sequester, the continuing resolution, and the next debt ceiling hike. But so far things have gone smoother than anyone would have guessed, and there may be more reason to hope that both sides aren't going to be locked in a death match in the battles over the next couple of weeks.
YouTube screencapMarkets are pretty tame this morning. US futures aren't going anywhere. Europe is mixed with no real sense of direction. The bigger action was in Asia. Japan fell 1%. On the other hand, China surged 2.4%. The cause of said surge is unclear. This is going to be a pretty huge week for the economy, with plenty of data coming out each day.
AP Photo/Alexander F. YuanEver since the 18th Party Congress in November, China pundits have argued over whether the new leadership will or will not bring about new reforms. Earlier this month, we highlighted some important reforms to capital controls that should boost investor confidence. But Qiushi Online, often described as the flagship magazine of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC), that was once used by chairman Mao to push the principles of the Cultural Revolution, ran an article titled "The Decline of Western Market Fundamentalism" that shows that Beijing is unlikely to embrace Western capitalism anytime soon. The article that first ran in Qiushi's sister publication Red Flag Manuscript, is quoted in Chinascope and† argues that the U.S. government had used neo-liberalism to "push its hegemony on the rest of the world" but has lost much of this power since the global financial crisis. Starting with the Lehman bust and the financial crisis that followed, the article points out the global unemployment has spiked and that the gap between the rich and poor has worsened sparking movements like Occupy Wall Street that showed dissatisfaction with capitalism and U.S. government policies.† Here are some quotes via Chinascope:  On Capitalism nearing its end "The crisis itself has ruthlessly laid bare many of the illusions about Capitalism. The "U.S. model" that many elites worshiped has lost its appeal and been discredited. Sharan Burrow, Secretary-General of the International Trade Union Confederation, believes that the Capitalism of the 20th century is out of date and does not fit the 21st century. World Economic Forum Founder and Executive Chairman Klaus Schwab raised the issue of "outdated and crumbling models." He said that Capitalism, in its current form, is no longer suitable for the world around us. IMF Chief Economist Kenneth Rogoff cited many problems with modern Capitalism and pointed out that the current Capitalism is, in essence, transitory in nature. The U.S.-U.K. model that leads the world will be replaced by other models." On the world embracing Marxism instead "The world economic crisis led to the decay of Neo-liberalism and to the ideology crisis in the West. Given these circumstances, the West has been paying more attention to Marx's writings and theories after its previous chilly political reception. Now "Marxism fever" in the West can no longer be ignored. One can see a strong contrast between the decay of Neo-liberalism and the popularity of Marxism. Today, Marxism has become a main character in Western political life. "...The emergence of "Marxist fever" has not been organized but, rather, has been a purely spontaneous development. Had there been no global recession and had Neo-liberalism not decayed, "Marxist fever" would not have spread so quickly in the West. The revival of Marxist thought shows the inevitable trend of the development of world history. However, we must also be clear: the emergence of "Marxist fever" does not mean that Neo-liberalism and its leading scholars will give up their position. The struggle [between Marxism and Neo-liberalism and other Capitalist theories] will be long-term, with many ups and downs." The article is of significance because it is published by Qiushi Online, an organ of the Central Committee. The site's aim is publicizing "the governing philosophy of the CPC". It adds that it gets attention because it "functions as a platform for issuing and interpreting the policies of Chinaís ruling party". At his speech during the 18th Party Congress, Hu Jintao said China will "never copy a Western political system". So, for those watching for political or economic reforms in China, this is telling. Read the entire piece at Chinascope &gt; 
