In business school I had to take an introductory class in statistics that we colloquially called "D&amp;D." The official course name was Data &amp; Decision-making. In retrospect, it was a truly valuable class (one of very few I encountered in b-school). If you can figure out how to use statistics to determine the most probable outcome from a set of scenarios, or find predictive correlations from within a sea of data, that's real power. You can take a lot of the guesswork out of decision-making and consequently make the "right" call much more often. I performed miserably in this class. But I had a lot of company; it was perennially voted the hardest in the school's core curriculum. While I sometimes fantasize (masochistically) about taking the class again to master the black magic of statistics, I realize that I did learn a valuable lesson: Humans are innately poor at estimating probability. This was proved to me time and again throughout that course, starting on the very first day. A gifted young professor taught D&amp;D. I was 27 at the time, and he was only a year or two older than I. Wicked smart guy. Given his age, he had a few things to prove to us on that first day of class. He wanted to demonstrate he was a little more fun and hip than the stuffy older profs who taught our other courses. He also intended to show that even though he was the same age as us, his was the Alpha cerebrum in the room. So as we took our seats for the first time, he asked: "Who wants to bet me $5 that two folks in this room have the same birthday?" We all looked at each other. There were about 65 students, plus the prof. We were all thinking: "365 days in a year. Only 66 people. Those odds don't seem so bad..." A hand went up, taking the bet. The prof asked the folks in the back row to start shouting out what their birthday was, one at a time. We got about 6 people in before someone in the middle of the room said, "That's my birthday, too." A $5 bill was passed up to the teacher. "Anyone willing to bet me again?" he asked. Another hand went up, figuring the odds just got much better as the "fluke" overlap had been removed. The exercise repeated. It only took a few more shoutouts to hit another shared birthday. Another $5 was handed over. "Anyone else?" said the professor. Another brave student made the bet and lost his $5. "Again?" This time we students were much more tentative. But after a while I shot my hand up. "What the heck," I figured. "He's got to be running out of luck." Wrong. I lost my $5 in about ten seconds. What I later learned was that the professor was making an exceptionally safe bet that only appeared risky because we students were grossly misjudging his probability of being wrong. In fact, as long as there were 57 students left, the prof's chances of winning the bet were over 99%(!). The odds would continue to be overwhelmingly in his favor all the way down to 23 people, at which point they would be 50/50. Peak Properity It turns out this is a classic probability exercise known as The Birthday Problem. And it apparently has kept the beer funds of statistics professors well-capitalized for ages.† The lesson I took from the experience is this: Probability estimation is non-intuitive. If you need to make an important decision about the odds of something occurring, don't go with your gut. It will be often wrong (sometimes wildly so). Get data, crunch the numbers, and consult a professional if you can't figure things out on your own. This caution with regard to decision-making has served me well over my career. I've lost count of the number of times I began with a strongly-felt†guesstimate†that was torn to shreds by the time I did the math and learned how far reality was from my gut instinct. And what worries me ñ scares me, is more accurate ñ is that I don't observe this same caution in the actions of the people making the truly big decisions. Like the Fed, Congress, and many of our state governors. Instead, I see people ñ many of whom don't have strong empirical skills or practical business experience ñ making rash decisions about debt, deficits, taxes, money supply, interest rates, pensions, etc. that will have implications on a staggering order of magnitude. I myself can't wrap my brain fully around some of these (classic example: The Crash Course Chapter 11: How Much Is a Trillion?). And even though I'm by no means the smartest guy in the room, I have little confidence that a career politician is able to comprehend these gargantuan repercussions at a materially higher level than I can.† Sure, it's easy if you're an elected official to simply print more money. Or run trillion-dollar deficits. Or raise taxes instead of cutting spending. Or mint the coin. Or burn more oil. But these are not short-lived decisions. Their implications will manifest over generations. And as the system becomes more unstable, the gut decisions will come faster and more furiously, made by those with the most hubris. Which is why we continue to recommend taking action at the individual level, to reduce your vulnerability as much as possible in advance: If only it were $5 of beer money that was on the line, instead of our global standard of living...
CNBC(Adds other probe details starting in eighth paragraph.) Jan. 12 (Bloomberg) -- JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.ís board will consider releasing an internal report next week that faults Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimonís oversight of a division that lost more than $6.2 billion on botched trades, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. The final report, which builds on a preliminary analysis released in July, is critical of Dimon, 56, former Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein, 51, former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew and others for inadequately supervising traders in a U.K. unit that built up a large and illiquid position in credit derivatives last year, these people said. The report, which isnít yet finished, will be presented to the board when it meets on Jan. 15. The directors will then vote on whether to release it to the public when the bank announces fourth-quarter earnings the following day, the people said, asking not to be named because the report is not yet public. Joe Evangelisti, a spokesman for the New York-based bank, declined to comment on the reportís findings and said that each member of the board also declined to comment. U.K. regulatory authorities have asked the bank to keep its findings private until they can ensure it adheres to European privacy laws that protect individuals, one of the people said. The report describes executives at JPMorgan and their role in the loss. † † The bankís analysis in July said that London traders may have intentionally mismarked some of their positions and sought to hide the full amount of their losses. Bruno Iksil, the U.K. trader nicknamed the London Whale because his trading book was so large, made a wrong-way bet on credit derivatives that led to the companyís single biggest trading loss. At one point, as much as $51 billion in shareholder value was wiped out. The bank has come under increasing scrutiny and regulatory oversight in the aftermath of the U.S. housing crisis. The trading debacle is under investigation by the U.S. Justice Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other agencies. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency may sanction the bank as early as Monday for lax anti-money laundering controls, according to a person familiar with that probe. † † Separately, JPMorgan agreed in a deal announced Jan. 7 to pay $2 billion, on top of $5.29 billion assessed against the bank last year, to settle mortgage abuse charges by the Federal Reserve and OCC. Non-bank enforcement officials also are clamping down on the largest U.S. bank. Last month, a Milan judge convicted JPMorgan and three other international banks of fraud in selling the city derivatives, a decision that all four banks plan to appeal. The Wall Street Journal reported on its website earlier today that U.K. findings have been reached and that Dimonís bonus will be cut. The company announced plans to conduct an internal review when it initially disclosed problems with the trade in May. Dimon said in July that the board would take the loss into consideration when setting his compensation for 2012.  --Editors: Sylvia Wier, David Scheer † To contact the reporter on this story: Dawn Kopecki in New York at dkopecki@bloomberg.net † To contact the editor responsible for this story: David Scheer at dscheer@bloomberg.net 
GettyDemocratic Rep. Jerry Nadler, the Congressman who first†promoted the idea of the Federal Reserve minting a trillion-dollar platinum coin to work around the debt ceiling, said Saturday night that its demise is a "shame." In response, Nadler said he would soon introduce legislation to permanently repeal the debt ceiling altogether. In a statement provided to Business Insider, Nadler questioned why the Obama administration would rule out "one of the very few bargaining chips it has" on the debt ceiling if Congressional Republicans do not agree to raise it by sometime next month. Earlier on Saturday, both the Treasury and White House officially ruled out the trillion-dollar coin option†as a means of working around the debt ceiling. The White House has also repeatedly declined to consider another theoretical option ó invoking the 14th Amendment. Here's Nadler's full statement on the situation: "It's really a shame that the administration is ruling out one of the very few bargaining chips it has with Republican extremists who are intent, once again, on using the debt ceiling as a means of political blackmail. That leaves us just two options of which I'm aware to gain leverage against GOP hostage takers: the 14th amendment and repealing the debt ceiling altogether through legislation I'll soon introduce. We must be prepared to use every weapon within our arsenal to prevent defaulting on our debts and sending our economy into a tailspin." Nadler was the only member of Congress to explicitly promote the trillion-dollar coin option. The top four Senate Democrats wrote President Barack Obama a letter†on Friday urging him to "take any lawful steps" to work around the debt ceiling, but they did not specifically endorse the coin as an option. Nadler's statement is further evidence that Democrats are somewhat dumbfounded by the administration's decision to rule out the trillion-dollar coin option. Earlier, a Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider that†"it's certainly a strange negotiating strategy to go out of your way to decrease your leverage by taking options off the table." For more on the White House and Treasury's decision, see here &gt;
But in this case, it shouldn't be. When the New York Fed bailed out AIG in 2008, it created a separate LLC called Maiden Lane II to essentially take AIG's bad residential-backed mortgage investments (RMBS) off its hands. In this latest lawsuit, AIG is only trying to find out if it has the right to sue the originators of those residential-backed mortgages. They don't even want money from the NY Fed ‚Äî they want money from the RMBS originator, in this case, Bank of America. AIG is seeking $7 billion. From Reuters: An AIG spokesman said Friday's lawsuit "narrowly seeks a declaration from the Court that a 2008 contract between AIG and ML II did not transfer to ML II AIG's right to sue Bank of America and other financial institutions for the billions of dollars of damages they caused AIG and its shareholders in connection with the fraudulent sale of RMBS to AIG." According to Friday's complaint, Maiden Lane II paid $20.8 billion for a variety of subprime and other mortgage securities from AIG, barely half of their estimated $39.3 billion face value. What this all means is that AIG wants to join the fray of legal suits against Wall Street Banks. They did just pay $20 billion to settle claims with Fannie Mae. Bank of America itself paid $11.6 billion in the name of the mortgage lender it acquired before the financial crisis, Countrywide. And that's who should be worried about this law suite ‚Äî Bank of America. At this point, their legal costs stemming from bad mortgages are reaching $50 billion. We'll find out how these numbers have impacted their earnings for Q4 and their outlook for Q1 when Bank of America does announces earnings next week. 
Wikimedia CommonsStunning news from WaPo's Ezra Klein: The Treasury is ruling out the use of a trillion dollar platinum coin to break the debt ceiling impasse. Klein writes: That‚Äôs the bottom line of the statement that Anthony Coley, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, gave me today.¬†‚ÄùNeither the Treasury Department nor the Federal Reserve believes that the law can or should be used to facilitate the production of platinum coins for the purpose of avoiding an increase in the debt limit,‚Äù he said. With this, the White House has now ruled out the two best options for preventing a default in the event that the House GOP refused to life the debt ceiling. The White House has been quite adamant that the other alternative (invoking the 14th Amendment) is not acceptable. So now the stakes are high, as The White House has refused to negotiate with the GOP on a debt ceiling hike. What bargaining chips does The White House hold? Unclear. Klein adds another incredibly salient point about the comment he receives: The inclusion of the Federal Reserve is significant. For the platinum coin idea to work, the Federal Reserve would have to treat it as a legal way for the Treasury Department to create currency. If they don‚Äôt believe it‚Äôs legal and would not credit the Treasury Department‚Äôs deposit, the platinum coin would be worthless. The good news? The whole #MintTheCoin discussion has been very helpful for teaching people economics, as was evident today on Up With Chris Hayes. UPDATE: Via email, coin supporter Paul Krugman gives his take: "So, are they planning moral obligation coupons / scrip, are they willing to court disaster, or are they just hopeless negotiators? I guess we'll find out." He also has a full post up here. UPDATE II: The White House has issued a very strong followup statement. From HuffPo: "There are only two options to deal with the debt limit: Congress can pay its bills or they can fail to act and put the nation into default," said Press Secretary Jay Carney. "When Congressional Republicans played politics with this issue last time putting us at the edge of default, it was a blow to our economic recovery, causing our nation to be downgraded. The President and the American people won't tolerate Congressional Republicans holding the American economy hostage again simply so they can force disastrous cuts to Medicare and other programs the middle class depend on while protecting the wealthy. Congress needs to do its job." UPDATE III: On background, a Democratic aide in the Senate says: "it's certainly a strange negotiating strategy to go out of your way to decrease your leverage by taking options off the table."
Goldman SachsGoldman's Jan Hatzius is out with his list of the 10 most important questions for 2013. Here are the questions, and his answers (his actual note spells out the answers much more elaborately, but we're just bringing you the simplified version) And the most important question of 2013 is.... 1.Will the 2013 tax hike tip the economy back into recession?† No. To be sure, it will likely deal a heavy blow to household finances, and we therefore expect consumer spending to be weak this year. Once we add the expiration of the payroll tax cut (a hit of $126bn), the expiration of the Bush-tax cuts for families earning more than $450,000 ($50bn), and the increase in taxes to finance the Affordable Care Act ($24bn), it amounts to $200bn or 1.6% of disposable personal income. As shown in Exhibit 1, this could push real income growth in the first quarter into negative year-on-year territoryósomething that has never happened without a recession! Goldman Sachs But we do not expect the impact to be as bad as suggested by Exhibit 1. We recently estimated the effects of higher taxes on consumption using three different econometric models: (1) a vector autoregression (VAR) model that traces out the dynamic impact of shocks to disposable income on consumption; (2) the Fedís large-scale econometric model, FRB/US; and (3) the database of ìexogenousî tax increases compiled by economists Christina and David Romer of the University of California, Berkeley. As illustrated in Exhibit 2, the estimates for the impact on real consumer spending growth in the first half of 2013 from the three models center around a 1-percentage-point hit to real consumer spending growthóa substantial impact, but not enough to cause an outright contraction in spending. Goldman Sachs
Bill McBride, Calculated RiskAnother reminder about why the economics blog Calculated Risk is so indispensable if you want to really understand what's going on in the economy. Bill McBride (the blog's author) has put together a dazzling 10-part series, examining what will happen to the economy in 2013. Here are the 10 questions he examines: ‚Ä¢ ¬†Question #1 for 2013: US Fiscal Policy‚Ä¢ Question #2 for 2013: Will the U.S. economy grow in 2013? ‚Ä¢ Question #3 for 2013: How many payroll jobs will be added in 2013? ‚Ä¢ Question #4 for 2013: What will the unemployment rate be in December 2013? ‚Ä¢ Question #5 for 2013: Will the inflation rate rise or fall in 2013?  ‚Ä¢ Question #6 for 2013: What will happen with Monetary Policy and QE3? ‚Ä¢ Question #7 for 2013: What will happen with house prices in 2013? ‚Ä¢ Question #8 for 2013: Will Housing inventory bottom in 2013? ‚Ä¢ Question #9 for 2013: How much will Residential Investment increase? ‚Ä¢ Question #10 for 2013: Europe and the Euro His number one question is fiscal policy, and here his analysis is incredibly important: Hopefully the House will fold their losing hand soon. If they are planning on taking the country to the brink, and¬†betting voters will forget¬†like after 2011, I¬†think that is another losing bet. Although the negotiations on the "sequester" will be tough, I suspect something will be worked out (remember the goal is to limit the amount of austerity in 2013).¬† The issue that might blow up is the ‚Äúcontinuing resolution", and that might mean a partial shut down of the government.¬† This wouldn't be catastrophic (like the "debt ceiling"), but it would still cause problems for the economy and is a key downside risk.And a final prediction: If we just stay on the current path - and the "debt ceiling" is raised, and a reasonable agreement is reached on the "sequester", and the ‚Äúcontinuing resolution" is passed - I think the deficit will decline faster than most people expect over the next few years.¬† Eventually the deficit will start to increase again due to rising health care costs (this needs further attention), but that isn't a short term¬†emergency. His analysis on the outlook for residential investment is also really good: Housing starts are on pace to increase about 25% in 2012. And even after the sharp increase last year, the approximately 770 thousand housing starts in 2012 will still be the 4th lowest on an annual basis since the Census Bureau started tracking starts in 1959 (the three lowest years were 2009 through 2011).Here is a table showing housing starts over the last few years. No one should expect an increase to 2005 levels, however demographics and household formation suggest starts will return to close to the 1.5 million per year average from 1959 through 2000. That means starts will come close to doubling over the next few years from the 2012 level.  And crucially, his stake on jobs: Both state and local government and construction hiring should improve in 2013. Unfortunately there are other employment categories that will be hit by the austerity (especially the increase in payroll taxes). I expect that will offset any gain from construction and local governments.¬† So¬†my forecast is close to the previous two years, a gain of about 150,000 to 200,000 payroll jobs per month in 2013.
Bipartisan Policy CenterCountdown to disaster...The United States has already hit its debt ceiling--the legal limit of the amount of money it is allowed to borrow, as established by Congress. Right now, the U.S. Treasury is resorting to "extraordinary measures" to keep paying the country's bills. Sometime between February 15th and March 1st, the Bipartisan Policy Center projects, the Treasury's ability to use these "extraordinary measures" will end. At that point, we will hit the "X-date." On that date, if the debt ceiling has not been raised, the United States will begin to default on payments that it is legally obligated to make, payments that Congress has already promised that we will make. The Treasury may have some ability to choose which payments to default on, and when to default on them, but the bottom line will be the same: The Treasury will only be able to pay about 60% of the bills that are owed. In relatively short order, therefore, the United States will stiff about 40% of the people and companies it owes money to. Importantly, this default is different from the "government shutdowns" that have happened from time to time (in the 1990s, for example). In those cases, Congress had yet to authorize government spending. This time, the spending has been authorized: Congress has already promised to pay these bills. This time, in other words, we will be choosing not to pay people and companies we have already promised to pay. This has never happened before in the history of the United States. That some representatives in our government say they are justified in making this happen now is reckless and scary. And the support that this vocal minority is getting suggests that some ordinary Americans don't understand what will happen if we don't raise the debt ceiling. So, it is time for everyone to understand. Below are some slides from a presentation prepared by Steve Bell, Loren Adler, Shai Akabas and Brian Collins of the Bipartisan Policy Center. This game of chicken that one of our political parties is playing is no joke. To not raise the debt ceiling is to say that it is totally okay to stiff people and companies we owe money to--and, more importantly, to actually stiff them. This is astoundingly reckless and irresponsible behavior (not to mention illegal). And it will have a devastating impact on our country and economy.
I was fortunate enough to be invited onto Up W/ Chris Hayes this morning to talk about, yes, the trillion dollar coin. I'm not going to be so arrogant as to say that I said anything brilliant, but Chris' introduction to the whole discussion was marvelous. In addition to a crystal clear explanation of the politics and mechanics of the idea that a platinum coin could avert the debt ceiling crisis, Chris did something that we've never seen done before: Peel back the curtain a little bit and talk substantively about the fact that money is an artificial creation of government, and that this has profound implications. He showed a cartoon that was made by Abraham Lincoln's critics, showing him creating cash with a magic money machine, that looks so much like a lot of the anti-Bernanke stuff you see online today. Studenthandouts.com The point being: Governments are always finding novel ways to fund themselves, and there's a long history of critics thinking it's dangerous magic. You can watch Chris' whole intro here. It's all great, although the discussion about the nature of money itself comes at the 5:25 mark.  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
API didn't say anything about not making cheap plastic stuff! SAN FRANCISCO/BEIJING (Reuters) - In a revised version of an interview published Thursday in a Chinese newspaper, Apple Inc marketing chief Phil Schiller said the company would focus on making "the best products" for customers and "never blindly pursue market share". On Thursday, the Shanghai Evening News had originally cited Schiller as saying that Apple would not develop a cheaper smartphone for the sake of expanding its market share. That appeared to undermine other recent media reports indicating that Apple was working on a low-end smartphone, which would represent a significant shift in strategy for a company that has always focused on premium products. But in a new version of the story published after the original, the Shanghai Evening News removed all references to cheaper smartphones, except for a mention of rumours of a "cheaper, low-end product". It also amended its original headline from "Apple will not push a cheaper smartphone for the sake of market share", to "Apple wants to provide the best products, will not blindly pursue market share". Apple confirmed the interview had taken place and that it had contacted the Chinese newspaper about amending its original article, but had no further comment and declined to provide a transcript of the interview. A reporter at the Shanghai Evening News who identified himself as Huang Yinlong, whose byline appeared on the stories, said the paper had made some changes, as Schiller's remarks may not have been presented as clearly as possible. As well as deleting references to cheap smartphones, paraphrased statements attributed to Schiller in the original version were replaced with direct quotations. Asked if the paper had made the changes at Apple's request, Huang said that the paper had made the decision on its own. "We deliberated about it, and wanted to reflect (Schiller's) meaning in the interview more accurately, so we made some adjustments", said Huang, adding the interview was conducted in Beijing on Tuesday. The original story had quoted Schiller as saying that developing a cheaper smartphone to try and replace feature phones was not a direction in which the company wanted to head. That comment was amended in the new version of the story, which now cites Schiller as saying that while some manufacturers are moving toward such cheaper smartphones, "Apple has always focused on providing the best products for its consumers, we've never blindly chased market share." An operator at the Shanghai Evening News said the paper did not have a spokesperson. Queries for comment were referred to Editor-in-Chief Niu Yefang, whose phone went unanswered. A spokeswoman for Apple in China could not be reached immediately. Apple rarely addresses rumors about upcoming products, which often spur intense speculation. Earlier this week, the Wall Street Journal cited anonymous sources as saying Apple could release a cheaper iPhone as early as this year. (Reporting by Edwin Chan and Wan Xu in San Francisco, and Terril Yue Jones in Beijing; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Jeremy Laurence) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Some short excerpts from a research note by Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius:

NEW YORK (Reuters) - American International Group Inc has filed a lawsuit against a vehicle created by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to help bail out the insurer, in a bid to preserve its right to sue Bank of America Corp and other issuers of mortgage debt that went sour. The complaint filed in the New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan seeks a declaration that AIG has not transferred billions of dollars of "litigation claims" to Maiden Lane II, including many related to the insurer's $10 billion lawsuit against Bank of America. Maiden Lane II was created in December 2008 to buy residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) from AIG and ease liquidity strains. According to the complaint, New York Fed officials in December told Bank of America that Maiden Lane II had, by agreeing to buy the securities, assumed from AIG all litigation claims relating to what it bought. AIG said this included more than $7 billion of damages claims against Bank of America. AIG is not seeking monetary payments in the lawsuit, but wants the court to clarify that the New York-based insurer still has the right to sue issuers of securities in Maiden Lane II. New York Fed spokesman Jack Gutt declined to comment. Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson also declined to comment. The lawsuit is part of the fallout from AIG's $182.3 billion federal bailout that began in September 2008, and which was fully paid off last year. It came after AIG provoked a firestorm in Congress and from the American people this week as it mulled whether to sue the government that bailed it out by joining a $25 billion lawsuit by former Chief Executive Maurice "Hank" Greenberg. AIG eventually decided to stay out of that case. When it sued Bank of America in August 2011, AIG accused the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender of misrepresenting the quality of more than $28 billion of securities it had bought from the bank and its Countrywide and Merrill Lynch units. An AIG spokesman said Friday's lawsuit "narrowly seeks a declaration from the Court that a 2008 contract between AIG and ML II did not transfer to ML II AIG's right to sue Bank of America and other financial institutions for the billions of dollars of damages they caused AIG and its shareholders in connection with the fraudulent sale of RMBS to AIG." According to Friday's complaint, Maiden Lane II paid $20.8 billion for a variety of subprime and other mortgage securities from AIG, barely half of their estimated $39.3 billion face value. The case is American International Group Inc et al v. Maiden Lane II LLC, New York State Supreme Court, New York County, No. 650115/2013. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Gary Hill)
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) ‚Äî Lance Armstrong plans to admit to doping throughout his career during an upcoming interview with Oprah Winfrey, USA Today reported late Friday. The interview, scheduled to be taped Monday and broadcast Thursday night on the Oprah Winfrey Network, will be conducted at Armstrong's home in Austin, Texas. Citing an anonymous source, USA Today reported that the disgraced cyclist plans to admit using performance-enhancing drugs, but likely will not get into details of the allegations outlined in a 2012 report by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency that led to Armstrong being stripped of his seven Tour de France titles and banned for life from the sport. Armstrong representatives declined comment, including his attorney Tim Herman. The New York Times first reported last week that Armstrong was considering making a confession. The 41-year-old Armstrong, who vehemently denied doping for years, has not spoken publicly about the USADA report that cast him as the leader of a sophisticated and brazen doping program on his U.S. Postal Service teams that included use of steroids, blood boosters and illegal blood transfusions. Winfrey's network announced Tuesday that Armstrong agreed to a "no holds barred" interview with her. A confession to Winfrey would come at a time when some of Armstrong's legal troubles appear to be clearing up. Any potential perjury charges stemming from his sworn testimony denying doping in a 2005 arbitration fight with a Dallas promotions company over a contract bonus worth $7.5 million have passed the statute of limitations. Armstrong faces a whistle-blower lawsuit filed by former teammate Floyd Landis accusing him of defrauding the U.S. Postal Service, but the U.S. Department of Justice has yet to announce if it will join the case. The British newspaper The Sunday Times is suing Armstrong to recover about $500,000 it paid him to settle a libel lawsuit. Armstrong lost most of his personal sponsorship ‚Äî worth tens of millions of dollars ‚Äî after USADA issued its report and he left the board of the Livestrong cancer-fighting charity he founded in 1997. He is still said to be worth an estimated $100 million. Livestrong might be one reason to issue an apology or make a confession. The charity supports cancer patients and still faces an image problem because of its association with its famous founder. The New York Times reported that Armstrong may make a confession in an attempt to return to competition in elite triathlon or running events, but World Anti-Doping Code rules state his lifetime ban cannot be reduced to less than eight years. WADA and U.S. Anti-Doping officials could agree to reduce the ban further depending on what new information Armstrong provides and his level of cooperation. Armstrong met with USADA officials recently to explore a "pathway to redemption," according to a report by "60 Minutes Sports" aired Wednesday on Showtime. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
The current domestic and global investing environment is dominated by deleveraging, according to Gary Shilling.† In other words, households and institutions are slashing the debt on their balance sheets. And according to Shilling, we still have some way to go: "The deleveraging process for both these sectors has commenced, but it has a long way to go to return to the long run flat trends and we are strong believers in reversions to well-established trend. If we simply extend the downward slopes, it will take the Financial sector 9.5 more years to return to trend as bank assets continue to be dumped and capital raised, and 8.3 more years for the Household sector as debts are repaid or written off and assets are rebuilt through a rising saving rate ÖWe continue to suggest about five more years of deleveraging, however, since adding that to the 2008-2012 initial span would bring the total to about 10 years. That's the normal length of deleveraging after major financial bubbles, according to Carmen Reinhardt and Kenneth Rogoff's book, This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly." During this period of deleveraging and because of nine other factors weighing on growth, average GDP growth in the U.S. will be 2 percent. What's more the GDP growth rate will be much lower than than the 3.3 percent needed to keep the unemployment rate steady. "A 2% real GDP growth indicates that the unemployment rate will rise, chronically, a little over one percentage point per year. ÖThis implies that the 7.8% rate in December would be about 8.8% in December 2013, 9.9% in December 2014, 11.0% in December 2015, etc. No government left, right or center can endure high and chronically-rising unemployment so the pressure to create jobs will remain for the duration of deleveraging. And so will the huge federal deficits that result from the leap in federal spending and weakness in tax collections." And the power of deleveraging according to Shilling is "gigantic", because it is offsetting tremendous amounts of stimulus: "Witness the fact that despite all the fiscal and monetary stimuli here and abroad since 2008, economic growth remains slow at best. Federal deficits have been running $1 trillion-plus, the result of weak tax collections, tax cuts and government spending surges with the resulting leap in federal borrowing. ÖBut these huge deficits and more to come as the postwar babies retire and draw Social Security and Medicare benefits have brought fiscal policy in Washington to a standstill. Öwith frozen fiscal policies here and a number of foreign lands, responsibility to do something to aid the economy has shifted to central banks. Earlier, they pushed the short-term rates they control to close to zero with little effect. Then they turned to quantitative easing, which pumped up financial assets but did little to promote employment, its stated goal." The silver lining? Once this is done, the U.S. should to return to a long-term trend growth of 3.5 percent per year.
Happy New Year to all. A lot of fanfare and hoopla about a non-existent debt ceiling has captured the imagination of the press, the Tea Party, and even the President. The United States of America is more than three trillion dollars from the so called "Debt Ceiling." Why? A sidebar of the Fed's massive giveaway of taxpayer money to the banks is that the Fed has purchased between three and four trillion dollars of US GOVERNMENT DEBT - that is to say, that the US Federal Reserve Bank has purchased debt issued by the US Treasury and and holds it with public reference to the size of the Fed's "Balance Sheet." Designed as a support function to the banks (the transfer of taxpayer money to bank profits) this Federal Reserve policy may in fact serve the purposes of defusing the "Debt Ceiling." How? Democracy.infoEach palette of dollar bills represents $100M. Infographic courtesy of Demonocracy.info A smattering of accounting knowledge will yield a simple paradigm. When the same entity (in this case the United States of America) is a lender and a borrower to and from itself the balance sheet of that entity should be viewed in terms of its Net Debt. Net Debt is the amount of debt that entity has outstanding after the reduction of the inter-entity debt. In this case the Net Debt of the United States of America is between three and four trillion dollars less than the present "Debt Ceiling" approved by Congress. Now, we may or may not approve of the massive transfer of taxpayer funds to the banks by the Fed, but Mr. President, Mr. Bernanke, and Mr. Geithner, move over. Declare the concept of Net Debt a very real one economically or even declare the cancellation of the inter-entity debt and leave ourselves lots of room to fund the United States. Maybe, at the same time, you will review the Fed's bank giveaway program and encourage the growth of properly targeted fiscal spending and the curtailment of irresponsible monetary policy.
Amazon.comOn Tuesday, bond god Jeff Gundlach unveiled his 2013 market outlook via a webcast. During the Q&amp;A, Gundlach was asked for his favorite investment book of all time. Without hesitation, he said it was Reminiscences Of A Stock Market Operator, the 1923 classic by Edwin Lefevre. It's the fictional biography of legendary trader Jessie Livermore. "It shows how human nature, fear and greed never really changes," said Gundlach. Read more about it on Amazon.com.
Deutsche BankGovernment spending on health care related programs is expected to nearly double as a share of GDP by 2035, according to a report by Deutsche Bank. And it isn't just because there are going to be way more old people than young people in the near future. According to the same Deutsche Bank report, medical inflation is outpacing overall inflation. "This rise in health care spending is due both to the aging of the ‚ÄúBaby Boomer‚Äù generation and the fact that inflation for medical services is projected to continue to outpace broader measures of inflation." The CBO projects that about 60% of the rise in spending on health care programs over the next several decades will be because of an aging populations, the other 40% will because of medical care is going to continue to get more and more expensive. Deutsche Bank Over the past five years, medical care services inflation has exceeded overall CPI by 2.2 percentage points on average.
Ever since the German government started subsidizing solar energy, demand for solar installations went up like clockwork, towards the end of each year. But recently released data from German regulators shows that number of solar installations in December 2012 was down 88% from the previous year. In fact, 2012 saw the lowest number of installations since 2008. And it still wasn't as low as the German government would have liked. The German government wants to cut back on solar energy installations because their whole drive to switch to renewable energy has ended being far more expensive that they thought it would be. Which is why they have been aggressively cutting back on subsidies, according to a report from JP Morgan Securities: "The lack of a year-end installation rush in Germany likely indicates that Feed-in-Tariff (FiT) cuts are having the desired effect and demand and will trend meaningfully lower from now on." JP Morgan Securities This is a sure sign that Europeans are going to want to spend a lot less on solar energy, and that's going to have quite an effect on the global demand for such installations: "Germany accounted for about a quarter of global Solar PV demand in 2012 and was by far the largest single market. Global Solar PV demand was expected to be approximately 30GW in 2012, with Germany being the largest single market. Outside of Germany, China, Italy, the US, and Japan were the largest markets‚Äîall expected to come in less than 5GW. Italy has also been taking aggressive action to limit new solar installations." Even though JP Morgan analysts expect some markets for solar energy to grow in 2013, such as China, Japan, the US, India and parts of the Middle East, they expect that most of that growth will be offset by declining European demand. "With continued oversupply throughout the Solar PV food chain and the expectation of a flat global demand outlook, we remain bearish on the sector...and think the recent run-up in US solar stocks is overdone."
For the last four years the Federal Reserve has been actively engaged in supporting the stock market by suppressing interest rates to historically low levels, and injecting liquidity into the financial system, through a variety of different programs. †The most notable, and widely discussed, of these programs has been the Large Scale Asset Purchase programs (see here and here) which have become known as Quantitative Easing or Q.E. There are two important considerations revolving around Q.E. programs. †First, the Fed is currently simultaneously involved in two Q.E. programs totaling $85 billion a month. †Considering that we are more than 4 years into an "economic recovery" the need for such liquidity injections is very telling about the real strength of the economy. †Secondly, each program has had a diminishing rate of return as shown in the combined chart below.  What the chart shows is the history of each program from its inception post decline to May 31st of the following year. †The first QE program followed the 48% decline in the S&amp;P 500 due to the financial crisis. †From that low point the markets rallied 34% to the end of the program 2010. † Following the expiration of QE 1 the market declined by 14% which pushed the Fed to enact QE 2 in order to "stimulate consumer confidence and boost asset prices."††QE 2 worked as planned and boosted the market by 28% until its conclusion in the early summer of 2011. † As witnessed previously, as the effects of the Fed's liquidity was extracted from the system, the market deteriorated and fell 19% as the economy slowed and the first debt ceiling debate ensued. †Worried that the economy may well slip into recession the Fed acted to once again support the financial markets, and the economy, by utilizing a different approach and implementing a bond reinvestment program which became known as "Operation Twist."† †From the lows of the market in the summer of 2011 the market was only able to muster a 19% increase before stalling and declining once again by 10%. † The story line changed somewhat in 2012. †As the market declined in the early summer of 2012, with the Eurocrisis once again rearing its head, the markets, now very accustomed to the Fed intervening and providing support, began to advance in anticipation that Bernanke's "printing press"†would once again be unleashed. †Like the sound of the bell to Pavlov's dogs, the market rallied strongly during the summer months reaching its peak as the announcement of QE 3 was made in September. †QE 4 was announced shortly thereafter to replace the expiration of the "Operation Twist." The recent rally has attracted much attention as the markets flirt with their highest closing levels since the 2008 stock market crash. †For many individual investors they are now back to where they were five years ago. †I need not remind you that getting back to even is not an investment strategy. †The question, however, is how much further the advance can go? †(Note: †For clarity purposes I have intentionally left out Operation Twist since that program did not expand the Fed's balance sheet.)  In hindsight it is easy to see that there was a direct impact from the Fed's operations on asset prices. †However, in real time it is a bit more difficult. †The recent year end surge has sent the media scrambling for to assign reasons for the rally. †Is it improving earnings? A better economic outlook? †The reasons have been plenty from the steady steam of analysts and managers on television. †However, with earnings currently showing little sign of improvement, and the economy likely to slow down sharply from the 3rd quarter of 2012, the answer is likely more simplistic and can be†quantified to $85 billion a month. What we are witnessing is the impact of the Fed's liquidity operations once again pushing money out of safe haven investments, namely the U.S. dollar and Treasury bonds, and into risk assets. †The current push higher pulled investors off the sidelines and into the market as witnessed by overly bullish sentiment and extreme complacency as measured by market volatility. The chart below shows the effect of QE programs on interest rates. † QE programs push investors out of the safety of Treasury bonds and into equities which leads to an increase in interest rates. †As you can see each previous program has led to a fairly sharp rise in rates and we are now beginning to see that rotation once again in recent weeks. †(Side note: †This is potentially a problem for the housing market recovery thesis)  The U.S. dollar is likewise affected by the push into risk assets. †As shown in the next chart the dollar has been a store of value during times of market crisis or economic concerns. †However, during QE programs the dollar has declined as money is rotated out the U.S. dollar and invested into risky assets. †  What is clear is that the recent market rally is once again being driven by the Federal Reserve's QE programs. †Money is flowing out of bonds, and the dollar, and into equities. † The weekly chart below shows the decline in the market this past September and October as excess reserve balances with the Fed were drawn down. †The subsequent rally has been fueled by the Fed as it has pumped reserve balances sharply higher.  The question of how far the rally will likely go is shear speculation. †Using past history as a guide I currently think that the market could reach our intra-year target of 1560 as shown in the first chart above within the next three to four months. †After that, however, I suspect that a resurgence of economic weakness caused by increased taxes, potential spending cuts and a continued drag from emerging markets and the Eurozone will begin to negatively impact the markets. †The chart below shows the likely trajectory in the months ahead.†  However, as with all forecasts and projections, it is simply my best guess based on my assumptions about the future. †What is clear is that the markets are once again very overbought and while the market could very well rally further from here - it has not been a wise bet to assume that the advance will continue indefinitely. †The reality is that we are very long in the tooth in this current rally and we are now seeing a multiple expansion based on rising prices and deteriorating earnings. †Such an event has never ended well - although it can last far longer than is generally imagined. Ben Bernanke's fingerprint is clearly present in the current rally. †The trend is currently positive and internal dynamics are relatively stable as money rotates from safety into risk. †However, as stated above, the markets are overbought, overly bullish in terms of sentiment and complacency, and fundamentals are showing signs of weakness. † While 2012 made a very strong advance in the face of rather substantial headwinds it is unlikely that 2013 will repeat such a showing.†
Shanna Mari / FlickrThe composition of the Federal Open Market Committee has been tweaked for the new year. But fans of loose monetary policy need not worry. "The overall profile of voting members of the FOMC does not change significantly this year, as one moderate (Pianalto), one hawk (Lacker) and two doves (Williams and Lockhart) rotate off of the voting roster to be replaced by two doves (Evans and Rosengren) and two hawks (Bullard and George)," writes Deutsche Bank economist Carl Riccadonna. The odds of more dissenting votes has increased.† But this is unlikely to derail Chairman Ben Bernanke's current path. "Although, with two hawkish members the prospect for a second dissent on policy votes is more likelyóeven so, a second (or even third) dissent is not unprecedented and will do little to dissuade the dovish-leaning core of the Committee," writes Riccadonna. "In other words, as long as the Committeeís leadershipónamely Chairman Bernanke, New York Fed President Dudley and Vice Chair Yellenóis dominated by doves and supported by a cadre of relatively dovish-leaning Governors, the current policy tack will be maintained." But given the surprisingly hawkish tone of the last FOMC minutes, " it will be critical to monitor the tone of commentary from potential ìswing votersî on the Committee, particularly if economic conditions (or inflation) begin to pick-up." Here's Deutsche Bank "Hawk-O-Meter": Deutsche Bank
