Wikimedia CommonsFollowing an internship, I worked as an analyst with Rothschild's investment banking team in Singapore for two and a half years. During this time, I worked with a newly arrived director from our Frankfurt office to set up transport industry coverage in Asia and also spent time in Shanghai with a newly created PE fund that was partially financed by Rothschild. I would like to note clearly here that if you are going to pursue IBD, I believe Rothschild is a particularly good firm to join in terms of culture and quality of your career - relative to peers. I genuinely appreciate the opportunities I had at Rothschild. This posting is more directed at what I (and presumably others) really desire in their lives, which is to create something themselves. ---- Lack of equity in my work at the investment bank ---- As early as my original internship, I noticed that people in the bank did not seem particularly happy with their lives, but at the time I thought "work is work" and continued on to the full time role. The unpleasant aspects of investment banking have been covered at great length and at great frequency on these pages. I agree that these aspects are significant and numerous. One particular problem I had was that I was being lead to work every day and every night, through public holidays and through sick and health. Sometimes I had so much work that I was actually afraid of the work - I would become very stressed and find myself eagerly figuring out the next time I could catch some sleep. However, I did not dislike the hours as much as I disliked the dynamics of the work. When you are an employee, work is pushed to you. You tend to want to avoid work, because every marginal work that is assigned to you does not usually lead to marginal income and it is not really your choice to do it or not do it in any case. Even in IBD, where bonuses can be substantial, you still do not feel that the work is closely tied to compensation, and even if you have had a great year, your bonus is tied to the performance of the whole team and other factors. During my second year, I was benchmarked as #2 analyst in SE Asia, but my bonus was significantly less than the average bonus during the year when I was an intern because, as a whole, the region (and I think almost all investment banks, globally) was not doing as well. It is difficult to feel that working an extra weekend really added to my bonus at the end of the year. Sometimes it feels like it is in the interest of the employer to get you to work as much as possible, while it is your interest to go home a bit earlier, take weekends off, etc. Last weekend when your MD gave you another pitch book to do, he didn't throw another $1,000 your way, for example. However, my problem was not actually the quantity of work. My problem was the feeling of the work being pushed to me and that I was not building anything, genuinely, myself - I was working so hard, but I did not feel equity in the work. While some people complain about work travel, I actually liked it a lot. I took every opportunity to travel, specifically requesting that I go on different client trips, and I ending up spending the majority of my time away from the office in countries all around Asia. ---- About Rickshaw ---- On a trip to Tokyo, I was shocked at how expensive taxis were. One of my taxis was over US$100, even though it did not seem particularly lengthy, and even really short trips were US$30+. I kept thinking that surely other people driving around would have been happy to provide the ride for an alternative price. I then thought of what is now Rickshaw, a mobile app where people who have a car and some free time can bid on rides in their community. Using Rickshaw, passengers can see the estimated cost of a local taxi company (which they can call if they want, right from the app) and compare it with different bids from nearby drivers. For example, a passenger in Chicago might see that a local taxi would cost $20, while Brian who has a 5 star rating and drives a 2007 BMW 330i is 6 minutes away and is offering the ride for $18. Meanwhile, Sarah who has a 4 star rating and drives a 2005 VW Passat is 4 minutes away and is offering the ride for $16. After accepting a bid, the passenger and driver can send messages, call, or track the GPS location of the other party, so they can figure out which of the 10 convention center exits they should actually meet at. Passengers can pay for the ride either with cash in person or online seamlessly through credit card. While I thought of it after taking a shockingly expensive taxi in Tokyo, Rickshaw offers value even in places like Guangzhou, China, where taxis are cheap, but often difficult to find, and where "black taxi" (unofficial taxi) drivers offer outrageous prices to passengers who are unaware of how much a local taxi actually costs. In a city like Guangzhou, you might see that a local taxi costs RMB 30.00, but you would feel very lucky if you could ever catch one on a rainy friday night. You might then see a bid for RMB 50.00. While the bid might actually be higher than the official (very low) price, at least on Rickshaw both driver and passenger are aware of the difference and the passenger can make his own informed decision. Rickshaw is now available on Android and iPhone and can be downloaded here: Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.... iPhone: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/rickshaw/id634023105?ls=1&amp;mt=8 At the moment, we are only supporting USD transactions, but we expect to roll out four additional languages (Spanish, French, German, Polish) as well as 21 additional currencies as soon as next week. Our entirely proprietary database of nearly 1,000 local taxi company pricing formulas covers North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. To find out more, take a look at our website: http://www.RickshawApp.com/ ---- My life since resigning ---- After resigning, I took a month of vacation to resettle myself and then relocated from Singapore to Hong Kong to join my girlfriend, who had already been living in HK for 2 years. Unexpectedly, I actually work longer hours now than I did when I was at Rothschild, but the feeling is totally different. The first thing I think about when I wake up, and the last thing I think about when I go to sleep is Rickshaw. When I take a shower, I think about Rickshaw. When am grocery shopping, I think about Rickshaw. I am constantly working. I work through the holidays and I work through weekends, but it doesn't feel like "work" because I am the one who is pushing myself and I am so keen to build a great product and user experience. For the rest of this piece head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
vimeoThe Mark Zuckerberg National Oil Drilling Refuge?If you want to get a feel for how American politics really works, as opposed to the way they tell you it works, look no further than what's going on behind the scenes at the new political action group started by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and dozens of other Silicon Valley tech leaders. This organization, FWD.us, describes itself as a nonpartisan entity dedicated to promoting immigration reform, education reform, and the "knowledge" economy. The knowledge economy, Mark Zuckerberg explained in a recent Washington Post editorial, is based on education and technology and is distinct from the old economy, which was based on natural resources (oil, gas, etc.) FWD.us is supported by a who's who of Silicon Valley elite, including: FWD.us Given that the current focus of FWD.us is "immigration reform" and promoting the knowledge economy, and given the general support of Silicon Valley for President Obama and environmental conservation, you would not expect FWD.us to be using its money to trash the President and promote Big Oil policies that many environmentalists abhor. But that's exactly what FWD.us is bankrolling. Josh Israel and Judd Legum of ThinkProgress reveal that FWD.us is funding ads that attack President Obama and Obamacare and promote the Keystone oil pipeline and drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge. For example, here's an ad produced by a FWD.us subsidiary called "Americans For A Conservative Direction." The ad supports Republican Senator Lindsey Graham (South Carolina) and praises him for supporting the Keystone Pipeline, trashing Obama and Obamacare, and dissing our current government as "Chicago-style politics" (another shot at Obama). The ad does not mention immigration reform.  FWD.us funds another subsidiary that supports Democrats ó "Council For American Side Of The Aisle." This subsidiary produced an ad celebrating Alaska Senator Mark Begich for advocating drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge, a sanctuary that many environmentalists say should be left untouched. This ad also does not mention immigration reform.  ThinkProgress concludes that what FWD.us is trying to do with these ads is buy support for immigration reform by greasing senators on both sides of the aisle. To get the support of these senators, FWD.us is funding the promotion of causes and people that Mark Zuckerberg, John Doerr, and many of its other backers may find appalling. The head of communications for FWD.us seems to agree with this assessment, telling ThinkProgress the following: ìFWD.us is committed to showing support for elected officials who promote the policy changes needed to build the knowledge economy. Maintaining two separate entities, Americans for a Conservative Direction &amp; the Council for American Job Growth, to support elected officials across the political spectrum ñ separately ñ means that we can more effectively communicate with targeted audiences of their constituents.î In other words, to get immigration reform, we need votes. And we'll say whatever we need to to get those votes. Welcome to American politics...
Robert Burns, To a Mouse, on Turning Her Up in Her Nest with the Plough It is a common trope in science fiction novels. Economic transactions are handled seamlessly with a wave of a card or a physically imbedded chip, and whatever the author imagines money to be is transferred, far removed from the archaic confines of ancient physical monies. If you Google "cashless society" you get about 600,000 references in under a second, and 20 pages into the references there are still articles on a future world where physical cash is no longer needed. Some see it as a sign of the "end times," some as a capitalist plot, some as a frightening vision of socialists and ever-bigger governments, and some as a logical step in the evolution of a technologically driven international commerce. And some of the "cashless society" references are showcase articles for the latest innovation that turns your phone or smart card into a functional wallet. I can attest it is quite possible to go for days without needing actual cash (as long as there are no kids around). The Bitcoin phenomenon (28 million sources on Google!) is a libertarian enthusiast's dream of not just a cashless society but a society with no need for fiat money and central banks. Today we'll look at research suggesting that cashless future might be farther off than we either fear or hope. Not only is a cashless society farther away than some think, we are actually seeing an increase in the use of cash all over the world (and this is not just a US phenomenon). We will look at some interesting factoids that in themselves make for thought-provoking discussions, but when we couple them with research on the rise of the unreported economy (aka the underground economy) and the number of people who get some form of government assistance, we may find problematic consequences resulting from hidden incentives that work in unintended ways. In a recent New Yorker article entitled, ìThe Underground Economy,î writer James Surowiecki explores the import of a study by University of Wisconsin economist and professor emeritus Edgar Feige, who for many years has done research on the amount of actual cash in the US. Feige has recently updated his work. What prompted me to follow up and then finally to discuss his work personally with a remarkably accessible Feige was his rather well-documented refutation of a common assertion I have long believed: that at least 2/3 of physical, printed US cash circulates outside the borders of the country. Indeed, you can find research on this topic at the San Francisco Fed and in serious economic journals, so this was not just some anecdotal belief I held from observing the impressively large number of dollars in use wherever I travel in the world. But no, this factoid was something "everyone" simply "knew." Well, everyone but a few people like Feige and evidently some people at the New York Fed. And we are not talking about a small difference between perception and reality here. Feige asserts convincingly that only 23% of physical US dollars are outside our borders. The difference is $400-500 billion, not a small sum. He vigorously (and I think conclusively) dissects the assumptions in the research that has generated and promoted the larger number. (You can read his 28-page paper here. Letís look at some of the more interesting parts of his research. (Emphasis mine, of course. This is an academic paper, after all, and polite academics do not use boldface for emphasis.) The rapid growth of substitutes for cash, particularly debit and credit cards, has led economists to predict the advent of the "cashless society". Yet cash holdings in most developed economies continue to grow and in the U.S., per capita currency holdings now amount to $3000. This paper revisits the long-standing controversy concerning the whereabouts of U.S. cash. Specifically, we employ a previously confidential data source on net shipments of U.S. currency abroad to re-estimate the fraction of U.S. currency held overseas. Contrary to the widely cited figure that 65 percent of U.S. currency is abroad, we now find that direct evidence supports the notion that overseas holdings amount to less than 25 percent. With domestic cash holdings amounting to roughly $2250 per capita, we are far from a "cashless society". He goes on to note, Currently, the official figure for the percent of U.S. currency held abroad as published by the Federal Reserve in their Flow of Funds Accounts and by the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the U.S. Balance of Payments Accounts is 39 percentÖ. To put these figures in perspective, they imply that the average Americanís bulging wallet holds roughly 91 pieces of U.S. paper currency, consisting of: 31 one dollar bills; 7 fives; 5 tens; 21 twenties; 4 fifties and 23 one hundred dollar bills. Few of us will recognize ourselves as "average" citizens. Clearly, these amounts of currency are not normally necessary for those of us simply wishing to make payments when neither credit/debit cards nor checks are accepted or convenient to use. Yet as shown in Figure 2, these surprisingly high U.S. per capita currency values were exceeded by per capita currency values for Europe ($3274); Hong Kong ($3963), Switzerland ($6335) and Japan ($7562). (Very odd factoids for those of us currently obsessed with all things Japanese. Not only do the Japanese have the largest per capita currency in circulation, but surveys tell us that the Japanese people only admit to holding about 10% of that cash. This is indeed, as Feige first noted in research in 1989(!), a "currency enigma." Sidebar question with no immediate answer: Cash is by definition deflationary, and Japan has problems with deflation Ö and now Kuroda-san is going to crank up the electronic printing presses? I will pose that one to Kyle Bass and Louis Gave, among others, next week. If the answer is interesting, I will report back.) As Feige noted, on average we are each holding 23 $100 bills. Wondering where your Ben Franklins are? Here, just for fun, is the new $100 bill, coming on October 8:  Interestingly, much of the cash outside the US is in $100 bills, so that may explain where some of the missing C-notes are. Hereís Feige: Even a cursory examination of the growth and magnitude of the U.S. currency supply in circulation with the public reveals that predictions of the advent of the "cashless society" are unfounded. Despite financial innovations giving rise to convenient substitutes for cash, per capita cash holdings continue to increase and by the end of 2011, amounted to $3000 for every man woman and child residing in the U.S. While this figure does not comport with our common sense notion of how many dollars the average person holds in her wallet, we show that Europeans and Japanese citizens hold even larger amounts of cash. Two explanations are offered for these large cash holdings. The first posits that a large fraction of U.S. currency is held abroad, the second that large amounts of cash are employed to undertake transactions that individuals and firms prefer to hide from the government either to avoid taxes, regulations or punishment for illegal activities. Professor Feige soundly refutes the first theory. The second one is what is interesting here: there is a rather large cash economy in the US. The above-referenced article by Surowiecki in The New Yorker was actually about another piece of research by Feige on the "underground economy." (Feige is at least in his mid-70s and is clearly still quite active for one with "emeritus" in his title. He has one very impressive, yea, intimidating resumÈ, with 80 publications to his credit. His first book was published 50 years ago, and he has been called "the father of underground economy analysis.") In my conversation with him, Feige made it clear that he thinks it should be called the "unreported" rather than the "underground" economy. By whatever name, that economy apparently totals about $2 trillion a year in the US. And the "lost" tax revenue is in the neighborhood of $400 billion a year. That amount is downright puzzling if the cash in US circulation is only $250 billion (as would be indicated if 65% of US dollars really were outside the country). That would be pretty high velocity (the number of times money moves from one hand to another). But if cash is actually $750 billion, then that velocity becomes not so remarkable at all. Surowiecki writes: The percentage of Americans who donít use banks is surprisingly high, and on the rise. Off-the-books activity also helps explain a mystery about the current economy: even though the percentage of Americans officially working has dropped dramatically, and even though household income is still well below what it was in 2007, personal consumption is higher than it was before the recession, and retail sales have been growing briskly (despite a dip in March). Bernard Baumohl, an economist at the Economic Outlook Group, estimates that, based on historical patterns, current retail sales are actually what youíd expect if the unemployment rate were around five or six per cent, rather than the 7.6 per cent weíre stuck with. The difference, he argues, probably reflects workers migrating into the shadow economy. "Itís typical that during recessions people work on the side while collecting unemployment," Baumohl told me. "But the severity of the recession and the profound weakness of this recovery may mean that a lot more people have entered the underground economy, and have had to stay there longer."Ö The U.S. is certainly a long way from, say, Greece, where tax evasion is a national sport and the shadow economy accounts for twenty-seven per cent of G.D.P. But the forces pushing people to work off the books are powerful. Feige points to the growing distrust of government as one important factor. The desire to avoid licensing regulations, which force people to jump through elaborate hoops just to get a job, is another. Most important, perhaps, are changes in the way we work. As Baumohl put it, "For businesses, the calculus of hiring has fundamentally changed." Companies have got used to bringing people on as needed and then dropping them when the job is over, and they save on benefits and payroll taxes by treating even full-time employees as independent contractors. Casual employment often becomes under-the-table work; the arrangement has become a way of life in the construction industry. In a recent California survey of three hundred thousand contractors, two-thirds said they had no direct employees, meaning that they did not need to pay workersí-compensation insurance or payroll taxes. In other words, for lots of people off-the-books work is the only job available. J.D. Tuccille, over at Reason.com, responds to the New Yorker article with an interesting analysis pointing to tax rates as the issue, among other things: Surowiecki bemoans the "damaging effects of this trend," but he should pay more attention to the damaging taxes and regulations that caused this trend by pushing people to work off the books. People aren't depriving themselves of legal recourse and traditional benefits because it's suddenly hip to do so ñ they're hiding in the shadows because red tape and taxes are strangling the legal economy. These are concerns. People respond to personal incentives. If the incentive to make their life better in the short term is to work off the books ñ and that is the basic choice ñ then that is what they will do. But that is not where I want to go with this discussion today. Letís focus on another incentive to move out of the reported economy. I think almost everyone participates in the unreported economy in one way or another. Do you tip a waiter or waitress? Pay cash for taxis or tip the bellman at the hotel? The baggage guys at the airport? The guys who do your lawn? Even if you write checks for a service, does that mean that income is reported? I and most other businesspeople try to pay for everything that is a business deduction with a credit card. That can be tricky during IRS audits, but it is just easier than keeping receipts and documenting expenses when you get homeand then trying to add up your cash payments. And you can use a credit card or cash card without problems almost everywhere. (When I travel outside the US, I am sometimes frowned at if I try to use a credit card. Singapore? No problem. Across much of Europe a credit card is not an issue, but cash is clearly appreciated. Then again, there was the time I wrote about last January, when I tried to use a credit card at a taverna off the tourist paths in Greece, and they had to hunt for their credit card machine and it didnít work after they found it. And gods forbid you try and use a credit card in Argentina. My point is that the unreported economy is hardly just a US phenomenon.) But there is a part of US society where unreported income is a particular problem, due to unintended consequences of poorly designed incentives. That is the segment of the country on welfare. Let me note up front that this is not an argument for or against welfare or helping the poor and needy. I am just noting the large cash economy and offering another reason why it might be as large as it is: misaligned incentives. In the last few months, conservative news outlets cited a Republican Congressional survey that shows that welfare is about $1 trillion of the US budget, or $168 per day for those below the poverty line. When you dig into the data, you find that a very loose definition of "welfare" was employed, one that most Americans would not use for many of the programs the survey lists. It might argued that the money in question should not be spent, but the survey does not pass the smell test in identifying actual welfare. According to the†Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, even when one uses a very expansive definition of "welfare," only "13 percent of the federal budget in 2011, or $466 billion, went to support programs that provide aid (other than health insurance or Social Security benefits) to individuals and families facing hardship." (Informationclearinghouse.info) The St. Louis Federal Reserve database shows an even smaller welfare number, at $273 billion (chart below), but you can add about $140 billion at the state level and that gets you closer to the $466 billion mentioned above. That is still a large number per day per family below the poverty line. But let me hasten to add that is NOT what an actual recipient gets; it is just the budgeted cost, which includes what it takes to run the government offices and pay welfare workers.  Letís look at a few quick statistics, which taken out of context can be misleading, so donít be misled or assume that I am. The total number of people on welfare is† about 4,300,000. The total number of people getting food stamps (the SNAP program) is 46,700,000. We just saw a new high for the number of families on food stamps:  In Texas if, as a single mother of two or three kids, you can figure out how to qualify for every type of assistance available, you can amass get the princely sum of about $980 a month (plus some healthcare). Other states are more generous. The popular meme is that 40 states pay more than $8 an hour to those on welfare, with seven paying more than $12 an hour. But if you work and make more than $1,000 a month (more or less, depending on the state) you will not likely qualify for welfare. The more you make the less you can get, until at some point you do not qualify at all. The theory is that benefits should decrease as your work income increases. (Source for some data: http://www.statisticbrain.com/welfare-statistics/) Of course, there is the earned income tax credit (EITC), which is phased out once income reaches certain levels. To qualify for that, of course, you need to actually earn income. And WIC, housing subsidies, Medicaid, and other programs exist. (And we will not even get into disability payments. We have recently seen the number of people on disability rise faster than the number of people going back to work. Can a child or other member of a family get disability and another get welfare? Yes, the system can be gamed. Different letter.) The following chart is from the generally liberal Urban Institute. Note that the maximum amount of total benefits is received by those who have the lowest levels of income, which makes a certain sort of sense. This chart is for a single parent in Colorado, a state that is middle of the road as far as benefits go. Benefits are considerably lower in Mississippi and far higher in Massachusetts and Alaska.  I am not arguing either for or against the level of payments or costs or the rationale for any particular program here. Different issue, different day. No matter where you live, with few exceptions, being on welfare is not a pleasant lifestyle. Neither is living on $10 an hour, much less on minimum wage. The point is that people on welfare have a clear need for more money than they get from whatever government check they receive. For most people, welfare is a temporary assistance program to help them out between jobs. But in the last decade, and especially in the five years since the beginning of the Great Recession, the welfare and disability rolls have simply exploded. The clear incentive, it seems to me, is to work for extra cash in the unreported economy. If as a single working parent you make $10 an hour in the reported economy, you are going to lose most if not all of your welfare benefits (depending on the state); while if you work in the unreported economy, you keep your benefits. You can view this situation several ways. For instance, perhaps the EITC should be higher, as in, the more you make the more you keep. If you have a skill that pays you $20-30 an hour (closer to the median family income pay level) you are better off keeping the job and staying off welfare. But if you are minimum-wage labor or not far above it, the equation works out better if you work off the books for that extra income. Is everyone on welfare working in the unreported economy? I would not suggest that for a minute. Obviously, they aren't. While acknowledging that correlation is not causation, the parallel growth of the underground economy and the welfare rolls seem to me to be not entirely unrelated. The natural incentives are clearly there. What worries me most is that we are creating a generation of people who are getting used to working off the books, whether or not they are on welfare. They are outside the system and will come to see themselves as not being part of it. It becomes something "other" ñ except when they want medical care, which, with the advent of Obamacare, will now be available them even if they work in the unreported economy. None of our kids, yours or mine, believe Social Security will be there for them when they retire. No need to be in the system for that. There is a lot of controversial work in the economics profession, but I think pretty much everyone agrees that people respond to incentives. I wonder what message we are sending? Next Monday I leave for Carlsbad and my conference, which starts on Wednesday evening; but there are lots of meetings and other things to attend to beforehand. Monday I will go to the Altegris office, where there is a lot to discuss, and then I'll meet with Jon Sundt and the other partners that night. The next day will see my Mauldin Economics staff show up for a long day of planning, as we try to deal with our rapid expansion. And then when the meetings are over and the conference starts up, I get to enjoy again one of my favorite times of the year, when I get to see so many friends and have so many awesome conversations. I personally wish I could make it last for a week or more, as there is just not enough time to spend with everyone. But we take what we can get and savor it. After the conference I'll be home for a bit before I make my way to Tulsa, where my daughter Abigail will get married May 19. (Her twin sister Amanda is doing fine with one-month-old daughter Addison!) Later that week I'll fly to Nashville for a night, to speak at a meeting for Altegris, before returning to Dallas to write my letter and then head for Brussels for a week. I am working on so many writing projects, plus my speech for next week, that I am quite busy. And there are just so many interesting things I come across that seem to demand my attention, not the least of which is working on the new-apartment design and contracting. But of course, we actually have to close the loans and make the purchase first. It seems like it takes forever, which is exactly what everyone told me to expect. I am still "Homeless in Dallas," living in an extended-stay hotel. I donít want to rent a temporary apartment until the new place actually closes, so that I can finesse the timing of everything. Therefore, most of my worldly possessions are in storage. It is an interesting experience, as I am finding out that I need far less than I have, and I'm sure I could cut even more. The important things, it seems, are the phone and computer, which are my lifelines to my kids and other family and friends and work. Those two possessions go with me everywhere. And with the new technology in hand, I am finding it easier to enjoy myself wherever I am ñ and to anticipate the next moment as well. Yes, there are always issues. Kids come with issues galore, and there are always things in the businesses that need tending to. Expenses pile up to more than I like. As do writing deadlines. And now I have to put up with a lack of air traffic controllers and a balky FAA. There is no end of things I could dwell on and stress over, if I wanted to. There are also a lot of Big Things to worry about in this world of ours, but with an abundance of family and friends, the Small Things seem to work out just fine. You have a great week! Your living in the moment analyst, John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com
CBOThe Economist's U.S. editor Greg Ip directs us to this comprehensive slideshow from CBO director Doug Elmendorf on the state of the federal budget. It jibes nicely with a presentation we published earlier Friday from the BEA on misconceptions about the economy.¬† Elmendorf breaks down federal spending's sources and destinations, then discusses different paths the budget could take depending on whether House Republicans or Senate Democrats get their way. Although he emphasizes the CBO does not advise on policy, he repeatedly stresses the dangers of failing to get a handle on our growing debt.
Flickr/Mark LevinTech guru Robert Scoble just "demoed" Google's computerized glasses, Google Glass, for two weeks. His thoughts are below. This week I gave five speeches while wearing it. I passed through airports four times (two more in a couple of hours). I let hundreds of people try my Google Glass. I have barely taken it off since getting it other than to sleep.Here's my review after having Google Glass for two weeks:1. I will never live a day of my life from now on without it (or a competitor). It's that significant.† 2. The success of this totally depends on price. Each audience I asked at the end of my presentations "who would buy this?" As the price got down to $200 literally every hand went up. At $500 a few hands went up. This was consistent, whether talking with students, or more mainstream, older audiences. 3. Nearly everyone had an emotional outburst of "wow" or "amazing" or "that's crazy" or "stunning."† 4. At NextWeb 50 people surrounded me and wouldn't let me leave until they had a chance at trying them. I haven't seen that kind of product angst at a conference for a while. This happened to me all week long, it is just crazy. 5. Most of the privacy concerns I had before coming to Germany just didn't show up. I was shocked by how few negative reactions I got (only one, where an audience member said he wouldn't talk to me with them on). Funny, someone asked me to try them in a bathroom (I had them aimed up at that time and refused). 6. There is a total generational gap that I found. The older people said they would use them, probably, but were far more skeptical, or, at minimum, less passionate about the fact that these are the future, than the 13-21-year-olds I met.So, let's cover the price, first of all. I bet that†+Larry Page†is considering two price points: something around $500, which would be very profitable. Or $200, which is about what the bill of materials costs. When you tear apart the†glasses, like someone else did (I posted that to my Flipboard "Glasshole" magazine) you see a bunch of parts that aren't expensive. This has been designed for mass production. In other words, millions of units. The only way Google will get there is to price them under $300.I wouldn't be shocked if Larry went very aggressive and priced them at $200. Why would Google do this?†Easy: I'm now extremely addicted to Google services. My photos and videos automatically upload to Google+. Adding other services will soon be possible (I just got a Twitter photo app that is being developed by a third party) but turning on automatic uploads to other services will kill my batteries on both my phone and my glasses (which doesn't have much battery life anyway). So, I'm going to be resistant to adding Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Evernote, and Tumblr to my glasses. Especially when Google+ works darn well and is the default.†Also, Google is forbidding advertising in apps. This is a HUGE shift for Google's business model. I believe Larry Page is moving Google from an advertising-based company to a commerce based company.The first thing I tried that it failed on was "find me a Sushi restaurant." I'm sure that will get fixed soon and, Google could collect a micropayment anytime I complete a transaction like reserving a seat at a restaurant, or getting a book delivered to my house, or, telling something like Bloomingdales "get me these jeans."†There is literally billions of dollars to be made with this new commerce-based system, rather than force us to sit and look at ads, the way Facebook and tons of other services do.When you wear these glasses for two weeks you get the affordance is totally different and that having these on opens you up to a new commerce world. Why?1. They are much more social than looking at a cell phone. Why? I don't need to look away from you to use Google, or get directions, or do other things. 2. The voice works and works with nearly every one and in every situation. It's the first product that literally everyone could use it with voice. It's actually quite amazing, even though I know that the magic is that it expects to hear only a small number of things. "OK Glass, Take a Picture" works. "OK Glass, Take a Photo" doesn't. The Glass is forcing your voice commands to be a certain set of commands and no others will be considered. This makes accuracy crazy high, even if you have an accent.I continue to be amazed with the camera. It totally changes photography and video. Why? I can capture moments. I counted how many seconds it takes to get my smartphone out of my pocket, open it up, find the camera app, wait for it to load, and then take a photo. Six to 12 seconds. With Google Glass? Less than one second. Every time. And I can use it without having hands free, like if I'm carrying groceries in from the car and my kids are doing something cute.†I've been telling people that this reminds me of the Apple II, which I unboxed with my dad back in 1977. It was expensive. It didn't do much. But I knew my life had changed in a big way and would just get better and better. Already this week I've gotten a new RSS app, the New York Times App, and a Twitter app. With many more on the way.This is the most interesting new product since the iPhone and I don't say that lightly.Yeah, we could say the camera isn't good in low light. We could say it doesn't have enough utility. It looks dorky. It freaks some people out (it's new, that will go away once they are in the market).†But I don't care. This has changed my life. I will never live a day without it on.†It is that significant.†Now, Larry, find a way to make it $200 and you'll have a major hit on your hands. Click here to see 23 pictures Scoble took with Google Glass &gt;
The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, with a population of just over half a million, smaller even than the other speck in the Eurozone, the Republic of Cyprus, ranks in the top three worldwide in per-capita GDP. In a Eurozone wealth survey, it had the highest average household wealth ‚Äì ‚Ç¨710,100. Only Cyprus, a former off-shore banking center in the Eurozone, came close. Yet Luxembourg is threatened with ruin. It has 141 banks ‚Äì bank companies, not ATMs. One bank per 3,808 people. Most of them do private banking. The financial sector added 38% to GDP in 2010 and contributed 30% to the country‚Äôs tax revenues, according to the Luxembourg Bankers‚Äô Association (ABBL). All due to bank secrecy and tax laws. But suddenly, after Cyprus had been massacred, Luxembourg buckled. With the big German guns, and the smaller guns from other nations, swinging in its direction, Luxembourg agreed to participate in an international automatic data-sharing arrangement that would send banking data of foreign clients to their countries, starting in 2015. Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, somewhat defensively, proclaimed that lifting bank secrecy wasn‚Äôt such a big deal, that Luxembourg didn‚Äôt live from tax evasion. For the banks, the ‚Äúlights won‚Äôt go out in 2015,‚Äù he said. During the entire Eurozone bailout debacle that he presided over until February as President of the Eurogroup, he‚Äôd proven to be time and again an inveterate optimist. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs expected that only 60 to 70 banks will survive in the coming years,‚Äù declared Alain Steichen, a prominent Luxembourgian tax lawyer, at a conference about the consequences of the data-sharing agreement. He should know. Per his online profile, he ‚Äúassisted Thomson in the merger acquisition of Reuters in order to form Thomson Reuters, with the group‚Äôs main holding location being Luxembourg.‚Äù He also ‚Äúassisted Chase Manhattan in the merger acquisition of JP Morgan in order to form their main holding company in Luxembourg.‚Äù Yup, there are a lot of benefits to doing business through Luxembourg. Combine bank secrecy with nominee corporations to get a particularly juicy cocktail. An entire industry of ‚Äúfiduciaries‚Äù has formed around the banks for that purpose. These accounting, audit, and law firms set up and maintain tax-advantaged nominee corporations, the infamous mailbox companies, whose directors and top executives are principals of the fiduciary firm. The client and the source of money remain anonymous to the outside world. A perfect setup for money laundering. Because the bank is doing business with a Luxembourg mailbox company, not a foreigner, and because the signatories are pillars of Luxembourg‚Äôs society, the setup is impervious to the automatic data-sharing arrangement. But now mailbox companies too are under attack, not only in Europe, but also in the US Congress. ‚ÄúI expect a serious change of the banking landscape because there will be customer withdrawals,‚Äù Alain Steichen explained. Some banks, he said, ‚Äúwould lose the critical mass needed to survive.‚Äù The private banks he was talking about managed ‚Ç¨300 billion in assets, generated ‚Ç¨3.14 billion in revenues, and contributed ‚Ç¨503 million in taxes, according to the ABBL. They employ over 10,000 people directly and indirectly. Of the assets under management, 19% are from Luxembourg, the rest from other countries. Half of that system would disappear; the survivors would have to shrink. ‚ÄúA large part of the clients of the Luxembourgian banks have undeclared money,‚Äù Steichen pointed out. They wouldn‚Äôt have a lot of options other than closing their accounts in Luxembourg, he said. They might repatriate their funds ‚Äì and pay fees, taxes, and penalties ‚Äì or transfer their funds to Singapore, Monaco, or other murky banking centers. Either way, these assets would leave Luxembourg. Their power to generate income, jobs, and tax revenues would evaporate. This ‚Äúundeclared money‚Äù has been called ‚Äúblack money‚Äù in the battle over Cyprus, much of it from Russians. Northern Europe revolted against bailing out mailbox companies and their black-money bank accounts. While they were at it, Northern Europe, including France in this case, shut down the whole offshore machine, crippled the Cypriot economy, smashed its largest source of income and wealth, and demolished its business model. Encouraged by success, Northern Europe, now including the UK, swiveled its guns in direction of Luxembourg. Luxembourg was horrified. There were too many parallels between it and Cyprus ‚Äì the mailbox companies, foreign black money, a bloated financial sector, high household wealth.... It was the era of austerity when pensions, wages, and social services were on the chopping block in other countries. Taxes were being jacked up, as in France, to an absurd degree. Belts were being tightened around the poor. So, tax evasion by the rich and not so rich has become an obvious target. Governments would crack down, not on their own tax dodgers, but more conveniently on countries whose business it was to help them. With 38% of GDP depending on the financial sector, Luxembourg could not risk a sudden ‚Äútransition‚Äù to a new business model, √† la Cyprus. Some of the banks could collapse in the process. It would cause a depression and shred the country‚Äôs wealth. Instead, Luxembourg would cooperate, in return for a gradual transition, some loopholes, and a little wiggle room, knowing that the good times were over, and that on the other end of the spectrum, there‚Äôd be the Cypriot scenario. Austerity in Spain succeeded in trimming the bloated government sector. But instead of picking up the slack, the private sector destroyed jobs almost four times faster! The hope is that this fiasco will finally reverse course, that something will click and start a virtuous cycle before the unspeakable happens. But so far, it has relentlessly gotten worse. Read.... The Spanish Unemployment Powder¬†Keg
ìI am certain that you will find this helpful.î†As an investor, you are barraged with risk ñ economic risks, personal biases, companies over-stating results, and rapidly shifting trends are just a small sampling of obstacles we all face. I believe another risk has recently emerged and coupled with technology and media advances, is a dangerous investing risk you need to have on your radar.† What is this risk you ask? Inflation? The Dollar? Japanese Central Bank intervention? The next Cyprus?†Those may all be risks but this subtlety emerging risk is an expanding bubble in certainty. Certainty? Certainly. As trends become more pronounced, and especially as they extend in duration, certainty levels have levitated to amazing levels. It wasnít enough to merely caution investors about bond market risks in December of 2012 ñ statements then warning debt investors expressed a certainty that bonds were indeed a bubble and that interest rates had to rise. Apple (AAPL) closing in on $700 last fall elicited analysts calling for even more gains, and cavalier calls for certain $1000+ per share price targets to be quickly met. I could go on, but if you follow the markets closely, you likely see increasing examples of this everyday (saying nothing regarding an explosion in hindsight certainty). Certainty has recently swirled around the concept that investors have no alternative but to be invested in stocks and that every dip should be bought. Itís also reared its head in commentators pronouncing the definite end to the gold marketís bull-run (interestingly, replacing a certainty that gold prices had nowhere to go but up). Investment comments and analysis which usually has been represented as opinions, thoughts, or probable outcomes, has somehow experienced a metamorphosis from what is likely to occur into what will occur. Certainty is the new consensus. A number of reasons likely explain this recent phenomenon. First of all, there has been an unprecedented explosion in content and providers of content. This content expansion has subsequently led to an increase in sensationalistic content as merely expressing possibilities has become passÈ and an obstacle to viewership gains or page views. Content growth, coupled with technology advances and media accessibility has also given investors an ‡ la carte ability to pick and choose mediums especially opinion-confirming sources. It appears the more we are faced with uncertainty, the more we are wired to desire binary answers and absolutes , and to gain comfort from quantitative answers at times when our environment is far from certain. As investors stare at the super-market shelves of investment commentary, we seem to be demanding certainty and immediate answers. Hence, financial television with 30-second countdown clocks quickly deciphering a multi-national corporationís prospects into a simple BUY or SELL! This can be very dangerous to you as an investor in many ways ñ it leads to overconfidence in what outcomes are likely, it can keep you from assessing current risks while wearing those blinders of certainty, and it can lead to longer-term frustrations as results that were certain to occur end up drastically different than advertised. What to do? Embrace uncertainty. Remember that investing can be an incredibly difficult process at times. Learn from investors who have been battle-tested, try to gather information from those who understand and respect how quickly markets can humble investors, and try to maintain looks over your shoulder at what might go wrong, instead of settling for assurances of what is certain to happen. We live in a very uncertain time. It was Ben Franklin that wrote, ìbut in the world nothing can be said to be certain except death and taxes.î That is commentary that has lasted 224 years. Heart Capital does not offer investment advice via this medium. Under no†circumstance whatsoever do these postings, opinions, charts, or any other†information represent a recommendation or personalized investment, tax, or†financial planning advice. Twitter:†@heartcapital† and †@seeitmarket Any opinions expressed herein are solely those of the author, and do not in any way represent the views or opinions of any other person or entity.
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderFracking, a process in which fluid is pumped into oil and gas wells to increase their productivity,¬†remains mysterious and controversial. It involves a lot of weird, arcane equipment.¬† You can't see it happening (since it occurs underground). And it has developed an air of danger around it. There is evidence it has contaminated water;¬†that spent frack fluid injected into the ground causes earthquakes, and that spilled wastewater has¬†neutered farm animals, though the industry vigorously disputes this.¬†If you've been affected by it, you're sometimes not allowed to talk about it. At the same time, the increased use of fracking has massively increased U.S. energy production. Oil imports are plummeting. The shale boom has¬†boosted employment. It's reducing energy costs. And many people are convinced the U.S. will soon become energy independent. We've also argued it helped President Obama get reelected.¬† And some say it's actually helping the environment by reducing emissions.¬† Houston-based Cabot Oil and Gas recently agreed to give us a tour of their main outpost in Northeast Pennsylvania, in a sweet spot of the gas-rich Marcellus Shale formation, to see fracking up close.¬†
