BEIJING (AP) ó Operations formally kicked off Sunday at a new free trade zone in Shanghai that China's government has billed as a major step for financial reforms and economic experimentation, but significant changes look to be years away. State media reported that a first batch of 25 Chinese and foreign companies were granted licenses to register in the zone. Eleven financial institutions, including Citibank and Singapore's DBS, were also cleared to operate in the zone. The China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone is a nearly 29-square-kilometer (11-square-mile) district that covers four existing special trade zones in Pudong district, including one at the airport. China's State Council formally announced rules for the new free trade zone on Friday. They outline goals to upgrade financial services, promote trade and improve governance as well as measures to encourage foreign investment in 18 sectors in the country's tightly regulated service industry. There are also plans to experiment with the convertibility of China's tightly controlled currency, the yuan, on the capital account and let market forces rather than regulators set interest rates. The zone is expected to serve as a laboratory for such financial experiments before they are rolled out elsewhere in China. No timeline was given for any changes, but rules in the zone will be introduced over a three-year period, according to the announcement. At a ceremony marking its opening, Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng said the government hoped the zone would act as "an experimental field to conduct economic reform" and promote economic development nationwide. The Shanghai zone has been touted as the most important attempt at economic reform since the establishment of the country's first special economic zone in 1980 in Shenzhen, next door to Hong Kong. That zone allowed in foreign investment aimed at harnessing cheap labor to build a manufacturing industry that became a driving force in helping China eventually become the world's second-biggest economy. The government has pledged to open up 18 service industry sectors to foreign investment, including shipping, law and engineering. Foreign-owned performing arts agencies and medical institutions will be allowed. The sale of video game consoles, which is banned in China, will also be allowed, pending approval from authorities of individual games and systems. Another initiative will permit foreigners to set up joint venture talent management agencies with local partners. The rules say the opening-up measures will be applicable to companies that are registered in the zone. Foreign companies will also be allowed to provide some Internet services, though the official Xinhua News Agency reported before the launch that Internet restrictions would not be lifted, following a report by a Hong Kong newspaper that banned websites such as Facebook would be unblocked inside the zone. Dai Haibo, deputy secretary general of Shanghai's government and vice-director of the zone's management committee, said it would take three years to determine whether the zone's rules and system were effective. After three years, the country will build on the experience gleaned from the Shanghai free trade zone and there may be further reform goals, he told a news conference following the official opening ceremony. Wei Yao, a China economist at Societe Generale, said in a research note that setting up the zone in Shanghai, a city of "great strategic importance," was a clear sign that policymakers wanted to push for fast economic liberalization. "The framework that is shaping up looks rather promising, although details of most measures are to be put in place over the course of six months to a year," she wrote. "Like all previous economic experiments, this project is going to be a work in progress, subject to constant refinement." ___ Chan reported from Hong Kong. AP researcher Henry Hou in Beijing contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaChina HSBC PMI came in at 50.2 in September. This missed expectations for 51.2, and is below the Flash PMI reading of 51.2. Manufacturing barely nudged higher from a reading of 50.1 in August. The report showed "new business from overseas increased for the first time in six months (albeit marginally), with panellists citing stronger demand from client bases in Europe and the US." HSBC Flash PMI out earlier this month, jumped to 51.2 in September, with a broad based improvement in manufacturing. There was a noticeable improvement in new export orders. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. "The September HSBC China Manufacturing PMI edged up slightly from August. New orders remained flat from the previous month, while external demand improved,"¬†said HSBC China chief economist, Hongbin Qu, in a press release. "Manufacturers restocking process continued but remained relatively slow. Growth is bottoming out on Beijing‚Äôs mini-stimulus. We expect continuous policy efforts to sustain the recovery." The recent strength in the industrial¬† production data is also positive for manufacturing. And an improvement in both the HSBC and official PMI numbers (the latter due on Tuesday) will add to signs that China's economy is stabilizing. Here's a look at the trajectory of HSBC PMI: Societe Generale
Well, it's finally happened. The reality of the three government crises (budget and debt ceiling in the US, governmental collapse in Italy) is hitting home. And markets are finally feeling it. Over the weekend, the US Congress failed to agree on a budget, and the Italian government lurched towards collapse, as Berlusconi's party said it was withdrawing from the coalition. US futures are sharply in the red with Dow futures off 100 points. Here's a look at the Dow futures drop from FinViz: FinViz Meanwhile, Japan is really taking it on the chin. The Nikkei is off nearly 2%. FinViz And dollar-yen is back below 98, as the yen surges thanks to its role as a safe-haven. Nikkei.com ¬† For more on what's going on this weekend, see here.
Wikimedia CommonsJapanese manufacturing PMI hit 52.5, the highest reading since February 2011. That's up from 52.2 in August. The rate of new order growth hit a 40-month high, and backlogs climbed at their fastest pace since April 2006. Employment was little changed for the second month in a row. Later tonight, HSBC will provide Chinese manufacturing PMI. Don't miss our Sam Ro's breakdown of this week's market-moving events. Meanwhile, click here for the full rundown of PMI data during October ¬ª
While we often rode on the short side of the precious metals train over the past few years, we always kept a close eye on their lagging miners. Historically speaking, their scorecard didn't add up: they¬†(collectively) never had their day in the sun.¬† While in the end they failed to shake our downtrodden perspective, their poor relative performance did stand out as an outlier and ultimately a surprising possibility that their best days may yet have come for the cycle.¬† Certainly there were some bright spots along the way, but for most producers that should have benefited from gold and silver's appreciable year-over-year gains since September 2000 - the typical leveraged advantages of holding the miners never materialized. For example, whereas gold has returned around 400% since September 2000 - the HUI Gold Bugs Index returned ~ 377%, the AMEX Gold Miners Index ~ 213% and the XAU Gold and Silver Index a mere ~92%. ¬† Why? Fundamentally speaking, there are several contributing factors - but for us it primarily boiled down to these three: The good news for investors today is that most of these heavy chains are being unburdened, thanks in large part to the gun the bear market brought to the producers heads this summer - and a bifurcation in performance in the commodity market that should relieve some cost pressures and differentials going forward. Just one month after gold and silver prices capitulated at the end of June, large producers caved en masse and forked up write-downs of approximately¬†$25 billion.¬†Producers were caught off guard with the sudden fear - either tighten their fiscal house or risk a coronary in the market. Consequently, no stone was left unturned as valuations on current and future projects were reduced, discretionary expenses trimmed and even dividends cut. For the big boys it was diet now - or die a day later. Erik Swarts/Market AnthropologyFor some perspective, this was in stark contrast to a year before where many otherwise¬†savvy¬†value investors were falsely enticed by the sharp correction in mining shares and perceived cheap valuations relative to spot prices. The general sentiment at the time was that valuations had overshot on the downside, but were likely just testing the crisis lows from 2008. With Big Ben and company still ramping QE, downside seemed limited - what could go wrong? Unfortunately, most didn't realize how much further spot prices could fall despite the abundant monetary elixirs and what would happen if the relative valuation lows from 2008 were broken.¬†The calculus for us back then was pretty simple. Spot prices likely had much further to fall and if valuations broke the 2008 lows, cheap would get a whole lot cheaper - and fast.¬† ______________ ______________ Erik Swarts/Market AnthropologyTo help guide our downside expectations, we began contrasting the breakdown the financials made at the tail end of 2008 and early 2009, where on a relative value basis they broke the previous crisis lows set in 1990 and 2000.¬†Simply based on the divergent¬†momentum structure in the comparison and the downside catalyst a breakdown could add, we felt confident early in the year that the miners still had a very long way to fall. As so often the case in the market, the thesis of the earlier vintage of value investors was sound - but their timing was off. From our perspective, they had the right idea that in the summer of 2012 the sector was in the process of retesting the crisis lows - but failed to estimate downside momentum of spot prices and the significant risks those conditions would impart on the miners valuations going forward.¬† From a comparative perspective it has been the inverse of the value trap the financials became throughout 2008, whereas, the crisis lows caused a near death experience to valuations in the banking sector - the secondary lows in this operating environment brought the precious metals sector to their knees. This is illustrated in the ratio charts and performance series below. Erik Swarts/Market AnthropologyErik Swarts/Market AnthropologyErik Swarts/Market AnthropologyErik Swarts/Market AnthropologyErik Swarts/Market AnthropologyErik Swarts/Market Anthropology From a purely psychological perspective we have found the 2011-2012 BKX comparative closest to the mark for the miners - in a market environment heightened with uncertainty as the sector adds to and tests the traumas from the 2008 crisis. Erik Swarts/Market Anthropology While the comparative crisis low in the financials was a great benchmark on the way down, the miners have diverged over the past month from the V shaped bottom - so often found with a panic low. ¬† Erik Swarts/Market Anthropology Even on a relative performance basis, the retest by the financials in 2011 fits the character of the precious metals sector today - fear - of a higher power.¬† Erik Swarts/Market Anthropology Erik Swarts/Market Anthropology For further explanation of the rationale behind these charts - see: ______________________ *¬† All stock chart data originally sourced and courtesy of¬†www.stockcharts.com¬† *¬†¬†Subsequent overlays and renderings completed by¬†Market Anthropology
screengrab from ABCDALLAS (AP) ‚Äî With the Dallas Mavericks' season-opening game still a month away, the basketball team's outspoken owner, Mark Cuban, will be seeing a different kind of court this week. The government's insider-trading case against Cuban goes to trial Monday in federal court in Dallas. Cuban is expected to testify, and experts say the verdict could come down to whether jurors find the billionaire and regular on the ABC reality show "Shark Tank" to be likable or smug. Cuban is accused of using insider information to dump his stock in a small Internet-search company in 2004 just before the shares fell in value. He avoided $750,000 in losses. The Securities and Exchange Commission wants Cuban to give up the money and pay a civil penalty. The SEC's key piece of evidence is a phone call between Cuban and the CEO of Mamma.com. According to the SEC, the CEO told Cuban he had confidential information to share and Cuban agreed to keep it to himself. When the CEO said the company planned an offering of new stock, the SEC alleges, Cuban became angry because the offering would reduce the value of his 600,000 shares ‚Äî and there was nothing he could do about it. "Well now I'm screwed. I can't sell," Cuban said, according to the SEC. But over the following two days, that's exactly what Cuban did, unloading his shares before the company publicly announced the stock offering. Cuban disputes the SEC's version of the facts, and his lawyers argue that insider-trading laws didn't prohibit him from selling his shares. U.S. District Judge Sidney Fitzwater agreed and dismissed the lawsuit in 2009, but his ruling was overturned by an appeals court, which sent the case back to Fitzwater for trial. James Meyers, a former enforcement attorney at the SEC now in private practice in Washington, said that insider-trading cases are hard to prove because they rely on circumstantial evidence ‚Äî a phone call, a stock trade, and a presumed link between the two ‚Äî and because some jurors don't believe there's anything wrong with insider trading. Cuban is expected to testify. "A lot of it will come down to how Cuban comes across," Meyers said. He said that if he were Cuban's lawyer, "I would tell him to come across as humble and affable and not as master of the universe." Sports Illustrated listed Cuban among the 50 most powerful people in sports. He's known for building the Mavericks into a winner and drawing at least $1.5 million in league fines, mostly for berating referees. When the SEC sued Cuban in 2008, he went after the regulators. He accused SEC staff of bias ‚Äî targeting him because of his political views and wealth. The SEC's inspector general, a government watchdog, said staffers made inappropriate comments about Cuban, but judged that their conduct didn't affect handling of the case. James Cox, a law professor at Duke University who specializes in securities law, predicted that the SEC will win and said that Cuban should have settled. The stakes are high for the SEC too, he said. If the agency loses at trial, it might hesitate before filing the next insider-trading lawsuit. The SEC has some recent victories, including an August verdict against a former Goldman Sachs trader for misleading investors in a huge deal involving risky mortgage-backed securities. But the agency could use a high-profile win in Dallas. The regulator has taken years of pounding for failing to uncover Bernard Madoff's massive investment fraud or bring charges against any top executives of Wall Street banks whose conduct contributed to the 2008 financial crisis.
Mike Nudelman / Business Insider Buying marijuana in Denver is a downright pleasant experience. Customers wait in a well-appointed waiting room. There's a variety of reading material ‚Äî¬†feel free to choose between the gardening magazine and the Cannabible on the coffee table ‚Äî¬†and plenty of information about the product. When their names are called, they will follow an attendant through an atrium where they can buy t-shirts or smoking paraphernalia, and into a quaint shop where they can peruse the wares. There, they will find a wide array of aromatic marijuana flowers in glass jars, pot-infused products ‚Äî¬†mints, beverages, or something to satisfy the sweet tooth ‚Äî¬†as well as pre-rolled joints and servings of cannabis concentrates.¬† Customers are rung up on a computerized point of sale system. They get a receipt ‚Äî a receipt! ‚Äî¬†after paying for their marijuana. They are free to walk out to their cars, drive their marijuana home, and smoke it.¬† It's a remarkably clean system. It doesn't feel like a violation of Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, the federal law that governs controlled substances, even though it is. It's a safe, stable, professional environment. It's remarkable that only two years ago, the whole system almost came crashing down during the most difficult economic event the infant cannabis industry has ever faced:¬†The Great Marijuana Price Crash Of 2011. How did it all come about? The story of the marijuana market ‚Äî¬†a business that thrived on the street for decades before developing the market sophistication to lead to a commodity crash in brick-and-mortar stores ‚Äî¬†is one of the most interesting economic stories of our lifetimes. Colorado legalized marijuana for recreational use in late 2012. Beginning next year, anyone with an I.D. can waltz into a marijuana dispensary, put $50 on the counter, and announce to the clerk that he'd like one eighth of an ounce of marijuana. And he'll get it, without any interference from law enforcement. The market is stable. The Colorado marijuana industry ‚Äî which is responsible for thousands of new jobs, and is projected to raise $130 million in taxes for the state next year alone ‚Äî has accomplished something not seen in this nation since the passage of the 21st Amendment. It has taken an illegal product and legitimized it in the eyes of the government. It has made a notoriously sketchy transaction less of a hassle than buying Sudafed. What‚Äôs more, it has built a thriving economy after overcoming wild price fluctuations and crashes, stern government regulation, and absurd banking restrictions. The last time something similar happened, 96.5% of the United States population hadn‚Äôt even been born yet. REUTERSAccording to media customs it is evidently mandatory to include this photo or one like it in any story about marijuana.  What‚Äôs going on in Colorado is an outstanding case study in what happens when a black market becomes a legal one, and it‚Äôs something we probably won‚Äôt see again in any of our lifetimes. And fortunately for observers, the market transition in Colorado is happening in relatively slow motion, making it easy to follow and learn from. Still, when the media covers marijuana, the story is typically accompanied by a photograph of a man smoking an absurdly large joint. But the legalization of the marijuana market in Colorado is actually¬†one of the more fascinating economic stories to unfold in the U.S. in a long time. Walter Hickey / BIIn 2000, Colorado voters approved Amendment 20, legalizing medical marijuana for patients and people they designated as their caregivers. Patients or caregivers could possess no more than 2 ounces of marijuana and not more than six marijuana plants, up to three of which could be mature and flowering at a given time. The earliest incarnation of the marijuana dispensary quickly sprung up. Certain individuals or ad-hoc businesses began providing marijuana to many patients. To try to kill the commercialization of legal marijuana, the Colorado Department of Public Health limited the number of patients each ‚Äúdispensary‚Äù could serve to five. After a lawsuit from advocacy group Sensible Colorado, this policy ended in 2007. When the Board of Health rejected a new, more formal policy attempting to codify the five-patient limit in 2009, the dispensary model was given implicit approval. Wikimedia CommonsBy 2010, marijuana advocates and the Colorado legislature saw that they would soon have to begin seriously regulating the marijuana market, as the 2000 amendment didn‚Äôt plan for a commercial marijuana economy. Legislators passed the Colorado Medical Marijuana Code, which established a rigorous regulatory system for the medical marijuana market. It designated four types of state licenses ‚Äî dispensary, growery, marijuana-infused product manufacturer, and laboratory ‚Äî and laid out the enforcement bureau (The state Department of Revenue) production limitations (six plants per patient on the rolls for a dispensary) and vertical integration, which required store-front dispensaries to grow 70% of the product they sell. The Medical Marijuana Code also allowed municipalities to ban marijuana. The passage of the Code kickstarted the industry's transition. Delivery services transitioned into store-front dispensaries. Growers and sellers merged their businesses in order to abide by the vertical integration laws. New companies scrambled to get patients on their rolls in order to grow product. A year later, in 2011, the assembly passed an update which required businesses to register their groweries with the enforcement bureau. DOJBecause the market was designed to be heavily controlled, Coloradans have been mostly exempt from interference from federal law enforcement, unlike California ‚Äî a state that let every municipality make its own marijuana controls ‚Äî and which has been repeatedly hit by raids.¬† This also means that the Colorado medical marijuana market was able to develop a sophistication and professionalism unlike any other in America. But trading Phish t-shirts for business casual changed the market in ways that nobody expected. The range of choice and quality caused a diversification of product. There were price fluctuations, ill-fated marriages, terrible business decisions, and more between 2010 and today. In addition to establishing a set of regulations, the passage of the Colorado Medical Marijuana Code of 2010 fundamentally changed the structure of the industry. Before 2010, marijuana was produced by "basement growers," or people who grew marijuana informally on behalf of patients and sold it either directly or to a delivery service or other provider. Walter Hickey / BI The Medical Marijuana Code mandated that all people who sell marijuana grow 70% of their product, essentially requiring all¬†growers to link up with a brick-and-mortar, licensed dispensary. This meant that marijuana growers ‚Äî people who were familiar with the plant, and often had a longstanding, personal relationship with marijuana ‚Äî started connecting with capital-flush entrepreneurs interested in setting up a retail operation. One side had the expertise, the other had the cash. Needless to say, the merging of the two sides did not always go smoothly.  ‚ÄúYou had basement growers along with some guy who had money,‚Äù and each side viewed¬†the other with a degree of skepticism, said¬†Ryan Cook, the general manager of The Clinic, a popular chain of marijuana dispensaries, and an expert on the¬†business side of marijuana sales. The basement growers entered the formal industry assuming that the price of marijuana would hold steady with the black market price. The initial offer they made to the retail entrepreneurs ‚Äî $4,000 worth of marijuana for a $3,500 wholesale price ‚Äî was based on that assumption.¬† The risk of growing marijuana in a basement when it wasn't legal was priced into that high wholesale cost: The idea was that when the industry transitioned to the legal medical market, the portion of the price that went to cover the risk would instead cover new expenditures like rents on warehouses and retail facilities.¬† But those initial price estimates did not hold, and that's when people began to panic. For growers, expanding from a small basement operation to an industrial-level growery often led to production issues, and many growers found themselves in over their heads in terms of the volume they needed to produce. To make matters worse, the summer of 2011¬†saw record heat across the country, and heat can wreak havoc on cannabis quality and yield.¬† ‚ÄúYou had all these people racing to grow a product,‚Äù said Cook. ‚ÄúSome were growing it good, some were growing it really, really bad. Everyone had to start moving that product." As a result, many inexperienced growers saw that they had an inferior product that couldn't command what had been the market price.¬† Growers whose product wasn't up to snuff went into crisis mode. They were dealing with long lead times, since it takes about six months to harvest a marijuana plant. And they had bills ‚Äî electricity, rent, cost of goods sold ‚Äî they had put off, promising landlords and creditors that after the harvest they'd have enough to pay them back and then some.¬† When they couldn't move the product off the shelves, the growers slashed the wholesale price, sometimes as low as $2,000 per pound from $3,500 per pound.¬† ReutersSome went with quantity over quality. As a result, the retail side started cutting the sale price of an eighth of an ounce of marijuana to as low as $25, half of what they originally planned. It also didn't help that some dispensaries offered outrageous incentives in order to attract customers. Dispensaries had to have patients on their books in order to grow marijuana, and the more patients they had, the more plants they could grow. To get the ball rolling, businesses needed to sign on a critical mass of people, said¬†Dan Williams,¬†the owner of Canna Security America, a security company that specializes in marijuana dispensaries and who has watched the industry transform.¬†As a result, many of them offered outstandingly low introductory rates for marijuana for people who signed on. ‚ÄúIt was great because they got a whole bunch of new patients,‚Äù Williams said. ‚ÄúBut what they didn‚Äôt realize was since everyone was doing that, they were lowering the cost of the entire market. They were cutting everybody under.‚Äù As a result, customers ‚Äî¬†who could suddenly "comparison shop" among marijuana vendors for the first time ‚Äî¬†started patronizing the dispensaries that sold cut-rate cannabis. For many, the low prices were simply more attractive than higher-priced, higher-quality product. Walter Hickey / BIMarijuana has a six-month growth lead time. As the retailers ‚Äî who were often marijuana novices ‚Äî understood it, pot was pot. Many didn't realize that there were differing qualities of cannabis. They wanted all growers¬†to bring wholesale cost in line with what the bad growers were charging. Growers who had maintained quality and held the wholesale price at $3,500 per pound found themselves under pressure from their retail partners to take a price cut. When growers held the line, retailers threatened to dissolve the partnership ‚Äî taking their patient rolls with them ‚Äî ¬†to merge with one of those $2,000 wholesale growers. The growers also threatened to walk,¬†which meant that the retailer would lose its license to sell. Cook explained: ‚ÄúThe retailers are saying to the growers, ‚ÄòHey you were so nice to get me $3,500 a pound, but I can get it for $2,000 over here. I‚Äôm no longer going to buy this, I‚Äôm going to force you to give this to me at $2,000 per pound.‚Äô‚Äù Since some of these businesses were formed as a result of the M&amp;A version of a shotgun wedding, many of them broke up. The businesses that remained had a decision to make when it came to price. The market split into two.¬† Some portions of the market decided to hold the price at $3,500-per-pound wholesale, or around $50 retail for an eighth of an ounce. Others said they would sell across-the-board $25 eighths and try to make the price cut back on volume.¬† Those companies that held the $50 line by keeping quality high have done better than the ones that pursued volume, thanks to the unique aspects of the production of marijuana. Marijuana has a six-month production lead time. And production is limited by two factors: space and light.¬† ‚ÄúThe problem is that you can't just go back to your manufacturing facility and say, ‚ÄòGuys, we need more, turn up the speed on the conveyor belts,‚Äô" said Cook. "It doesn't work like that.‚Äù Businesses that wanted to make it back on volume couldn't just jam more plants into their groweries. They had to build whole new warehouses with lights, which could cost between $500,000 and $1 million right out of pocket. That kind of growth is just unsustainable long-term.¬† ‚ÄúSo once I hit my capacity," said Cook, "if I drop my prices to $25 and take 50% more market share than I had before, did I really help myself?‚Äù APMulti-agency law enforcement officers raid Organica, a medical cannabis collective in Culver City, Calif.Companies that make profit with a high-volume, low-price model are unsustainable for another reason. They will often find themselves with a¬†production surplus, which for a marijuana company can be a very dangerous thing.¬† In a healthy market, international¬†marijuana arbitrage ‚Äî buying legal pot in Colorado to sell on the black market in, say, New Jersey ‚Äî¬†¬†simply does not make economic sense, because the wholesale prices are largely in line with black market prices. It wouldn't be logical for unsavory elements to drive out to Colorado, buy a bunch of marijuana at $3,500 per pound and resell it in New Jersey for $4,000 a pound. There‚Äôs an insufficient profit margin to accept that risk. But when desperate businesses had to unload $2,000 pounds of marijuana or risk losing everything, the unsavory element did emerge. Businesses that were stuck with marijuana they couldn't sell in the Colorado market, despite owing business debts, were highly susceptible to black market offers.¬† ‚ÄúAll of a sudden, some guy in Iowa calls you and says, ‚ÄòHey listen, you know what, I'll give you $5,000 a pound.‚Äô And they're like, ‚ÄòHoly sh**!‚Äô you know?‚Äù said Cook. The marijuana price crash of 2011, then, wasn't just an an isolated economic incident. It was an existential threat for an industry that sold itself to voters as a safe business that wouldn't fund the interstate black market.¬† In the end, many of the places that tried to survive by volume alone went under. The market wised up. Some couldn‚Äôt sustain the production growth. Some couldn‚Äôt survive in a market with high competition and very low margins. Others tried to unload their product illegally, and they ended up with doors no longer attached to their frames and federal agents un-cooking their books. Others, though, like Cook‚Äôs The Clinic, emerged from the crash stronger than ever. ‚ÄúWe understood very quickly that it was better for us to operate a legitimate business and grow good, quality medicine and make a business we could be proud of, you know?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAnd if we did that we knew we could be successful in the industry.‚Äù EMERGING STRONGER THAN EVER Well, right this instant Denver is in the midst of another moment of economic intrigue. Walter Hickey / BIDan WilliamsThere‚Äôs a new breed of investor coming to marijuana. Dan Williams, the man behind Canna Security, has already received an infusion of capital from the Arc View investment group, a consortium of investors who focus on the ancillary businesses of the emerging marijuana industry. Now that marijuana is on the map, people with cash are ready to dive in. Arc View in particular is interested in businesses like Williams‚Äô, which are on the sidelines ‚Äî i.e., not in direct violation of the laws of the United States federal government ‚Äî but also are tapping into the robustly growing marijuana market, with the ability to scale nationwide if and when serious marijuana legalization moves beyond the Rockies. Who are these new investors in marijuana infrastructure? There are three groups, according to Williams. Some made their money owning dispensaries, and are eager to invest it in companies with slightly less risk on the ancillary side. Others are serial entrepreneurs; people who started their own businesses in the traditional market and either cashed out or have taken a backseat. Most interesting, though, is the last of the three: investment vehicles. Already, representatives of large investment funds and venture capital groups are sitting at the table, getting ready to dip their toes into the water while there‚Äôs money to be made in the infant stage. If there‚Äôs a resounding legacy from the industry‚Äôs survival of the marijuana price crash, it‚Äôs that the model has been so successful that any other state seriously considering marijuana is essentially copying Colorado‚Äôs work. It‚Äôs also been quite good to the people who took the chance on marijuana as a legitimate business, and then remained levelheaded during the rough price fluctuations. The businesses that gave in and sold as low as they could are by and large gone. The firms that maintained their composure are thriving. The businesses that got in early already have an outstanding advantage moving forward in the legalized marijuana economy. As part of the legislation following Amendment 64, which legalized marijuana in Colorado effective Jan. 1, 2014, Colorado won‚Äôt be issuing any new licenses until eight months later, giving the existing market an immense head start. Denver ReliefKayvan Khalatbari In Denver, local ordinances extend the hold on new licenses all the way to 2016. This means that for marijuana businesses, it's a seller's market. Kayvan Khalatbari and Ean Seeb are two founders of Denver Relief, another successful marijuana dispensary. In addition to building their own existing operation, Khalatbari and Seeb are becoming the go-to consultants for people who want to start their own marijuana business. With Massachusetts and Connecticut gearing up for their own rollouts of Colorado‚Äôs model, they‚Äôre very, very busy. But besides the interstate consulting, they‚Äôve also got their finger on the pulse of what‚Äôs going on in Colorado. Since medical marijuana licenses are tied to business entities, not people, anyone looking to cash out in Colorado is in a very good place with the forthcoming moratorium. Walter Hickey / BI‚ÄúIf there's somebody just looking to get in here in Colorado,‚Äù said Khalatbari, ‚Äúyou need to buy a new system, that's just plain and simple. And, you know, those are from, let's say $50,000 for a slice, to $2 to $10 million to buy out an entire company, just because it's the company that goes along with that license.‚Äù Since Kayvan and Ean also consult for interested parties in states just opening up their marijuana markets, they can confirm that the amount of money going into selling legal pot is simply phenomenal. The startup costs alone are immense, as is the amount business owners need to have on-hand just to score a license. ‚ÄúIn Massachusetts ,you need half a million in the bank and a financial letter of credit,‚Äù said Khalatbari. ‚ÄúIn Connecticut it's $2 million. But even aside from that, if you're serious about Massachusetts, yet again there's only 20 to 35 licenses in the entire state for potentially 200,000 patients. We're dealing with 3,000 to 10,000 patients per center, so it‚Äôs going to be massive.‚Äù What do you need in order to start a marijuana business in one of those states? The guys at Denver Relief field dozens of cold calls a day from people asking their advice on what it takes to start up a new business. The short answer? Lots of money. Walter Hickey / BI‚ÄúIf people are honestly serious about getting in, you're going to spend probably $2 to $5 million on construction,‚Äù said Kayvan. ‚ÄúYou're going to probably have $50,000 to $100,000 in non-refundable fees, whether that be to the state, to your local municipality, to consultants, to lawyers. $100,000 just to go into that process to apply when you might not even get a license. That's what it is right now. And then those huge, huge financial burdens on the back end to construct these massive facilities.‚Äù This means that Massachusetts finds itself where Colorado was three years ago: Getting ready for a bunch of shotgun weddings between the money and the local growers. Moving forward, things are about to get very interesting for marijuana in America. Colorado is about to fully legalize cannabis. The people in the business I spoke to didn‚Äôt think that their core market would change drastically ‚Äî it‚Äôs not particularly difficult to get a marijuana recommendation in Colorado, so anybody who really wants one already has one. It‚Äôs the tourism that could shake up the market. The thing is, nobody has any clue about what that means, numerically speaking. Will Colorado become the marijuana capital of America? The West? The world? Is this the new Amsterdam? Nobody has any clue. So the industry is bracing itself for anything. The marijuana that goes on sale to the general population on Jan. 1, 2014 was planted about six weeks ago. Growers and retailers have to deal with the lead-time issue. Like Ryan Cook said, you can‚Äôt just go to your warehouse and crank up the conveyor belt. And while the Colorado industry is continuing to expand, it hasn't accelerated¬†the growth just yet. It‚Äôs wait and see, across the board. What happens next ‚Äî how the industry handles uncertainty when it comes to demand ‚Äî could be even more interesting, from an economic perspective, than how it handled uncertainty when it comes to supply. In short, anyone who's interested in economics needs to have their eyes set on the Rockies, or they might just miss the kind of economic event that comes around once in a lifetime.
That's from SocGen strategist Kit Juckes and it just about sums it up. The farce of course is what's going on (again) in the U.S. Congress, and the situation in Italy, where Berlusconi (again) is threatening to screw everything up. Risk aversion is just that, investor inclination to exit risky assets. The euro is likely to come under pressure due to Berlusconi. And the Japanese yen (which faces none of the nonsense right now in Europe or the U.S.) goes up.
Carsten Schertzer via Compfight ccSilicon Valley is getting all excited again, in its Silicon Valleyish way, about the future of how we pay for things. The specific cause of excitement, this week, is the news that Richard Branson has made an investment in Clinkle, a mysterious startup that promises to revolutionise payments in some unspecified way, possibly by letting people send money from smartphone to smartphone¬†using sound. (The company just put out a really strange advertisement that fails to clear things up.) But predictions about the coming End of Cash have been around for years, growing louder since the arrival of contactless payment, of Square, and of Bitcoin. The other day, research from Tufts University gave the cause a new boost: cash, it revealed, costs US consumers, businesses and governments more than $200bn annually in everything from ATM fees and theft to lost tax revenue. Oh, and it helps spread disease. Could it be time, wondered Tim Fernholz at Quartz, to give up on cash entirely? It's an intriguing question. But it has a simple answer: no! Leave aside for now the fantastical prospect of an actual, society-wide end of cash, with all the vast implications for economic policy, on the unbanked, etcetera, that that would entail. Just on a personal level, as we race headlong into the era of "frictionless spending" ‚Äì in which waving goodbye to another $10 is as simple as a single click on an iPad or Kindle ‚Äì there's a strong argument for starting to use cash much more. There's plenty of psychological research to show that when we spend using physical notes and coins, we spend more sensibly. Of all forms of payment, cash is the most "transparent" ‚Äì the one that connects us most directly to the fact that we're parting with our money. That's also why, as the behavioural economist Dan Ariely has argued, cashlessness seems to be associated with increased dishonesty: it's easier to cut ethical corners involving money, while continuing to think of yourself as an honest person, when you're psychologically distanced from the money involved. "We are moving to a situation which allows people to rationalise dishonesty to a much, much higher degree," Ariely told Wired Magazine last year. The bigger point here is that "frictionlessness", that glorious promise of our cloud-based, disruptogasmic future, is a bad thing at least as often as it's a good one. Just as "frictionless sharing" on Facebook is how you unwittingly come to inform friends you've been reading all the latest naked celebrity news, frictionless spending is why my Kindle is loaded with quarter-read books on topics that interested me for 30 minutes once. Friction keeps you frugal. God-bothering personal finance expert Dave Ramsey goes so far as to suggest that you count cash into envelopes for each part of your household budget every month; that way you'll really feel it whenever you spend. (I tried the envelopes system, with partial success, last year.) It's true, as the tech columnist Farhad Manjoo points out, that we could find ways to use technology to keep spending in check. You can use Mint.com, for example, to warn you when you're straying outside you budget. Financial institutions could offer to send smartphone alerts when you tried to buy items you'd previously specified as wasteful temptations. But the question ‚Äì not least given our institutions' strong interest in keeping us spending ‚Äì is whether such schemes are really likely to be widely adopted anytime soon. There's an easier solution, much closer to hand: whenever you're able, stick to cash.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueA tourist gazes up towards the dome of the U.S. Capitol in Washington.*If the U.S. government shuts down, several of the scheduled economic releases listed below will be cancelled.------------------------------ Things are starting to get interesting. If Congress can't agree on a budget deal, then the government will "shut down" on Tuesday. Meanwhile, it's jobs week in America. On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics is scheduled to release the September employment situation report, which the Federal Reserve will watch closely as it considers its plan for tapering its stimulative large-scale asset purchase program. Unfortunately, there's a chance the jobs report will get cancelled. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Investors are surprisingly sanguine considering the known unknowns. "We estimate that little or no volatility premium for the debt ceiling debates is priced into the options markets on stocks most exposed to government spending cuts," said Goldman Sachs' Robert Boroujerdi. "Complacency is even more pronounced on stocks with high government exposure," he added. "Fear priced into options on these stocks dropped over the past few months to new lows vs. SPX options." And while the options markets suggest investors aren't worried about downside, there's also little to suggest investors are betting on upside. "Investor apprehension about this market continues to increase," said JP Morgan's Tom Lee in reference to the latest leg of the stock market rally. "It is the combination of fears that this was a 'false breakout' to new highs coupled with lingering concerns about the budget/debt ceiling showdown in the US and the possible resulting turmoil." Lee thinks the S&amp;P 500 could end the year at 1,775. 
Business Insider/Mike NudelmanFederal Reserve vice chairwoman Janet Yellen seems poised to receive the White House's nomination to replace Fed chairman Ben Bernanke in the top spot at the central bank when his term expires in January. Her fiercest competition for the nomination, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, withdrew his name from contention last week. Before that, though, the debate over which candidate was better-suited for the job was unusually intense, especially for a Fed nomination. The debate raised the question for a few observers like Lars Christensen,¬†head of emerging markets research and cross asset allocation at Danske Bank: why choose either? "I have another candidate," wrote Christensen on his blog in July. "Chuck Norris!¬†Or rather I strongly believe that monetary policy needs to be strictly rule-based, and if you¬†have a rule-based monetary policy, who is Fed chairman isn't really important." At the moment, U.S. monetary policy can hardly be described as rule-based. Last week, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) ‚Äì the Fed's monetary policymaking body ‚Äì shocked markets with its decision to refrain from tapering quantitative easing. The taper was a policy move widely expected on Wall Street, based on the strong signal¬†Bernanke was said to have sent to market participants at the press conference following the FOMC's June 19 policy meeting. "Why bother with¬†transparency¬†when you can and do change your¬†minds?" asked ED&amp;F Man Capital managing director and bond market veteran Tom di Galoma, saying what it seemed like everyone was thinking following last week's FOMC decision. The dissonance here is a result of the Fed's drive over the past year or so to introduce greater transparency into its decision-making process, something that won't change for Yellen or whoever else takes over at the helm of the central bank when Bernanke exits his post in January. Of course, that's only the most fashionable criticism of Federal Reserve monetary policy at this particular moment. Some have argued that policy has been too loose in recent years, laying the foundation for dangerous asset bubbles that will have to be dealt with down the road. Others have contended that policy has been too tight, failing to adequately stimulate the economy and provide it sufficient aid in returning to sustainable levels of growth. So why not take the power to set monetary policy out of the hands of the chairman of the Federal Reserve and the small committee of bankers and economists who sit on the FOMC and just let the markets decide what the Fed should do? That's essentially what Christensen has in mind when he suggests nominating Chuck Norris to replace Bernanke. In his blog post, he pointed to a recent paper by Bentley University economist Scott Sumner, a leading advocate of this type of approach. IMDB / MGMChuck Norris"Under a strict monetary policy rule, monetary policy will be fully 'automatic', especially if you introduce 'A Market-Driven Nominal GDP Targeting Regime'," wrote Christensen. "This is, of course, what we call the¬†Chuck Norris Effect¬†‚Äì that the markets are implementing monetary policy." Sumner explains in the paper how setting up a nominal GDP futures market and letting traders place their bets would make monetary policy "fully automatic," as Christensen describes it, using a hypothetical example in which the Fed is targeting a 3.65% nominal growth rate for the American economy: In most futures markets, a change in investor sentiment affects the price of the futures contract. This proposed market would be very different. The Fed would peg the price of NGDP futures at $1.0365, but only during the period where it was the target of monetary policy. During this period, changes in investor sentiment would affect the quantity of money, not the price of NGDP futures. For market expectations to determine monetary policy, there must be a link between NGDP futures purchases and sales, and the quantity of money. This link can be achieved by requiring parallel open-market operations for each NGDP contract purchase or sale. Because investors buying NGDP futures are expecting above-target growth in NGDP, the Fed should automatically reduce the monetary base each time an investor buys an NGDP futures contract, and it should automatically expand the base each time an investor sells an NGDP contract short. For instance, each $1 purchase of a long position in an NGDP futures contract might trigger a $1,000 open-market sale by the Fed. A purchase of a $1 short position would trigger a $1,000 open-market purchase by the Fed. In that case, investors would be effectively determining the size of the monetary base. Traders would continue buying and selling NGDP futures until the money supply had adjusted to the point where the market expected NGDP growth to be right on target. "Recall that after the central bank stops pegging a particular contract (and starts pegging the next contract), its price can rise or fall," writes Sumner. "Thus, people would trade NGDP contracts for exactly the same reason they trade any other asset: in the hope that the price will move in the direction they anticipate (after the Fed is no longer targeting the price)." Sumner goes on to argue that if an NGDP futures market were in place in 2008, when the financial crisis hit, the experience would have been vastly different: Under the monetary regime described here, the United States would never face the situation that occurred in the latter part of 2008. By late 2008, it was obvious to market participants that NGDP growth during 2008-9 would be far lower than the Fed would have liked. Indeed, NGDP fell by 4 percent between mid-2008 and mid-2009‚Äîthe steepest decline since the Great Depression. Asset prices were falling sharply as investors reduced forecasts of future nominal growth and future asset prices. Yet, even though financial-market participants saw what was happening, investors had no way to profit from that information. Markets were unable to correct the Fed‚Äôs monetary policy errors.  If an NGDP futures market had existed in 2008, investors would have sold NGDP futures until the money supply had increased sharply enough to produce on-target expected NGDP growth. That does not mean actual NGDP growth would have been exactly on target; no monetary regime can guarantee that result. But if even expected NGDP growth had been on target, it would have been a vast improvement over actual monetary policy, which was far off course in late 2008. On-target expected NGDP growth would have helped to stabilize asset markets. The nominal GDP targeting idea has been kicked around elsewhere on Wall Street for a while. Goldman Sachs Japan chief economist Naohiko Baba endorsed it in a November 2011 note to clients, asserting that "a¬†move to a nominal GDP (NGDP) target would stand a better chance [than an inflation target] of helping the Fed achieve both parts of its dual mandate over time." ¬†"It would provide a way to strengthen the employment side of the mandate, while allowing for errors in the estimation of potential output," wrote Baba. "If combined with a commitment to use the remaining tools of monetary policy aggressively, our analysis suggests that it could potentially give a significant boost to growth and employment." So, is it time for a nonhuman Fed chairman and just have monetary policy be set automatically? "There is no reason why the FOMC should be limited to 12 members, or indeed why there should be any limit at all," says Sumner. And given the state of the global economy, monetary policy may well be headed in that direction. "Nominal activity continues to be extremely low globally in spite of 4-5 years of zero-interest rate policies (ZIRP) and QE," says Deutsche Bank head of fundamental strategy Jim Reid. "So do we need to fundamentally change the way monetary policy is enacted? And if so, how? We would argue there should be more debate around the idea of a Nominal GDP Target (NGDPT). This could be the next big theme if nominal activity remains as stubbornly low as it has been so far post-crisis."
FOUR years ago this newspaper put on its cover a picture of the statue of Christ the Redeemer ascending like a rocket from Rio de Janeiro‚Äôs Corcovado mountain, under the rubric ‚ÄúBrazil takes off‚Äù. The economy, having stabilised under Fernando Henrique Cardoso in the mid-1990s, accelerated under Luiz In√°cio Lula da Silva in the early 2000s. It barely stumbled after the Lehman collapse in 2008 and in 2010 grew by 7.5%, its strongest performance in a quarter-century. To add to the magic, Brazil was awarded both next year‚Äôs football World Cup and the summer 2016 Olympics. On the strength of all that, Lula persuaded voters in the same year to choose as president his technocratic prot√©g√©e, Dilma Rousseff. Since then the country has come back down to earth with a bump. In 2012 the economy grew by 0.9%. Hundreds of thousands took to the streets in June in the biggest protests for a generation, complaining of high living costs, poor public services and the greed and corruption of politicians. Many have now lost faith in the idea that their country was headed for orbit and diagnosed just another¬†voo de galinha¬†(chicken flight), as they dubbed previous short-lived economic spurts. There are excuses for the deceleration. All emerging economies have slowed. Some of the impulses behind Brazil‚Äôs previous boom‚Äîthe pay-off from ending runaway inflation and opening up to trade, commodity price rises, big increases in credit and consumption‚Äîhave played themselves out. And many of Lula‚Äôs policies, notably the¬†Bolsa Fam√≠lia¬†that helped lift 25m people out of poverty, were admirable. But Brazil has done far too little to reform its government in the boom years. It is not alone in this: India had a similar chance, and missed it. But Brazil‚Äôs public sector imposes a particularly heavy burden on its private sector, as our¬†special report¬†explains. Companies face the world‚Äôs most burdensome tax code, payroll taxes add 58% to salaries and the government has got its spending priorities upside down. Compare pensions and infrastructure. The former are absurdly generous. The average Brazilian can look forward to a pension of 70% of final pay at 54. Despite being a young country, Brazil spends as big a share of national income on pensions as southern Europe, where the proportion of old people is three times as big. By contrast, despite the country‚Äôs continental dimensions and lousy transport links, its spending on infrastructure is as skimpy as a string bikini.¬†It spends just 1.5% of GDP on infrastructure, compared with a global average of 3.8%, even though its stock of infrastructure is valued at just 16% of GDP, compared with 71% in other big economies. Rotten infrastructure loads unnecessary costs on businesses. In Mato Grosso a soyabean farmer spends 25% of the value of his product getting it to a port; the proportion in Iowa is 9%. These problems have accumulated over generations. But Ms Rousseff has been unwilling or unable to tackle them, and has created new problems by interfering far more than the pragmatic Lula. She has scared investors away from infrastructure projects and undermined Brazil‚Äôs hard-won reputation for macroeconomic rectitude by publicly chivvying the Central Bank chief into slashing interest rates. As a result, rates are now having to rise more than they otherwise might to curb persistent inflation. Rather than admit to missing its fiscal targets, the government has resorted to creative accounting. Gross public debt has climbed to 60-70% of GDP, depending on the definition‚Äîand the markets do not trust Ms Rousseff. Fortunately, Brazil has great strengths. Thanks to its efficient and entrepreneurial farmers, it is the world‚Äôs third-biggest food exporter. Even if the government has made the process slower and costlier than it needed to be, Brazil will be a big oil exporter by 2020. It has several manufacturing jewels, and is developing a world-class research base in biotechnology, genetic sciences and deep-sea oil and gas technology. The consumer brands that have grown along with the country‚Äôs expanding middle class are ready to go abroad. Despite the recent protests, it does not have the social or ethnic divisions that blight other emerging economies, such as India or Turkey. But if Brazil is to recover its vim, it needs to rediscover an appetite for reform. With taxes already taking 36% of GDP‚Äîthe biggest proportion in the emerging world alongside Cristina Fern√°ndez‚Äôs chaotic Argentina‚Äîthe government cannot look to taxpayers for the extra money it must spend on health care, schools and transport to satisfy the protesters. Instead, it needs to reshape public spending, especially pensions. Second, it must make Brazilian business more competitive and encourage it to invest. The way to do that is not, as the government believes, to protect firms, but to expose them to more foreign competition while moving far more swiftly to eliminate the self-inflicted obstacles they face at home. Brazil‚Äôs import tariffs remain high and its customs procedures are a catalogue of bloody-minded obstructionism. More dynamic Latin American economies have forged networks of bilateral trade deals. Brazil has hidden behind Mercosur, a regional block that has dwindled into a leftist talking-shop, and the moribund Doha round of world-trade talks. It needs to open up. Third, Brazil urgently needs political reform. The proliferation of parties, whose only interest is pork and patronage, builds in huge waste at every level of government. One result is a cabinet with 39 ministries. On paper, the solution is easy: a threshold for seats in Congress and other changes to make legislators more accountable to voters. But getting those who benefit from the current system to agree to change it requires more political skill than Ms Rousseff has shown. In a year‚Äôs time Ms Rousseff faces an election in which she will seek a second four-year term. On her record so far, Brazil‚Äôs voters have little reason to give her one. But she has time to make a start on the reforms needed, by trimming red tape, merging ministries and curbing public spending. Brazil is not doomed to flop: if Ms Rousseff puts her hand on the throttle there is still a chance that it could take off again.
REUTERS/Larry Downing It's what Donald Rumsfeld would call a known unknown. We know that we don't know what would happen if we don't raise the debt ceiling before we run out of cash to pay all our bills on time. It might "only" crush consumer confidence, send markets cliff-diving, and slow down our already slow recovery ó if not push us back into recession. Or it might be a historic blunder that not only flattens the economy today, but also forever raises our borrowing costs and lowers our standard of living tomorrow. So the stakes are fairly high. We just don't know how high. And that, as my colleague†Derek Thompson†puts it, is the most terrifying thing of all. But there are a few things we do know. We do know what will determine whether this is a self-inflicted wound to the foot or to the head. That's whether we outright default on the†debt or not. Remember, the debt ceiling doesn't stop us from borrowing more to pay for new spending.†It stops us from borrowing more to pay for old spending. And it only stops us from borrowing more, because we say so. See, it's not that†lenders don't want to lend to us anymore; after inflation, they're still†paying us†to borrow for 5 years. No, it's that we've said we won't borrow anymore, just because. It's a self-imposed limit. And if we don't lift that self-imposed limit, we enter a world of economic pain. We couldn't borrow more to pay for the spending Congress has already authorized. We'd have to pay what we owe out of tax receipts and rolled-over debt instead. But as†the†Bipartisan Policy Center†(BPC) points out, tax receipts and rolled-over debt would only cover 68 percent of our bills. So we'd have to cut the rest. This immediate 32 percent austerity could hit anything from Social Security checks to food stamps to the debt itself. Now, this last one is unlikely, but not impossible. How unlikely depends on whether the Treasury can prioritize its payments. Let's think about what would happen if it can and if it can't. Scenario #1: Treasury can prioritize the†debt, so we get austerity but not default. Suppose the government doesn't pay its bills as they come due. Suppose instead it pays back the†debt before anything else. In that case, interest rates wouldn't rise -- they'd fall. At least longer rates. Now, short-term term rates on debt due to be paid back right after the debt ceiling hits†would†rise. But that's it. After all, investors flee to the safety of U.S. government debt (which pushes down rates) anytime things look grim. And cutting 32 percent of federal spending overnight would certainly make things look real grim real fast. Indeed, that much austerity would cost us millions of jobs at an annualized pace. If a debt ceiling showdown somehow lasted much more than a few days, the economy's heart palpitations would turn to cardiac arrest -- which, as long we were still paying the interest on it, would mean much more demand for our debt. It's paradoxical, but threatening to default on our debt might make investors want our debt more than ever. You know, as a†safe haven. But this optimistic case isn't much of one. Even forgetting the austerity. For one, the spectacle of House Republicans once again debating whether or not to light the fuse on an economic bomb would be enough to crater consumer confidence. As†Betsey Stevenson and†Justin Wolfers†point†out, that's what happened the last time Republicans weren't so sure we should pay our bills back in 2011 -- and it took households awhile to get over their shock. For another, introducing†any†possibility of defaulting on the†debt would be enough to make the financial system seize up. But wait. Isn't prioritizing payments supposed to mean we pay all the interest on the†debt on time? Why would markets still worry about a default? Well, something might go wrong. And if it did, the financial system would not be in good shape. In fact, just the risk that it might is enough to make the financial system in not-so-good shape already. That's because our debt isn't just debt; it's money, too. Or at least close enough to money that we can say it's "money-like."† Now let's translate that into English. All sorts of financial institutions fund their day-to-day operations with ultra-short-term borrowing. Repurchase agreements (or "repo") are†the most common type. Here's how it works. A bank "sells" something†for cash, but agrees to buy it back at the end of the day -- hence, repurchase -- for a little more than it got. So, for example, say a bank sells a Treasury bond for 95 cents on the dollar, and buys it back for 96 cents at the end of the day. Again, notice the difference between what it gets and what it pays for the collateral. That's the interest rate on what is†really a secured loan. Okay, but what does this have to do with the debt ceiling? Well, the repo market isn't set up to tell if a Treasury bond has defaulted or not (because if Treasury bonds are defaulting, the world must be ending, right?). That means it only takes the hint of the possibility of a Treasury bond defaulting for the repo market to go into paroxysms. As you can see in the chart below, via†Cardiff Garcia†of†FT Alphaville, that's exactly what happened during the last debt ceiling crisis in 2011: repo rates spiked when it looked like the debt ceiling wasn't going to be lifted in time. It'd obviously be worse if it actually wasn't lifted in time.  In other words, interest rates would rise for financial institutions. And those financial institutions might not get as much help from the Fed as they need. The central bank's clearing system also isn't set up to tell if a Treasury bond has defaulted or not,†so it could seize up too. And, of course, banks can't use defaulted Treasury bonds as collateral at the Fed. These are all very bad things. So, to sum up, if everything goes as well as it could, the recovery would only get a vicious knee-capping. There'd be the insane austerity. Interest rates would fall for the government, but rise for the financial system. And households would be scared for months, if not longer, about a political system exhibiting what my colleague†James Fallows†calls 1860s-style dysfunction. Scenario #2: Treasury can't prioritize the†debt, and the world really ends. It sounds so easy to pay the debt back first. But prioritization is a legal and logistical nightmare. There's just little legal basis to justify paying some bills, and not others. Everyone we owe money to -- bondholders, military personnel, Social Security recipients, etc. -- has a good claim on whatever money we do have. Good luck getting whoever we†stiff to go along with that. But even if we could legally choose who and who not to pay, we might not be able to do so technically. As BPC points out, the Treasury makes†100 million payments a month. It would have to reprogram its computers to pay the most essential ones first each day -- and it would have to do†this fast. It's touching that Republicans so believe in the efficacy of government that they think the Treasury could pull†this off without a hitch. But I'm not so sure.† If it turns out the Treasury can't prioritize payments, then our world of economic pain will end very quickly -- because it will be the end of the world as we know it. Now, it's almost too awful to be worth contemplating, but let's give it a shot. There would be the same austerity. And an even worse collapse in consumer confidence. But instead of falling, interest rates would rise across the board as investors dump Treasuries that might default. The financial system might not have another Lehman moment, but then again maybe it would. At best, credit markets would freeze for awhile. But we haven't gotten to the worst part yet. The worst part comes after the crisis has passed. It's that interest rates wouldn't come back down to where they were before the crisis. Investors would decide that our 200-year long experiment with republican government had turned into one of the banana variety. In other words, they would decide to invest their money in countries that don't periodically threaten to default for no good reason. Interest rates would be forever higher than they would have otherwise been, and that would drag our standard of living forever lower than it would have otherwise been. That's some expensive political grandstanding. *** And it†is†grandstanding. Remember, the Republicans aren't threatening economic calamity, because they want to†rein in spending. They're threatening economic calamity, because they want to stop poor and sick Americans from getting health insurance. That is, they want to stop Obamacare. But that obviously isn't happening as long as someone named Obama is living in the White House.†The Republicans had their chance to make sure someone named Obama wasn't living in the White House in 2012, and they did not succeed. Throwing a temper tantrum won't change that, even if that temper tantrum involves holding the world economy hostage. Now can we please leave the hostage alone? More from The Atlantic: The States Where Women Make The Most (And Least) Compared To Men Getting Into Kindergarten In New York Will Remain Stressful Where Are The 'Real' Women In Movies About Sex Addiction? From†TheAtlantic†- shaping the national debate on the most critical issues of our times, from politics, business, and the economy, to technology, arts, and culture.
But whether the Chinese RMB will become a reserve currency is an entirely different question. Of course it will, over time, but the question has always been when. There are some preconditions required for reserve currency status. Quietly, apart from anything that might happen to the US dollar, China is working to meet those conditions. Rather than wallowing in concerns about China's actions, we might opt for a more thoughtful and constructive response: to welcome the RMB to the reserve currency club and hope that it gets here soon. The world will be a better place when that happens. And off the radar screen, it may be happening right now. Today we look at global trade flows and international balances and try to imagine a world in which much "common wisdom" gets stood on its head. It should make for an interesting thought experiment, to say the least. (This letter will print a little longer than usual, as there are numerous chart s and graphs.) One of the prerequisites for a true reserve currency is that there must be a steady and ready supply of the currency to facilitate global trade. The United States has done its part in providing an ample supply of US dollars by running massive trade deficits with the rest of the world, primarily with oil-producing nations and with Asia (most notably China and Japan), for all manner of manufactured products. The US consumer has been the buyer of last resort for several decades (I say, somewhat tongue in cheek). Those dollars typically end up in the reserve balances of various producing nations and find their way back to the US, primarily invested in US government bonds. In an odd sense, the rest of the world has been providing vendor financing to the US, the richest nation in the world. John Mauldin The US Trade Deficit Turns Positive The US trade deficit (a key component of the current account deficit ñ see chart on next page) fell to an unprecedented percentage of GDP during the last decade, a development that normally heralds a significant drop in a currency. Fortunately, the "exorbitant privilege" of controlling the world's dominant currency in reserve holdings, international trade, and financial transactions has helped shield the US dollar from a hard correction; but that status quo is in danger. After flooding the world with US dollars for more than twenty years, the US has reduced its current account deficit by 58% since the 2007-2008 financial crisis began. Looking ahead, I and many other observers believe this measure can continue to improve, due two surprisingly positive factors: John Mauldin These two trends are bullish for the US in general. But that's another story for another letter. The point today is that the US current account deficit is collapsing. A positive trade balance is not an unthinkable prospect today. It is quite possible that the US will be more or less energy self-sufficient by the end of the decade and could have a positive trade balance not long after that. I should note that exporting value-added chemicals made from less expensive energy will contribute even more to the positive balance than simply selling the raw natural gas. John Mauldin Should the US achieve a positive trade balance, that shift would have a BIG impact on the rest of the world. For starters, moving from a current account deficit to a current account surplus will disrupt the two most important trade relationships in the world today: (1) the exchange of US dollars for OPEC oil, and (2) the exchange of US dollars for Asian manufactured goods. And while the US will continue to import significant (one could even say huge) quantities of manufactured goods, the quantity of dollars moving permanently offshore will be significantly reduced. As a quick aside, by definition, a shrinking US current account deficit also means falling liquidity around the world (since the USD makes up one side of the trade in 87% of global currency transactions); and, as our friends at GaveKal have argued for years, a falling US current account almost always means that we will see a crisis somewhere in the world. John Mauldin This is why the very same emerging-market central banks that complained about the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing under QE3 are now openly calling upon the Fed to reconsider its tapering stance. Now that Fed has hugely inflated the emerging-market balloon, these economies are more vulnerable to popping. I recently read that the Monetary Authority of Singapore (the Republic of Singapore's central bank) suggested rather strongly that the US Federal Reserve should consider its role to be that of central banker to the world and that it should thus make sure there is a sufficient supply of dollars to facilitate global trade. (Their suggestion may be due in part to the fact that they have lost $10 billion in the last year trying to keep the value of their currency from rising.) With the US current account deficit continuing its fall, we need to be alert for the next crisis abroad. It is very difficult to predict exactly when, where, and how markets will panic, but taking US dollars out of the trading system is akin to losing a chair in a game of musical chairs. Someone is going to be left out. It could be Europe or Japan ñ there are more chapters to come in the sordid European and Japanese economic sagas ñ but more likely it will be emerging-market countries loaded with a lot of external debt denominated in US dollars who struggle to keep a seat at the table. Emerging markets, particularly Asian and Latin American economies, took a beating during the 1990s precisely because of boom-and-bust credit cycles caused by hot capital inflows followed by rapid capital outflows. This volatile boom/bust cycle is precisely what emerging-market policy makers were hoping to forestall by holding larger foreign exchange reserves starting in the late '90s, but trading predominantly in the US dollar left them to vulnerable to swings in market interest rates and Fed policy. Let's review the current state of global trade imbalances. Fortunately for us, the Bank for International Settlements just released a paper that gives us the data on this very topic (BIS Working Paper No 424: "Global and Euro Imbalances: China and Germany," by Guonan Ma and Robert N McCauley). You'll want to view following chart in color (if you printed this letter in black and white) in order to appreciate how important the US trade deficit has been to world trade in the past 15 years. Remember, by definition, if there is a surplus in one part of the world, there must be a deficit in another. World trade balances must even out. That can happen through adjustments in the value of currencies or through countries producing as much as they sell. The US is a special case, since 87% of world trade is denominated in dollars; and the demand for dollars is evidently high enough to keep the price up, despite massive quantitative easing. John Mauldin China Moves to Float Its Currency Now back to China. I did an extended interview with Louis Gave this past Monday on BNN, the national Canadian business network (part 1, part 2). Let me offer a rough transcription of what he said. I had just commented on my belief that the US is on its way to a positive trade balance, which will make the dollar remarkably strong. The corollary is that there will be fewer dollars available to the world for global trade. Then Louis jumped in: I think it [a positive US trade balance] is a very important development for the part of the world I come from. I live in Hong Kong. Asia up to now has mostly been a US dollar zone. In Asia we basically produce manufactured goods, sell them to the US, and earn the US dollars we need to trade with one another. So when China trades with Indonesia, the trade is denominated in dollars. When Japan trades with Taiwan, that trade is denominated in dollars. The big issue is, if we move into a world where the US current account deficit disappears ñ both through the energy revolution that the US is going through and the consequent manufacturing renaissance ñ then, all of the sudden, manufacturing in the US is a lot cheaper than elsewhere because the cost of energy is so much cheaper. If the US basically imports [brings back] all of its manufacturing and no longer exports US dollars, how will Asia trade with itself? And how will emerging-market trade grow if they don't earn the dollars? I think the answer to those very important questions will increasingly be the RMB. What you have witnessed in the past two to three years is China making a very apparent play to internationalize its currency. In just two years, China has gone from settling 0% of its exports in RMB to settling 18% of its exports in RMB. Two years ago, the RMB was a non-currency [in international trade/finance]. Nobody owned it. Nobody traded it. Today, the renminbi is already ñ in just two years ñ in the top ten traded currencies in the worldÖ. [See the table my research staff found, below. ñJohn] I think this shift is taking place because China has a massive comparative advantage that most people never think of. If I asked, "What's China's comparative advantage?" 99 out of 100 people would say "cheap labor," but that's not true. Labor is not that cheap in China anymore. China's comparative advantage is that China ñ alone amongst emerging-market nations ñ has a deep and credible financial center. It takes 50 years to build a financial center ñ to, you know, have auditors, lawyers, accountants, judges. And China is very lucky, because in 1997 the Brits ñ who are quite good at building financial centers ñ basically built one in Hong Kong and told China, "Here it is. Try not to mess it up." For twelve years, China did nothing with Hong Kong. It was kind of a deal of "You don't bother us, we won't bother you. We've got other fish to fry." And that worked well until all of a sudden, in the past two to three years, China has been internationalizing its currency through Hong Kong, and it is taking off like wildfire. We always talk about what you see and what you don't. Everybody talks about the China slowdown. Everybody talks about the impact this is going to have on commodities, on countries like Canada, on countries like Australia. Nobody talks about what you don't see. And what you don't see is that China is slowly but surely internationalizing its currency. It's slowly freeing capital controls. It's creating deep and liquid capital markets, and this is going to change the way that companies and individuals finance themselves among emerging markets. It's going to make for more stable emerging markets and hopef ully for higher growth. Just as Louis predicted years ago, the Chinese RMB has continued to quickly climb the ranks from an internationally non-existent currency to number nine on the list! John Mauldin This process is happening at lightning speed by historical standards, but we can still expect it to progress over the next 5-10 years. The renminbi is still only involved in 2.2% of foreign currency transactions, but this number can take a big jump when the RMB floats freely, though there is a big difference between the RMB and the true reserve currencies (USD, EUR, JPY, GBP) today. (Note that the renminbi is also called the yuan, abbreviated as CNY in the chart below.) As Louis mentioned, China stands alone among the emerging markets as having the only mature and credible financial center with deep and liquid capital markets, in Hong Kong. The building of a true global financial center typically takes about 50 years, so China is taking advantage of its lucky break to fast-track its currency to reserve status. John Mauldin What may speed the process up is increasing cooperation between Chinese officials and the UK government to support RMB internationalization through London's FX markets. Gregory Clark, Financial Secretary to the UK Treasury, was in Hong Kong this past week and wrote an op-ed in the South China Morning Post. Let's look at a few telling sentences: Over 50 percent of UK investment in Asia is in or flows through Hong Kong. That is a tremendous vote of confidence in Hong Kong by UK companiesÖ. Bilaterial trade in goods between Hong Kong and the UK rose by 13.5% between 2009 and 2012, to a total value of £12.1 billion in 2012. This makes Hong Kong the UK's second biggest export market for goods in Asia PacificÖ. According to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT), London now accounts for 28 per cent of offshore RMB settled transactions. In London, the volume of Renminbi-denominated import and export financing has increased 100 per cent since 2011. This is delivering real benefits and savings for business. It is estimated that firms can reduce their transaction costs with China by up to 7 per cent by denominating their trade in Renminbi. The Renminbiís rise is being enabled not just in Hong Kong and London. Chinese banks have established clearing banks and accounts in more than 80 other countries in the last four years. But the story runs even deeper. It appears to me that China is getting ready to create another Hong Kong in the traditional financial center of China, Shanghai. My good friend and decades-long China expert Simon Hunt notes: The proposed development of the Free Trade Zone (FTZ) in Shanghai, covering 28sq km, will have huge consequences for China's financial markets and that of the world. It will be a tax-free zone; the RMB will be fully convertible; the FTZ will have its own rules and regulations that cannot be trumped by central government; it will be legally outside the Chinese Customs, in fact a separate territory inside China; it has the effect of abolishing control over capital account investment, so allowing freedom to set up all kinds of companies and moving capital in and out of the FTZ, meaning in and out of China; it will become an international settlement centre for international trade and it will allow banks within the FTZ greater flexibility in conducting business. In short, the implications of the development of the FTZ, if the pilot scheme goes smoothly, will be humungous not just for China but for the global economy.&lt; /p&gt; One near-term consequence will be that interest rate arbitrage can be more effectively conducted in the zone and will take business away from Hong Kong and Singapore. Chinese companies won't have to set up offshore companies in Hong Kong or Singapore to conduct this business. Already, Chinese and foreign companies are either renting space, putting up buildings or buying office space in the FTZ, just waiting for the final details to be publicised. This move makes sense for China, as it is a large step toward eventually floating the currency, which is yet another requirement for a true reserve currency. I've written in the past that I think the initial move when the Chinese eventually float their currency will be for the RMB to go down against the dollar (although longer-term it should become quite strong), because there is a lot of money in China that would like to diversify. Setting up a free-trade zone, as they propose in Shanghai, is a way to slowly let the air out of the balloon and perhaps even avoid the dramatic dislocations that might occur if they were to float the currency all at once. Even so, internationalizing the RMB carries a lot of risk, so why does China really want to globalize its currency? Summarizing from a recent report from DBS Bank (based in Singapore), we can piece the picture together: For China to become a powerhouse exporter of its own products, it is eventually going to need to be able to offer financing to its ultimate customers in Indonesia, Vietnam, and the rest of Asia. If you are competing with Caterpillar and Komatsu, you not only need to have a less expensive product, you need to be able to offer financing. The same goes if you're selling telecom gear, power-generation equipment, automobiles, or bullet trains. In order for a currency to achieve reserve status, there has to be something for the country receiving the currency to invest in. If a country receives US dollars, they can invest in our bonds and stock markets. Just a few years ago, China created the dim sum bond market in Hong Kong, which is beginning to provide a real investment alternative for emerging markets ñ particularly in Greater China and Southeast Asia, where trade is largely intraregional. With China's having the largest trading flows in the world (it just passed the US, by roughly $1 billion, in 2012), a free-floating RMB could quickly reach reserve status and, oddly enough, take FX market share from the USD, which could become be too strong and too scarce to work well in global trade. China is on its way to becoming a reserve currency not because of weakness in the US dollar but precisely because the US dollar is going to get stronger and become less readily available. Countries are going to need to be able to trade in something besides dollars. It simply makes sense that if 20% of an emerging-market country's trade is with China, it should do the trades in RMB rather than in relatively scarcer dollars. Of course, this means that China needs to have a relatively stable monetary policy so that its trading partners will have confidence in the long-term RMB, but China realizes that. And of course the RMB will have to meet all the other requirements for being a reserve currency. Note that there is a difference between a reserve currency and a safe-haven currency. A safe-haven currency must be immune from government confiscation, currency controls, taxation, rapid exchange-rate depreciation, etc. As I mentioned, the RMB will probably depreciate rather than appreciate when the currency floats freely. There is a lot of capital trapped behind China's capital-control wall that wants out, and party leaders know the trick is to make the transition to floating very gradually and without precipitating a crisis. The trouble (although the Chinese will not admit it) is that China is even more addicted to money printing than the US or Japan are. For years, the People's Bank of China has been injecting money into the system each time excess foreign capital flows into the region. (This is necessary as long as China wants to effectively peg the RMB to the USD). Recent rate volatility suggests the Chinese credit system is quite fragile. Quite simply, interest rates do not spike from 3% to 13% in a healthy economy, as they recently did in China (see chart below). This instability suggests there is more going on than we understand. It is also why the floating of the RMB will occur as a series of steps on a journey rather than one big leap. And frankly, that makes sense. John Mauldin Finally, floating the RMB would also let China dive right into the global currency war that Japan launched last spring. After all, they would just be "giving in" to long-standing US demands that they not manage their currency. China would be able to simply say, "We did what you asked. Why are you complaining about what the free market says about the value of the RMB?" What a perfectly innocent way to escalate a currency war. In less than a month I will have a new book in the bookstores (see below) on central bank policy and the major global currency war that I and co-author Jonathan Tepper see coming right around the corner. As the proverbial Chinese curse says, "May you live in interesting times." Transformational Technologies I mentioned last week that Pat Cox has come to work for Mauldin Economics and that we will soon be launching a new letter called Transformational Technology Alert. I have spent a good deal of time with Pat over the last few years, talking about the technologies that are changing our future; and those discussions have become intense as we have worked out how to get that information to you. There's just so much happening around us every day that is hard to keep track of. I can't tell you how excited I am to finally have Patrick on board, where he can put into writing our shared belief that transformational technologies will build wealth, eradicate disease, extend lives, create jobs, and eventually help build a world of abundance. Rapid change is never easy for those in its path; but I would not want to go back to the "good old days" of the '60s or '70s and find myself once again mired in inefficient medical care, making do with snail's-pace communications, and wandering in an information desert. I had some good moments then, but I'm enjoying the world a great deal more today and expect to have even more fun in the future. My team is working hard behind the scenes right now to get Pat's new website up and running. But I'm so excited to pull back the curtain on what we have planned for Transformational Technology Alert that I want you to have a clear view of Patrick's work today. You should start reading Patrick immediately ñ his research is that important. Click here to get access to his letter without delay. Tucson, the Barefoot Ranch, and New York I started this letter on the plane from New York and am finishing it at my apartment in Dallas. I'm wrapping up unusually early for me, as I want to go to good friend David Tice's birthday party this evening. (You may recognize him as the founder of the Prudent Bear Fund.) He is hosting us at the Dallas opening of the new film he invested in, called The Secret Lives of Dorks. It is family fare, with James Belushi and a funny part with Mike Ditka. It will open in LA and New York next week and will soon be available on iTunes. Having grown up as a dork before it was cool to be a dork, I will be interested to see what sorts of memories the film evokes. Next Friday is my birthday, and I will spend it in Tucson with my friends from Casey Research and maybe even try to work in a round of golf. Then I'm back home for a day before driving out to East Texas to join Kyle Bass and a number of fascinating investment minds as we hash through the current economic environment. I will report back. Later in the month I will return to New York, where we will launch my new book, called Code Red, co-authored with Jonathan Tepper (who also co-authored Endgame). The book is about the effects of unorthodox central bank policies and what we believe will be a quite serious currency war that has already begun and will escalate into the latter part of the decade. I will be doing a few presentations, as much media as I can, and taping a video webinar or two for the launch. Jonathan Tepper has promised to fly over from London, so it should be quite fun. I got a text this week from my daughter Melissa, inviting me to a Dallas launch party for something called Lyft, an outfit that she is going to be working with part-time. Basically, it is on-demand ride sharing. They offer a web-based service that lets you arrange for a car and driver to come pick you up and take you to your next destination. Rather than charging a specific fare, they operate on the basis of donations. There is of course a phone app, and your donation is tracked remotely. There were 4,000 applications to be Lyft drivers in Dallas, and they chose 86 people. Lyft is in about seven major cities and seems to be rapidly expanding. I mentioned this new service to my driver as he brought me home from the airport today. He said he had heard of it and then began to tell me about the drama unfolding at the Dallas City Council over the predecessor to Lyft, called Uber. It seems Uber (which is a service that helps you find a town car rather than call a taxi) is taking significant market share from the Yellow Cab franchise, which he says has 70% of the local taxi business. Now those taxis are sitting in a lot during the evenings, as the kids would rather call a town car than a taxi. Go figure. (And given that I prefer my driver service over a cab as I go to and from the airport, I completely understand.) So the Yellow Cab company went to city hall to get Uber banned. And Uber shot back that they don't need a city license because they are licensed by the state. It turns out that the Yellow Cab owners make substantial donations to people running for city council, or at least that is what Mike (my driver) claims. An even more interesting, it turns out that the Dallas Police and Fire Pension Fund (remember them from last week?) is invested in the Yellow Cab company ñ but now the company is not quite the cash machine that it was. The lawyers are engaged. It will be interesting to see the response from both Yellow Cab and Uber to the new competition from Lyft. Lyft sees itself as a service to help friends help friends find a ride. Melissa just sees it as a way to make a little money to help pay for her auto insurance (which is a move Dad encourages), while she works on her studies and does freelance writing. (By the way, Melissa was the daugher who had the thyroid cancer 19 months ago. She is doing fine, and there appear to be no further problems.) I should note that Lyft has raised $83 million from a group of serious venture capital funds. Mike tells me that Uber just got another $33 million from Google. Serious money, considering that $4 million bought 40% of Yellow Cab of Dallas just over 10 years ago. As a codicil to the above story, when I arrived at the apartment, I stepped out of the car and heard a terrible crunching sound that could only be a serious car wreck. I ran a few feet to the cars, and amazingly both drivers seemed to be okay, although a little shaken up. A Chevy Suburban hit a Lincoln Town Car, so there was a little solid iron around both drivers. It turns out that the town car decided to turn left from the far right-hand lane, which meant it tried to cross four lanes to do so. Looking at the car and driver, Mike speculated, "That must have been an Uber driver. He got a call and was trying to get to the client quickly." Maybe Dad needs to have a serious discussion about driver safety with Melissa before she goes out Lyfting people. We had perfect weather in New York this week. And the conversations were even better. You have a great week and drive safely. Oh, and take a look at our new Mauldin Economics home page! Our techies tell me that if it doesn't look right, you should hit refresh and/or clear your browser's cache. This is just part one of a two-part upgrade we're doing. In the next few weeks the site will be optimized for mobile, so those of you on phones or iPads will soon have a much better experience. Your still thinking about China analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com
APHouse Speaker John Boehner and Majority Whip Kevin McCartyIf, as expected, the Senate tables both House-passed amendments that chip away at Obamacare, House Republicans plan to move a new continuing resolution that alters the Affordable Care Act.¬† House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) said on "Fox News Sunday" that leadership had a few options in store in the case of Senate rejection that would make changes to President Barack Obama's health care law. Early Sunday morning along highly partisan lines, the House passed an amendment to delay Obamacare by one year and to repeal a new tax on medical devices. Both are likely to be rejected by the Senate and Majority Leader Harry Reid. If that happens, McCarthy said the House will look to pass a bill that "will have fundamental changes into Obamacare that can protect the economy for America," he told host Chris Wallace. McCarthy pledged that "we are not shutting the government down." But if the House adopts his plan going forward, there may not be enough time to avoid hitting the shutdown deadline. The federal government will partially shut down on Tuesday if the two chambers cannot come to agreement on the continuing resolution.¬† The Senate will not reconvene until Monday at 2 p.m. Shortly thereafter, it is expected to table both House-passed amendments, sending back a so-called "clean" continuing resolution to the House. It's not clear what the House is looking to do, specifically, from here. McCarthy would only say that there are "a lot of items on the table." One option that was discussed among leadership Saturday was the addition of language mirroring an amendment offered by Sen. David Vitter (R-La.). But this would face several problems, from the possible lack of conservative support to revolt from staffers who would be barred from receiving subsidies for federal health insurance under Obamacare. If a government shutdown does result, McCarthy argued, Democrats and Obama should be to blame. "We are not shutting the government down," he said on "Fox News Sunday." "While the president was out playing golf, we were here until 1 a.m. We will pass a bill that reflects this House. ‚Ä¶ I think they‚Äôll be additions that Democrats can support."

Flickr/donjd2Visitors will not be able to check out the T. Rex at the Smithsonian during a government shutdown.The government is just over 24 hours away from shutting down. This follows a late-night vote from the GOP which tied funding of the government to a delay in Obamacare, a trade-off that Democrats will not accept. So what happens in a government shutdown anyway? The AP has a nice rundown of what stays open and what doesn't. And if you look at it, you'll start to realize that a shutdown could go on for a while. For example, air travel is unaffected in a shutdown. There won't be extra-long lines at the airport or anything like that, so one of the most obvious places where citizens' lives intersect with bureaucracy won't change. Even international travel won't be affected, since stuff like applying for visas and passports is paid for by fees. All government benefits, for the most part, will remain paid: Unemployment, Social Security, and Medicare checks will continue to be written as usual. The National Park Service along with museums in Washington D.C. will be closed down, so that will be a highly-visible nuisance to a lot of people. But the majority of people never go to these places, and since this is October, we're not exactly talking about a big tourism season. Meanwhile, the U.S. mail system will stay open, rocket control will stay open at NASA. Most military and veterans bills will get paid. Some routine FDA food safety inspections might stop, but high-risk situations and meat inspections would go on. There's more, but the gist is, there's no obvious one thing that will be so annoying to the public that the two sides would quickly have to come to a deal. One thing that would hurt is that first-time homebuyers wouldn't be able to get FHA loans, so this might inspire the real estate industry to apply pressure to the government. So that helps. Yesterday, we published a paragraph from Bank of America analyst Ethan Harris, who is concerned about a sustained and damaging government shutdown: As in the past, we worry that if they do cross the Rubiconóand start a shutdownówhat will get them to turn back? If they have decided that the political calculus is in their favor, what will make them decide it no longer is? In our view, it might require either a major popular outcry or a major stock market correction. Recall that as the fiscal cliff approached at the end of last year, one popular view was that the fiscal cliff was really a ìslopeîóit would impact the economy slowly and that any damage could be easily reversed. That kind of attitude is what could cause a really damaging sustained shutdown.† Looking at the above, you can see why he's concerned. Every week the government shuts down, 0.15% is shaved off of annualized GDP. This will hurt the economy, but won't be so immediately painful that both sides will rush to get things solved.
statigr.am/samanthallsilverIt's easy to get completely addicted to coffee on Wall Street. When you start out as a young analyst, the boring hours between spreadsheets and pitch books are spent going on Starbucks runs.¬† And of course, everyone needs a pick-me-up working those 14 hour days. You can drink too much coffee, however, and that¬† can be harmful to your body. Research indicates that ingesting too much caffeine (500-600 mgs or 5 or more cups of coffee) can cause anything from restlessness to muscle tremors. So keep all this in mind when you order your next double shot of espresso.
Breaking BadThe White's neighbor, "Carol," after she sees Walter return in an earlier episode's "forward-flash."WARNING: MINOR SPOILER ALERT In the latest episode of "Breaking Bad," we learn that the family home of meth kingpin Walter White is being sold at police auction. Carol, their neighbor, can't be happy.† Thanks to a recent study, we can actually quantify her displeasure. In his 2011 paper, "The Lasting Effects of Crime: The Relationship of†Discovered Methamphetamine Laboratories and Home†Values," Holy Cross econ professor†Joshua Congdon-Hohman calculates how much damage meth labs cause to surrounding home values after they're discovered. Although Walter White, aka Heisenberg, wasn't running a lab directly out of his home, it's safe to say its newfound association with his activities create similar conditions. We can also expand the paper's findings to Jesse Pinkman's first home, where he and Heisenberg had set up a lab; as well as Gus Fring's massive operation beneath a laundry, which Heisenberg burnt down. Using housing sales data from Akron, Ohio ó†home to that state's largest concentration of meth labs †ó†Congdon-Hohman finds the following: Here's the chart: Joshua Congdon-Hohman It turns out that home values within one-sixteenth of a mile of the lab don't show tremendous changes pre- and post-bust. That is presumably because, at such a close distance, the presence of the lab may be better known, Congdon-Hohman says. † Still, since meth labs are often better concealed than other types of illicit activity run out of homes, their presence may not be as obvious to someone living more than 600 feet away as they might be to someone living only 300 feet away, he says. So, since people's wealth is to a great degree tied to their home values, he writes, "From a policy perspective, this <U+FB01>nding suggests that government initiatives that would reduce the number of methamphetamine†labs should be well funded." We can actually complete the thought experiment for the White residence by looking at how much homes cost in the real-life neighborhood where externals are shot. That would be Albuquerque's Loma Del Rey neighborhood, where the median home price is currently $265,000. So a 10.5% decline would kick prices down to $237,175 for homes up the block, and declines to $253,075 for all of Loma. Thanks a lot, Mr. White.
Flickr / RogiroCoffee beansIt's International Coffee Day. And there's little doubt that America's love for coffee has had an impact on coffee prices. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which publishes consumer price index (CPI) data, coffee prices have been falling since 2012. But they're¬† up 38% in the last decade. This compares to just 14% for other beverage materials. From the BLS: The decline in coffee prices in 2012 and 2013 follows a sharp increase in prices in 2011. The CPI for coffee was 21 percent higher in January 2012 than in January 2010. Despite the recent price declines, the CPI for coffee was 38 percent higher in August 2013 than it had been 10 years earlier. Prices for roasted coffee generally have increased more rapidly over the past decade than prices for instant and freeze dried coffee. The CPI for roasted coffee was 41 percent higher in August 2013 than in August 2003. By comparison, the CPI for instant and freeze dried coffee increased 23 percent over the same time period. If coffee is not your cup of tea, you may be interested to know that prices for other beverage materials, including tea, increased 14 percent from August 2003 to August 2013. BLS
REUTERS/Aung Hla Tun A jade merchant inspects the most valuable jade lot that will be auctioned at the Mid-Year Emporium in Yangon November 13, 2007. HPAKANT, Myanmar (Reuters) - Tin Tun picked all night through teetering heaps of rubble to find the palm-sized lump of jade he now holds in his hand. He hopes it will make him a fortune. It's happened before. "Last year I found a stone worth 50 million kyat," he said, trekking past the craters and slag heaps of this notorious jade-mining region in northwest Myanmar. That's about $50,000 - and it was more than enough money for Tin Tun, 38, to buy land and build a house in his home village. But rare finds by small-time prospectors like Tin Tun pale next to the staggering wealth extracted on an industrial scale by Myanmar's military, the tycoons it helped enrich, and companies linked to the country where most jade ends up: China. Almost half of all jade sales are "unofficial" - that is, spirited over the border into China with little or no formal taxation. This represents billions of dollars in lost revenues that could be spent on rebuilding a nation shattered by nearly half a century of military dictatorship. Official statistics confirm these missing billions. Myanmar produced more than 43 million kg of jade in fiscal year 2011/12 (April to March). Even valued at a conservative $100 per kg, it was worth $4.3 billion. But official exports of jade that year stood at only $34 million. Official Chinese statistics only deepen the mystery. China doesn't publicly report how much jade it imports from Myanmar. But jade is included in official imports of precious stones and metals, which in 2012 were worth $293 million - a figure still too small to explain where billions of dollars of Myanmar jade has gone. Such squandered wealth symbolizes a wider challenge in Myanmar, an impoverished country whose natural resources - including oil, timber and precious metals - have long fueled armed conflicts while enriching only powerful individuals or groups. In a rare visit to the heart of Myanmar's secretive jade-mining industry in Hpakant, Reuters found an anarchic region where soldiers and ethnic rebels clash, and where mainland Chinese traders rub shoulders with heroin-fueled "handpickers" who are routinely buried alive while scavenging for stones. Myint Aung, Myanmar's Minister of Mines, did not reply to written questions from Reuters about the jade industry's missing millions and social costs. Since a reformist government took office in March 2011, Myanmar has pinned its economic hopes on the resumption of foreign aid and investment. Some economists argue, however, that Myanmar's prosperity and unity may depend upon claiming more revenue from raw materials. There are few reliable estimates on total jade sales that include unofficial exports. The Harvard Ash Center, which advises Myanmar's quasi-civilian government, has possibly the best numbers available. After sending researchers to the area this year, the Harvard Ash Center published a report in July that put sales of Burmese jade at about $8 billion in 2011. That's more than double the country's revenue from natural gas and nearly a sixth of its 2011 GDP. "Practically nothing is going to the government," David Dapice, the report's co-author, told Reuters. "What you need is a modern system of public finance in which the government collects some part of the rents from mining this stuff." Chinese have prized jade for its beauty and symbolism for millennia. Many believe wearing jade jewelry brings good fortune, prosperity and longevity. It is also viewed as an investment, a major factor driving China's appetite for Burmese jade. "Gold is valuable, but jade is priceless," runs an old Chinese saying. Jade is not only high value but easy to transport. "Only the stones they cannot hide go to the emporiums," said Tin Soe, 53, a jade trader in Hpakant, referring to the official auctions held in Myanmar's capital of Naypyitaw. The rest is smuggled by truck to China by so-called "jockeys" through territory belonging to either the Burmese military or the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), both of whom extract tolls. The All China Jade Trade Association, a state-linked industry group based in Beijing, declined repeated requests for an interview. Hpakant lies in Kachin State, a rugged region sandwiched strategically between China and India. Nowhere on Earth does jade exist in such quantity and quality. "Open the ground, let the country abound," reads the sign outside the Hpakant offices of the Ministry of Mines. In fact, few places better symbolize how little Myanmar benefits from its fabulous natural wealth. The road to Hpakant has pot-holes bigger than the four-wheel-drive cars that negotiate it. During the rainy season, it can take nine hours to reach from Myitkyina, the Kachin state capital 110 km (68 miles) away. Non-Burmese are rarely granted official access to Hpakant, but taxi-drivers routinely take Chinese traders there for exorbitant fees, part of which goes to dispensing bribes at police and military checkpoints. The official reason for restricting access to Hpakant is security: the Burmese military and the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) have long vied for control of the road, which is said to be flanked with land-mines. But the restrictions also serve to reduce scrutiny of the industry's biggest players and its horrific social costs: the mass deaths of workers and some of the highest heroin addiction and HIV infection rates in Myanmar. There are also "obvious" links between jade and conflict in Kachin State, said analyst Richard Horsey, a former United Nations senior official in Myanmar. A 17-year ceasefire between the military and the KIA ended when fighting erupted in June 2011. It has since displaced at least 100,000 people. "Such vast revenues - in the hands of both sides - have certainly fed into the conflict, helped fund insurgency, and will be a hugely complicating factor in building a sustainable peace economy," Horsey said. The United States banned imports of jade, rubies and other Burmese gemstones in 2008 in a bid to cut off revenue to the military junta which then ruled Myanmar, also known as Burma. But soaring demand from neighboring China meant the ban had little effect. After Myanmar's reformist government took power, the United States scrapped or suspended almost all economic and political sanctions - but not the ban on jade and rubies. It was renewed by the White House on August 7 in a sign that Myanmar's anarchic jade industry remains a throwback to an era of dictatorship. The U.S. Department of the Treasury included the industry in activities that "contribute to human rights abuses or undermine Burma's democratic reform process." Foreign companies are not permitted to extract jade. But mining is capital intensive, and it is an open secret that most of the 20 or so largest operations in Hpakant are owned by Chinese companies or their proxies, say gem traders and other industry insiders in Kachin State. "Of course, some (profit) goes to the government," said Yup Zaw Hkawng, chairman of Jadeland Myanmar, the most prominent Kachin mining company in Hpakant. "But mostly it goes into the pockets of Chinese families and the families of the former (Burmese) government." Other players include the Union of Myanmar Economic Holdings Ltd (UMEHL), the investment arm of the country's much-feared military, and Burmese tycoons such as Zaw Zaw, chairman of Max Myanmar, who made their fortunes collaborating with the former junta. REUTERS/Minzayar Hand-pickers search for jade through rubble dumped by mining companies at a jade mine in Hpakant township, Kachin State July 8, 2013. Soldiers guard the big mining companies and sometimes shoot in the air to scare off small-time prospectors. "We run like crazy when we see them," said Tin Tun, the handpicker. UMEHL is notoriously tight-lipped about its operations. "Stop bothering us," Major Myint Oo, chief of human resources at UMEHL's head office in downtown Yangon, told Reuters. "You can't just come in here and meet our superiors. This is a military company. Some matters must be kept secret." This arrangement, whereby Chinese companies exploit natural resources with military help, is both familiar and deeply controversial in Myanmar. Last year, protests outside the Letpadaung copper mine in northwest Myanmar triggered a violent police crackdown. The mine's two operators - UMEHL and Myanmar Wanbao, a unit of Chinese weapons manufacturer China North Industries Corp - shared most of the profits, leaving the government with just 4 percent. That contract was revised in July in an apparent attempt to appease public anger. The government now gets 51 percent of the profits, while UMEHL and Myanmar Wanbao get 30 and 19 percent respectively. China's domination of the jade trade could feed into a wider resentment over its exploitation of Myanmar's natural wealth. A Chinese-led plan to build a $3.6 million dam at the Irrawaddy River's source in Kachin State - and send most of the power it generated to Yunnan Province - was suspended in 2011 by President Thein Sein amid popular outrage. The national and local governments should also get a greater share of Kachin State's natural wealth, say analysts and activists. That includes gold, timber and hydropower, but especially jade. A two-week auction held in the capital Naypyitaw in June sold a record-breaking $2.6 billion in jade and gems. But jade tax revenue in 2011 amounted to only 20 percent of the official sales. Add in all the "unofficial" sales outside of the emporium, and Harvard calculates an effective tax rate of about 7 percent on all Burmese jade. It is, on the other hand, highly lucrative for the mining companies, whose estimated cost of production is $400 a ton, compared with an official sales figure of $126,000 a ton, the report said. "Kachin, and by extension Myanmar, cannot be peaceful and politically stable without some equitable sharing of resource revenues with the local people," said analyst Horsey. At the top of the pecking order in Hpakant are cashed-up traders from China, who buy stones displayed on so-called "jade tables" in Hpakant tea-shops. The tables are run by middleman called laoban ("boss" in Chinese), who are often ethnic Chinese. They buy jade from, and sometimes employ, handpickers like Tin Tun. The handpickers are at the bottom of the heap - literally. They swarm in their hundreds across mountains of rubble dumped by the mining companies. It is perilous work, especially when banks and slag heaps are destabilized by monsoon rain. Landslides routinely swallow 10 or 20 men at a time, said Too Aung, 30, a handpicker from the Kachin town of Bhamo. "Sometimes we can't even dig out their bodies," he said. "We don't know where to look." In 2002, at least a thousand people were killed when flood waters inundated a mine, Jadeland Myanmar chairman Yup Zaw Hkawng told Reuters. Deaths are common but routinely concealed by companies eager to avoid suspending operations, he said. The boom in Hpakant's population coincided with an exponential rise in opium production in Myanmar, the world's second-largest producer after Afghanistan. Its derivative, heroin, is cheap and widely available in Kachin State, and Hpakant's workforce seems to run on it. About half the handpickers use heroin, while others rely on opium or alcohol, said Tin Soe, 53, a jade trader and a local leader of the opposition National League for Democracy party. "It's very rare to find someone who doesn't do any of these," he said. Official figures on heroin use in Hpakant are hard to get. The few foreign aid workers operating in the area, mostly working with drug users, declined comment for fear of upsetting relations with the Myanmar government. But health workers say privately about 40 percent of injecting drug users in Hpakant are HIV positive - twice the national average. Drug use is so intrinsic to jade mining that "shooting galleries" operate openly in Hpakant, with workers often exchanging lumps of jade for hits of heroin. Soe Moe, 39, came to Hpakant in 1992. Three years later, he was sniffing heroin, then injecting it. His habit now devours his earnings as a handpicker. "When I'm on (heroin), I feel happier and more energetic. I work better," he said. The shooting gallery he frequents accommodates hundreds of users. "The place is so busy it's like a festival," he said. Soe Moe said he didn't fear arrest, because the gallery owners paid off the police. Twenty years ago, Hpakant was controlled by KIA insurgents who for a modest fee granted access to small prospectors. Four people with iron picks could live off the jade harvested from a small plot of land, said Yitnang Ze Lum of the Myanmar Gems and Jewellery Entrepreneurs Association (MGJEA) in Myitkyina. A 1994 ceasefire brought most of Hpakant back under government control, and large-scale extraction began, with hundreds of backhoes, earthmovers and trucks working around the clock. "Now even a mountain lasts only three months," said Yitnang Ze Lum. Many Kachin businessmen, unable to compete in terms of capital or technology, were shut out of the industry. Non-Kachin workers poured in from across Myanmar, looking for jobs and hoping to strike it rich. The mines were closed in mid-2012 when the conflict flared up again. Myanmar's military shelled suspected KIA positions; the rebels retaliated with ambushes along the Hpakant road. Thousands of people were displaced.Jade production plunged to just 19.08 million kg in the 2012/13 fiscal year from 43.1 million kg the previous year. But the government forged a preliminary ceasefire with the Kachin rebels in May, and some traders predict Hpakant's mines will re-open when the monsoon ends in October. When operations are in full swing, the road to Hpakant is clogged with vehicles bringing fuel in and jade out. Such is the scale and speed of modern extraction, said Yitnang Ze Lum, Hpakant's jade could be gone within 10 years. "Every Kachin feels passionately that their state's resources are being taken away," a leading Myitkyina gem trader told Reuters on condition of anonymity. "But we're powerless to stop them." (Andrew R.C. Marshall reported from Myitkyina; Min Zayar Oo reported from Hpakant; Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in Beijing 
Last week more than a dozen companies had IPOs and among them was an interesting bio-tech company called Foundation Medicine. Foundation offers to the public the kind of in-detailed genetic cancer testing made famous by Steve Jobs. Jobs was the first well-known person to try this sort of thing. For about $6,000, this test uncovers all the genetic mutations that lead to a personís tumor. It's helping to usher in a new era of "personalized medicine" where doctors choose cancer treatments based on genetic knowledge. Jobs spent some $100,000 to have this kind of test done, according to Walter Isaacsonís biography, and in the end, it obviously didn't save him. But he believed deeply in the value of the attempt, saying ìIím either going to be one of the first to be able to outrun a cancer like this, or Iím going to be one of the last to die from it,î reports Antonio Regalado, MIT Technology Review. After Jobs died, the doctors who reportedly worked on the test at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard started Foundation, Regalado reports. Bill Gates and Larry Page both visited Jobs shortly before his death, according to†Isaacson,† and while they could do nothing to help him, they did help fund Foundation. Bill Gates was part of the company's initial $13.5 million round and still owns 4%, according to documents filed with the SEC. Google Ventures, the venture capital arm of Google, was part of a long list of VCs that later kicked in cash, and still owns 9%. In fact, foundation raised a whopping $251 million from investors in two years. With its IPO last week, Foundation raised another $106 million and investors have already done well. Its shares opened at $18, above its range of $14 to $16, and the stock has nearly doubled, to above $35.
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include today's release of Real Personal Income excluding Transfer Payments, the last of the Big Four for August. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  With today's Personal Income and Outlays report, we can calculate Real Personal Income less Transfer Payments for August, thus completing the Big Four for last month. As the adjacent thumbnail illustrates, this indicator continues to show the fingerprint of the 2012 end-of-year pull of early 2013 incomes in anticipation of tax hikes. In August, Nominal Personal Income was up 0.40% month-over-month and 3.72% year-over-year. When we subtract Transfer Payments and adjust for inflation, this core measure of personal income productivity was up 0.26% MoM and 2.39% YoY. For some historical context, the average YoY for the Real PI less TP series since its 1959 inception is 3.06%.  The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four and simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the percent cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. The latest data point completes the 50th month. In addition to the four indicators, I've included an average of the four, which, as we can see, was influenced by the anomaly in the Personal Income tax management strategy. The overall picture of the US economy remains one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession. As we can see in the illustration of the average of the Big Four off its all-time high since 2007, the rate of post-trough growth has been slower since February of 2012, although the end-of-year tax-strategy has obscured overall trend slope over the past 18 months. The August average of the four shows a slight improvement over the trend during the previous four months. Let's hope that improvement continues. My next update will on October 4th, when we get the Nonfarm Employment report for September. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries). ¬† ¬† The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively). ¬† ¬† And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income. ¬† ¬† History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators. ¬† ¬† The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS). ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) spliced with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that was date mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splice of two seasonally adjusted series tracked by the BEA. The 1967-1996 component is SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) based and the 1997-present is NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) based. The data are available from the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Tables 2AU and 2BU. The FRED economists use the Real Retail Sales above for their four-pack. However, ECRI appears to use this series as their key indicator for sales. Note that the Manufacturing and Trade Sales data is updated monthly with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release, but the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬†  Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart.
TumblrOn Wall Street, you work long hours, so a coffee addiction is almost inescapable. It's not just that you need that caffeine, it's that it's a part of the job's culture. When you start out as a young analyst, the boring hours between spreadsheets and pitch books are spent going on Starbucks runs. Unless you can get the interns to go get it, of course. Our love of coffee noted, it's very possible to drink too much coffee, and that can be harmful to your body. Research shows that ingesting too much caffeine (500-600 milligrams or 5 or more cups of coffee) can cause anything from restlessness to muscle tremors. So keep all this in mind when you order your next double shot of espresso.
The Business Insider office recently got into cold brew coffee and the simple recipe will help you make some of the best, most aromatic and caffeinated joe you've ever tasted.† Never heard of cold brew coffee? It's basically what you're getting out of your office coffee contraption, only the caffeine is weaponized and it doesn't taste like crap. It's also easier, cheaper, and remarkably tasty. So it's actually nothing like what you're getting out your office coffee contraption. The gist of our recipe is based off this awesome BoingBoing †post by Cory Doctorow from a few weeks back. After weeks of trial and error, we think we've perfected the recipe for fellow coffee novices.† We've also reached out to Noah Belanich, the co-founder of Joyride Coffee Distributors, a guy who is basically the Gus Fring of New York City cold brew coffee. †Those guys sell cold brew by the keg, and Noah was kind enough to offer a few more tips to help nail it.† So here's the recipe.†
Every year there seems to be a few momentum stocks defying logic, reality while bleeding all shorts getting in the way. ¬†This year, Tesla Motor (Nasdaq: TSLA) is one such stock which hit $188.64 on Friday, Sept. 26. We are talking about a $35ish stock just on Jan. 2, 2013, and the company only reported its FIRST EVER profitable quarter in May. ¬†Goldman Sachs (GS) did do a reality check on Tesla's margin in July, and the stock did go down by $18.21 in one day on July 15. ¬†However, a forgiving market with crazy liquidity (thanks to Fed's infinite QE), ¬†investors just blew GS off and the stock's never looked back. ¬† Now the latest Tesla warning came from BofA Merrill Lynch dated Sept. 23 -- Smart-money big boys are getting out of Tesla, and guess who are the buyers...Retail Investors! "Institutional ownership of Tesla stock has faded throughout 2013, from approximately 84% of shares held in January to about 66% today. As a result, it now appears that¬†retail investors are playing an increasing role in driving the stock price higher¬†and could be at risk when a correction, which we believe is long overdue, ultimately occurs." More importantly, BofA Merrill Lynch thinks Tesla price objective (PO) should be at $45! ¬†(That's 76% lower than the closing price on Friday.) "We continue to view Tesla shares as vastly overvalued and maintain our $45 PO, which is based on a 2015e EV/EBITDA multiple of about 12X (currently 12.7X). ¬†We note that our valuation multiple is relatively consistent with the simple average of 2015 EV/EBITDA multiples for a group of 35 growth oriented tech companies, based on consensus estimates." ¬† ¬† The reason for such pessimistic view on Tesla going against the market herd? ¬†BofA noted: We estimate that Tesla‚Äôs current share price implies approximately 628K vehicle sales in 2020 (versus an estimated 21K in 2013).....Generating luxury margins on a mass market vehicle is likely to prove incredibly challenging, and represents another major hurdle to the bull case, in our view. In other words, the current valuation might remotely be reasonable if Tesla were the only game in town without the competition from GM, Toyota and BMWs. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬†¬†Fundamentally, I can see why even a typical bull like GS would have concern -- TTM financial ratios related to profitability and margins of Tesla are ALL NEGATIVE or meaningless since 2008! (See Screen Shot from S&amp;P Capital IQ)Does This Look Like a $188 Stock to you?¬† Some analysts argued that Tesla requires an¬†unconventional approach¬†to valuation due to¬†Tesla's special 'advantages'. ¬†However, I think the current price point of Tesla stock is unlikely to be justified by any reasonable and logical model, however unconventional it needs to be. ¬†And it looks like a lot of the institution smart money investors agreed and have already cashed out judging from the BofA analysis. Approaching it from a common sense point of view, Tesla is already exhibiting signs of a bubble when you see quotes like this: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs what Marty McFly might have brought back in place of his DeLorean in Back to the Future.‚Äù ¬†~ Consumer Reports, May 2013 And when Tesla‚Äôs chief designer, Franz von Holzhausen, pulled out the Apple and 'iPhone Moment' card when he tried to explain why the car has a touchscreen: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs like the leap of faith Apple (AAPL) took with the iPhone. ¬†The screen is the hero. We are in the midst of that transition toward a new way of thinking. For me, it‚Äôs that iPhone moment.‚Äù¬† My take is that it seems a pretty smooth move implying Tesla, essentially an auto maker in the manufacturing sector, is a 'peer' of Apple, an international icon tech company. ¬† The Christian Science Monitor (CSM) just¬†published¬†an interesting article questioning how Tesla could be worth almost half (46%) of General Motors in terms of market cap. ¬†This caught my eyes because typically CSM is not a site where you find articles talking about stock valuation. ¬†As such, CSM did not cite the financial lingos such as forward PE, etc, but rather based it purely on the fact that "GM has built over 450 million cars in its 105 years while Tesla has made about 25,000 over 10 years." A lot of times, the most basic question is usually the most important one that retail investors should ask before getting into Tesla. ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
www.youtube.comOne of the world's largest investment firms believes the financial system is overly leveraged. "We are in the middle of an epic credit bubble, in my opinion, the likes of which I haven't seen in my career in private equity," Joseph Baratta, The Blackstone Group's global head of private equity, said Thursday night at the Dow Jones Private Equity Analyst Conference in New York City. "The cost of a high yield bond on an absolute coupon basis is as low as it's ever been." Baratta said Blackstone is "bullish" on the U.S. economy, but the "valuations we have to pay relative to the growth prospects are out of whack right now." Baratta said the U.S. still has "clear headwinds" and is "range bound" between 1 percent and 3 percent economic growth. Blackstone, which manages $53 billion in private equity assets and $230 billion overall, is pursuing select investment opportunities in energy, transportation infrastructure, consumer finance, housing and construction, according to Baratta. "We're not just levering up U.S. GDP into multiples today," Baratta said. "I do expect mean reversion to happen at some point on interest rates, on credit spreads, on the cost of some investment grade corporate credit." The high valuation of many companies today makes it harder for them to grow. "The biggest risk to returns of this vintage is that exit multiples are depressed," Baratta said. (Read more: 8 signs you're headed for financial ruin) (Read more:†17 years until Earth runs dry?) (Read more:†Stocks for the end of the world)
Twitter/@GOPLeader In Sunday morning's early hours, the House of Representatives passed two amendments to the Senate's continuing resolution that make the first federal government shutdown in 17 years more likely come Tuesday. The Republican-led House passed two amendments intended to chip away at the Affordable Care Act. One would delay the law by a year, a measure that passed by a 231-192 vote. The other permanently repeals a new tax on medical devices, which passed by a 248-174 vote. Seventeen Democrats joined all 231 Republicans that voted in passing the medical-tax repeal. Two Democrats broke ranks and voted for a one-year delay, while two Republicans broke ranks and voted against it. The White House said Saturday that President Barack Obama would veto any bill with the House-passed amendments. And the Democratic-controlled Senate is likely to table both amendments on Monday, sending back the so-called "clean" continuing resolution to the House just hours before the government is set to shut down. House Republican leadership committed to the strategy in a rare Saturday session, and it earned broad support within the caucus.† ìThe House has again passed a plan that reflects the American peopleís desire to keep government running and stop the presidentís health care law," House Speaker John Boehner said in a statement.  "Now that the House has again acted, itís up to the Senate to pass this bill without delay to stop a government shutdown. Letís get this done.î The House also passed ó in a unanimous, 423-0 vote ó a measure to pay members of the military in the event of a shutdown. Earlier Saturday, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the House's votes were "pointless." "After weeks of futile political games from Republicans, we are still at square one: Republicans must decide whether to pass the Senateís clean CR, or force a Republican government shutdown," Reid said.† "Senate Democrats have shown that we are willing to debate and vote on a wide range of issues, including efforts to improve the Affordable Care Act. We continue to be willing to debate these issues in a calm and rational atmosphere. But the American people will not be extorted by Tea Party anarchists."
