Another day, another big Nikkei rally. After taking Monday off, the market is up over 2.8% surpassing 14,000 for the first time in five years. Nikkei.com
House.govMel Watt, President Obamaís nominee for director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, pushed government programs to help welfare recipients buy homes during the creation of the subprime mortgage bubble. Watt, a 20-year Member of Congress from North Carolinaís 12th district, also had a hand in programs allowing borrowers with poor credit to buy homes with no down payment. The American financial system was subsequently destroyed when millions of bad borrowers defaulted on their loans, setting off a market crash that wiped out nearly 40 percent of the net worth of Americans. In 2002, Watt †teamed up with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, Bank of America, BB&amp;T, and UJAMMA Inc., to announce Pathways to Homeownership, a pilot initiative designed to give home loans to welfare recipients. A press release from Wattís campaign office in October 2002 said that the loans to the welfare recipients would require ìas little as $1,000 of the down payment to come from their own fundsî and that the city of Charlotte would help borrowers obtain a ìdown payment subsidyî to cover the rest of the 3% down payment. If approved to head up Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), Watt will be regulating the very government agencies whose rules he negated in 2003. Watt, alongside then-Democratic Massachusetts Rep. Barney Frank, blocked Bush Administration efforts to reduce Fannie and Freddieís overexposure to subprime loans. ìI donít see much other than a shell game going on here, moving something from one agency to another and in the process weakening the bargaining power of poorer families and their ability to get affordable housing,î Watt said in a banking committee hearing, downplaying the risks inherent in pushing. In 2007, a full year after the real estate market peaked and began to plummet under the weight of millions of mortgage defaults, Watt and Frank co-sponsored a bill forcing Fannie and Freddie to meet even higher quotas for affordable lending and investing in an ìAffordable Housing Fundî for inner city communities. Wattís deregulation of Fannie and Freddie came after the government-sponsored enterprises spent billions in his congressional district. ìFreddie Mac has purchased $9.5 billion in mortgages made to an estimated 82,000 Charlotte-area residents,î Wattís staff announced in 2002. Many of those risky loans ultimately led to the housing bubble and financial crisis. Charlotte was among the hardest-hit areas of the country. The 6.09 percent foreclosure rate for the North Carolina city was more than double the national average of 2.85 percent, according to the Charlotte Observer. CNN.com listed Charlotte number five of the hardest hit foreclosure hotspots in America in 2011.
BloombergHarvard historian Niall Ferguson landed himself in hot water this past Friday at a conference when he equated the economic philosophy of John Maynard Keynes with the fact that Keynes was gay and childless. Basically, he was trying to cleverly equate Keynes' famous line "in the long run we're all dead" to a mentality which doesn't care about the future, due to lack of offspring. Of course, that Keynes line is taken out of context, and Keynes clearly thought about the long term, and beyond that it's just straight up offensive to say that being gay is incompatible with long-term thinking. If there were any connection, then the obvious next step would be to be against any gay leader, or policymaker, or philosopher, on the suspicion that they were incapable of long-term consideration. Ferguson eventually gave an unqualified apology (which seemed pretty sincere), but it's worth pointing out that in the last few years, Ferguson has self-immolated a number of times trying to fight an anti-Keynesian battle. Last August, Ferguson wrote a cover story for Newsweek slamming Obama's economic stewardship, which prompted us to go back through his own track record of prognostication. His most spectacularly incorrect call came in in the Summer of 2009, when he took a victory lap, proclaiming that since interest rates were rising, he was correct that the bond vigilantes were rebelling against the large stimulus and historic deficits. On Wednesday last week, yields on 10-year US Treasuries - generally seen as the benchmark for long-term interest rates - rose above 3.73 per cent. Once upon a time that would have been considered rather low. But the financial crisis has changed all that: at the end of last year, the yield on the 10-year fell to 2.06 per cent. In other words, long-term rates have risen by 167 basis points in the space of five months. In relative terms, that represents an 81 per cent jump.† Most commentators were unnerved by this development, coinciding as it did with warnings about the fiscal health of the US. For me, however, it was good news. For it settled a rather public argument between me and the Princeton economist Paul Krugman.† It is a brave or foolhardy man who picks a fight with Mr Krugman, the most recent recipient of the Nobel Prize for Economics. Yet a cat may look at a king, and sometimes a historian can challenge an economist.† A month ago Mr Krugman and I sat on a panel convened in New York to discuss the financial crisis. I made the point that "the running of massive fiscal deficits in excess of 12 per cent of gross domestic product this year, and the issuance therefore of vast quantities of freshly-minted bonds" was likely to push long-term interest rates up, at a time when the Federal Reserve aims at keeping them down. I predicted a "painful tug-of-war between our monetary policy and our fiscal policy, as the markets realize just what a vast quantity of bonds are going to have to be absorbed by the financial system this year". Unfortunately for Ferguson his victory lap was premature. While rates did rebound from their crisis lows in 2009, subsequent years have only seen a steady grind lower. FRED Then in May 2011 he wrote for The Daily Beast about "The Great Inflation Of The 2010s." He actually said in the piece: "Yes, folks, double-digit inflation is back. Pretty soon youíll be able to figure out the real inflation rate just by moving the decimal point in the core CPI one place to the right." This was totally incorrect. Double-digit inflation is not back. Hopefully by this point you don't need a chart to show you that. In February 2010 he predicted a Greek crisis was coming to America. Verdict: Wrong. And in June 2009, he predicted a painful conflict (imminently) between monetary and fiscal policy. Verdict: wrong. Meanwhile in more timely silliness, here's a video (via Mike Konczal) in which Niall Ferguson calls it a "law of finance" that when debt passed 90% of GDP, growth slows precipitously. Ferguson is at 1:18 mark. Of course that study has since been debunked after an Excel coding error was found by a grad student.  While none of this speaks to his skills as a historian, the crisis and post-crisis period has been characterized by him railing against the Keynesian establishment, and impaling himself at every turn.
LONDON, May 7 (Reuters) - Hard-pressed company bosses across much of the world are under so much pressure to deliver on growth that many have resorted to cooking the books, Ernst &amp; Young says in its latest Fraud Survey published on Tuesday. One in five of almost 3,500 staff quizzed in 36 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India said they had seen financial manipulation in their companies in the last 12 months, the accounting and consultancy firm said. In addition 42 percent of board directors and top managers surveyed said they were aware of "some type of irregular financial reporting". And despite scandals and regulatory failures in the wake of the credit crunch, almost a quarter of top financial services staff surveyed said they were aware of manipulation and almost 10 percent of all staff said their companies had understated costs, overstated revenues or used unprincipled sales tactics. Meanwhile, almost half of the sales staff surveyed across all sectors did not consider anti-corruption policies to be relevant and more than a quarter thought it acceptable to offer personal gifts or services to win or retain business. In India, over a third felt justified in offering cash - triple the number in western Europe. "Our survey shows that to find growth and improved performance in this environment, an alarming number appear to be comfortable with or aware of unethical conduct," said David Stulb, head of E&amp;Y's fraud investigation and dispute services practice. In Spain, ranked alongside Russia and just below Nigeria and Slovenia, 61 percent of staff believed companies often exaggerated results, compared with only 7 percent in Finland. And E&amp;Y said the vast majority of managers from Norway to Nigeria and Russia to Greece were feeling the pressure to deliver a good financial performance over the next 12 months, despite little optimism that business conditions would improve. They were now forced to balance the risks of expanding into rapid-growth markets, where winning contracts can go hand-in-hand with corruption, cutting costs further and piling pressure on staff or suppliers - or distorting results, the firm said. E&amp;Y warned multinationals based in mature markets they could be more vulnerable to the risks of unethical behaviour. One quarter of those asked thought watchdogs in rapid-growth markets focussed more on the behaviour of foreign businesses. The consultancy called on managers to ask more robust questions, focus on key risks, such as poor due diligence accounting checks of intermediaries and associates, and punish unethical behaviour. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 

REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAfter last week's FOMC statement, Dennis Gartman wrote that he had gone "from 'agnostic' to bearish of equities." At the time, he also wrote that he would "punt in the very short term on the short side of gold." Now, Gartman admits he was wrong: "Trading, as they say, ainít easy and like growing old, ìIt ainít for sissies.î The trick... the ìSecretî... the thing that separates those of us whoíve survived for decades in the business from those who light up the sky in a brief blaze and then blaze out like Icarus flying to close to the sun... is that those who survive do so because we know our limits; know our boundaries; we know when we are wrong and we admit it often and quickly. The ìsecretî is that there is no secret. "Last week we tried to sell both the US equity market and gold and both proved almost comically wrong, with the decision by Mr. Draghi on Thursday turning our trades blithely and consequentially wrong within a day. But the losses were ìlivable,î and were kept to 1-2%. Those are manageable losses; those can be survived, and we did indeed survive, with only our reputation sullied a bit in the process. Such are the vagaries of trading, and such shall be the vagaries of trading in the days, weeks, months, years and hopefully decades ahead. "Some have asked if we were embarrassed by the one unit short positions in gold and equities and do we wish weíd not done them? We shall answer in a most direct manner: ìNothing we did was embarrassing; they were simply wrong.î Our trades were well designed; the risks were well defined; the technical circumstances were well documented and historically valid... the trades simply went awry. We would not hesitate to do the same trades in the same manner under the same circumstances anytime again in the future; we would not hesitate for even a minute and we wish to be quite clear about that fact." It's refreshing to hear people admit their mistakes.† This is rare behavior on Wall Street. Gartman says he will try and keep such mistakes to a 1-3% level. We'll be watching.
Donald Trump and Jon Stewart engaged in a war of tweets†last Friday, based off a segment in which Stewart referred to Trump as "Fóface Von Clownstick." The feud stems off a Twitter rant last week in which Trump attacked Stewart, pointing out how Stewart had adopted a different stage name than his birth name of Liebowitz. "Can't an overrated Jew have a complicated relationship with his dad without being accused of hiding his heritage?" The Daily Show's official Twitter account responded. We now have Taiwanese CGI animation of the back-and-forth. It's a good one: 
First Solar's financial results are out, and at first glance it doesn't look great. First quarter adjusted earnings came in at $0.69 per share, which is shy of the $0.75 analysts were looking for. The stock was up around 4% at the close, but shares are erasing those gains during the after-hours trading session. "We demonstrated progress on several fronts during the first quarter, including continued strengthening of our balance sheet and additions to our pipeline,‚Äù said CEO Jim Hughes. ‚ÄúWe remain on track for the year and reaffirm our full-year 2013 financial guidance and are focused on achieving our goal of new bookings to shipments ratio of one-to-one." Analysts at Citi recently declared solar one of the 10 most disruptive innovations in the world today.
REUTERS/Nellie HertensteinKentucky Derby winner Orb.Today was pretty quiet. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,968, -5.0 pts, -0.0%S&amp;P 500: 1,617, +3.0 pts, +0.1%NASDAQ: 3,392, +14.3 pts, +0.4% And now the top stories:
WikimediaThe Financial Times reports exclusively the Commodities Futures and Exchange Commission is studying whether Bitcoin would fall under their purview. CFTC head Bart Chilton told the paper Bitcoin¬†‚Äúis for sure something we need to explore,‚Äù adding, "It's not monopoly money." Another anonymous source¬†said that the regulator is ‚Äúseriously‚Äù examining the issue. A final decision may hinge on whether traders start creating derivative products from the Bitcoin market, the FT says. Bitcoin has seen a surge in prices over the past month and a half as some Europeans began looking for alternative ways to conduct transactions around faltering banks. As it's added users, it's also gained a higher profile in the business press. Bitcoin was trading around $120 today on Japan's Mt. Gox exchange. Click here to read the full story on FT.com &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Should Switch To A Strategy That Focuses On Shareholder Yield (Charles Schwab) A quest for yield has sent investors flocking to high dividend paying company stocks. But this has made them expensive and these are also most likely to cut their dividends, according to Charles Schwab. Instead they think investors should consider a strategy that focuses on "shareholder yield ‚Äî a more-comprehensive measure of equity income that includes both dividends and share repurchases." This they argue "produce(s) more attractive total returns than those earned from just a dividend-yield strategy", and it could "help investors find attractively priced non-dividend paying stocks."  Advisors Find A Way To Help Business Owners Avoid New Tax (The Wall Street Journal) Businesses set up as S corporations ‚Äì a business that is not required to pay taxes on its profits as a corporate, but is taxed at the shareholder level ‚Äì face a new 3.8% tax under the Affordable Care Act. Advisors need to look at the K-1 forms of their clients to ascertain whether they are actively involved or play a passive role akin to that of an investor. John Evans of Truepoint Inc. said advisors need to make it so their clients seem like they are actively involved in the business and that accountants can often miss on savings for their clients if they don't find the right strategy. Investors Are Leveraging Stock Market Bets Like It's 2007 (Bank of America) "Leverage can be used as a sentiment indicator because it is related to investor confidence. Current levels for both Net Free Credits and Margin Debt indicate bullish sentiment in the equity market," writes Stephen Suttmeier at Bank of America.¬† "Although it should not be used as a market timing tool, the implication is contrarian bearish. Leverage, as measured by NYSE Margin Debt, rose 28.3% year-on-year to $380bn in March, slightly below the July 2007 peak of $381bn. Peaks in NYSE margin debt preceded peaks in the S&amp;P 500 in both 2007 and 2000 ‚Äì no peak in margin debt yet." Bank of America Merrill Lynch Credit Suisse Sues Former VP For Stealing Trade Secrets As She Jumped To Goldman Sachs (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) Credit Suisse has sued Agostina Pechi, its former VP of emerging markets, alleging that she used its trade secrets even as she moved to competitor Goldman Sachs. Pechi is accused of transferring "confidential and highly sensitive company documents to her personal email account." She is also accused of carrying out an "after-hours document raid," on one of Credit Suisse's "longtime" clients. Don't Just Sell In May And Go Away (Advisor Perspectives) Sell in May and go away is a much cited investment adage. But Christian Thwaites at Sentinel Investments says its fine to sell in may but you might have to buy again sooner than you think.¬† "'Everyone knows the ‚ÄúSell in May' rule. I originally heard (or misheard) the other half of it as "Buy again on Derby Day" (the British one) which is in June. But have also heard ‚ÄúBuy again on St. Leger Day‚Äù which is in September. Either way, the link with horse racing and investing is clear. Does it work? The most often cited period of outperformance is October to April which returned 6.7% from 1942 to 2010 compared to 3.5% for long-term trend growth. Trouble is that record was pretty dismal from 1886 to 1942.¬† "Another period that works over the longer period is February to August which has a far more consistent, albeit smaller, return premium over long-term trends. These rules can work but experience tells us that the best advice is ‚ÄúSell in May, but be prepared to buy again at any time, and go away, but be prepared for a call back to your desk at any time.‚Äù Which some people say is not quite as catchy."
Everyone knows that the Federal Reserve's overnight interest rate targets will not rise before quantitative easing ends. The exit strategy will be: QE first, rates later. Edward Fitzpatrick, who heads up the U.S. rates unit at JPMorgan recently gave voice to this conventional wisdom when asked by Bloomberg about rising rates: "There are still hurdles, not the least of which is that they have to end the quantitative easing program before they would contemplate tightening," he said. "The Fed will have time to craft their message well." When everyone in the market knows something, that's reason to be worried. Does the Fed really "have to" end QE before rates rise? While this assumption seems well-grounded in both logic and in statements from several people inside the Fed (including Chairman Ben Bernanke himself), it's at least worth considering the possibility that that particular view of the future may not be as certain as Wall Street wise men think. We do not have a lot of history with the zero bound and QE, and so we should be wary of anyone who "knows" exactly what the exit strategy will entail. What many of us commonly refer to as QE is known around the Fed as large scale asset purchases, which are actually just one part of what the Fed calls "credit easing." Under current policy, the Fed buys $40 billion of agency paper and $45 billion of Treasurys. The effectiveness of these asset purchases is still controversial. Because they have been accompanied by other forms of easingósuch as commitments to keep rates low until economic goals are metóit is difficult to isolate the effects of the purchases themselves. What's more, even if we think we know what the asset purchases accomplish, we might not know how it does the job. Is it the lowering of supply of safe financial assets that pushes yields down? Or are the purchases really just another form of communications strategy, in which the effect on asset supply is less important than the effect on market expectations? A 2011 paper by a duo at the Kellogg School of Management concluded that asset purchases had caused "a large and significant drop in nominal interest rates on long-term safe assets (Treasury, agency bonds, and highly-rated corporate bonds)." It argued that the effect was indeed rooted in the reduction in the supply of long-term safe assets. The paper also found a significant affect on mortgage-backed securitiesóbut only when the Fed was buying the securities. For the purposes of our intellectual experiment, let's say the Fed shares this view of its asset purchases. Could there be a situation in which the Fed thinks short-term interest rates should rise, but rates on longer-term safe assets and mortgage-backed securities should continue to be held down? That is, could the asset purchases continue even after the Fed hikes its target rate? The easiest affirmative answer to these questions begins in the housing market. If the housing market seriously slumped once again, or the Fed believed it would slump as it hiked interest rates, the Fed might well decide that it wanted to keep mortgage rates lower than broader rates. Let's say, for example, that some time in early 2015 the Fed reaches its targets with respect to unemployment and inflation. In order to prevent unwanted inflation across the broader economy, the Fed would presumably begin to raise rates. If housing were still seen as a particularly fragile sector of the economy, the Fed might continue to purchase mortgage-backed securities in order to prevent the tightening it wants in the rest of the economy from triggering a new mortgage crash. Turning now to long-dated Treasury bonds, we can also tease out a scenario in which the Fed keeps its asset purchases going while raising rates. One of the dangers with any decision to raise rates will be that the market will misinterpret the announcement as a sign that rates will rise much more rapidly than the Fed thinks its healthy. The yield curve would become far steeper as longer-term rates respond to the expectation that future short-term rates will rise. (Read More: Warren Buffett Says Bonds are a Bad Investment) What's more, investors fearing rising rates might engage in an undesirable "fire sale" like selloff of government securities. Since long-term rates have a far bigger affect on the investing and borrowing decisions than the short-term rates directly influenced by the Fed, central bankers could find themselves "losing control" of the long end of the curve. The Fed could try to avoid this with language in its official statements that would attempt to reassure investors that future rate hikes would be gradual and contingent on strengthening economic performance. This would heavily depend on the Fed's credibility, however, which might be in doubt. Ben Bernanke, after all, will likely have recently retired by the time rates rise. The new Fed chairman may not enjoy the full confidence of the markets. (Read More: Who Should Replace Ben Bernanke?) Buying long-dated Treasury bonds could be seen as "backing up" a Fed promise to raise rates slowly. One reason this might work would be that it would give the Fed "skin in the game"óthe Fed would take capital losses on its own balance sheet if rates were to rise rapidly. In 1961, the incoming Kennedy administration launched what's widely known as "Operation Twist." The program was intended to raise short-term rates while lowering, or leaving unchanged, long-term rates. The goal of raising short-term rates was to promote capital inflows and support the dollar. Most analysts have concluded that Operation Twist was a failureóalthough one paper co-authored by Ben Bernanke concluded that Operation Twist "does not seem to provide strong evidence in either direction as to the possible effects" of a similar policy. Bernanke and Co. go on to suggest that it might have been more effective if it were a larger operation and carried out over a longer period of time. None of this is to say you should bet the farm on the persistence of large-scale asset purchases after rates begin to rise. We should all at least acknowledge, however, that we're in uncharted territory here and some of our assumptions about what the "exit policy" will look like may turn out to be mistaken.
Flickr / jedhakuroThe Federal Reserve has just released the results of its Senior Loan Officer Survey. The good news: banks show business loan lending standards are easing. Furthermore demand for these loans is increasing. "Easier lending standards are usually associated with later employment growth," said UBS economist Maury Harris. From the report: The survey results generally indicated that banks‚Äô policies regarding lending to businesses eased over the past three months and demand increased, on balance. In particular, a relatively large fraction of domestic respondents reported having eased standards on C&amp;I loans, and moderate to large net fractions of such respondents reportedly eased many terms on C&amp;I loans to firms of all sizes.¬†¬†¬† Banks that eased their C&amp;I lending policies generally cited increased competition for such loans as an important reason for having done so. Demand for C&amp;I loans also reportedly increased, but such reports were less widespread than in the previous survey. A moderate net fraction of banks reported having eased their CRE lending standards over the past three months and relatively large fractions continued to report an increase in demand for such loans. On net, U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks reported that standards on CRE loans were about unchanged, but moderate fractions reported that demand strengthened on such loans. Here's a chart from the Fed showing the historical trends. Federal Reserve
REUTERS/Marcelo del Pozo"Jobless. Help me. Thanks."At 27.2%, Spain is suffering the worst unemployment rate in modern history. Spain is tied with Greece, and is worse than the approximately 25% unemployment rate that the U.S. saw during The Great Depression. The causes, by now, are familiar ‚Äî the end of a massive, bubble-fueled construction boom in 2008 led to spiraling unemployment and a deep recession, wreaking havoc on the Spanish economy. And although the country managed to return to marginally positive economic growth in 2010 and 2011, it has since slipped back into recession, and the outlook isn't good. Unlike the Spanish growth trajectory, the rise in Spanish unemployment since 2008 has been incredibly consistent. Each new statistical release bears the terrible news that more Spaniards have joined the ranks of the unemployed. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The problem is compounded by the fact that Spanish businesses are closing their doors at a record pace. In the first quarter of 2013, 2,564 companies filed for bankruptcy, up 45% from 2012. And while much attention is paid to the headline unemployment numbers ‚Äî especially for youths, 57% of whom are now jobless ‚Äî statistics that give a bit more of a glimpse of how life has changed in Spain since the crisis began are much more revealing. For most, no job means no income ‚Äî and in many cases, no income means no food. According to the Spanish Red Cross' Bulletin on Social Vulnerability, 26% of Spaniards the Red Cross helps can't afford to put a meal with protein on the table even three times a week, and 43% percent can't afford to heat their homes in the winter months. That is, if they still have their homes ‚Äî the number of Spaniards facing foreclosures on their mortgages and evictions is rising fast. Foreclosures ordered by courts in 2012 alone totaled 91,622, up 17.7% from 2011. Some of these cases have ended in suicide. In November, a woman jumped six stories to her death as foreclosure agents were forcing open her front door. In February, an elderly married couple took their own lives, citing impending foreclosure in a note. In January, there were even two cases of men who set themselves on fire. At least one of them was reported to have lost his job and was facing financial issues. This is the environment from which those in Spain are actively attempting to escape. During the good years, Spain experienced a swelling population as immigrants came to fill the excess of employment opportunities caused by the Spanish construction boom. Now, they are leaving. In 2012, Spain saw its population actually decrease for the first time since records began being kept in the 1990s. However, the population outflow isn't just former immigrants turning into emigrants. Young Spaniards, faced with no opportunities at home, are packing up everything they own and fleeing to countries like Canada in search of opportunity. Is there hope? The IMF's latest World Economic Outlook paints a grim picture. The international lender forecasts a 1.6% contraction in 2013, and doesn't see Spain returning to even 1.5% GDP growth until 2017. And while the Spanish Labor Ministry today reported a drop in unemployment in April ‚Äî down 0.9% to 4.99 million officially-registered job-seekers ‚Äî analysts were quick to write this off as a temporary respite due to increased hiring for the holiday season.
Business Insider is looking for an editorial designer / graphic artist to create awesome illustrations for our site. The ideal candidate looks something like this: Experience in moving graphics creation and animation is a plus. Please send an email to jliebman[at]businessinsider.com with a brief description of why you're the one for the job with some links to samples of your best work. Attach your resume to the email. Thanks in advance. Note: This position requires that you work full-time in our Manhattan headquarters.
Bret Easton Ellis' 'American Psycho' is a cult classic in print and on film, but apparently that isn't enough, because now there's a Kickstarter for 'American Psycho The Musical.' The Kickstarter was launched by Act 4 Entertainment and the producer of the show Jesse Singer. You can watch the pitch video below, which includes thoughts from Bret Easton Ellis (of course) and Duncan Sheik (of 'Barely Breathing' fame) ó he's doing the music and lyrics. If the $150,000 Kickstarter goal is May 24th, you could eventually see Patrick Bateman dancing on stage at the Almeida Theatre in London this December. From the Kickstarter: A stage musical gives us the unique opportunity, through song, to go even deeper into the charactersí psychologies than ever before. And what better character to investigate than one of modern literature's greatest and most enigmatic anti-heroes -- who also happens to be an avowedly passionate music-lover? Our show remains faithful to Bret Easton Ellis' world and his satirical treatment of the materialism and greed in this era of late capitalism. Roberto, Duncan and Rupert traveled back to Patrick Bateman's New York City of synth-pop, haute cuisine, and killer style; they returned with a musical's worth of '80s-tinged tunes to reinvent AMERICAN PSYCHO in this thrilling new medium. And here's the video for the campaign:   Good luck, guys.
APWASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî The conservative Heritage Foundation is claiming in a new report that bipartisan immigration legislation pending in the Senate would cost taxpayers $6.3 trillion. The study from the Republican-led group opposed to an immigration overhaul is sure to come under fire. Already, the libertarian-leaning Cato Institute has decried it as "fatally flawed." Critics say it doesn't measure economic boosts from the bill. Heritage says the costs come from more than $9 trillion in government benefits to newly legalized immigrants over their lifetimes ‚Äî only partially counterbalanced by $3 trillion they would pay in taxes. During Congress' last immigration debate, in 2007, a Heritage report said the bill under consideration at the time would cost $2.6 trillion. The conclusion was criticized, but carried weight with Republicans and the bill was defeated. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
(from my colleague Dr. Win Thin)  There are several central banks from the emerging markets that meet this week, but none are expected to change policy. ¬†¬† In addition, the market will be watching Chinese data and Brazil's inflation.¬†  China data deluge for April starts this week, with trade next up on either Tuesday or Wednesday. Export growth is seen easing to 9% y/y from 10% y/y while import growth is seen slowing from 14.1% y/y to 13% y/y. CPI and PPI are due out on Thursday, with the former seen rising to 2.3% y/y from 2.1% y/y in March but the latter easing to -2.3% y/y from -1.9% y/y in March. New loans could come out near the end of this week, expected at CNY767.5 bln vs. CNY1.06 trln in March.¬† Weak China data continues to be reported. April HSBC services PMI was reported earlier today at 51.1 vs. 54.3. Last week, official manufacturing April PMI was reported at 50.6 vs. consensus 50.7 and 50.9 actual in March, while HSBC final manufacturing April PMI was reported at 50.4 vs. 50.5 consensus and 51.6 final in March. We continue to believe that China growth will stabilize around the 8% level, but the risks are tilted more towards 7.5-8.0% than 8.0-8.5%. A slowdown below 7.5% would probably lead to another round of stimulus by China. The Chinese yuan posted its biggest decline of the year today. We think the recent bout of excessive yuan strength is over for now. Over the weekend, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) announced new regulators that will curb the banking system's ability to short the US dollar (or other currencies, for that matter). Specifically, the quota for individual banks to short foreign currencies linked to their currency loan and deposit situation will be strictly enforced. Banks are given until the end of next month to comply. Previously, SAFE simply set the quotas.¬† Essentially, the Chinese banking system is seen as having more foreign currency loans (short) than deposits (long). This would imply a need by local banks to buy foreign currencies, especially the dollar. The dollar has fallen 1.5% against the yuan since late February, a pace that we viewed as unsustainable. This policy shift from SAFE likely signals the end to the recent move that has seen the dollar drop to 19-year lows against the yuan. The Russian central bank holds a policy meeting this week, with no change in policy expected. However, with inflation easing and growth slowing, recent official comments suggest an easing cycle could begin in H2. Indeed, President Putin has called on his government to submit plans for stimulus. Earlier this year, the central bank lowered the Lombard rate and we think that was a precursor to cuts in the more important refi rate ahead. Inflation remains above the desired 5-6% range, and is expected at 7.2% y/y in April when it is reported later this week. The Polish central bank holds a policy meeting Wednesday, with no change in policy expected. Officials have signaled a pause in Q2 after cutting 50 bp in March, but data continue to come in weak. We believe the easing cycle will resume by mid-year, with another 50-75 bp of easing possible by year-end. Policy rate currently stands at 3.25%, while inflation is 1% y/y and has been below the 1-3% target range for two straight months. Real rates remain too high given the depths of the slowdown. The Malaysian central bank holds a policy meeting Thursday, with no change in policy expected. However, the economy is at risk as exports are contracting and growth is slowing. IP contracted -4.5% y/y in February, the biggest contraction since mid-2011. With the election out of the way, Malaysian assets are rallying but we think a stronger ringgit is not particularly desirable right now. There is fiscal stimulus in the pipeline from ahead of the elections, but may be pared back a bit now. We think the bank will remain on hold in 2013, but will depend on growth staying fairly robust. There are clearly downside risks to global growth, and so there is a risk of a dovish bias developing at the central bank. The Korean central bank holds a policy meeting Thursday, with no change in policy expected. Of the EM central banks meeting this week, however, we think Korea offers the most chance of a dovish surprise. Inflation was 1.2% y/y in April, a cycle low and below the 2-4% target for six straight months. Yet the BOK has been on hold at 2.75% for seven straight months. Furthermore, the strong won is providing more headwinds for the economy. JPY/KRW is making new lows, and has seen a pretty big move from over 15 in 2012 to around 11 now. We think more actions will be taken to prevent won gains, which would include a surprise rate cut. The Peruvian central bank holds policy meeting Thursday, with no change in policy expected. However, expectations are building for a start to the easing cycle ahead, perhaps in early Q3. The economy is showing signs of weakness, with GDP growth slowing to 5% y/y in February. Q1 growth is tracking near 5.5% y/y, down from 6% y/y in Q4 and this would be the slowest pace since Q4 2011. CPI inflation eased to 2.3% y/y in April, the slowest since February 2011 and near the center of the 1-3% target range. Lower copper and gold prices are having an impact too, with exports contracting -21% y/y in February, continuing a string of weak readings. Brazil IPCA inflation for April will be reported Wednesday, and is expected to ease from 6.59% y/y to 6.42% y/y. The real continues to underperform within EM on concerns about inflation and the lack of a stronger policy response. As such, lower inflation could go a long way in helping the real catch up with the rest of EM FX. Next COPOM meeting is May 28/29, and we think the central bank will have to engage in some damage control if Brazil assets remain under pressure toward the end of this month. The Bovespa is one of the worst performers in EM at down 10% YTD, while the real continues to have trouble breaking below 2.00.        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Cullen Roche of the Pragmatic Capitalism blog has noted that New York Stock Exchange margin debt, which is used to leverage up bets on stocks, is near all-time highs. "Itís rather alarming to see NYSE margin debt just shy of its all-time high as of the March reading," wrote Roche.† "My guess is weíve actually already surpassed the all-time high though we wonít officially know until April data is released." Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Stephen Suttmeier is also picking up on this in his latest note to clients.† He believes this is sending a contrarian bearish signal: Leverage can be used as a sentiment indicator because it is related to investor confidence. Current levels for both Net Free Credits and Margin Debt indicate bullish sentiment in the equity market. Although it should not be used as a market timing tool, the implication is contrarian bearish. Leverage, as measured by NYSE Margin Debt, rose 28.3% year-on-year to $380bn in March, slightly below the July 2007 peak of $381bn. Peaks in NYSE margin debt preceded peaks in the S&amp;P 500 in both 2007 and 2000 ñ no peak in margin debt yet. Bank Of America Merrill Lynch
American smokers will tell you about the huge price discrepancies for cigarettes state to state. The main reason for this is the varying excise taxes (SET) that each state places on a pack of smokes. Citi's Tobacco team led by Vivien Azer expects SETs to only become an increasing problem for the tobacco companies. Here's Citi: Taxation ‚Äì Numerous Challenges Ahead. The major manufacturers expect a much more challenging SET environment in 2013, relative to those seen in 2011 and 2012. On a weighted-average basis, (Reynolds American) RAI expects the SET rate to increase $0.10 pp, or +7% relative to the $1.40 pp SET average seen in 2012. Indeed, year-to-date we have seen legislation for cigarette excise tax increases proposed in 23 states (though several have already failed, notably in Nebraska, North Dakota and Wyoming), and decreases proposed in three states. Interestingly, we've seen proposals in each of the three largest states by consumption (Texas, California and Florida), as well as a number of proposals as part of budgetary bills (i.e., in Massachusetts, Minnesota and New Hampshire). Assuming no changes to the volume contributions by state, we estimate that the best-case scenario for 2012 to be a roughly 1% decline (-$0.02 pp) in the weighted-average cigarette SET rate, and a 37% increase (+$0.52 pp) in the worst-case scenario. Also worth noting, U.S. President Obama has proposed to increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by 94.6 cents per pack on Jan. 1, 2014 (+94% from the current rate of $1.01) and to index the tax rate to inflation beyond 2014. It remains to be seen whether this proposal will be approved by U.S. Congress, though early indications suggest Republicans are opposed. Here's a map of the state excise tax rates.¬† New Yorkers who often pay over $10 per pack won't be surprised by the high tax rate in its state. Citi Research
The world has come to expect some zany down-home fun at every Berkshire Hathaway Annual Shareholder meeting, but this year one skit out shined all the skits we've had logged in our recent memory. If this is your first rodeo, you should know that Warren Buffett, being a natural dancer with a healthy sense of humor, likes to kick-off his meetings with funny commercials for companies in the Berkshire family. They tend to be heavy on cameos by famous entertainers, and pop culture nods ó this year Berkshire showed a 'Dancing With The Stars' spoof where Munger and Buffett danced to Gangnam Style. Somehow, that was not the most bizarre moment. Gangam was one-upped by Buffett's nod to AMC show 'Breaking Bad', and the description of that skit comes to us from Doug Kass. It's just a quick blip in Kass' account of his experience as the "credentialed bear" at the Annual Meeting, but it made us stop reading and start laughing. From The Street: The best commercials for Coca-Cola, Geico and other Berkshire subsidiary products were shown, and there was also a wonderful video parody of "Breaking Bad" which saw Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul reprising their roles as Walter White and Jesse Pinkman. Instead of cooking up meth, the drug-dealing duo opts to focus on peanut brittle, and Warren appears at their motor home in the desert and offers to buy out their peanut-brittle business. They have a stare-down -- and Warren, of course, wins and buys their company. He calls Charlie Munger after the deal is agreed to and Charlie's response is priceless: "Brittle, bitches!" Buffett followed that up with a Terminator skit and a quick dance 'YMCA' dance break. For the full story from Kass, head to The Street&gt;
Flickr / net_efektI used to work with a guy that had everything on the surface, but absolutely nothing inside. The guy was 6 feet tall, good-looking, charismatic, multi-lingual, graduated from a top business school, and had made MD at a bulge bracket investment bank. Yet he couldn‚Äôt remember the last time he had a conversation that didn‚Äôt involve work because the last 20 years of his life had been a soulless and indiscernible continuum of ‚Äúyes sir‚Äù, number crunching, and small talk.  He was definitely in a mid-life crisis, and it got to the point where I was telling him how to live his life despite being half his age . This man, my friends, was once a human being. What happened? Here‚Äôs what happens in non-transparent corporate environments. Everyone starts drinking the Kool-Aid and pretends that wherever they are is the best place in the world, even if all of the evidence proves otherwise. What follows is a slippery slope of sycophancy, buzzwords and pre-packaged opinions that produces employees so afraid of offending management that they stop expressing themselves completely. I get that having a cheerful disposition helps in life but what‚Äôs scary is when the individual becomes a permanent ‚Äúsocial chameleon‚Äù and forgets who they originally were. They spend too much time making a good impression and eventually became stuck in that impression. Look, I‚Äôm not saying defy society and live in some tree-house taking sponge baths while ‚Äúnot caring what people think‚Äù, because that‚Äôs just bad advice. We all do what we have to do- I mopped floors in high school, I did so ‚Äújust for the money‚Äù, and there wasn‚Äôt a whole lot of creative self-expression in that job. I am, however, saying that the corporate environment can be an intensely dehumanizing process and if you‚Äôre not careful you will slowly lose your personality. So leave the work at the office. Here are a couple of steps you can develop hobbies, regain your life, and become a human being again! For the rest of the tips head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
CNBCFew Wall Street strategists have been as consistently bullish as Deutsche Bank's David Bianco. Even as JP Morgan's famous bull Tom Lee buckled earlier this year, Bianco was urging clients to buy stocks even as the sequester approached. But in his latest note to clients, Bianco has adopted a more bearish tone. "Respectable 1Q EPS coupled with better job gains pushed the S&amp;P to 1615, but the profit outlook for 2Q has weakened on softness in manufacturing, business spending and exports," he wrote. "US manufacturing ISM and global PMIs for April were soft and capex and exports decelerated in March." For now, Bianco is sitting on the sidelines, waiting for a pullback until the outlook for the economy improves. Brief dip likely during worry season, ‚ÄúNext 5%+‚Äù price move is likely downAt 1615, the S&amp;P is at 15.4x trailing EPS of $105 (2Q12-1Q13), the highest mid cycle PE since the recession. A 15-16 trailing PE is certainly reasonable and possible at yearend, but we want to be more confident that: 1) the global mfg. and capex soft patch doesn‚Äôt last beyond 2Q, 2) the dollar appreciates only gradually and oil prices stay stable, 3) some green shoots appear in corporate Tech spending, and 4) interest rates rise only gradually as soft patch fears dissipate. The S&amp;P is now at the upper end of our tactically neutral near-term range of 1550-1625, we change our ‚ÄúNext 5%+‚Äù price move call from uncertain to down. We think a brief 5%+ dip is likely as global PMIs might remain soft in Q2 and expected y/y S&amp;P EPS growth is only 3% in Q2. Since 1960, the only years without a 5%+ dip are: 1964, 1993 and 1995. Bianco has a 1,625 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500.
ECB President Mario Draghi is giving a speech in Rome today. Comments from his speech are crossing the newswires right now. On Thursday, the ECB cut interest rates for the first time since July 2012, and said that the central bank was ready to act again if such action was warranted. Today, Draghi is reiterating that statement in his speech. Via Bloomberg, Draghi said the ECB is ready to act again if needed, monetary policy is to remaining accommodative, and the ECB will study euro-region economic data in the coming weeks. Though Draghi already said all of this on Thursday, the comments still caused the euro to fall sharply against the U.S. dollar ‚Äì from levels around 1.3107 before the comments hit the tape to a low of 1.3066 afterward. The chart below shows the drop. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
Flickr/Benson KuaDavid Kostin, Goldman Sachs' chief U.S. equity strategist, sees almost no upside to the S&amp;P 500 from now through the end of the year. However, within the market he sees no shortage of stocks and sectors expected to outperform. In his new U.S. Monthly Chartbook, Kostin provided an updated list of stocks with the most upside potential today. This time around, the list is dominated by oil and gas firms including drillers or refiners.¬† The rest are ringers across a broad range of industries, from tires to telecom. According to Goldman's analysts, the 40 stocks on this list offer 23% to 57% upside relative to their recent prices.
But Randall Forsyth's Up &amp; Down Wall Street column at Barron's this weekend manages to contextualize some comments from legendary financier Leon Black (Apollo Group) at the event: "It's almost biblical. There is a time to reap and there's a time to sow," Leon Black, chairman and chief executive of¬†Apollo Global Management¬†(ticker: APO) declared to the Milken Institute's global conference in Los Angeles, alluding to that same Scriptural passage. "We are harvesting," he added pointedly. That is, the private-equity giant is a net seller because things simply can't get much better. "We think it's a fabulous environment to be selling," he says, noting Apollo has sold about $13 billion in assets in the past 15 months. "We're selling everything that's not nailed down. And if we're not selling, we're refinancing." That's because there has never been such a good time to borrow -- which is raising warning flags for Black. "The financing market is as good as we have ever seen it. It's back to 2007 levels. There is no institutional memory," he observed, referring to the peak of the last credit bubble. Forsyth then looks at the fact that Apple was able to float $50 billion worth of bonds and be three times oversubscribed while IBM was in the other corner of the room issuing 7-year debt at a sovereign government-esque rate of 1.65%. I remember 2007 very well. The major difference between now and then is that back then the Fed had already been jerking rates higher - from 2004 through 2006 Greenspan's FOMC had raised rates by 25 basis point a whopping 17 times. And the rest of the world was participating in the credit bubble then as well. Today, rates haven't even begun to budge (Europe is first cutting!) and the rest of the world has been hobbled by a mallet like the writer in Steven King's Misery. In addition, there's simply way too much cash in everyone's hands to think we're in the midst of some kind of debt binge. I see where this is headed eventually, but the parallels with 2007 beneath the surface are tenuous at best. That said, Leon Black is in a business where the cost and availability of capital is not just everything, it's the only thing. And so why not take advantage with everyone so flush and willing to buy? Source: A Time to Sell‚Ä¶and Borrow (Barron's)
If you thought that Baupost's Seth Klarman would be the next to join Twitter (the New Normal Yahoo Finance), #timestamp his minute-holding trades, ignore the money-losing ones, trumpet his winners, always make money, scream at all those who don't agree with his "strategy", and otherwise become what is known these days as a (momentum) investor, we have some bad news: it's not happening. Here's why (from his most recent letter). Most U.S. investors today have a clear opinion about what everyone else has no choice but to do. Which is to say, with bonds yielding next to nothing, the only way investors have a chance of earning a return is to buy stocks. Everyone knows this, and is counting on it to remain the case. While economist David Rosenberg at Gluskin Sheff believes government actions could be directly or indirectly responsible for as many as 500 points in the S&amp;P 500, or 30% of its current valuation, traders have confidence in Ben Bernanke because betting that his policies will drive equities higher has been a profitable wager. Bernanke, likewise, is undoubtedly pleased with these speculators for abetting his goal of asset price inflation, though we all know that he will not call them first when he decides to reverse direction on QE. Then, the rush for the exits will be madness, as today' s "clarity" will have dissolved, leaving only great uncertainty and probably significant losses. Investing, when it looks the easiest, is at its hardest. When just about everyone heavily invested is doing well, it is hard for others to resist jumping in. But a market relentlessly rising in the face of challenging fundamentals--recession in Europe and Japan, slowdown in China, fiscal stalemate and high unemployment in the U.S.-- is the riskiest environment of all. And a word for those who believe that swing and/or momentum trading, about as effective as a coin toss in "forecasting" the future as a coin toss, is the way to go. [O]nly a small number of investors maintain the fortitude and client confidence to pursue long-term investment success even at the price of short-term underperformance. Most investors feel the hefty weight of short-term performance expectations, forcing them to take up marginal or highly speculative investments that we shun. When markets are rising, such investments may perform well, which means that our unwavering patience and discipline sometimes impairs our results and makes us appear overly cautious. The payoff from a risk-averse, long-term orientation is--just that--long term. It is measurable only over the span of many years, over one or more market cycles. Our willingness to invest amidst failing markets is the best way we know to build positions at great prices, but this strategy, too, can cause short-term underperformance. Buying as prices are falling can look stupid until sellers are exhausted and buyers who held back cannot effectively deploy capital except at much higher prices. Our resolve in holding cash balances--sometimes very large ones--absent compelling opportunity is another potential performance drag. But we know that in a world in which being anti-fragile is good, what doesn't kill you can make you stronger. Short-term underperforrnance doesn't trouble us; indeed, because it is the price that must sometimes be paid for longer-term outperformance, it doesn't even enter into our list of concerns. Patience and discipline can make you look foolishly out of touch until they make you look prudent and even prescient. Holding significant, low or even zero-yielding cash can seem ridiculous until you are one of the few with buying power amidst a sudden downdraft. Avoiding leverage may seem overly conservative until it becomes the only sane course. Concentrating your portfolio in the most compelling opportunities and avoiding over diversification for its own sake may sometimes lead to short-term underperformance, but eventually it pays off in outperformance. He is, of course, right. But for now, the hedge fund of Ben Bernanke and his Federal Reserve Onshore Capital LP, who appear to have removed all the downside risk of the manipulated asset class known as stocks, are making hedge fund managers across the country seem obsolete, and scratch their heads in wonder asking: "is this even worth it?"
Just like you and me, Wall Streeters from all parts of the¬† industry get the itch to settle down and start a family at some point. That means they have kids who share their fabulous lives. We decided to track down a bunch of them and see what they've done with them. All in all these young men and women are pretty remarkable. Some of them are singer-songwriters, while others are going into the family business. We found a journalist and a computer game developer, too. ¬† Now let's meet this next generation.¬†
Jim EdwardsTech pundits are going nuts about Google's computerized glasses. Entrepreneur Loic LeMeur is so excited he tweeted pictures of his family in them. Tech god Robert Scoble says he is never taking them off. Gadget guru Kevin Smith says he's "blown away." Etc. Meanwhile, those who point out that when you read between the lines of all these raves you can see that folks mostly want to like the current version of Google Glass rather than actually liking it, are blasted as Luddite haters who don't know the future when they see it. Well, I may not know the future when I see it. But I can tell you one thing: Except, perhaps, in very specialized circumstances, I don't want to talk to my glasses. And given that "talking to your glasses" is the primary interface for Google Glass, that's a problem. A couple of months ago, even I got to try on some Google Glass(es). Very cool. The time just hangs there in front of you, as though it's projected on a windshield. It's also cool to be able to take pictures of what you're looking at (although there's an annoying lag). If/when Google gets the Google Glass(es) price down to ~$100-~$200 and makes Google Glass(es) look like normal glasses, I could see normal folks wearing them. I might even wear them in certain situations! But the main interface for Google Glass(es) right now is talking to them. You can also stroke and tap them, but that looks and feels dorky, and if you're going to stroke and tap something, you might as well stroke and tap your phone--a gadget that is right there in your hand and can do everything Glass(es) can do plus a whole lot more. So, absent stroking and tapping, if you want to do anything with your Google Glass(es), you have to say, "Okay, Glass!" and then tell them what you want to do. You can say, "Take a picture!" for example. Then, after a short but annoying lag, your Google Glass(es) will snap a picture for you. That's kind of a cool party trick--something that's fun to try a few times, or something that's good for amusing the kids for a few minutes, like Apple's Siri. But as the primary interface to your glasses, it's lousy. Why? For the same reason that Apple's Siri was deeply flawed even before folks figured out that it didn't work all that well. Because unless you're all by yourself--such as when you're driving, for example--you don't want to talk to your glasses. Or your phone. At least I don't want to talk to my glasses or phone. Especially when I'm talking to someone else, who is already going to be annoyed that I'm wearing a device that basically says "I'm only partially here with you, and you're so boring that I need this conversation to be augmented--because anything is more interesting than talking to you." I don't want to interrupt an already fragile conversation like that to say, "Take a picture!" And I also don't want to wander around museums or streets or restaurants saying, "Take a picture!" I'd rather just take the picture myself, with a phone. Also, I don't need to know what time it is every single second of the day. And I don't find it all that inconvenient to look up at a baggage-claim screen to figure out which carousel my suitcase is on--I don't need my Glass(es) to do that for me. It would DEFINITELY be cool to take pictures of people without them knowing that I was taking pictures of them (nice journalism tool!), but that might be unethical, and I also couldn't do it without saying "Take a picture!" or stroking and fondling my glasses. So it wouldn't be practical. Bottom line, that's my biggest issue with Google Glass(es) right now. I don't hate the idea of wearing them, as long as they eventually look like normal glasses. I just don't want to talk to them. Or raise my fingers to my temple to self-consciously fondle them. And I don't think anyone else really does, either. SEE ALSO: Here Are Some Problems Google Is Having With Its Self-Driving Cars
Current TVOver the last decade and a half, former Vice President Al Gore has amassed a personal fortune that rivals former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney's, Bloomberg's Ken Wells and Ari Levy report. Gore wasn't even a multi-millionaire when he ran for office against George W. Bush in the 2000 election, but several recent moves have put his personal fortune at a point where it "may exceed $200 million," according to Bloomberg: Gore's wealth, according to Bloomberg, approaches that of Romney, who is worth about $250 million. The story goes on to detail, step by step, how "luck and timing" have factored into Gore's personal success since losing the election. Gore told Bloomberg TV last week that democracy has been "hacked" by the overall influence of money in politics. "That is what has been happening to American democracy," Gore said. "... They have not been able to regulate these phony baloney financial derivatives that caused the financial crisis. They voted to invade Iraq even though Iraq had nothing to do with 9/11. Unfortunately there are a lot of examples. They can't pass a budget. I can't keep the country from facing financial danger and the main reason is simple, the influence of the money is at un-healthy levels." Read the whole Bloomberg piece here &gt;
Hedge fund legend and billionaire Paul Tudor Jones rarely gives interviews, but last night he appeared on 60 Minutes to discuss his charity, The Robin Hood Foundation. The organization funds charter schools, job training, food programs and more.¬†It all started back in the 80s when Jones saw a 60 Minutes segment about another philanthropist and decided that he wanted to get involved with NYC school children. He threw money at one school for 5 years, but it was a flop. "I felt like I had failed a great deal of those kids, but failure, a lot of times is the fire that forges the steel for success, right? There are going to be stops, there are going to be failures, there are going to be setbacks but you grow from those and you get better and it becomes transformative." That's when Jones decided to apply quantitative goals and solutions to each charity he helped. Taking a page from Wall Street, he decided that all his charitable work should be driven by results ‚Äî and so he formed The Robin Hood Foundation. Robin Hood raised $57 million from the "1% of the 1%" at its annual charity event last year, but the point is that money isn't spent willy-nilly. Jones and his team of analyst defund 5-10% of charities a year because they're not getting results. "It's what you have to be at the forefront of actually finding a way to kick poverty's ass," Jones told 60 Minutes, adding later "intellectual capital always more important than financial capital." Watch the interview below: 
In economics, there are two kinds of problems: ¬†real problems and nominal problems. The deforestation on Easter Island destroyed most of the¬†Rapa Nui. ¬†When it was necessary to leave the island and start new lives in a new land with an environment able to support their people, there were not enough large trees left to build ocean-worthy vessels. ¬†Their population declined to 15-20% of their peak population within a century. This is an example of a¬†real problem.¬†A¬†real problem¬†is a lack of natural resources, capital goods, land or labour, or when any combination of these factors of production sum to an inadequate value to produce enough to maintain (or better) the general welfare of a people. A¬†nominal problem¬†is one which is contained in the abstract. ¬†They can result from frictions in capital structure, uneven distribution of income, or simply in the collective choices of participants in an economy. The wealth contained in an economy is its¬†capital stock:¬† our oil fields, forests, farms, houses, offices, cars, computers, factories, data centers, software and construction equipment. ¬†Our potential is richly governed by the quantity of our workers, the durability of their work ethos coupled with their experience and education. ¬†This is the real¬†economy. Capital consists of raw materials, instruments of labour, and means of subsistence of all kinds, which are employed in producing new raw materials, new instruments, and new means of subsistence.¬†-Wage Labour &amp; Capital (Marx,¬†1847) An economy with inadequate capital has firm prices and high capital returns. ¬†An economy with a glut of capital has soft prices and low capital returns. Economic growth is the expansion of capital ‚Äì and subsequent expansion of capital utilization. Investment creates capital. Capital is the accumulated labour directed by the formation of financial capital. ¬†This capital, or accumulated labour, represents capacity to sustain consumption. High (low) capital¬†returns¬†don‚Äôt necessarily equate to high (low) capital¬†prices. ¬†An outsized capital return likely indicates that additional investment will be induced, which could compete to drive the price of its output down. Growth in employment hinges on investment. ¬†The utilisation of existing capital maintains the stability of existing employment, but new employment requires new investment. ¬†This is demonstrated with¬†Figure 1, showing a very strong relationship between the health of the employment market and Investment net of Capital Consumption as a fraction of GDP. I define the marginal efficiency of capital as being equal to that rate of discount which would make the present value of the series of annuities given by the returns expected from the capital-asset during its life just equal to its supply price. This gives us the marginal efficiencies of particular types of capital-assets. The greatest of these marginal efficiencies can then be regarded as the marginal efficiency of capital in general. The reader should note that the marginal efficiency of capital is here defined in terms of the¬†expectation¬†of yield and of the¬†current¬†supply price of the capital-asset. It depends on the rate of return expected to be obtainable on money if it were invested in a¬†newly¬†produced asset; not on the historical result of what an investment has yielded on its original cost if we look back on its record after its life is over.¬†-General Theory of Employment, Interest &amp; Money (Keynes, 1933) There in fact exist marginal efficiencies between¬†all¬†investment opportunities. MacrofugueFigure 2: The Marginal Rentier Opportunity Curve outlines the yields on principal investment opportunities available for the marginal cash-flow dollar. The investment opportunity set has ascending and encapsulating risk premiums: ¬†Attractiveness of new investment is measured against the sum of all premiums between it and the risk-free rate. Thus, I further propose: ¬†The price of capital is the¬†Net Present Value¬†of¬†Risk-adjusted Expected Return¬†discounted from the¬†Marginal Rentier Opportunity.¬† So far, I have postulated: Assuming the aforementioned postulates true, it can be observed that the rational business manager will, perhaps simultaneously: This necessarily implies that, if the risk-adjusted expected return is¬†not¬†highest in net new investment, the business manager will instead invest the marginal dollar into existing capital. If the price of capital is the¬†Net Present Value¬†of¬†Risk-adjusted Expected Return¬†discounted from the¬†Marginal Rentier Opportunity, and the business manager finds the most attractive investment opportunities in the purchase of existing capital, we can conclude: ¬†the price of existing capital must be bid up high enough in order for new capital to be¬†competitive. The common understanding is stocks lead the economy at economic turning points. ¬†This is not always true. ¬†Coming out of the.com bust, the economy bottomed in 2001,more than a year¬†before S&amp;P 500 finally did. ¬†The explanation is expectations lead the economy, but I find this argument runs counter my observations in expectations around cycle turns. ¬†I offer an alternative: that which causes equities to (typically) bottom is also what causes the economy to recover. The recovery after the¬†.com bust¬†recession was termed¬†a¬†jobless recovery, and for good reason: ¬†jobs took even longer than the stock market to bottom! MacrofugueFigure 4: The jobless recovery following the .com bust. For this argument, we approximate the S&amp;P 500 as¬†the aggregate price-level of existing capital. The inference is that the jobless recovery of late 2001-2003 was the result of a¬†net investment-less¬†recovery, which was probably the result of¬†existing capital being available more cheaply. We can see the same pattern emerge, as demonstrated by Figure 4, in the present recovery. MacrofugueFigure 5: The second jobless recovery. If the price of existing capital has been rising, and Net Investment has been muted, we conclude that the price of creating new capital is not competitive with existing capital. The great irony is that, the richer the country has become, there is less work to be done, which leaves workers with less income. ¬†This is our great nominal problem. Matt Busigin/MacrofugueFigure 7: Labour force and population growth projections through 2050. Combined with productivity efficiencies in the Internet age that provide a declining¬†Real Capital Intensity of Economic Output, we require less capital formation. ¬†This potentially explains why the price of real capital had been below its previous peak for so long, and consequently why net investment (and employment growth by proxy) has been limited. With the S&amp;P 500 (our approximate aggregate capital market value) closing once again near record highs, it seems likely that new investment will be more attractive. Perhaps¬†Conor Sen¬†put it best: ¬†Wringing the risk premia out of existing capital is a necessary precondition for new capital formation (and hiring!). I hope and believe we are there, and maybe we‚Äôve learnt something new about the nature of jobless recoveries.
(1) Fedís Stock Valuation Model. In 1997, I noticed that the second section of the Fedís Monetary Policy Report to Congress included a chart and a brief discussion of the close fit between the 10-year Treasury bond yield and the inverse of the S&amp;P 500ís forward P/E. I dubbed it the "Fedís Stock Valuation Model" (FSVM). The model became instantly popular and controversial, as discussed in a Wikipedia article about it. Ironically, after I ìdiscoveredî the FSVM, the Fed never mentioned it again, and it hasnít even worked for the past two decades. It was bullish on stocks during the bull markets of the previous and current decades. But they were driven mostly by rising earnings, while the secular trend in the valuation multiple was downwards. The FSVM currently suggests that stocks are 75% undervalued relative to bonds. Alternatively, bonds are grossly overvalued relative to stocks. (2) Rules of 20. A simple alternative to the FSVM is the Rule of 20, which compares the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 to the difference between 20 and the CPI inflation rate on a y/y basis. Currently, it shows that the P/E should be 18.5, well above the marketís current P/E of 14. That would put the S&amp;P 500 at 2133, or 32% above Fridayís close. A hybrid valuation multiple that combines the Rule of 20, the FSVM, and our Blue Angels multiplies the latest forward earnings of the S&amp;P 500 by the P/E derived by subtracting the 10-year Treasury bond yield from 20. The result shows that the S&amp;P 500 should be around 2100. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Rules of 20. (1) The valuation question in London. (2) From downside to upside. (3) Ahead of schedule on yearend target. (4) Qualitative and quantitative dimensions of a melt-up scenario. (5) One more time: Donít fight the central banks. (6) Phasing out phasing out QE. (7) Draghi ìready to act if needed.î (8) Japan may be a leading indicator. (9) Playing both defense and offense. (10) Valuation models for a melt-up scenario. (11) Payrolls rose, but paychecks fell in April. (12) Focus on market-weight-rated auto-related stocks. (More for subscribers.)
Instagram/ecclesiastes311Insurance has one purpose, and one purpose only.¬† Remembering that purpose will keep you from expensive insurance ‚Äòsolutions.‚Äô¬† The purpose of insurance is risk transfer. For the rest of your life, insurance salespeople will try to sell you the idea that you can both increase your wealth and protect against risk at the same time. Not True. Buying insurance transfers your personal risk to an insurance company ‚Äì and should be used only that way. Insurance does not increase your wealth and attempts to convince you otherwise end in expensive financial monstrosities. Not a dragon, a chimera Investment products have giant wings and sharp beaks, while insurance products have protective scales and armored fins.¬† The combination is not the cool dragon your insurance salesman wants you to envision, but a mythical chimera that will never fly ‚Äì nor save your wealth. Examples of monstrous chimeras include variable annuities, as well as life insurance billed as a savings vehicle with ‚Äòaccumulated policy value‚Äô in it, which your agent will assure you that you can borrow against.¬† A straight annuity, an investment product designed by the insurance industry, is also a losing proposition for everyone, except the insurance company, of course. But my insurance salesman tells me this is a great investment? Yes, for him.¬† He gets fat commissions. It‚Äôs not a great investment for you. So, in sum: Insurance is great for transferring risk away from you and onto a big company, but not great for anything resembling an investment.
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderAfter more than four years America's shale gas boom remains on full blast. ¬† Last year, production reached a new record high of almost 30 trillion cubic feet, an increase of 5% over 2011. That follows increases of 7.4% in 2011 and 3.4% in 2010. The boom has helped send natgas prices plummeting, which has lowered electricity costs and allowed certain energy-intensive industries like petrochemicals and steel to expand. But what's the boom been like for residents living in the middle of it? We recently traveled to rural Susquehanna County, Penn. and its largest city, Montrose, to see up close what being at the heart of America's shale gas boom does to your way of life. It's complicated. Some people now make lots of money, and jobs have been created or saved (a local cabinet manufacturer, for instance, had been teetering on bankruptcy before gas money moved in). But there were some undeniable costs. Trucks are everywhere in what had previously been a mostly quiet corner of the Keystone State.¬† Then there are the complaints from residents who say fracking activity has contaminated their water. We won't get into those claims here, except to note that a judge recently found strong evidence they were true for at least one family, while others who sued Cabot have since settled. No one we spoke with who had wells on their property have seen water problems, though as you'll see, they voiced other concerns. Our main takeaway: the shale gas boom is a lot more complex than you may think.
All that matters for the US media is the stock market. Just take a look at the TOP category in Bloomberg or tune into CNBC for ‚Ä¶ well ‚Ä¶ as long as you can bear it. And of course, many put the ‚Äú=‚Äù sign between the US equities and Apple. Therefore, last week‚Äôs premier issue of Apple bonds grabbed all the headlines. Granted, it was a bond, not a stock, but it‚Äôs Apple, so it can still rule the global economic reports. But honestly, in the greater scheme of things, this issue had really zero relevance for anything. Yeah, probably the PIMCOs of the world decided to park some cash there expecting that high outstanding value would boost liquidity in the secondary market. Plus, there were some comments about Apple‚Äôs tax bill but that‚Äôs about it. I think something considerably more important happened in the small European country of Slovenia. After several days of roadshowing, the troubled Slovenia decided to open books for 5 and 10y bonds on Tuesday (30 April). Given that in the previous weeks peripheral bond markets rallied like mad, it wasn‚Äôt too heroic to assume that the¬†book-building¬†would be quite quick. Indeed, in the early afternoon books exceeded USD10bn (I guess Slovenia wanted to sell something around 2-3bn) and then reached a quarter of what Apple managed to get in its book building. If I were to take a cheap shot I would say that Slovenia‚Äôs GDP is almost 10 times smaller than Apple‚Äôs market capitalisation* but I won‚Äôt. And then the lightning struck. Moody‚Äôs informed the government of an impending downgrade, which has led to a subsequent suspension of the whole issuance process. I honesty can‚Äôt recall the last time a rating agency would do such a thing after the roadshow and during book-building but that‚Äôs beside the point. That evening, Moody‚Äôs (which already was the most bearish agency on Slovenia) downgraded the country by two notches to junk AND maintained the negative outlook. This created a whopping four-notch difference between them and both Fitch and S&amp;P (A-). The justification of the decision was¬†appalling. Particularly the point about ‚Äúuncertain funding prospects‚Äù. I actually do understand why Moody‚Äôs did what it did ‚Äì they must have assumed that the Dijsselbloem Rule (a.k.a. The Template) means that Slovenia will fall down at the first stumbling point. But they weren‚Äôt brave enough to put that in writing and instead chose a set of¬†phony¬†arguments. Anyway, May 1st followed and the book reopened for bids only on Thursday. In the meantime, it was interesting to see what happened in the secondary market: the existing Sloven22 USD bonds got given on Tuesday at 99.00, they were sold just below 98.00 on Wednesday and by the time the books restarted they were firmly on their way towards par. I know markets don‚Äôt care about ratings these days but this was a pretty extreme vote of no-confidence for Moody‚Äôs. I took advantage of the fact that May 1st is a holiday across Europe and had a few meetings with fund managers here in London. All of them were telling me the same thing, i.e. that they hope that the downgrade would cheapen the deal by at least 10bp. They ‚Äúhoped‚Äù but didn‚Äôt really think that would happen. This sharply contrasts with some analysts‚Äô comments who said that the downgrade could cost Slovenia around 100bp (i.e. from 6 to 7% in yield). Imagine that ‚Äì some people seriously thought Slovenia would have to pay more than Rwanda (no¬†disrespect, of course). Then the big day came ‚Äì books reopened, bids were even stronger than during the first attempt and Slovenia sold 3.5bn worth of 5 and 10y bonds. On Friday, the new Sloven23s traded up by more than 4 points, which means yield fell by more than 50bp from the 6% the government paid. A fairy tale ending. So why do I think this event was so important? Because it shows how different the perception of European sovereign risk is. I wrote a few times about it (see¬†here¬†and¬†here) partly making fun of people who thought that Slovenia would be the next Cyprus. Now, don‚Äôt get me wrong, I don‚Äôt think that Slovenia is out of the woods yet. In fact, the 3.5bn cash injection could make the government less eager to push for necessary reforms (for details, do check an excellent summary of a great paper by@GoodRichWatts¬†which can be found¬†here). But the emotional reaction to the Cyprus debacle was ridiculed by the market. In other words, just because something happened in one part of the Eurozone, it doesn‚Äôt mean that there will be an impending domino effect, or an outright tsunami. Perhaps issues from both Apple and Slovenia have only proved that investors will buy anything that yields. But I strongly believe that in the case of Slovenia we got something much more important in terms of where the crisis in the Eurozone is headed. If you want to be short Europe, feel free to do that but better check whether your story holds first and don‚Äôt count on panic spreading quickly. * Comparing a country‚Äôs GDP with a company‚Äôs market capitalisation is ridiculous, though because one is flow and the other one is stock. But this sort of comparison is what would get me quoted on Bloomberg so I couldn‚Äôt resist. For the record, if you wanted to compare a country‚Äôs GDP to anything from the corporate finance world it should rather be sales, in which case Slovenia is a third of Apple.
Wet Napkin on flickrThe stock markets closed on Friday at their all-time highs. However, one of the biggest headscratchers has been the nature of the stock market rally. Specifically, the more conservative sectors like health care have been outperforming the more volatile cyclical sectors. If people feel good about the economy, they should hunger for risk and invest in more economically sensitive names. However, investors have been doing the exact opposite month after month this year. Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker talks about this in a new note titled "The Definition Of Insanity": Doing something over and over again and expecting a different outcome? Once again, high-beta stocks, cyclicals and smaller stocks underperformed in a strong market during April. In a break from the prior three months, junk narrowly beat quality while value beat growth. One explanation for this discrepancy could be that income-oriented investors are also pouring into the stock market for "bond-like" investments since interest rates are so low.† Parker address this: Equity markets were up in April, and once again traditional areas of equity risk-taking, such as small stocks, cyclicals and high-beta stocks, all lagged the broader market. This is the atypical market behavior we have been writing about repeatedly since June of 2012. The pattern of risk-on behavior at the aggregate market level versus risk-off behavior within equities has been in place throughout 2013 to date. It happened again in April. The only difference from prior months in 2013 is that junk slightly outperformed quality in April. To the extent that investors are being driven into equities by an absence of yield in the bond markets, they appear to be favoring less-risky cohorts ñ continuation the trend that has lasted for some time and one we think will remain driven by quantitative easing. Economic data appear sufficiently strong to ease fears of a pronounced slowdown, yet weak enough for QE to continue (indefinitely). It's worth noting that while the outperformance of conservative sectors is counterintuitive, it's not unprecedented. According to stock market historian Laszlo Birinyi, a defensive sector like health care, consumer staples, and utilities are often top performers during up years.
Warren Buffett was on CNBC's Squawk Box with Becky Quick. This comes as The Oracle wraps up Berkshire Hathaway's annual shareholder meeting. "We cut across the whole economy," said Buffett of Berkshire's businesses which includes railroaders and homebuilders. "Overall, the economy is improving, but at a slow pace." Quick asked about the recent all-time highs in the stock market and how people should think about investing. "They should pay more attention to the milestones to the downside, because that's when stocks are getting cheaper," he responded. "You'll see numbers a lot higher in your lifetime," added Buffett as he joked about watching the Dow cross 100. On the day-to-day trading, he also warned that people often spend too much time thinking about the short-term. What about the Federal Reserve's impact on investments? "Interest rates act like gravity to all asset prices," said Buffett noting that everything responds to rates. "Interest rates have a powerful effect on all assets." "He's done very well in terms of the United States," said Buffett on Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke. On Europe, the Oracle of Omaha acknowledged that there were troubles in the region, but that the turmoil had also presented opportunities. Corporate governance was also a big topic, especially considering Buffett's age.¬† Buffett noted that separating the CEO and board chairman roles makes it easier to replace the CEO if need.¬† Buffett who is both chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway notes that he often leaves board meetings for hours because he believes it's good for directors to talk without having the CEO around. Buffett's replacement will be one of three men who already work at Berkshire Hathaway. Quick asked about interest rates and bonds. "Someday they'll be selling at a yield higher than what they are now," responded Buffett about bonds. "Stocks were very cheap a few years ago, they're reasonably priced now," said Buffett reiterating his bullishness toward the asset class. "I do not like owning bonds now," he added arguing that they were artificially priced. "They're terrible investments now." Buffett is on from 6 AM ET to 9 AM ET. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Rick Diamond / Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know: Bonus: Hayden Panitierre sat ringside as boyfriend Wladmir Klitschko demolished Francesco Pianeta in six rounds.
Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics that he's talking about with traders this morning. We summarize in bullets:
BASELóAmong the 122,000†enormously rich†watch fanatics assembled here last week, youíd have been hard-pressed to find any who didnít think the rumored†iWatch†is daft and the†reported Samsung watch phone†is a waste of time. Anyone who believes differently, they would tell you, likely needs professional help to discover a life outside of social media. As multimillion-dollar wristwatch deals went down at the annual†Baselworld†watch and jewelry fair in Switzerland, clutches of luxury watchmakers sneered at the notion that their customers would down-market themselves from a $65,000 platinum Rolex†Daytona†or a $350,000 Patek Philippe to a digital gee-gaw assembled in a Chinese factory and festooned with a fruitlet. ìA wristwatch is the ultimate rare status symbol, and Apple poses absolutely no threat to our market,î says Francois Nunez, product director for timepieces at Victorinox, manufacturer of the†ubiquitous†Swiss Army Knife. ìThereís not one bespoke watchmaker who worries about wrist computer-phones.î Easing a $40,000 ìBig Bang Gold Ferrariî off her wrist, Anais Treand at Hublot advises Samsung to stay with smartphones and television sets. ìWeíre not going to lose one customer,î is Treandís verdict. But time remains relative for the folks over at Breitlingís Baselworld chalet, where fish swim in an aquarium sized in SeaWorld proportions and the cost of a watch can exceed the†pricetag†on a four-year college degree. As Breitling technical director Gerhard Loitz tells it, the 129-year-old Swiss watchmaker celebrated for rugged high-tech timepieces is on the cusp of out-Appling the iWatch and turning itswatch phone†into a relic before Samsung transforms rumor into reality. Itís called†Emergency II. It comes in volcano black, cobra yellow or intrepid orange. And it costs $15,750. The titanium watch doesnít yet do Wi-Fi and, if you want to make a phone call, ìyouíll for now need to use your cell phone,î Loitz says. Back in 1995, Breitling launched and sold 40,000 Emergency I wristwatches, miniaturized chronometers created with the help of Dassault Aviation and equipped with a single-frequency distress beacon able to operate anywhere on Earth. Breitlingís records indicate the watch saved some 20 people, victims of airplane crashes, disasters at sea and in car wrecks and military firefights that went down in locations thousands of miles removed from the nearest cell-phone tower. Its most famous customer was adventurer†Steve Fossett, whose plane in 2007 crashed in the Nevada desert. Breitling immediately went into action, but Fossett had left his Emergency I at home. His body wasnít found until a year later. Breitling nonetheless went back to the workbench. The Emergency II is a 10-layered indestructible wrist chronometer fitted with a dual-frequency distress beacon micro transmitter in compliance with†Cospas-Sarsat†specifications at 406 MHz and 121.5 MHz. Who needs 4G when you can access the Geosar and Leosar orbiting satellite systems? ìItís our coolest product,î Loitz says. ìThis is a serious watch with a distinctively useful purpose for serious people.î But arenít the rumored Apple and Samsung wrist phones supposed to be uber-cool, ultra-lightweight and capable of streaming movies and letting you†order pizzaonline?†îBreitlingís customers mostly live on a different edge,î Loitz says. The next step, he adds, is to wait for the technology to catch up with what he has on the drawing board: an Emergency model that allows the wearer to make and receive phone calls. ìThe miniaturization isnít there yet,î Loitz explains. ìIf we built the watch now, it would be too big and heavy.î Anyway, cell phones and Sprint mobile†contracts†just donít cut it in the bespoke watch world. Indeed, a Breitling talk-watch would likely come with a direct uplink satellite phone system that precludes the need to†roam†for a cellphone signal.
The Senate on Monday is poised to pass an Internet sales tax bill with strong bipartisan support, in spite of opposition from traditionally influential conservative groups and weak public backing. The Marketplace Fairness Act, which easily cleared a set of procedural Senate votes in recent weeks, wouldn't technically impose any new taxes. Instead, it would give state governments the ability to collect Internet sales taxes from businesses headquartered outside of their respective state borders -- taxes that are technically already owed. Consumers are expected to declare those taxes on their state income tax returns but often don't. Backers of the bill argue that out-of-state online retailers have an unfair advantage over brick-and-mortar stores, since they're not required to collect the sales tax owed on the products they sell, even if the state requests it. The National Conference of State Legislatures estimates states in 2012 lost more than $11 billion in sales tax revenue from online retailers based in other states. That money could make a huge difference in state budgets, especially as the economy continues to sputter back to life at a slow pace. Support for the legislation hasn't fallen along the usual partisan divide. It was introduced by Sen. Mike Enzi, R-Wy., while its co-sponsors include conservatives like Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and liberals like Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. Some of the bill's biggest detractors in the Senate come from states that don't collect sales taxes, like New Hampshire and Montana. "Montana businesses are not responsible for paying for the services and spending priorities in other states," Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., said on the Senate floor in March. "Montana businesses are not responsible for paying for fancy software to play tax collector for other states."¬† Conservative groups like the Heritage Foundation and Grover Norquist's Americans for Tax Reform also oppose the measure, arguing it's a burden on small online businesses. That's what the measure's biggest corporate opponent eBay says: "These are very, very small businesses that employ less than 10 people, or even less than 20 people," eBay Vice President Tod Cohen told CBS News. "And for them to take the amount of time and effort necessary to comply with all the laws, and more importantly to deal with the enforcement of those laws, puts them at a real disadvantage to their larger competitors." The legislation exempts businesses making under $1 million in out-of-state sales annually, but eBay says that's not good enough. At an event last week, CEO John Donahoe said the exemption should, at the very least, apply to companies making under $10 million in out-of-state sales. "We're not against an Internet sales tax," Donahoe said. "But the Internet sales tax has to work." Over in the Republican-led House, some GOP members have similarly suggested they support the general idea of the internet sales tax but think the Senate bill needs some work.¬† "I have some concern about the legislation," Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., told the New York Times. Goodlatte leads the House Judiciary Committee, which would have jurisdiction on the issue. "But we also recognize the fairness issue -- certain items being taxed in certain circumstances, other items being not -- is a problem for brick-and-mortar businesses, so we're going to try and solve that." Conservative Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., told the Hill that he does not support the Senate bill but supports the concept. "It's got to be done the right way," he said. "I think the legitimate concern is can it be used to do other forms of taxation or retroactive taxation? You have got to make sure it doesn't do that. I don't think the Senate bill is written in a tight enough way to do that." A recent national poll from Quinnipiac University shows that the public isn't thrilled about the new tax collecting scheme: 56 percent of voters said they think items and services purchased on the internet should not be subject to state sales taxes, while just 37 percent said they should be.
 REUTERS/Steve Dipaola Here's a great paragraph from Paul Krugman: Expansionary austerity has been refuted and even the IMF says that short-run multipliers are big. The 90 percent red line on debt was an artifact of fuzzy math. The bond vigilantes remain invisible, and the confidence fairy refuses to make an appearance. Clearly, austerian economics has imploded (and some prominent austerians seem to be personally imploding too). In just the last few weeks we've seen the UK get rebuked, Reinhart &amp; Rogoff go down, European interest rates fall, and Niall Ferguson making him self look like a fool equating Keynes's economic philosophy with being gay (he since apologized). What's remarkable is how public this all has been. Academic ideas go in and out all of the time, but not in ways so easily digestible for mass consumption. And usually the pace of intellectual change is glacial. This has happened in blog time. So it's really nothing we can recall. And to the extent that leaders (at least in Europe) are now clearly calling for an end to austerity, it could be quite bullish for the economy.
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachFrom WSJ, the latest rate call from bond god Jeff Gundlach, who says there's no imminent prospect of US interest rates heading higher. †"It's not timely to be betting on higher interest rates," said Jeffrey Gundlach, chief executive and chief investment officer of DoubleLine, a Los Angeles firm with $59 billion under management. He said economic growth remains too soft to allow the Fed to consider cutting back its $85 billion-a-month bond-purchase program known as "quantitative easing," a shift he views as a necessary precursor to any increase in interest rates. Meanwhile, Bill Gross is on the same side, although this is a tune reversal from earlier this year: †This year has played out much the same way. In January, Pimco's Mr. Gross told investors to avoid U.S. government bonds maturing in at least 10 years, because low yields on the debt raise the risk that holders will have their purchasing power eroded by inflation. BlackRock warned investors that long-term government bonds had limited upside. Prices fell and yields rose above 2% in March from 1.78% at year-end. But weak manufacturing data, slowing jobs gains and a fall in gasoline prices, undermining the bears' inflation argument, have again limited the impulse to flee government bonds. Read the full article here &gt;
Oskar Lafontaine, the German finance minister who launched the euro, has called for a break-up of the single currency to let southern Europe recover, warning that the current course is "leading to disaster". "The economic situation is worsening from month to month, and unemployment has reached a level that puts democratic structures ever more in doubt," he said. "The Germans have not yet realised that southern Europe, including France, will be forced by their current misery to fight back against German hegemony sooner or later," he said, blaming much of the crisis on Germany's wage squeeze to gain export share. Mr Lafontaine said on the parliamentary website of Germany's Left Party that Chancellor Angela Merkel will "awake from her self-righteous slumber" once the countries in trouble unite to force a change in crisis policy at Germany's expense. His prediction appeared confirmed as French finance minister Pierre Moscovici yesterday proclaimed the end of austerity and a triumph of French policy, risking further damage to the tattered relations between Paris and Berlin. "Austerity is finished. This is a decisive turn in the history of the EU project since the euro," he told French TV. "We're seeing the end of austerity dogma. It's a victory of the French point of view." Mr Moscovici's comments follow a deal with Brussels to give France and Spain two extra years to meet a deficit target of 3pc of GDP. The triumphalist tone may enrage hard-liners in Berlin and confirm fears that concessions will lead to a slippery slope towards fiscal chaos. German Vice-Chancellor Philipp Rˆsler lashed out at the European Commission over the weekend, calling it "irresponsible" for undermining the belt-tightening agenda. The Franco-German alliance that has driven EU politics for half a century is in ruins after France's Socialist Party hit out at the "selfish intransigence" of Mrs Merkel, accusing her thinking only of the "German savers, her trade balance, and her electoral future". It is unclear whether the EU retreat from austerity goes much beyond rhetoric. Mr Moscovici conceded last week that the budget delay merely avoids extra austerity cuts to close the shortfall in tax revenues caused by the recession. The new policy allows automatic fiscal stabilisers to kick in, but France will stay the course on the original austerity. "It is not about relaxing the effort to cut spending. There will no extra adjustment just to satisfy a number," he said. Mr Lafontaine said he backed EMU but no longer believes it is sustainable. "Hopes that the creation of the euro would force rational economic behaviour on all sides were in vain," he said, adding that the policy of forcing Spain, Portugal, and Greece to carry out internal devaluations was a "catastrophe". Mr Lafontaine was labelled "Europe's Most Dangerous Man" by The Sun after he called for a "united Europe" and the "end of the nation state" in 1998. The euro was launched on January 1 1999, with bank notes following three years later. He later left the Social Democrats to found the Left Party. 
BTIG strategist Dan Greenhaus passes along this "Sell In May" chart. It's pretty self explanatory. There's a reason there's an old cliche about "Sell in May, and go away." BTIG
The great oil and gold booms are over. That's according to Ruchir Sharma of Morgan Stanley, writing at Bloomberg View. Sharma, an emerging markets specialist, blames the slowdown in China. The wreckage caused by China‚Äôs great, juddering slowdown continues to spread far beyond the country‚Äôs shores. Although most commodities enjoyed a bounce on May 3, after better-than-expected U.S. employment data, the plunge in their prices over the past few months suggests the past decade‚Äôs rally is truly broken. After walking through what happened during the period of 2000-2011 (which saw a surge in prices and talk about "peak oil") Sharma says the opposite discussion is now occurring, that we have perhaps reached peak demand. Now, as emerging nations begin to embrace energy efficiency as well -- China is working hard on electric cars, for instance, despite continuing to build dozens of coal plants -- global demand might flatten out this decade. The debate over ‚Äúpeak oil‚Äù scenarios may shift from the threat of dwindling supply to the threat of peaking demand. Certainly, the world is no longer terrified of running out of important commodities. High prices have drawn investment to copper mines, aluminum smelters and other basic sources of supply. In the past decade, the amount of capital invested in the energy and materials sector, which includes most nonfarm commodities, has risen 600 percent, compared with an average increase of 200 percent in other sectors. The idea that peak oil is now decisively a concept of the past has been getting a lot of play lately. Part of it is due to the fall in commodity demand growth. Part of it is due to the huge expansion of potential US supply, and what that means for global trade balances. Meanwhile, the Australian economy is starting to crack, as its highly exposed to Chinese demand, and a strong market for commodities. (Via Derek Brower)
col / Shutterstock.com The economic weakness in China clearly appears to be taking a toll on the Aussie economy. Global mining giant Rio Tinto has said more job cuts are coming to Australia, thanks to slack demand for commodities. Meanwhile, the latest data is poor. Retail sales unexpectedly fell 0.4% for the Month of March, significantly worse than the 0.1% rise that analysts had expected. A measure of available jobs also was weak, with ads falling 1.3% in April, an acceleration from a 0.5% decline in March. Also on Monday, a major homebuilder slashed demand estimates, and announced job cuts. Australia has famously gone a long time without a recession, and there's a debate about whether this is due to China's multi-decade boom, or due to good monetary policy. The country is getting tested again. (Via Ulas Akincilar)
Shutterstock.com / Robert GoodeThe week begins and what's happening is... not much. After big gains on Friday, thanks to the US Non-Farm Payrolls report, things are considerably quieter. US futures are flat, as are European markets across the board. Things were a bit more lively in Asia, where Shanghai gained over 1%, Hong Kong adding about the same, and Australia rising 0.5%. These gains came even as China's services sector (as measured by the PMI Services report) had its slowest month in nearly 2 years, and Australian retail sales unexpectedly shrunk for the month of March. Expect a very slow week for economic data.
