Rock CenterFormer Lehman Brothers CFO Erin Callan, who was one of the most powerful women on Wall Street, pretty much disappeared from the public eye after the bank's demise.† She resurfaced again this week with a really gutsy op-ed in The New York Times about the big work/life balance debate that has been reignited following Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg's new book, "Lean In."† The former "well-heeled" Wall Street exec did a big television interview with Ann Curry on "Rock Center" with Brian Williams that aired Friday night.† Callan wanted to provide her own perspective on the "Lean In" concept and use her experience as a "cautionary tale."† "I wanted to be a little bit of sort of a cautionary tale," she said in an interview with Curry. "You can achieve. You can accomplish. You can have an amazing career with great success even in a male-dominated field like I did, but be careful what you wish for and the choices that you make."† She went on to explain that she leaned in really far on Wall Street and that wasn't the best thing. "I leaned in far, very far," she said, adding, "Don't do it like me. I don't think the way I was doing it was the healthiest, happiest way to do it."† She explained that she was intense about the things she did in her life. †She grew up a competitive gymnast in Queens and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard.† Callan eventually worked her way up the ranks on Wall Street to become the first female CFO at Lehman. † While on the Street, she said that she was constantly on her Blackberry, checking Asian markets before going to bed and making herself completely available even if that meant hopping on a last minute flight to Europe for work.† This, she said, became the "new normal" for her, causing her to miss out on important events such as birthdays and relationships with friends and family. She also acknowledged that she wasn't spending enough time with her first husband.† Curry asked her if she realized what was happening.† "I'm not sure I was consciously willing to admit it," Callan responded. †In her op-ed, one of the things Callan talked about is missing out on having children. "I didn't have children. But there was no conscious moment where I woke up and said I don't think I want to have kids because it was important to me," she said. Now at age 47, Callan and her new husband, high school classmate/firefighter Anthony Montella, are trying with in vitro fertilization.† So her takeaway for women is to "lean back if it feels right." She basically said to lean in if that's what feels right, but if you don't that's okay, too.† "It's up to you. It's your choice. Follow your heart. Follow your passion. If you want to break the glass ceiling like I did, go for it." Callan does believe she could have gotten to the C-suite still with some changes or tweaks.† "I really do believe there's that extra hour ... that extra thing that really is diminishing returns to your labor over time."† She said that applies to men and women.† "The demands that it places on you. It's hard to create boundaries with respect to those demands. I don't think that's a woman issue."† Despite what people may have concluded from her op-ed, Callan said that she has found love and peace in her new low key life in Florida. "I don't wake up everyday with the anxiety of doing the next big thing. I'm okay with who I am." Check her out now ...† Rock Center Rock Center
The Today Show posted this marvelous photo-juxtaposition on Instagram (passed on by Tom MacIsaac of Verve Mobile). The images show people gathered in St. Peter's Square in Rome.* The top photo is from 2005, two years before Apple's launch of the iPhone spawned the smartphone and tablet era. The bottom photo is from 2013. Hard to believe how much the world has changed in eight years. The Today Show *UPDATE: The Washington Post investigated these photos and found an important footnote, which is that the top photo was taken during the funeral procession for Pope John Paul II, rather than the announcement of the election of the new pope like the 2013 photo. (It would presumably have been inappropriate to be frantically recording the funeral procession.) The Post also found other photos of the announcement of the new pope in 2005. Those photos do show a few observers recording the event, though nothing like the photo in 2013.
Fisker AutomotiveIn 2009, Fisker Automotive was an exciting company: With Detroit in shambles and a huge loan from the federal government, the startup automaker had plans to change the industry. It was going to build 100,000 cars a year in Delaware and save or create 5,000 jobs. The Karma, its gorgeous, extremely efficient plug-in hybrid electric car, was on the way. It landed a cover story on Forbes magazine in May, with the title, "The Next Detroit." Justin Bieber and Leonardo DiCaprio were huge fans. But today, no Karmas are being built. Production of the Atlantic, the car meant to generate real profits, has been delayed to late 2014. The Delaware plant sits nearly empty, and company's namesake and co-founder suddenly resigned this week. Here's how Fisker went from the up-and-comer that was going to change the game, to a company flirting with disaster, and just maybe the next Solyndra.
In the Italian election that occurred at the end of February, the big shock was the surprise 25 percent showing for Beppe Grillo's M5 movement. That movement represented an enormous protest vote against the establishment. It briefly sent shock waves through markets, and although most markets have recovered, Italy has been a laggard, as no party in the election garnered enough seats in parliament to form a government. It's possible that there will have to be new elections sometime in the next few months. September is a possibility. To that end, this is ominous. A new poll (Tweeted by Fabrizio Goria) shows surging support for Grillo. The election only added to his momentum, and he's now at 30 percent. Almost as worrisome for Europe: Berlusconi's PDL has also gained since the election. These both represent protests aimed at austerity and Brussels. Remember, Italy has gotten its borrowing costs down, because it;s engaged in austerity/reforms that the ECB likes. If Italy goes back on them, the ECB backstop becomes less politically tenable, and then you could have surging borrowing costs in Europe's largest debt market. Europe should A) be very afraid of another election and B) feel a sense of urgency about fixing the economic situation that's causing this much support for rebel parties. @fgoria
YoutubeS&amp;P upgraded Detroit's outlook to 'stable' from 'negative' on Governor Rick Snyder's decision to put an emergency financial manager in charge of the cities unstable finances. Snyder nominated lawyer Kevyn Orr, who'd worked on restructuring Chrysler, to the post yesterday. Here's the full note from S&amp;P: Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services said that it revised its outlook to stable from negative on Detroit's unlimited- and limited-tax general obligation (GO) bonds and pension obligation certificates. At the same time, Standard &amp; Poor's affirmed its 'B' rating on the bonds. The outlook revision follows the appointment of an emergency manager (EM) by the state. "We view the appointment of an emergency manager as a positive step toward regaining structural balance and improving the city's overall financial condition," said Standard &amp; Poor's credit analyst Jane Hudson Ridley. The 'B' rating reflects our view of the following credit factors: When we assigned the negative outlook to the rating in March 2012, it was prior to the enactment of a consent agreement (the Financial Stability Agreement or FSA) between the city and the state. Since that time, the city has made changes, but the pace has been slow, exacerbated by distractions within city government. "The appointment of an EM allows the city to move forward in a more efficient manner, continuing to make the types of adjustments necessary to regain structural balance," added Ms. Ridley.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Wirehouses Are Looking For More Female Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) Women account for just 10 - 30 percent of the wealth management industry and the industry needs more female advisors, according to The Wall Street Journal. This is because female investors are representing a larger portion of high-net-worth individuals and many trust female advisors more according to the report.  Where We Are In The Stock Market Cycle (Gluskin Sheff) A recent poll of 48 economists by Bloomberg showed that no one has a recession probability that is higher than 30 percent. The Fed meanwhile is being "accommodative".¬† What's more? "The correlation between the Fed balance sheet and the S&amp;P 500 at 87% is more than 4x what it has been in the past and now tops the correlation the market has with earnings! Now that is a new normal." Gluskin Sheff Not Only Is A Correction Likely, The Bull Market Might Be Nearing Its End (Comstock Partners) Everyone's been celebrating the recent stock market highs but when investors and the media agree on the market that is usually cause for concern.¬† "The market‚Äôs positive beginning to the year is far from unique, and is not much different than the start of each of the last three years.¬† 2010 began with a gain in the S&amp;P 500 of 9.2% only to be followed by a 15.6% correction.¬† Similarly, the next year started with an increase of 8.4% and then corrected by 19.4%.¬† Early last year the market gained 13.1% before dropping 10.5%.¬† So far this year the market has jumped 9.6%, similar to the gains of the prior three years. How To Reduce Risk From Stock Exposure (Advisor Perspectives) "With investor sentiment extremely high and serious domestic and foreign¬† problems still unresolved, we think that not only are the chances for a major correction quite high, but that the entire market rise since March 2009 may be coming to an end." Investors that have loaded up on bonds are in a difficult spot because of low yields while those that have loaded up on stocks risk massive losses. Instead, Seth Masters of Alliance Bernstein recommends "a modest allocation to inflation-sensitive assets (sourced proportionally from both stocks and bonds) would significantly reduce the risk of large short-term losses for a portfolio with a 60% allocation to globally diversified stocks and a 40% allocation to diversified intermediate-term municipal bonds, the display below shows." A Eurozone Shockwave Is On Its Way (Societe Generale) Societe Generale analyst expect a Eurozone shockwave in spring and that it will be drive currency markets this year. In Italy there's political uncertainty around the elections and the concomitant concern "reforms will surely be on the backburner for another six months at least". "Germany, now six months into a general election, will not be keen to share further risks and tolerate policy slippage. ‚Ä¶It is far too early to dismiss EA [euro area] crisis as a key driver. We fear another shockwave in the spring."
APMila Kunis went on CNBC last night and said she was moving out of cash and into stocks. And just like that, the Dow's epic 10-day win streak is over, and today's close is NOT an all-time high. First, the scoreboard: Dow Jones:†14,514.11, -25.03†(-0.17%)S&amp;P 500:†1,560.72, -2.51†(-0.16%)Nasdaq:†3,249.07, -9.86†(-0.30%) And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
China has for some time been subsidizing its solar industry and betting big on clean energy. But the huge bet seems to be crumbling now, and at the center of it is Suntech Power Holdings, one of the world's biggest solar panel-makers. In November, a U.S. trade panel approved tariffs of between 24 - 36 percent on Chinese solar-panel imports, after it ruled that domestic solar panel-makers were hurt by illegal dumping. They argued that Chinese solar panel manufacturers could sell their products dirt cheap because they were extremely heavily subsidized by their government. Suntech was subject to an even higher 36 percent tax. Suntech has also been the subject of controversy for some time over its finances. Bloomberg reports that the company had been amassing debt for quite a while and that it reached close to $2 billion as of August 2012. Another huge blow to the company was its discovery that Ä554.2 million in German government bonds that it was given as collateral for its investment in Global Solar Fund "may not have existed and the company may have been a victim of fraud." That dispute was settled last week. Then, Suntech announced that it had entered a forbearance agreement with holders of $541 million in bonds due today, and said it will not make the payment but is working with bondholders to restructure the debt. In a March 11 press release, the company said it had worked with holders of 60 percent of the company's three percent convertible notes and they had agreed not "to exercise their rights under the Notes and the related indenture" until May 15, 2013. Now they could be sued by bondholder Trondheim Capital Partners LP, according to Reuters. Suntech is also in talks to be bailed out by the government of Wuxi, China where it is based.† Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management, tweeted "we may be on the verge of the first major Chinese bankruptcy since GITIC in 1999." Chovanec has previously said the Chinese solar industry has "a dozen Solyndras." A quick refresher: Solyndra got a massive loan from the Obama administration right before it went bankrupt. Concerns were raised about the impact of political fundraising. From his interview with NPR:  "Well, they have a dozen Solyndras. They basically have tried to build up an industry by pouring subsidies into trying to pick winners in that industry and right now those companies are failing badly because thereís a massive amount of overcapacity thatís been created." Suntech's stock is down nearly 98 percent since 2008 as this chart shows. In the past year, it's been down nearly 80 percent: Yahoo Finance
The non-partisan Tax Policy Center is out with a dismantling of Paul Ryan's new budget proposal that hits its lack of specifics in much of the same way it slammed Mitt Romney's tax-code revamp during the presidential campaign last summer. In its study, the center concludes that Ryan's budget¬†would add $5.7 trillion to the deficit ‚Äî because of proposals to simplify the income tax code to two levels of 10 and 25 percent, repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax, repeal certain tax increases from the Affordable Care Act, and cut the top corporate tax rate to 25 percent. It's "hard to imagine" Ryan's budget plan working out to be revenue neutral, the TPC's Howard Gleckman wrote in a blog post accompanying the study. But if Ryan plans to implement those tax cuts and still make good on his promise to balance the budget, other taxes would have to be raised by $5.7 trillion.¬† According to the study, the Ryan budget's tax cuts would also proportionately benefit upper-income earners. Here's a look at each income bracket's percent change in after-tax income looks in chart form: Brett LoGiurato/Business Insider (Data: Tax Policy Center) According to the TPC, the top 0.1 percent of incomes would see a $1.2 million increase in after-tax income. The bottom 20 percent of incomes, on the other hand, would see an average tax cut of about $60.¬† The TPC didn't analyze what potential tax hikes the budget would have to raise, since Ryan didn't identify any potential tax increases in his proposal. But Gleckman speculates that most of the burden would fall to middle-class incomes because of the huge, $5.7 trillion revenue gap: "[B]ecause his plan does not identify any tax increases, TPC modeled only the tax cuts. [...] But¬†because the rate cuts are so regressive, House Republicans would have to heavily skew offsetting tax increases to high-income households if they want to keep the distribution of taxes roughly what it is today. And that will be another heavy lift." When the center gave a similar analysis of Romney's tax plan during the campaign and doubted it could be revenue neutral, Romney himself called the study "garbage." Democrats, meanwhile, were quick to jump at the study as they did last time.¬† "Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan lost that argument," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, a ranking member of the House Budget Committee. "Yet here we have a re-run of that plan that was thoroughly rejected by the American people."
APThe U.S. has banned all Americans from transacting with a Greek businessman accused of illicitly trafficking Iranian oil, according to a State Department statement. (h/t WSJ's Keith Johnson) Dr. Dimitris Cambis, President of Impire Shipping Limited,¬†was said to have taken Iranian money via several¬†front companies to purchase tankers transporting Iranian oil. The exact punishment from State and Treasury reads as follows: U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in any transactions with Dimitris Cambis or the entities blocked pursuant to E.O. 13599, and any assets they may have under U.S. jurisdiction are blocked. The scheme allegedly worked through "ship-to-ship transfers." For example, one¬†front company, Libra Shipping, operated vessels Cambis and Impire purchased on behalf of the National Iranian Tanker Company with the aim of loading them with Iranian oil supplied by the National Iranian Oil Company.¬†

AP ImagesJon Horvath, a former analyst as Sigma CapitalBillionaire hedge funder Steve Cohen's SAC Capital's CR¬†Intrinsic unit¬†agreed to settle insider trading charges for a record $600 million today, according to a release from the SEC. That's not all, though. The SEC has also charged hedge fund advisory firm Sigma Capital, a subsidiary of SAC Capital, with insider trading, the agency said in a release.¬† Sigma agreed to settle the charges with the SEC for $14 million that it traded on non-public information in¬†Dell and Nvidia Corporation. Here's an excerpt from the release:¬† The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that New York-based hedge fund advisory firm Sigma Capital Management has agreed to pay nearly $14 million to settle charges that the firm engaged in insider trading based on nonpublic information obtained through one of its analysts about the quarterly earnings of Dell and Nvidia Corporation. The SEC‚Äôs case, borne out of its ongoing investigation into expert networks and the trading activities of hedge funds, began last year with¬†charges against several hedge fund managers and analysts¬†including Jon Horvath, a former analyst at Sigma Capital. Horvath agreed to a settlement earlier this month in which he admitted liability. In a complaint filed today along with the proposed settlement in federal court in Manhattan, the SEC additionally charged Sigma Capital in the insider trading scheme and named two affiliated hedge funds ‚Äì Sigma Capital Associates and S.A.C. Select Fund ‚Äì as relief defendants that unjustly benefited from Sigma Capital‚Äôs violations. S.A.C. Select Fund is an affiliate of S.A.C. Capital. The SEC‚Äôs complaint alleges that Horvath provided Sigma Capital portfolio managers with nonpublic details about quarterly earnings at Dell and Nvidia after he learned them through a group of hedge fund analysts with whom he regularly communicated. Based on the confidential information, Sigma Capital traded Dell and Nvidia securities in advance of earnings announcements in 2008 and 2009 for $6.425 million in gains for its hedge fund affiliates. Sigma Capital agreed to pay disgorgement of $6.425 million plus prejudgment interest of $1,094,161.92 and a penalty of $6.425 million. ‚ÄúQuarterly revenues and profit margins are fundamental drivers of stock prices. By illegally obtaining these vital financial measures in advance of their public announcement, Sigma Capital secured a crystal ball revealing where the stock would likely be trading in the near future,‚Äù said George S. Canellos, Acting Director of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement. ‚ÄúHowever, the crystal ball failed to predict a costly settlement with the SEC.‚Äù Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Director of the SEC‚Äôs New York Regional Office, added, ‚ÄúSigma Capital‚Äôs violations of the securities laws were blatant and recurring. The firm obtained key quarterly earnings information before it was public and exploited an unfair edge over the rest of the market to reap millions of dollars in unlawful gains.‚Äù According to the SEC‚Äôs complaint, the key inside information that Horvath obtained about upcoming earnings announcements by Dell and Nvidia often differed significantly from the predictions of market analysts, who only had access to publicly available information. Based on this inside information, Sigma Capital traded Dell and Nvidia securities in advance of four quarterly earnings announcements and reaped more than $5.2 million for its hedge fund Sigma Capital Associates. Horvath‚Äôs inside information also enabled S.A.C. Select Fund to execute trades and avoid losses of more than $1 million. The SEC‚Äôs complaint charges Sigma Capital with violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5. Sigma Capital is neither admitting nor denying the charges. The settlement, subject to court approval, also would permanently enjoin Sigma Capital from future violations of the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. The SEC‚Äôs investigation, which is continuing, has been conducted by Joseph Sansone, Daniel Marcus, and Stephen Larson ‚Äì members of the SEC‚Äôs Market Abuse Unit in New York ‚Äì and Matthew Watkins, Justin Smith, Neil Hendelman, Diego Brucculeri, and James D‚ÄôAvino of the New York Regional Office. It has been supervised by Sanjay Wadhwa. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorney‚Äôs Office for the Southern District of New York and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
AP ImagesThe SEC has charged a subsidiary of SAC Capital and its former manager Matthew Martoma with¬†insider trading scheme involving a clinical trial for an Alzheimer‚Äôs drug being jointly developed by two pharmaceutical companies. CR Intrinsic¬†Investors LLC is alleged to have pocketed $276 million in the deal. The company has agreed to settle for more than $600 million, the largest insider trading settlement in SEC history. According to the SEC's complaint, Martoma¬†illegally obtained confidential details about the clinical trial from Dr. Sidney Gilman, who served as chairman of the safety monitoring committee overseeing the trial.¬†Gilman has agreed to pay more than $234,000 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest. The investigation is continuing, the SEC says. Here's the full release:¬† --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund advisory firm CR Intrinsic Investors has agreed to pay more than $600 million to settle SEC charges that it participated in an insider trading scheme involving a clinical trial for an Alzheimer‚Äôs drug being jointly developed by two pharmaceutical companies.¬†¬†¬† The¬†SEC charged CR Intrinsic with insider trading¬†in November 2012, alleging that one of the firm‚Äôs portfolio managers Mathew Martoma illegally obtained confidential details about the clinical trial from Dr. Sidney Gilman, who was selected by the pharmaceutical companies ‚Äì Elan Corporation and Wyeth ‚Äì to present the final drug trial results to the public.¬† ¬† The settlement filed today in federal court in Manhattan is the largest ever in an insider trading case, requiring CR Intrinsic ‚Äì an affiliate of S.A.C. Capital Advisors ‚Äì to pay $274,972,541 in disgorgement, $51,802,381.22 in prejudgment interest, and a $274,972,541 penalty. ¬† ‚ÄúThe historic monetary sanctions against CR Intrinsic and its affiliates are sharp warning that the SEC will hold hedge fund advisory firms and their funds accountable when employees break the law to benefit the firm,‚Äù said George S. Canellos, Acting Director of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement. ¬† Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Director of the SEC‚Äôs New York Regional Office, added, ‚ÄúA robust culture of compliance and zero tolerance toward employee misconduct can help other firms avoid the severe financial consequences that CR Intrinsic is facing for its misconduct.‚Äù ¬† The SEC‚Äôs complaint against CR Intrinsic, Martoma, and Dr. Gilman alleged that during phone calls arranged by a New York-based expert network firm for which Dr. Gilman moonlighted as a medical consultant, he tipped Martoma with safety data and eventually details about negative results in the trial about two weeks before they were made public in July 2008.¬† Martoma and CR Intrinsic then caused several hedge funds to sell more than $960 million in Elan and Wyeth securities in a little more than a week.¬† ¬† In an amended complaint filed today, the SEC added S.A.C. Capital Advisors and four hedge funds managed by CR Intrinsic and S.A.C. Capital as relief defendants because they each received ill-gotten gains from the insider trading scheme.¬† These ill-gotten gains are comprised of profits and avoided losses resulting from trades placed in the hedge fund portfolios that CR Intrinsic and S.A.C. Capital managed, and include fees that S.A.C. Capital received as a result of these ill-gotten gains.¬† ¬† The settlement is subject to the approval of Judge Victor Marrero of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.¬† The settlement would resolve the SEC‚Äôs charges against CR Intrinsic and the relief defendants relating to the trades in the securities of Elan and Wyeth between July 21 and July 30, 2008.¬† The settling parties neither admit nor deny the charges.¬† The settlement does not resolve the charges against Martoma, whose case continues in litigation.¬† The court previously entered a consent judgment against Dr. Gilman requiring him to pay disgorgement and prejudgment interest, and permanently enjoining him from further violations of the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws. ¬† The SEC‚Äôs investigation, which is continuing, has been conducted by Charles D. Riely and Amelia A. Cottrell of the SEC‚Äôs Market Abuse Unit in New York, and Matthew J. Watkins and Neil Hendelman of the New York Regional Office.¬† The case has been supervised by Sanjay Wadhwa.¬† The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorney‚Äôs Office for the Southern District of New York, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).
Yahoo Now that Apple's (AAPL) stock has crashed more than 35% from its peak, most Wall Street analysts are frantically cutting their estimates and reducing their price targets. Most of them still rate the stock a "buy" so it's not as though everyone has given up and thrown in the towel. This herd-like analyst behavior often frustrates critics, who complain that Wall Street analysts usually miss big turning points like Apple's. In the case of Apple, though, a couple of Wall Street analysts were out in front of the stock's collapse. One of them has now upgraded it again, arguing that investors have actually become too negative about the company. Walter Piecyk of BTIG Research recently upgraded Apple from Neutral to Buy. Piecyk argues that investors have gotten way too pessimistic about Apple, with some even suggesting that it's the next BlackBerry (BBRY). To be clear: Piecyk's not sounding the "all clear." Piecyk thinks Apple will have a lousy first quarter, and will then issue "guidance" for the second quarter that is far below analysts' current estimates. That's bad news, obviously, and some investors will no doubt be startled and disappointed by it. But Piecyk thinks that most institutional investors have already factored this news into their assessments of the stock. And he thinks that, once expectations are reduced, the Apple news will be better from there. Apple will release a cheap iPhone this year, Piecyk predicts. Apple might also even release an iPhone with a bigger screen. Piecyk also believes that even if these two products have much lower profit margins than Apple's current premium iPhone, Apple's overall profit margin won't drop too much. Apple's profit margin is currently so high that, even if the margin drops a few points, the company will still coin money. Piecyk thinks Apple's earnings per share will be flat to down this year versus last year. But the tens of billions of dollars of new revenue that Apple could generate from a cheaper and bigger iPhone should drive earnings growth next year, even at a lower profit margin. Wall Street will likely start to focus on that growth, Piecyk thinks, by the middle of this year. Watch my discussion with Walt Piecyk here &gt;
AP/Al GrilloOn March 1, the State Department issued a draft environmental impact statement on the Keystone XL Pipeline. State found the structure would have minimal environmental impact on its surroundings, and that not building it wouldn't really affect oil sands development in Canada. A recent report said some Congressmen who'd recently met with President Obama were left with the impression he'd issue a final decision in a matter of weeks. Depending on your definition of weeks, that is inaccurate. The State Department, the agency responsible for issuing cross-border permits, will not do so until the 45-day comment period on the draft EIS has expired.† Including weekends (as State does), 45 days after March 1 brings us to April 15. But it'll be the second most important thing on our minds that Monday.†

Getty Images / Alexandra BeierEveryone knows America's first girlfriend was France, who helped us beat up the British.¬† But lots of people forget that we also had a side-thing going with Germany at our founding, in the form of General Von Steuben. And a new White House report on the challenges facing America in balancing energy and climate concerns shows the Executive branch has fallen in love with Germany all over again. It starts out with the following chart comparing energy intensities ‚Äî the¬†amount of¬†energy needed to generate a dollar‚Äôs worth of goods and services ‚Äî among developed countries: White House We're doing okay, the White House says. But Germany is looking pretty good these days, thanks to their huge ... building codes: U.S. energy intensity is still one-third higher than that of Germany...in part because Germany... [has] automobiles and building codes that are more energy efficient, as well as smaller homes set more densely. But that's not even the best thing Germany has going for it. Even as they use less fuel, they're making way more stuff than we are: In neither Germany nor Japan is the lower energy intensity due to having less manufacturing than the United States. In fact, manufacturing (an energy-intensive sector) is almost twice as high as a share of GDP in Germany as it is in the United States. The White House ends up concluding that the best strategy to improve energy intensity and reduce CO2 emissions is to focus on¬†services with inelastic demand. That why, the report argues, short-term price increases can more predictably yield longer-term energy savings.¬†
Bitcoin has been on a tear this year. The virtual currency, which is exchanged anonymously via an online peer-to-peer network, might be starting to go mainstream, as the recent involvement of a U.S. partner suggests. And while there has been a lot of increased interest in Bitcoin as of late, given its meteoric rise, there's still one big problem, as this week illustrates. On Monday, a technical glitch caused a "flash crash," causing Bitcoin to tumble 23 percent. Bitcoincharts.comClick to enlarge Prices have, as the chart shows, mostly recovered from the incident. What exactly happened, though? The glitch that sent Bitcoin tumbling Monday is the result of the unique structure of the Bitcoin exchange. Timothy Lee wrote a good explanation of what caused the incident†at Ars Technica: The core of the Bitcoin network is a shared transaction register known as the blockchain. Approximately every 10 minutes, a new block is created containing a record of all Bitcoin transactions that occurred since the previous block. Nodes in the network, known as miners, race to "discover" this next block by solving a cryptographic puzzle. The winner of this race announces the new block to the other nodes. The other nodes verify that it complies with all the rules of the Bitcoin protocol and then accepts it as the next official entry in the block chain, starting the race anew. It's essential for all miners to enforce exactly the same rules about what counts as a valid block. If a client announces a block that half the network accepts and the other half rejects, the result could be a fork in the network. Different nodes could disagree about which transactions have occurred, potentially producing chaos. That's what happened on Monday evening. A block was produced that the latest version of the Bitcoin software, version 0.8, recognized as valid but that nodes still running version 0.7 or earlier rejected. In other words, there may be a few kinks to work out before Bitcoin is ready for the type of interest it is seeing right now. ConvergEx Group strategist Nick Colas wrote in a recent note that what is happening in the Bitcoin market is actually an instructive lesson on global economics. "Whatís interesting to note is why BTC prices plummet, which they did in the back half of 2011," says Colas. "The cause was a very short-lived hack attack on one Bitcoin 'Wallet' company out of Japan, which caused the price to drop from $27 down to $2 in a few months." The cause of this week's crash was different, but the key takeaway is the same: "Confidence in money as a store of value is the ultimate driver of its value, both in the cyber and real worlds."
President Barack Obama released his 2013 Economic Report on Friday, which contains information relevant to the current budget debate over future spending on government health care programs. Both political parties agree that the growth of Medicare and Medicaid spending needs to be curbed. Republican Paul Ryan wants to cut into these programs more in the House GOP's budget than Senate Democrats do in their new budget. But Obama's Economic Report contains a chart that runs contrary to the common line of thinking in Washington, based on calculations from the President's Council of Economic Advisers on the Medicare Trustees' 2012 report. Here's the key chart: The President's 2013 Economic Report The chart shows that there's a big difference between previous projections and this new look, which forecasts Medicare's future based on the average annual growth rate over the last five years. It also shows that in 2085, Medicare would make up 3.8 percent of the nation's GDP spending, instead of the previously projected 6.7 percent. To compare, Medicare spending made up about 3.7 percent of GDP in 2011, according to the 2012 Medicare Trustees report. In the report, Obama warns to not treat the chart as a forecast ‚Äî rather, as an "indication of how sensitive long-term¬†projections are to the assumed rate of growth of Medicare spending per¬†beneficiary." Wonkblog's Sarah Kliff explains why it could shift discussion in Washington about future Medicare spending and current reform: If that cost growth persists, it could make all the difference for Medicare. ... The "if" there is crucial:¬†We don‚Äôt know whether this cost growth slowdown is permanent or temporary, a factor of Americans cutting back on care during the recession. [...] This data underscores how important the changes happening in our health-care system, right now, will be to the future of health-care spending. If they stick around, they could completely reorient the typical Washington discussion of Medicare as a budget-buster.
via PhotoGuyToday, the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey revealed a sharp drop in sentiment since last month. The headline index fell to 71.8 from 77.6 last month. Economists had predicted it would rise to 78.0. The drop was led by the economic outlook sub-index, which says that consumers are a lot more pessimistic about what's coming in the future than how economic conditions are right now. The University of Michigan's explanation for the drop, in the press release accompanying the data was rather striking. ìNever before in the long history of the surveys have so many consumers spontaneously mentioned that the disarray in federal economic policy was the main problem facing the economy.î Wow. Michigan's survey dates back to 1978. Via Reuters, survey director Richard Curtin added, "The frustrations expressed by consumers essentially involve how little consideration has been given to how the government's inability to reach a compromise affects people's economic situation."
via HOK If you go anywhere in Europe, the one country everyone says to watch out for is Turkey. And the country's largest city, Istanbul, is one of the hottest cities in the world. The country is incredibly ambitious. It wants to make its economy one of the 10 largest by 2023. To achieve that goal, it's going to build a brand new financial center. Architecture firm HOK has just unveiled the¬†master plan it developed for the Istanbul International Financial Center (IIFC).¬† The renderings for the $2.6 billion project are beautiful. ¬†The project is¬†scheduled for completion at the end of 2016, HOK said in a release.¬† We've included the images in the slides that follow.
Each week, Baker Hughes puts out a tally of all the oil and gas rigs in North America. Lately, the numbers have been going sideways, and before that had come down a bit. Here's the chart: Baker Hughes † At least one writer believes this is a sign America's energy boom could soon be going "bust" or is at least slowing down. But what do rig counts track? Citi's Tim Evans emails to say they track prices with about a 6-month lead (in other words, a secular price trend would be felt six months later in a rig count trend). They also track the broader economy ó more demand equals more pumping.†Here's the change in rig counts versus change in the University of Michigan's consumer confidence index since 2007: Baker Hughes/Michigan/Bloomberg † The amount of oil and gas that remains technically recoverable is astronomical ó†220 billion barrels of oil and 2.2 quadrillion cubic feet of natural gas.†We only drill 2.5 billion barrels a year of the former and 25 trillion cubic feet of the latter each year. This is not stopping soon.
CNBCAn adorable 5th grade student stock picker Rachel Kelly was on CNBC moments ago talking about her big investment ideaóHonda Motor. Kelly, 11, learned on "Squawk On The Street" that her Honda stock pick won a national contest for students put on by educational non-profit SIMFA. She beat more than 20,000 other kids.† Here's an excerpt from her essay via CNBC.com: Honda is a blue chip company and is a good long-term investment because its stock price gradually and consistently rose over the last 25 years. Other reasons to invest in Honda would be because the company continues to release new types of products such as robots and electric cars and adds to the diversity of its product lines. Honda created a robot called the ASIMO which stands for Advanced Step in Innovative Mobility. The ASIMO robot was created to assist people. The current robot model can walk, run, dance, turn, reach and grasp objects, carry a tray, push a cart, and even climb stairs and uneven terrain. The ASIMO is also programmed to comprehend and respond to a limited number of commands. In addition, the robot can recognize the faces of a group of individuals. In the future, Honda plans to create a new ASIMO robot to help people in need as well as the elderly. In response to the world's need to conserve our natural resources, Honda is now selling electric cars. From 1919 to around 2000, gas prices increased from $0.25 to $1.50 on average. During the last 12 years, gas prices have doubled and have even reached prices up to $4 and $5. Based on this, gas prices will most likely keep increasing. Honda manufactures a completely electric car called the Fit EV. When people start realizing that gas prices will most likely keep going up, they will want to start buying electric cars instead of gas (regular) cars. Plus, electric cars are environmentally friendly because the electric cars do not give out exhaust like gas cars do. During the on-air segment, she seemed to be having trouble with her Interruptible Feedback†device (IFB), which is not easy to use even for seasoned broadcast journalists.† Watch the video below:† † 
Jamplify/Andy PicketsJamplify's co-foundersAndy Pickens and Moses Soyoola were coworkers at Goldman Sachs, but they wanted to start their own business. The pair left finance to launch Jamplify last July, a service that creates social campaigns for brands and turns their fans into effective advertisers.Unlike some of its competitors, Jamplify isn't strictly a Twitter or Facebook social media play. Jamplify gives each fan a unique url to promote a favorite artist, business or initiative. The fans can then share that link in blogs, on message boards, on Facebook, YouTube and more. Those who drive the most referrers over the course of two to three weeks win tiered prizes. One campaign for Jasmine Villegas, a 15-year-old pop star who went on tour with Justin Bieber, drove 190,000 people to her YouTube video. The 190,000 people were referred by just 670 fans. That's about 280 people per fan, which is higher than Jamplify's usual referral rate. Pickens tell us the average fan drives 50 people during the "Jampaigns." Jampaigns are the company's word for the social media campaigns it runs. Pickens says his company has pilots going with some of the top record labels and so far, his team has worked with about 150 brands. In addition, he and Soyoola have raised $600,000 from more than a dozen investors. The round closed three weeks ago, and it consists largely of angel investors in New York City and Nashville where Jamplify participated in a startup accelerator program.There are a lot of startups trying to reward fans for their word of mouth (and typing) efforts, such as CrowdTwist and Plyfe. Pickens says Jamplify is different because it isn't costly for a brand to run a campaign; they are a SaaS solution. And a Jampaign can be turned around quickly. If a label only has two days to promote a new music video, for example, Jamplify can work in that time frame. Jamplify doesn't really care how engaged a single user is. Instead, Pickens says he cares about how many people fans refer. Pickens thinks it's an advantage to have fans focus on just one thing: spreading the unique urls."For competitors, the referral link is just one of the levers that a promoter can pull," he says. "When the link isn't the only mechanism, people aren't so intent on driving referrals."
Faruqi &amp; Faruqi is a tiny Wall Street plaintiffs' law firm that's made a killing on "say on pay" litigation against huge corporations. Now, the small but successful law firm's name has been dominating the business news for a different reason. It was hit with an extraordinarily graphic sexual harassment lawsuit. The legal insider blog Above the Law first reported on the lawsuit, which accuses one of the firm's most successful partners of relentlessly harassing a junior associate. Faruqi &amp; Faruqi partner Juan Monteverde's alleged abuse of 2011 Vanderbilt Law grad Alexandra Marchuk culminated on the evening of the office holiday party in December 2011, according to her complaint. Monteverde asked Marchuk to come into his office that night after revealing that he probably wouldn't recommend her for a bonus that year, according to the complaint. From the complaint, courtesy of Above the Law: "After entering his office, Mr. Monteverde pushed Ms. Marchuk to the floor and quickly, forcefully, and painfully had sex with her. Suffering discomfort and not wanting to continue having sex with him, Ms. Marchuk implored Mr. Monteverde to stop, but he disregarded her pleas and continued having sex with her." Monteverde is apparently a huge money-maker for the firm. From The New York Times' Dealbook: "In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act gave shareholders a voice in dictating how much a company decides to pay its executives. Led by Mr. Monteverde, Faruqi &amp; Faruqi has used the reforms to file complaints ó and extract settlements ó from corporations by suing them over pay-related matters." "Mr. Monteverde has also been at the forefront of shareholder merger litigation, another booming business for the plaintiffsí bar." A few days after the holiday party, Marchuk quit the firm and says the firm never asked about her abrupt departure. She also says a partner at the firm suggested that Monteverde's "inappropriate behavior" could cost Faruqi &amp; Faruqi a lot money, according to the suit. Faruqi &amp; Faruqi denies the allegations. ìThese claims are completely without merit, brought by a disgruntled former employee,î partner Lubna M. Faruqi, told Above the Law. ìWe look forward to aggressively defending our reputation in court and have every confidence we will be vindicated.î Monteverde did not immediately respond to Business Insider's request for comment Friday.
Former and current JPMorgan execs are being grilled before the Senate Pernament Subcommittee on Investigations over the "London Whale" trade this morning.¬† Ahead of the hearing, the senate subcommittee released a cache of documents and a 300-page report slamming the bank last night. The report claims JPMorgan mislead regulators and investors by¬†mismarking credit derivatives values in the Synthetic Credit Portfolio. It also says that JPMorgan execs ignored risks. The "London Whale" was first revealed in media reports in April by Bloomberg and the Wall Street Journal. ¬†JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon dismissed them as a "tempest in a teapot" during the company's first quarter earnings call.¬† This is a slide from Senator Carl Levin on the inaccurate statements he claims JPMorgan made during its Q1 conference call [via @AlexisGoldstein]. PDF
Garry Knight on Flickr This morning, the University of Michigan's preliminary March estimate for consumer confidence fell sharply to 71.8 from 77.6 last month. Economists had actually predicted the index would rise to 78.0, despite the fact that the IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index, a good leading indicator for the Michigan series, took a similar dive last week. Why are consumers lacking confidence? According to the University of Michigan release, "Never before in the long history of the surveys have so many consumers spontaneously mentioned that the disarray in federal economic policy was the main problem facing the economy." Andrew Wilkinson, Chief Economic Strategist at Miller Tabak, says today's number is "baffling" after stronger than expected retail sales this week and other positive data as of late. "It looks like the dip in the preliminary reading of consumer confidence will foil the marketís record run, at least until we can understand what is driving consumersí sudden downturn in forward-looking confidence," Wilkinson wrote in a note following the release. Here is more from Wilkinson: The magnitude of the slide in the expectations gauge is baffling following this weekís latest retail sales report that wholeheartedly refuted the notion that consumers were fazed by rising payroll taxes and higher gasoline prices. The expectations gauge slid to 61.7 from 70.2 and to its lowest since November 2011. The latest reading is all the more odd since most other anecdotal evidence (including increased hiring) point to a big sigh of relief as the quarter gets underway. The unexpected slide also eclipses the low point made in December as the media whipped up a frenzy of fears surrounding the fiscal cliff. One thing to note about this week's retail sales numbers is that sales at gas stations were the biggest gainers in February, driving the headline sales growth figure higher. That means that although consumers kept spending, a lot of it was on gas, thanks to higher prices. On the current conditions sub-index, Wilkinson writes: The current situation index fell from 89.0 to 87.5 yet remains above even its January level of 85.0, which was the lowest reading since the election. One possible explanation for the slide is perhaps the timing of the survey, which may have gauged responses from consumers around the time the sequester came in to effect, while gasoline prices have more recently come off the boil. Next week's data releases mostly pertain to the housing market, but a few releases toward the end of the week that contain clues on hiring ñ like the Philadelphia Fed's monthly business survey and Markit's preliminary PMI reading ñ should add to the picture.
In an interesting twist, stocks are falling this morning. Futures sold off right before the open and then were buoyed a bit at 9:30. However, the market took a sharp turn down again right before the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey was released. (It came in below expectations, falling to 71.8 from 77.6 last month. Economists expected it to rise to 78.0.) Now, the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow Jones are both down around 0.4 percent, and the Dow's 10-day win streak is in jeopardy. The chart below shows the Dow this morning. FINVIZ
AP ImagesThe preliminary results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey are out. The index fell to 71.8 from last month's 77.6 reading. Economists expected the index to rise to 78.0, but a weak IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index reading last week foreshadowed the drop in today's release. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 87.5 from 89.0 in February. The economic outlook sub-index fell to 61.7 from 70.2 last month. Inflation expectations 1 year ahead were unchanged at 3.3 percent, while inflation expectations 5 years ahead ticked down to 2.9 percent from 3.0 percent last month.
FoursquareWe recently did a report on where some of Wall Street's top hedge fund managers went to college. While there's a belief that in order to get a Wall Street job you need to graduate from an Ivy League with a 3.5 GPA, we learned that a bunch of the most successful hedge funders went to non-Ivy League schools.† So we were curious where some of Wall Street's biggest names went to high school. We decided to comb through alumni lists of prep schools to find ones with big name Wall Street alums.† Of course, you don't have to go to one to be successful on the Street just like you don't have to graduate from an Ivy League either.† We've included our round up in the slides that follow.†
ReutersClosely-followed billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson's firm released a statement that he has no intention to relocate to Puerto Rico to avoid taxes.¬† Here's the release: NEW YORK, March 15, 2013 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- John Paulson, President of Paulson &amp; Co. today announced that, in light of the media attention surrounding a relocation to Puerto Rico, he has no plans to move to Puerto Rico. While Mr. Paulson has considered real estate investments and has vacationed on the Island, he has no plans to establish a permanent residence there. Earlier this week, Bloomberg News reported that Paulson, who famously bet against the subprime housing market, was weighing a move to Puerto Rico to take advantage of a new tax law. The new law, Act-22 ("The Act to Promote the Transfer of Investors to Puerto Rico"), incentivizes people to become residents of Puerto Rico by exempting them from income tax on¬†their interest and dividend income and certain long term capital gains from the sale or exchange of securities. So far, ten wealthy people, including some hedge funders, have taken advantage of the new law, Bloomberg reported.¬†
AP ImagesFebruary industrial production data are out. Industrial production rose 0.7 percent in February after a revised flat reading in January. Economists predicted a smaller 0.4 percent advance. Manufacturing production rose 0.8 percent after contracting a revised 0.3 percent last month. Economists expected 0.5 percent manufacturing production growth. Below are details from the release: Industrial production increased 0.7 percent in February after having been unchanged in January.¬†Manufacturing output rose 0.8 percent in February, and the index revised up for the previous two months. In¬†February, the output of utilities advanced 1.6 percent, as temperatures for the month were near their seasonal¬†norms after two months of unseasonably warm weather. The production at mines declined 0.3 percent, its third¬†consecutive monthly decrease. At 99.5 percent of its 2007 average, total industrial production in February was¬†2.5 percent above its level of a year earlier. The capacity utilization rate for total industry increased to¬†79.6 percent, a rate that is 0.6 percentage point below its long-run (1972‚Äì2012) average.  The production of consumer goods increased 0.7 percent in February following a gain of 0.2 percent in¬†January. In February, the index for consumer durables advanced 1.7 percent. Among durable consumer goods¬†categories, the indexes for automotive products, home electronics, and miscellaneous goods all increased¬†1.3 percent or more, while the index for appliances, furniture, and carpeting moved up 0.2 percent after having¬†jumped 3.2 percent in January. The production of consumer nondurables rose 0.4 percent in February as a result¬†of a gain of 1.4 percent for consumer energy products. The index for non-energy nondurables was unchanged,¬†with increases in foods and tobacco and in paper products offset by decreases in clothing and in chemical¬†products. After having fallen 1.3 percent in January, the output of business equipment increased 2.5 percent in¬†February; the index was up 6.6 percent over its year-earlier level. The gain in February reÔ¨Çected a jump of¬†4.7 percent in transit equipment, a rise of 2.2 percent in industrial and other equipment, and an increase of¬†0.3 percent in information processing equipment. Each of these indexes had moved down in January. The production of defense and space equipment decreased 0.6 percent in February following an increase¬†of 1.8 percent in January. In February, the index was up 1.2 percent over its year-earlier level. Among nonindustrial supplies, the output of construction supplies increased 1.5 percent in February for¬†its fourth consecutive monthly gain exceeding 1 percent. The production of business supplies rose 0.8 percent in¬†February after having risen 0.6 percent in January.¬†The production of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector moved up 0.3 percent in¬†February. The output of durable materials rose 0.3 percent; an increase of 1.5 percent in equipment parts was¬†partly offset by a decrease of 1.0 percent in consumer parts. The index for nondurable materials moved up¬†0.5 percent, primarily as a result of a gain of 1.0 percent for chemical materials. The index for energy materials¬†edged up 0.2 percent; a reduction in the extraction of oil and natural gas held down the increase. Click here for the full release &gt;
AP ImagesNatural gas figures prominently in President Obama's second-term energy blueprint, released this morning. He hopes to convert more commercial trucks to the fuel and support "research into the safe and responsible use of natural gas," to the tune of $40 million.  And that's just part of a larger $375 million earmark he wants to set aside for technologies that can drive "cleaner energy from fossil fuels." Natural gas futures were up nearly 2 percent this morning. Here's the key part: Our domestic natural gas resources are reducing energy costs across the economy ñ for manufacturers investing in new facilities and families benefiting from lower heating costs. This abundant, nearly 100-year resource can support new jobs and growth, but there are steps we should take to make this growth safe and responsible. The Presidentís budget will invest more than $40 million in research to ensure safe and responsible natural gas production. And as part of a $375 million investment in cleaner energy from fossil fuels, the Presidentís budget includes significant funding for clean coal technology and a new $25 million prize for the first, natural gas combined cycle power plant to integrate carbon capture and storage. The President also wants to establish a $2 billion "energy security trust" to convert more American infrastructure to run on†electricity, homegrown biofuels, fuel cells ó and again, natural gas. It's hard to not see this is an indication the President would approve the controversial Keystone XL Pipeline, which a State Department draft environmental impact assessment found would have minimal environmental impact. However, it's likely the decision won't come for another month, after the comment period on State's report expires. Here's the full White House Energy Blueprint: ------------------------------- President Obamaís Blueprint for a Clean and Secure Energy Future  The United States is on the path to a cleaner and more secure energy future. Since President Obama took office, responsible oil and gas production has increased each year, while oil imports have fallen to a 20 year low; renewable electricity generation from wind, solar, and geothermal sources has doubled; And our emissions of the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens our planet have fallen to their lowest level in nearly two decades. In short, the Presidentís approach is working. Itís a winning strategy for the economy, energy security, and the environment.  But even with this progress, there is more work to do. Rising gas prices serve as a reminder that we are still too reliant on oil, which comes at a cost to American families and businesses. While thereís no overnight solution to address rising gas prices in the short term, President Obama today reiterated his commitment to a sustained, all-of-the-above energy strategy and urged Congress to take up common- sense proposals that will further reduce our dependence on oil, better protect consumers from spikes in gas prices, and reduce pollution.  Background: The Energy Security Trust  The Obama Administration is calling on Congress to establish a new Energy Security Trust, which is designed to invest in breakthrough research that will make the technologies of the future cheaper and better ñ technologies that will protect American families from spikes in gas prices and allow us to run our cars and trucks on electricity or homegrown fuels.  The Energy Security Trust, which builds on a proposal supported by a broad bipartisan coalition including retired military leaders, will provide a reliable stream of funding for critical, breakthrough research focused on developing cost-effective transportation alternatives.  The Presidentís proposal sets aside $2 billion over 10 years and will support research into a range of cost-effective technologies ñ like advanced vehicles that run on electricity, homegrown biofuels, fuel cells, and domestically produced natural gas. The mandatory funds would be set aside from royalty revenues generated by oil and gas development in Federal waters of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), already included in the administrationís five year plan. These revenues are projected to increase over the next several years based on a combination of leasing, production, and price trends, with additional revenues potentially generated as a result of reforms being proposed in the FY 2014 Budget. The Trust is paid for within the context of the overall budget.  Paired with other Administration policies, including our historic new fuel economy standards, the Trust would help solidify Americaís position as a world leader in advanced transportation technology.  For example, on Friday, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is releasing a new report (LINK) that underscores the progress we have made to improve fuel economy, save American families money at the pump, and reduce carbon pollution that contributes to climate change. According to the report, from 2007 to 2012, EPA estimates that CO2 emissions have decreased by 13 percent and fuel economy values have increased by 16 percent. In addition, compared to five years ago, consumers have twice as many hybrid and diesel vehicle choices, a growing set of plug-in electric vehicle options, and a six-fold increase in the number of car models with combined city/highway fuel economy of 30 mpg or higher.  Producing More American Energy  President Obama is committed to an ìall-of-the-aboveî approach that develops all American energy sources in a safe and responsible way and builds a clean and secure energy future. Thatís why the Presidentís plan:  <U+F0B7> †Challenges Americans to double renewable electricity generation again by 2020. In order to double generation from wind, solar, and geothermal sources by 2020, relative to 2012 levels, the President called on Congress to make the renewable energy Production Tax Credit permanent and refundable, which will provide incentive and certainty for investments in new clean energy. Instead of continuing century-old subsidies to oil companies, the President believes that we need to invest in the energy of the future. During the Presidentís first term, clean energy tax incentives attracted billions of dollars in private investment in almost 50,000 clean energy projects, creating tens of thousands of jobs. Permanent extension keeps the momentum building, while creating new jobs in clean energy.  <U+F0B7> †Directs the Interior Department to make energy project permitting more robust. Last year, the President set a goal to permit 10,000 megawatts of renewables on public lands ñ a goal the Interior Department achieved. But there is more work to do. That is why the Department is continuing to take steps to enable responsible development of American energy on public lands. In support of this work, the Presidentís Budget will increase funding for energy programs of the Bureau of Land Management by roughly 20 percent. A significant share of these resources will support better permitting processes for oil and gas, renewable energy, and infrastructure, including the transition to an electronic, streamlined system for oil and gas permits that will significantly reduce the time for approval of new drilling projects. The Department will also propose more diligent development of oil and gas leases through shorter primary lease terms, stricter enforcement of lease terms, and monetary incentives to get leases into production.  <U+F0B7> †Commits to safer production and cleaner electricity from natural gas. Our domestic natural gas resources are reducing energy costs across the economy ñ for manufacturers investing in new facilities and families benefiting from lower heating costs. This abundant, nearly 100-year resource can support new jobs and growth, but there are steps we should take to make this growth safe and responsible. The Presidentís budget will invest more than $40 million in research to ensure safe and responsible natural gas production. And as part of a $375 million investment in cleaner energy from fossil fuels, the Presidentís budget includes significant funding for clean coal technology and a new $25 million prize for the first, natural gas combined cycle power plant to integrate carbon capture and storage.  <U+F0B7> Supports a responsible nuclear waste strategy. Under President Obamaís direction, the Energy Department created a Blue Ribbon Commission on Americaís Nuclear Future to recommend how to manage the challenges associated with nuclear waste storage and disposal. After careful consideration of the Commissionís input, the Administration has issued a strategy for action in†response to the recommendations and looks forward to working with Congress on implementing policies that ensure that our Nation can continue to rely on carbon-free nuclear power. Investing in Energy Security  During the Presidentís first term, the United States cut foreign oil imports by more than 3.6 million barrels per day, more than under any other President. To ensure that we continue on a path towards greater energy security, the Presidentís plan:  <U+F0B7> †Sets a goal to cut net oil imports in half by the end of the decade. Increased production of domestic oil, natural gas, and biofuels, and improvements in the fuel economy of our cars and trucks allowed the United States to cut imports of oil by almost one-third since 2008. To build on this progress, the President will direct new policies and investments to set us on a course to cut net oil imports in half by the end of the decade, relative to 2008 levels.  <U+F0B7> †Commits to partnering with the private sector to adopt natural gas and other alternative fuels in the Nationís trucking fleet. Private sector investments are building natural gas fueling infrastructure across the United States just as natural gas vehicle research is making the technology more economically and environmentally effective. The President is committed to accelerating the growth of this domestically abundant fuel and other alternative fuels in the transportation sector in a way that benefits our planet, our economy, and our energy security: putting in place new incentives for medium- and heavy-duty trucks that run on natural gas or other alternative fuels, providing a credit for 50 percent of the incremental cost of a dedicated alternative-fuel truck for a five-year period; supporting research to ensure the safe and responsible use of natural gas; and funding to support a select number of deployment communities: real-world laboratories that leverage limited federal resources to develop different models to deploy advanced vehicles at scale.  Making Energy Go Farther Across the Economy  Cutting the amount of energy we waste in our cars and trucks, in our homes, buildings, and in our factories, will make us a stronger, more resilient, and more competitive economy. Improvements in energy efficiency are critical to building a clean and secure energy future. To advance this priority, the Presidentís plan:  <U+F0B7> †Establishes a new goal to double American energy productivity by 2030. Today the President issued a new goal to cut our economyís energy waste in half over the next twenty years. More specifically, the Administration will take action aimed at doubling the economic output per unit of energy consumed in the United States by 2030, relative to 2010 levels. This includes a new Energy Efficiency Race to the Top challenge; building on the success of existing partnerships with the public and private sectors to promote energy efficiency; and continuing investments in technologies that improve energy productivity and cut waste.  <U+F0B7> †Challenges States to Cut Energy Waste and Support Energy Efficiency and Modernize the Grid. Modeled after a successful Administration approach in education reform designed to promote forward-leaning policies at the State-level, the Budget includes $200 million in one-time funding for  <U+F0B7> †Commits to build on the success of existing partnerships with the public and private sector to use energy wisely. Over the next four years, the President is committed to accelerating progress on energy productivity including through the Better Buildings Challenge, improving energy data access for consumers through the "Green Button" initiative, and making appliances even more efficient - saving consumers money, spurring innovation, and strengthening domestic manufacturing.  <U+F0B7> †Calls for sustained investments in technologies that promote maximum productivity of energy use and reduce waste. The Presidentís Budget expands applied research and development of innovative manufacturing processes and advanced industrial materials. These innovations will enable U.S. companies to cut manufacturing costs, enhance the productivity of their investments and workforce, and reduce the life-cycle energy consumption of technologies, while improving product quality and accelerating product development.  International Leadership  The Administration has worked not only to strengthen our energy security at home, but also around the world. In concert with our domestic actions, we have pursued a robust international agenda that:  <U+F0B7> †Leads efforts through the Clean Energy Ministerial and other fora to promote energy efficiency and the development and deployment of clean energy. Our efforts have helped to accelerate the global dissemination of energy-efficient equipment and appliances through the Super-Efficient Equipment and Appliance Deployment (SEAD) Initiative, improved energy savings in commercial building and industry through the Global Superior Energy Performance Partnership (GSEP), and supported the large-scale deployment of renewable energy through the 21st Century Power Partnership.  <U+F0B7> †Works through the G20 and other fora toward the global phase out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. Inefficient subsidies exact a steep toll on our economies, our energy security, and our environment, and the United States is leading efforts internationally to accelerate progress in eliminating them.  <U+F0B7> †Promotes safe and responsible oil and natural gas development. The Administration has worked to promote safe and responsible oil and natural gas production through initiatives like the Energy Governance and Capacity Initiative, which provides technical and capacity building assistance to countries that are on the verge of becoming the worldís next generation of oil and gas producers, and the Unconventional Gas Technological Engagement Program, which works to help countries with unconventional natural gas resources to identify and develop them safely and economically and can support switching from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas.  <U+F0B7> Supports American nuclear exports. We are providing increased support for American nuclear technology and supply chains to promote safe, secure, low-carbon nuclear power growth in countries that are pursuing nuclear energy as part of their energy mix.† 
Former Lehman Brothers CFO Erin Callan, who was once one of the most powerful women on Wall Street, pretty much disappeared after the demise of the investment bank.† She's back though. Tonight, Callan will be featured†on "Rock Center With Brian Williams"†in an interview/full profile with Ann Curry. Earlier this week, Callan published a really gutsy opinion piece in the New York Times this week about the whole work/life balance debate that's being going on since Sheryl Sandberg released her book "Lean In".† In her op-ed piece, Callan talked about how she worked insane hours on Wall Street and put her career ahead of her family, friends and first husband.†Callan, who now has a new husband and lives in a modest house in Florida, talked about not having kids. At 47, she said she's still trying in vitro fertilization. "I leaned in far. Very far," she told Curry on NBC's "Rock Center". Callan explained to Curry that some people took away from the op-ed piece that she was sad and unhappy. She said that she doesn't regret the life she has lived.† "I got to live an amazing life. I'm still living an amazing life."† Curry asked her if she thought she could have been CFO if she was a mother. † "I might have been asked to be CFO. †I don't know if I could have actually been the CFO. It's an important distinction. Certainly not through the chaotic period I was CFO, but I think I could have been asked based on being able to manage prior jobs and performance up until then," she said.† Watch the interview preview below:†  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Ryan J. ReillyThe¬†New York Fed's monthly¬†Empire State Manufacturing Survey¬†is out. The index dropped slightly to 9.24 from last month's 10.04 reading. Economists expected a smaller tick down to 10.00. However, it still remains quite elevated from January levels, when the index was in negative territory at -7.78. Below is a summary from the release: The March 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers continued to improve modestly. The general business conditions index was positive for a second consecutive month and, at 9.2, was little changed. The new orders and shipments indexes also remained above zero, though both were somewhat lower than last month‚Äôs levels. Price indexes showed that input price increases continued at a steady pace while selling prices were flat. Employment indexes suggested that labor market conditions were sluggish, with little change in employment levels and the length of the average workweek. Indexes for the six-month outlook pointed to an increasing level of optimism about future conditions, with the future general business conditions index rising to its highest level in nearly a year. In a series of supplementary questions, firms were asked about¬†cash holdings, debt levels, and methods of financing capital spending. Queried about expected changes in their outstanding debt in the year ahead, manufacturers indicated an increasingly widespread inclination to take on more debt. When asked about anticipated changes in cash holdings in the year ahead, morerespondents anticipated decreases¬†than increases‚Äîfor the first time¬†since 2008. Manufacturers, on¬†average, also reported that they¬†were currently holding less cash¬†than usual. Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr via nomadic_lassCPI rose 0.7 percent in February, which was a tad ahead of expectations. But core CPI ‚Äî which excludes food and energy ‚Äî merely rose by 0.2 percent, which is right in line with expectations. It's not a huge deal that the headline was a bit hot. This is a benign report that won't push the Fed towards easing.
Jason Kempin/Getty Images JCPenney is on the brink, and now, all eyes are on the struggling retailer's gigantic launch of a new shop. Canadian fashion brand Joe Fresh will be entering a whopping 681 JCPenney stores simultaneously Friday morning. When the deal was announced last July, it was just one of many moves CEO Ron Johnson was making to make his "shops" concept a reality. Joe Fresh would be coming in as part of a total overhaul of the brands JCPenney carried. Months later, Joe Fresh has taken on a much greater significance. ‚ÄúWe are one of many new concepts being brought to JCPenney,"¬†Joe Mimran, the founder of Joe Fresh,¬†told Women's Wear Daily. "But there is no question about it: There seems to be a bit more focus on our brand working.‚Äù¬† The retailer that has been on a terrible run. The last few weeks have been disastrous: it reported horrific Q4 earnings, went to court to fight Macy's over Martha Stewart, and had a board member dump a chunk of his stake.¬† Joe Fresh will be an indicator for the effectiveness of Johnson's overall turnaround plan, which is¬†to transform the in-store shopping experience into his "shops" concept, and attract new customers to the store with his new assortment of brands.¬†Johnson said that 61 percent of Joe Fresh buyers are first-timers at jcp.com. But if it fails, it could all be over.  It would mean that Johnson's entire concept has no future. Jason Kempin/Getty Images ‚ÄúIf Joe Fresh doesn‚Äôt work, this could be the worst ides of March since Brutus greeted Caesar on the floor of the Senate,‚Äù¬†Rick Snyder, an analyst at Maxim, told Bloomberg Businessweek. "[Joe Fresh] is kind of a microcosm of what they‚Äôre trying to do, and if it doesn‚Äôt work, I think it‚Äôs going to get really ugly.‚Äù Johnson is on a mission to get younger customers into his stores and Joe Fresh is at the center of that strategy.¬†Not only could the brand grab those new customers, but perhaps convert some of the old JCPenney shoppers to newer styles. Joe Fresh is a lifestyle brand and its line at JCPenney will feature everything from a $4 pair of flip flops¬†to $39 silk tops. Nothing from Joe Fresh's JCPenney shop will cost more than $69, according to Racked. "The products will be the first true lifestyle offerings under JC Penney‚Äôs new pricing scheme," Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions, told us. "Not only won't pricing¬†be an issue with Joe Fresh, but from what I can tell the company is putting its marketing dollars behind the brand quite strongly." It has been a long time coming. Johnson reached out to Mimran in early 2012 as JCPenney began its transformation. ‚ÄúHe shared with me his vision and the repositioning and transformation,"¬†Mimran told Women's Wear Daily last July. "For us, it looked like a great opportunity to get a very large footprint in the U.S. very quickly and to do it with someone who is visionary.‚Äù¬† Lately, JCPenney executives have been keen on mentioning Joe Fresh ‚Äî over and over again. JCPenney CFO Ken Hannah spoke at¬†Bank of America's 2013 Consumer &amp; Retail Conference¬† on Wednesday and mentioned Joe Fresh repeatedly.¬†Johnson also devoted a chunk of time to Joe Fresh on his Q4 earnings call. Now, Joe Fresh's JCPenney launch has a ton of outside factors on its side. It's set up to succeed in the short-term, so if it doesn't, it will send a glaring signal that something is fundamentally wrong. Jason Kempin/Getty ImagesJoe Mimran with JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson It's Spring. Tax refunds will be taken to malls. JCPenney is advertising heavily. The brand is only launching in JCPenney's bigger, better, more trafficked stores. "This is a great moment to get the disenchanted JCPenney consumer re-engaged with the new JCPenney," said Sozzi. "The stock market will view it as a complete failure of Ron Johnson to truly understand what the consumer wants." There's also the matter of Johnson himself. Will he be able to survive one more crisis? "Should the shops succeed, the turnaround story could still have legs," Snyder wrote in a note. "Should Joe Fresh launch with a thud ... [Johnson] could be forced out prior to back to school," Sozzi told us. "He will have wasted tons of capital on initiatives the consumer market wasn‚Äôt ready for yet and in the process, basically drove a 110 year old department store into a liquidity crisis." It's enough of your challenge to get an existing customer to buy your products, but JCPenney has shed mass amounts of its core customer base. It has to bring back its old customers and find brand new ones.
CNN Money via JPMorgan ChaseA bunch of current and former JPMorgan Chase executives will head to Capital Hill this morning for a senate hearing on the "London Whale" trade that caused the bank to lose billions last year.¬† The witnesses at today's hearing include Ina Drew, the former Chief Investment Officer; Ashley Bacon, the current Chief Risk Officer; Peter Weiland, the former head of market risk in the CIO; Michael Cavanagh, co-CEO of the investment bank and Douglass Braunstein, the former CFO. The bank's CEO Jamie Dimon will not be testifying. ¬†He appeared on Capitol Hill twice last summer.¬† What will be interesting to watch is Ina Drew. ¬†This will be Drew's first public appearance since she retired following the trading blunder. She was a¬†30 year veteran at JPMorgan and the head of risk management. Ahead of the hearing, the¬†Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations released a 300-page report yesterday afternoon slamming JPMorgan claiming¬†the bank mislead investors and regulators over the "London Whale" trade. (You can download the .PDF here) Basically, the senate report claims that JPMorgan misled investors and regulators by hiding losses and mismarking credit derivatives values in the Synthetic Credit Portfolio. The report also says that the bank executives ignored risks. The "London Whale" first surfaced back in April 2012 when both¬†Bloomberg and the Wall Street Journal reported that a trader, Bruno Iksil,¬†had a position so big it was rattling the market. Iksil was nicknamed the "London Whale" because of his position size. Dimon initially dismissed the media reports as a¬†"tempest in a teapot." Then on May 10th, JPMorgan revealed a¬†$2 billion dollar trading loss¬†in its Chief Investment Office in London related to those derivatives trades from the so-called "London Whale." In June, Dimon was grilled before the Senate Banking Committee and the House Financial Services Committee. On July 13th, the bank released its Q2 earnings results and it was revealed that the trading loss was actually¬†$5.8 billion, which was much more than previously thought.
Flickr / Eric KilbyIn the near-term, investors are having a tough time deciding how to position themselves with stocks near their all-time highs. But those thinking longer-term are probably more concerned about which stocks they should be in. Morgan Stanley just published a massive 32-page report for its "20 For 2016," a list of 20 stock picks. "The main criterion is sustainability ‚Äî of competitive advantages, business model, pricing power, cost efficiency, and growth," the analysts wrote. "We are taking a long term view," they continued. "There was no prerequisite in our analysis that they be rated Overweight, nor specific assumptions about where we are in the economic cycle or any other valuation considerations. Our driving principle was to create a list of companies whose business models and market positions would be increasingly differentiated by 2016." We pulled the 20 stocks and highlighted the 5 year revenue and earnings growth rates. We also included one of the many reasons why the analysts picked each stock.
Reuters/Fred ProuserGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The raging bull market continues to gain new adherents, gathering steam as new records are shattered day in and day out. Earlier this week, an analyst at Citi announced a big bullish call on US assets. Morgan Stanley also came out with bullish comments on the US economy, as top economist Vincent Reinhart said the US was on the verge of an "inflection point" auguring better growth imminently. Today? Actress Mila Kunis announces a re-allocation from cash into stocks, reports CNBC's Kelly Evans. Kelly Evans The Dow is on a 10 day winning streak, making new highs along the way. The S&amp;P is on the verge of a new high as well. As for the context of the comments, CNBC's Kelly Evans tells us. @thestalwart we interviewed her last night as London-listed Gemfields has launched her as their "Global Brand Ambassador". Link shortly. Make of it all what you will. UPDATE: Here's video. What's interesting is it really sounds like she shifted from cash to stocks cause she was getting such little yield on her cash/money¬† markets and needed to take more risk, which means the Kunis Indicator is more interesting than you might have thought at first blush. 
SociÈtÈ GÈnÈraleSociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategists are warning clients of another "Eurozone shockwave" coming this spring. In fact, they say it's going to be one of the three major themes driving global currency markets for the rest of 2013. The Italian election yielded inconclusive results, and it's looking more and more likely that another election will have to be held. Of course, that one may not be conclusive either. Meanwhile, Germany holds its own elections in September. If Italian bond yields rise to unsustainable levels, German politicians aren't likely to be too supportive of their neighbors to the south while trying to secure re-election at home. In his latest report, SocGen strategist Vincent Chaigneau writes: The post-Italian election has been fairly quiet. But we are concerned ... It is not just the political uncertainty, but the fact that reforms will surely be on the backburner for another six months at least. And with such political instability, it would be very hard to access the ECBís OMT. Germany, now six months into a general election, will not be keen to share further risks and tolerate policy slippage. The last BTP auctions did not reassure us. Arguably, peripheral spreads havenít been a major mover of EUR/USD of late. Rather, the relative rate dynamics (theme 2) have been pushing EUR/USD down. But fresh woes would still undermine the euro. And spread tensions would support expectations that the OMT will be activated. It is far too early to dismiss EA crisis as a key driver. We fear another shockwave in the spring. It will not be as strong as last year, given positioning (foreign exposure to non-core†markets much smaller than a year ago) and the available tools of last resort (ESM/ECB buying,†at least for Spain, after agreement on a MoU). However, it will be strong enough to†undermine the euro in the coming months, and more so now that the key 1.2930/70 area†is broken. Click here to read about the other two themes SocGen says is driving global markets &gt;
Thousands of dead pigs in a Shanghai river have cast a spotlight on China's poorly regulated farm production, with the country's favourite meat joining a long list of food scares. As of Friday, the number of carcasses recovered in recent days from the Huangpu river -- which cuts through the commercial hub and supplies over 20 percent of its drinking water -- had reached more than 7,500. Shanghai has blamed the farmers of Jiaxing in neighbouring Zhejiang province for casting pigs thought to have died of disease into the river upstream, but officials from the area have admitted to only a single producer doing so. The city has stepped up inspections of markets to stop meat from the dead animals from reaching dining tables of its 23 million people. From recycled cooking oil to dangerous chemicals in baby milk powder, a series of food scandals in China has caused huge public concern. Pork is king in China, accounting for 64 percent of total meat output last year, and urban residents with growing wallets and waistlines ate 20.63 kilograms (45 pounds) of the meat per person in 2011. Images of Shanghai's dead pigs have hit the nation's collective gut, but in Zhulin village, a major hog-raising centre in Jiaxing, the farmers claim their innocence in the scandal. "The government is very strict. We give our pigs vaccinations. If they are sick, they can't be sold," said Pan Juying, 57, as she hoisted two baskets of freshly cut grass to feed her eight pigs. But a bloated piglet lying by the roadside a hundred metres (yards) away from a stream showed that not all dead animals are properly disposed of. Wang Wei, a veterinarian for the Hengyuan Company which produces medicines for farm animals, said a large number of pigs died from unknown causes in Zhejiang just before and after the Chinese Lunar New Year in February. "It must have been a big pig farm" that was responsible for events in Shanghai, he said in Zhulin's main street, which is lined with animal medicine and feed stores. "They can't control an outbreak of infectious disease." Despite laws against the practice, animals that die from disease in China can end up in the food supply chain or improperly disposed of. In Wenling, also in Zhejiang, authorities announced this week that 46 people had been jailed for up to six-and-a-half years for processing and selling pork from more than 1,000 diseased pigs. China was rocked by one of its biggest-ever food safety scandals in 2008 when the industrial chemical melamine was found to have been illegally added to dairy products, killing at least six babies and making 300,000 people ill. Across China, cheap recycled cooking oil is available made illegally from leftovers scooped out of restaurant drains. Amid public disgust authorities arrested more than 30 people over its sale, but it remains commonplace. In another recent incident, US fast food giant KFC was hit by controversy after revealing some Chinese suppliers provided chicken with high levels of antibiotics, in what appeared to be an industry-wide practice. Zhu Yi, a professor at China Agricultural University, said that the country's vast number of small-scale farmers were "hard to supervise and regulate". "Food safety is an issue that requires continuous efforts, you simply cannot put everything right once and for all," she said. "The current livestock breeding model is too crude, and the standards too low." But large-scale production also carried risks of its own, she added. "Every country has its own problems," she said. "The highly industrialised European Union was caught up by the horse meat scandal." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesIt's going to be a surprisingly stacked day for economic data. We already wrote earlier about CPI, which is coming out at 8:30. It's particularly interesting, because with the economy gathering steam, watching inflation measures will be more important. There are three other reports as well. From Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for March. The consensus is for a reading of 8.5, down from 10.0 in February (above zero is expansion). ‚Ä¢ At 9:15 AM, the Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for February. The consensus is for a 0.3 percent increase in Industrial Production in February, and for Capacity Utilization to increase to 79.3 percent. ‚Ä¢ At 9:55 AM, the preliminary March Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment indexwill be released. The consensus is for a reading of 77.5,¬†down from 77.6. Each of these is pretty significant to watch.
The Japanese market surged last night. Here's a chart of the Nikkei. Nikkei.com Actually, 1.45%, although big, is not huge by recent standards. But it was enough to push the index to a 4.5-year high. The latest catalyst? Japan's parliament approved 3 doves to run the Bank of Japan. A key aspect of Japan's recovery strategy -- which has been dubbed Abenomics, after new PM Shinzo Abe -- is ultra-easy monetary policy and aggressive targeting of higher inflation. There had been some concerns about whether Abe would get all of his preferred picks to run the central bank. That has now been assuaged.
miamism on FlickrFor several years, the CPI (Consumer Price Index) report has been something of a snooze. One of the defining aspects of this post-crisis period has been how subdued inflation has been. And there's virtually never been anything in any inflation reading that would cause the Fed to get nervous. There was some commodity-related inflation at one point, that Bernanke infamously characterized as "transient", and he turned out to be totally correct on that. But lately the economy has gathered steam. Wage growth is getting some traction. And talk of a Fed exit has grown a bit. So suddenly inflation measures start to matter a bit more. Today we get February CPI. Millan Mulraine at TD Securities previews it: Today, the focus will shift to the monthly CPI and industrial sector reports. Similar to the strong gains in the PPI report, we expect higher gasoline prices to be the main driver for consumer prices in February, with the expected 7% m/m surge in prices at the pump pushing the headline CPI index up 0.6% m/m. This will be the biggest monthly gain in this index in almost four years, and on a year-ago basis the pace of headline inflation should accelerate to its fastest pace since September. Core prices should also rise, though at a more modest 0.2% m/m pace, following a similar gain the month before, even as the annual pace of core consumer price inflation remains unchanged at 1.9% y/y. Despite the sharp rise in gasoline prices, the overall tone of this inflation report should reinforce the benign inflationary backdrop, which will continue to be supportive to the Fedís accommodative policy stance.
Rail traffic is just one of many real-time indicators providing us with a clear picture of the NON-RECESSIONARY United States economy. ¬†This week‚Äôs data showed a solid 4% increase in intermodal traffic. ¬†That brings our 12 week moving average to 6.4%. ¬† Not bad. The AAR has more details: ‚ÄúAAR reported mixed rail traffic for the week ending March 9, 2013, with total U.S. weekly carloads of 276,698 carloads, down 0.9 percent compared with the same week last year. Intermodal volume for the week totaled 235,174 units, up 4 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. traffic for the week was 511,872 carloads and intermodal units, up 1.3 percent compared with the same week last year. Four of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, led by petroleum products, up 46.5 percent. Commodities showing a decrease were led by grain, down 16.5 percent. For the first ten weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 2,730,145 carloads, down 3.7 percent from the same point last year, and 2,386,882 intermodal units, up 7.2 percent from last year. Total U.S. traffic for the first ten weeks of 2013 was 5,117,027 carloads and intermodal units, up 1.1 percent from last year.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Investment Research: PragCap
Flickr / markcbrennanAll around the world, stocks just keep rallying. Currently U.S. futures are up, so the Dow could be looking at an 11-day winning streak. Europe is up a tad. Japan had another big night, with the Nikkei hitting a four-and-a-half-year high. The index added 1.45 percent, which is actually a fairly modest rally by recent standards, since two percent days have been pretty common. There's some important data in the U.S. coming out today, including CPI and U-Mich sentiment.
