Just out. China's Flash PMI has risen to 51.2 from 50.1 in August. This is a six-month high, and further confirmation of the general trend that the Chinese "Hard Landing" is not happening. Via Markit, here are the key charts for the main index, and for the production index. Markit And here are all of the subindices. Markit
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnHere's an interesting observation from Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading. In unusual timing, we've recently heard from three investing billionaires (Warren Buffett, Carl Icahn, and Stanley Druckenmiller) suggesting that the stock market is getting rich and fully valued. From O'Rourke: [Buffett]¬† noted that the equity market was fairly valued and stocks were not overvalued.¬† Specifically, Buffett said ‚ÄúThey were very cheap five years ago, ridiculously cheap,‚Äù and ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs been corrected.‚Äù¬† He also noted, ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre having a hard time finding things to buy.‚Äù One has to take note when the world‚Äôs most high profile investor (a long investor), cannot find stocks to buy although he reports his business is improving.¬† Buffett was not the only Billionaire to weigh in last week.¬† Carl Icahn responded candidly when asked his view on the market.¬† ‚ÄúRight now, the market is giving you a false picture.¬† The market tells you that you are doing well, but I don‚Äôt think a lot of companies are doing that well.¬† They are taking advantage of very low interest rates.¬† So, obviously, you don‚Äôt have to be a financial genius to understand if I can borrow at 3% or 4% and buy assets maybe my own stock that is yielding 9%, 10% or 11%, I am going to make a lot of money. In one sense or another that is what is going on‚Ä¶.I do think at 17x that you have to be pretty well hedged.‚Äù¬† These comments come a little more than a week after Stanley Druckenmiller opined that, ‚ÄúBut if you tell me QE is going to be removed over nine or 12 months, that's a big deal because when it's my belief that QE has subsidized all asset prices.¬† And you remove that subsidization, the market will go down.¬† Druckemiller elaborated ‚ÄúMy first mentor and boss, Dr. Ellis in Pittsburgh, used to tell me it takes hundreds of millions of dollars to manipulate a stock up, but the minute you have this phony buying stop, it can go down on no volume and it can just reprice immediately. I personally think as long as this game goes on, assets will stay elevated. But when you remove that prop - and let's face it, the Fed has said they're targeting those asset prices - those prices can adjust immediately.‚Äù¬†
WikipediaA Bombardier Global Express.The folks who run BlackBerry were apparently among the last to realize how dire the company's situation has become. In July, at the beginning of a quarter that saw the company lose $1 billion and ended with the announcement that it would fire 40% of its workforce, BlackBerry added a Bombardier Global Express to its private jet fleet, report Will Connors and Mark Maremont of the Wall Street Journal. Used Global Expresses go for about $25-$30 million, Connors and Maremont report. They can fly from New York to Tokyo without refueling. The newly acquired plane replaced a smaller jet that BlackBerry sold earlier this year. A BlackBerry spokesman acknowledged to the Wall Street Journal that the company had taken delivery of the new jet two months ago. The spokesman also said that BlackBerry has now decided to sell all three of its planes on account of its financial challenges.
It's a fairly quiet start to things in early Monday Asian action. The German election (which saw Merkel sweep back to victory) proved to be a non-event market wise. Australia is down 0.8%. Here's US futures, which are a bit lower. FinViz
Chris_Samuel at www.flickr.comThe weekend is over and Asian markets have opened lower. Korea's Kospi is off -0.36%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down -0.84%. The Nikkei is closed.¬† We get a load of housing and manufacturing data this week, so keep it here.
WikimediaAngela Merkel secured a third term as German chancellor, but her Christian Democrat party fell just short of winning an outright majority, BBC reports. As a result, she will now have to include leftists in her ruling coalition.¬† According to provisional final results, Merkel's Christian Democrats received 41.5% of the vote. That outcome was not all that unexpected. The real news is that Merkel's former junior coalition partners, the Free Democrats, got routed, failing to surpass the 5% threshold necessary to even stand in parliament. So now Merkel will have to choose among those parties that did make it in. That includes the Social Democrats (SPD), who received the second-most votes at 25.7%, and the Greens at 8.4%. The New York Times' Alison Smale and Melissa Eddy actually called this outcome hours ago, writing that there will now be, "more paralysis for Europe as German leaders engage in weeks of horse-trading to form what is likely to be a grand coalition." Reuters' Noah Barkin notes Merkel ran a successful coalition with the SPD from 2005 to 2009. But he says this time around they may not join without heavy concessions: During the campaign, the center-left party argued for a minimum wage and higher taxes on the wealthy -- both opposed by Merkel. The party could also demand the finance ministry, pushing out respected 71-year-old incumbent Wolfgang Schaeuble. SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel did not categorically rule out entering talks with Merkel, but sent a signal that his party, which lost millions of supporters during the last 'grand coalition,' would not roll over. 'We won't automatically go into a grand coalition,' said Gabriel. 'What is important are the policies.' The Euro-skeptic AfD party, the leader of which our Matt Boesler interviewed earlier this year, also failed to make the 5% cut-off.
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderThis week, Wharton announced that it would be the first business school to offer much of the substantive core of its MBA program online for free. If you have a whole lot of time on your hands, you can get a large hunk of the education that MBA students pick up, and instead of paying six figures, you'll pay nothing. In addition to the five electives already offered through the Coursera platform, Wharton is offering what it's calling the "Foundation" series, made up of introductory courses in financial accounting, operations management, marketing, and corporate finance, taught by some of its best-known and most senior professors.¬† The courses are made up of a series of pre-recorded lectures and interactive exercises. They range in length from six to 10 weeks, and take an estimated five to eight hours a week each. Students can already enroll in the accounting course, and the other three start in staggered two-week intervals. The next to begin will be operations management on September 30th. Don Huesman, the managing director of Wharton's innovation group, told Bloomberg Businessweek that those four courses alone would replicate much of what a first-year student learns.¬†Wharton students who actually make it through the school's rigorous admissions process are required to take nine core courses, four of which are now available online, and six electives. The online versions replicate the content of the courses so well that some professors are asking students to watch the Massively Open Online Course (MOOC) versions of the¬†lectures ahead of time so the in-class time can focus on discussion. Students can simply watch the courses casually without additional work,¬†but there are integrated quizzes, readings, homework assignments, and final exams for the more committed. Coursera also gives the option of paying $49 to enroll in a "signature track," which give students a verifiable online certificate for completing the course should they meet the course's standards.¬† Enrolling in the free track takes just a name, an email, a password, and agreeing to¬†Coursera's honor code. Someone looking to take their first MOOC might want to consider the marketing course. It's one of the less time intensive classes, and is team taught by the three of Wharton's top marketing professors, from a department¬†ranked as one of the world's best. After signing up for the accounting course, I immediately got access to the first week's videos, lecture slides, homework, and a forum where students discuss the course and ask questions. Required core courses for a Wharton MBA that are missing from Coursera include an introductory macroeconomics course and regression analysis, a statistics course for future managers.¬†But an enterprising student could fill that skills gap with MIT's highly regarded and popular introductory microeconomics course¬†and Coursera's data analysis course from Johns Hopkins.¬† You'd still be missing the networking opportunities, career services support, alumni network, and the prestige of the degree,¬†but a dedicated student can pick up a lot of the practical skills a business requires. Why is Wharton giving this away? While students get access to high-quality education, Wharton gets to present its best face to hundreds of thousands of people that only vaguely know it. They've already reached more people with the five existing courses than the school has educated in more than a century of existence. You can't earn Wharton credit¬†by taking the free courses, but a future student could potentially use them to test out of the core classes¬†and spend more time on advanced and career-specific studies, according to Huesman. The issue that providers of online courses and the schools that provide the content face is how to get employers to appreciate the effort people put into these courses, and verify that students have put in the work in a rigorous way.¬† Though there are already highly successful online degree-granting programs, they're far less open, more expensive, and require more of a time commitment, which excludes many people. Hundreds of thousands of people have taken Wharton's online courses, and thousands more will take these new offerings, but it's hard to prove to a potential employer that you've picked up Wharton-caliber skills from them.¬†
Twenty-eight Detroit megafirms, including the Big 3 automakers, have taken out a full-page ad in the Sunday editions of The New York Times and Washington Post, along with Detroit Free Press and Detroit News, touting the city's economic opportunities despite its massive bankruptcy filing. "The renewed energy of our city is palpable and real," it says (the whole thing is at the bottom of the post). It notes that both residential and downtown commercial occupancy rates "are at their highest level in decades," and that "10,000 people" have relocated offices to within city limits. All that may be true, but the city still faces a blistering fight over billions in unsecured debt, a struggle that could have implications for the entire muni-bond market. Still, we did recently put together our own list of things Detroit has going for it, and we've also discussed that†young professionals are moving into the city. According to his blog post, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan CEO Daniel J. Loepp says he conceived of the campaign after having "grown weary of the onslaught of negative reports that painted Detroit as a dying city, with too little attention paid to the thriving downtown, Midtown and other areas filled with promise."† You'll be able to catch the ad until Sept. 30 in lots of other places including the Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, and Politico. Here's the whole thing: OpportunityDetroit/MIBluesPerspectives
Jim Rogers thinks there is a crisis coming in some emerging economies. In India, where GDP growth is at a 10-year low, Rogers thinks the "wolf is† now at the door in India." On the other hand, he thinks investors need to be prepared to take advantage of the problems in China. Some of these areas include agriculture, pollution, tourism, and China's railroad system. When Chinese tourism expands "they're going to change the name of Madison Avenue to China Avenue.," he said. Produced by Business Insider Video
APRay Dalio manages the world's largest hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates. It has a tremendous track record, so when the man talks about markets, people usually listen. Beyond that, Dalio is known for having one of the most refined understandings of the economy in the financial industry. Lots of investors pontificate, but Dalio's views are legitimately well-respected. As part of his mission to explain how the economy works, Dalio has put together a neat, new 30-minute animated video called "How the Economic Machine Works," where Dalio narrates his big-picture view of the economy. "I feel a deep sense of responsibility to share my simple but practical economic template," Dalio says. "Though it's unconventional, it's helped me to anticipate and sidestep the financial crisis, and it has worked well for me for over 30 years." Dalio is worth almost $13 billion, so it's safe to say his economic template has served him well. Check out the video: 
REUTERS/Odd Andersen/PoolGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel conducts a lecture, after writing her name on a board, at a classroom in Heinrich Schliemann Gymnasium, a secondary school in Berlin, August 13, 2013. Merkel delivered a lecture to a 12th grade class on the building of the Berlin Wall in August 1961.The big news out of Germany is that Angela Merkel's party won big, and she might not even need a coalition partner to form a government. What does it mean? Goldman's Dirk Schumacher explains. Basically, not much change from the current path: †As we have argued in the past, we do not expect any significant change in the German government's approach towards Europe after the elections. Several aspects of today's election reinforce this belief. For one, the strong result of Chancellor Merkel can be interpreted as a general support for this approach; in particular if one takes into account that the SPD and Greens voted along with the government in the Bundestag on the various financial support measures. The FDP, at the same time, which probably had the biggest internal debates about the rescue packages, fared very poorly in the election (though this is very likely a consequence of other developments).† To be sure, the relatively strong result of the AfD shows that there is a segment of voters that is very critical of the chosen path and rejects further help for the periphery - and the relative success of the AfD can partially explain the losses of the FDP, although the FDP lost significant more votes than the AfD won in total. In any case, some in the CDU/CSU are likely to view the AfD's result as a 'warning shot', arguing that CDU/CSU should not change course and insist on a policy of 'quid pro quo' vis-‡-vis the periphery.† Coalition talks between CDU/CSU and SPD, should the Conservatives fail to reach an absolute majority, could take a couple of weeks. The main 'price' the SPD will demand, we think, is the introduction of an economy-wide minimum wage.
via LinkedInDoug Millett, a former COO and partner at hedge fund Kynikos Associates, has succumbed to his battle with cancer. He passed away yesterday afternoon.¬† Kynikos founder and CEO Jim Chanos informed the rest of the fund in an e-mail yesterday. He wrote: "no one who ever met Doug who was not impressed with his rock-solid integrity, towering intellect, and unmistakable sense of humor. He in all ways embodied the qualities we hold dear, but more importantly, was simply a good person. We will miss him terribly. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family at this time." Millett graduated from Yale in 1986. He was a member of the Bulldog's football team. In 1991, he joined Kynikos as an analyst, eventually becoming the second largest partner in the firm. He was in and out of the firm until 2003. What that means is that Millett was involved in some of the fund's most historic trades ‚Äî trades that showed the world what some homework can do, like its bet against Enron. As he put it to those that would listen, the now defunct energy company "simply didn't make that much money." After Kynikos, Millett went on to JP Morgan and Perella Weinberg, but he always maintained a close relationship with the fund and those who worked there. He is survived by his wife and two sons.
Asia is expected to see one clear demographic trend emerge in the next decade: a widening divide between the southeast, where the working-age population is growing at a strong pace, and the northeast, where the labor force is forecast to shrink. "The next decade will be very different from previous decades when most of Asia was still experiencing demographic dividends, including China and Korea,"†Bank of America Merrill Lynch†(BofAML) Economist Hak Bin Chua said in a report. "Japan was largely the only country that was aging and shrinking in terms of its labor force and population in the previous decade. But in the coming decade, several Asian countries ñ including China, South Korea, Hong Kong and Thailand ñ will see their labor forces shrink. This will have important implications for†GDP[gross domestic product] growth, consumer spending and asset prices, judging from Japan's experience," he said. Japan is home to the fastest aging population in the world, with almost a quarter of its population over the age of 65. The country has struggled with sluggish growth stemming from a shrinking workforce, which has put pressure on the government to boost productivity levels. (Read more:†Adult diapers will soon outsell baby nappies in Japan) Young and old In June, the United Nations (U.N.) revised its 2012 population estimates, which analysts say highlight Asia's demographic divide. The U.N. sees the working-age population in Indonesia and the Philippines peaking in 2058 and 2085 respectively, later than previously anticipated. At the same time it brought forward forecasts for other Asian countries including China, where theworking-age population is expected to peak in 2015, and its total population, currently around 1.3 billion people, is seen decreasing after 2030. BofAML's Chua says demographics are useful indicators of real GDP growth, noting a strong correlation between changes in working-age population and growth in the real economy over the past decade (2002-2012). Recent studies by the Asian Development Bank echo this view ñ they suggest that rapidly shifting demographics, especially declining birth rates and increasing life expectancies, will play a growing role in shaping the economies of Asia's developing countries. (Read more:†China could ease one-child policy by year-end) According to BofAML, the Philippines should see its labor force grow around 21 percent between 2013 and 2023, while Malaysia and Indonesia will likely see growth of just over 15 percent, followed by Singapore with growth of 14 percent. "Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines should have seen higher average GDP growth because of favorable demographics over the past decade," Chua at BofAML said. According to World Bank data,†the Philippines' economy†grew at an annual rate of 6.6 percent between 2008 and 2012, while Malaysia's expanded 5.6 percent ñ stronger growth than aging neighbor Japan, which expanded 1.9 percent over the same period. While growth in the working-age population is a key factor for a country's long-term economic performance, economists say it doesn't necessarily result in stronger growth. (Read more:†Megatrends: TheWorld's Aging Population) "It's a helpful situation to have a rapidly growing workforce, but one needs to think about the demand side as well," said Robert Prior-Wandesforde, director of Asian economics research at†Credit Suisse, noting that supply could exceed demand. Mark Hall, vice president, country manager Singapore for recruitment firm Kelly Services, adds: "One of the challenges when you talk about a growing working-age population is, how do you give them jobs?" Analysts point out that, despite having young populations to provide labor and spur consumer spending, countries such as the Philippines, Indonesia and India also suffer from an outflow of workers and talent overseas that is sometimes referred to as a "brain drain." "You have talented workers in India who have grown up in an environment where there is an aspiration to move to wealthier countries such as Australia or Singapore," said Hall. "This perception is difficult to overcome." (Read more:†Falling economic tide in India is exposing chronic troubles) India and Indonesia, the two Asian countries hardest hit by the rout in emerging markets, have also been criticized for failing to capitalize on abundant labor resources and low labor costs, as they haven't done enough to attract foreign direct investment, another key factor driving long-term growth rates. In the parts of Asia that are aging, such as Japan, China, South Korea and Taiwan,analysts said they expected to see further steps to increase productivity or change the structure of the workforce to help offset the implications of an aging population. China,for instance, is expected to continue encouraging its workforce to move out of agriculture and into more productive parts of the economy, while Japan is exploring ways to†get more women to enter the labor market. While there are many ways to limit the growth impact of a declining working-age population, none are easy, said Prior-Wandesforde. "Even with more women in the workforce the problem may not be surmountable if the working age-population is falling rapidly as it is in Japan."
Yesterday, billionaire hedge fund manager George Soros, 83, married 42-year-old health care consultant Tamiko Bolton at his estate in Bedford, New York.† According to the New York Post, the wedding ceremony was intimate with only a few friends and family in attendance. †Afterwards, there was a huge party with 500 guests, the report said.† We were able to track down some photos on Instagram of newlyweds celebrating.† Here we have a video of Soros and Bolton sharing a dance:† † † They look so happy.†  Bolton made an appearance in a black lace gown for the cocktail reception.†  A string quartet plays inside the reception.†  The floral arrangements were stunning.  
Which countries work like crazy and which ones work hard? Our friend Seth Kadish who runs the fantastic Visual Statistix Tumblr put together this graphic of OECD countries, to answer exactly this question. The more red or orange a country is, the harder it works. So, countries like South Korea and Mexico get the work-ethic prize. The more blue a country is, the more workers like to chill: Congrats France! The index combines average hours worked per year and average retirement age to create the ultimate index. (Many countries aren't represented, because they aren't in the OECD, and thus not in the OECD statistical database from which the information was drawn.) Click the image to enlarge Visual Statistix
REUTERS/Thomas PeterGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel during a news conference in Berlin on July 19.Incumbent German Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats have garnered more than 42% of votes in today's national elections, Der Spiegel says. If current results hold, she will have won an outright majority for her Christian Democrat party. As of 1:45 pm eastern, that seemed to be where results were heading, according to The Guardian. It would be the first time a single party has enjoyed an absolute majority in 60 years. There were two spoilers to look out for, as our Matt Boesler highlighted. The Social Democrats (SPD), now in second place, could still¬†wedge their way into the coalition.  SocGen has said the SPD would likely ask for more taxes to fund social programs, putting a drag on German (and potentially Eurozone) GDP. The other wildcard was the¬†Alternative f√ºr Deutschland (AfD) party. They are anti-Eurozone, and if they do well, it will likely come at the price of Free Democrat votes, until today the main coalition partner for Merkel's Christian Democrat party. If AfD gets more than 5% of the vote, according to the Guardian, the coalition could fall apart. But Spiegel says both the AfD and Free Democrats are currently below the 5% threshold. The Free Democrats now face the prospect of not making the Bundestag for the first time in the history of non-Communist Germany, Bloomberg says.¬†
In a world in which all the matters is "scale", the ability to Martingale down on losing bets as close to infinity as possible (something which JPMorgan learned with the London Whale may not be the best strategy especially when one can't print money out of thin air), and being as close to the Fed's Heidelberg rotary printer as possible, it was expected that that "expert" of government backstops and bailouts, the Octogenarian of Omaha, Warren Buffett, would have only kind words for Ben Bernanke. But not even we predicted that Buffett would explicitly admit†what we have only tongue-in-cheek joked about†in the past, namely that the Fed is the world's greatest (and most profitable) hedge fund.†Which is precisely what he did: "Billionaire investor Warren Buffett compared the U.S. Federal Reserve to a hedge fund because of the central bankís ability to profit from bond purchases while accumulating a balance sheet of more than $3 trillion. "The Fed is the greatest hedge fund in history,î Buffett told students yesterday at Georgetown University in Washington. Itís generating ì$80 billion or $90 billion a year probablyî in revenue for the U.S. government, he said. From Buffett's presentation at Georgetown last week: The Fed remitted $88.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury Department last year. The payments have ballooned as the central bank built its balance sheet during the past five years. The Fed ìis under no pressure, none whatsoever to have to deleverage,î Buffett said. ìSo it can pick its time, and if you have somebody wise there -- and I think Bernanke is wise, and I certainly expect his successor to be -- it can be handled. But it is something thatís never quite been done on this scale. It will be interesting to watch.î From†Bloomberg: Good thing none of the present had any idea what Mark To Market or what DV01 are, and how, if one actually marked the Fed's balance sheet to reality, the†Fed would have already lost†nearly $300 billion in the past few months (or†5 times†the Fed's own regulatory capital) courtesy of the massive and rapid blow out in rates, driven exclusively by the Fed's own inability to communicate with markets and warn about a taper that never came, because the global market had become unhinged precisely due to fear of a Taper, aka the†Fed's Tapering Catch 22. Which by the way, takes care of Buffett's concerns about Fed deleveraging: it will never come if the merest hint that the†leveraging†would be reduced by even the tiniest amount, sent the global carry trade into a tailspin. There is a reason why some, such as Zero Hedge, nearly 5 years ago†showed that once you set off on a path of bailouts, there is no exit until everything ultimately collapse into a handful of dust. And we have Ben Bernanke to thank for proving us right again and again. Finally, regarding Buffett's claim, he is absolutely correct that when one has unlimited capital to invest, and has no concerns about downside risk, it is easy to quite easy to become the world's biggest and most profitable hedge fund. Well, there is one downside: losing the dollar's reserve currency status of course. And the more incidents that get even Fed presidents to admit that Bernanke is increasingly losing credibility with the markets, the closer we get to having a peek at what the ultimate cost of Bernanke's unprecedented error will end up being.
Fox NewsSen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) has infuriated Republicans, again ‚Äî this time in the Senate ‚Äî by saying that any vote to advance debate on a government spending bill is akin to supporting the Affordable Care Act. Senate rules make it difficult for Cruz's plan to "defund Obamacare" through the continuing resolution to get through the Democratic-controlled Senate, as it did through the Republican-led House of Representatives last Friday. Cruz calls them "procedural gimmicks" by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, but they are in keeping with normal Senate rules. A Republican filibuster would have to come before Democrats introduce an amendment to strip the language in the House-passed bill that defunds Obamacare. So to build pressure on the Senate, Cruz said on "Fox News Sunday" that any GOP senator who does not filibuster is supporting Obamacare ‚Äî even though, in filibustering, they would essentially be endorsing a government shutdown. "Any vote to allow Harry Reid to add funding ‚Äî a vote for cloture is a vote for Obamacare," Cruz told Fox News' Chris Wallace. "And I think they will stand side by side and listen to the people and stop this train wreck that is Obamacare." Like House Republicans did last week, Senate Republicans brushed back at Cruz on Sunday. Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) said the debate over a shutdown had to be based in "reality" ‚Äî and the reality, he said, is that Republicans don't have the votes in the Senate. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) threw shade at Cruz by lauding Coburn's comments afterward. And according to National Review's Robert Costa, GOP Senate aides are now fuming at the position Cruz has put them in: Sen aide tells me a dozen+ GOP sens are fuming this am over Cruz making a vote to proceed (CR cloture) seem like support for law they hate Amanda Carpenter, a senior communications adviser and Cruz speechwriter, pushed back on the attacks against Cruz on Twitter: 1) Votes change when grassroots speak. Witness, House bill. 2) It's not hard. Senate GOP should insist on 60 votes for Reid to add Ocare $ Lots of furor bc Ted Cruz exposed the plan to let GOP vote for cloture and then allow Dems add Obamacare funding back in with 51 votes. If you want to really defund Obamacare, you can't give Reid the green light cloture vote to fund it.
Fox NewsSen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) has infuriated Republicans, again ‚Äî this time in the Senate ‚Äî by saying that any vote to advance debate on a government spending bill is akin to supporting the Affordable Care Act. Senate rules make it difficult for Cruz's plan to "defund Obamacare" through the continuing resolution to get through the Democratic-controlled Senate, as it did through the Republican-led House of Representatives last Friday. Cruz calls them "procedural gimmicks" by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, but they are in keeping with normal Senate rules. A Republican filibuster would have to come before Democrats introduce an amendment to strip the language in the House-passed bill that defunds Obamacare. So to build pressure on the Senate, Cruz said on "Fox News Sunday" that any GOP senator who does not filibuster is supporting Obamacare ‚Äî even though, in filibustering, they would essentially be endorsing a government shutdown. "Any vote to allow Harry Reid to add funding ‚Äî a vote for cloture is a vote for Obamacare," Cruz told Fox News' Chris Wallace. "And I think they will stand side by side and listen to the people and stop this train wreck that is Obamacare." Like House Republicans did last week, Senate Republicans brushed back at Cruz on Sunday. Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) said the debate over a shutdown had to be based in "reality" ‚Äî and the reality, he said, is that Republicans don't have the votes in the Senate. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) threw shade at Cruz by lauding Coburn's comments afterward. And according to National Review's Robert Costa, GOP Senate aides are now fuming at the position Cruz has put them in: Sen aide tells me a dozen+ GOP sens are fuming this am over Cruz making a vote to proceed (CR cloture) seem like support for law they hate Amanda Carpenter, a senior communications adviser and Cruz speechwriter, pushed back on the attacks against Cruz on Twitter: 1) Votes change when grassroots speak. Witness, House bill. 2) It's not hard. Senate GOP should insist on 60 votes for Reid to add Ocare $ Lots of furor bc Ted Cruz exposed the plan to let GOP vote for cloture and then allow Dems add Obamacare funding back in with 51 votes. If you want to really defund Obamacare, you can't give Reid the green light cloture vote to fund it.
Flickr/Dinner Series Earlier this week we posted a chart from a Stanford study that shows the difference between novice and experienced beer drinkers. Essentially, experts are much more inclined to give strong ales a higher rating. Experts also have much stronger opinions about all beers. They dislike cheap lagers (like Bud Light) more than the novices hate cheap lagers. And they like the strong ales more than the novices like the strong ales. So why do experts like these strong ales so much? Reddit user psychguy ó who characterizes himself as a serious beer drinker who does his own homebrewing ó wrote a fascinating, highly-rated comment explaining what's going on. There are two factors at play, he says. One is taste-fatigue: The more beer you drink, the more you need a strong beer to keep interested. The other element is social conformity. Once the group has decided that strong tastes are superior, then everyone in the group feels the need to conform to that. He relates a fascinating observation that when he enters beer competitions, his mediocre strong beers tend to rate higher than his well-executed mild beers. He was kind enough to give us permission to republish his comment here: As an avid homebrewer who has been very involved in the craft beer movement for a couple decades, I have to say that this article also highlights a strong beer bias among experts, as well as the more commonly realized lager bias among beginners. I have noticed that the longer one is in the field (either brewing or being a connoisseur), the most tastes shift towards stronger beers. There is an assumption that this is due to expertise, but I think that taste fatigue and social conformity may also play a role. When you are regularly drinking strong beers, certainly within a session, but also between sessions, you are going to experience some taste fatigue and have difficulty appreciating nuances of weaker beers. Also, when you are embedded in a community that universally prizes certain experiences (Pliny the Elder, etc.), if you don't express appreciation for those beers your competency is questioned. This is a form of social conformity, and it would produce the exact same statistical convergence in expert opinions that expertise would produce.† I have some personal anecdotes that support this as well. I am very good at brewing medium body malty beers; I have three medals from the AHA nationals and one from my local state fair for brown ales, Octoberfests and Vienna lagers. I am very good at self-critiquing, so I generally know which of my beers are good and which are mediocre. When I bring beers to professional tastings, my rather mediocre barleywines and imperial stouts get much better accolades than my far superior browns, California commons, milds, bitters, Octoberfests, and Vienna lagers. It is only when being judged within style in a formal competition that the strong beer bias does not show itself, and even there, there is still a tendency for out-of-style beers with high alcohol content to make surprise showings in competitions.
Itís time to step your business casual attire up a notch. Itís time to dress for business and not for casual. Business casual means something less formal than a suit and tie, not a casual outfit that looks vaguely presentable. So what should you wear? The first part of the business casual wardrobe to sort out is shirts. Go for formal shirts like you would with a suit, though feel free to add more patterns and less formal collar types such as the button down collar. Polo shirts should be avoided at all costs. The shirts can be worn with either an open collar or a less formal tie such as the knitted variety. If going tieless, make you sure you undo the top two buttons of the shirt and avoid showing you undershirt. Buttoning all of the buttons when not wearing a tie can look rather affected and only buttoning one is too uptight and stuffy. The next area is trousers. This is an area to let you personality show, so feel free to inject some colour. Fit is very important, so make sure the trousers just cover your socks and no more. Avoid the temptation to buy suit separates trousers and instead opt for trousers made from cottons and wools. Avoid pleats to keep your look slick and modern. Obviously not every day is warm enough for just a shirt and trousers, so some form of jacket will be required. Maintain your professional image with a well tailored blazer. A business casual wardrobe could get away with just a couple of basic blazers in a grey and a navy. Avoid metal buttons or loud patterns to make them more versatile and therefore more useable. Patch pockets and subtle patterns such as herringbone or a light tweed are a great way to relax the formality. Avoid wearing jackets meant for suits as this will be fairly obviously and look out of place. Shoes are one of the most important areas of the business casual wardrobe. Avoid both ends of the formality spectrum; say no to closed lace black cap toes and avoid trainers and boat shoes. Instead go for suede brogues or chukka boots or a brown leather Chelsea boot. Invest in shoes and expect to spend upwards of $400 per pair, itís the best style investment youíll make. Accessories are an afterthought to many but make or break an outfit. With business casual, keep them to a minimum. If you have double cuff shirts, which work fine casually as long as a jacket is worn, cufflinks will be needed. Keep them simple with a solid metal such as Sterling silver. Pocket squares should not be left out and work well with patch pockets. Opt for a patterned silk square that contrasts and adds colour your outfit. Bright and heavily patterned socks are another a great way to add more colour. Finally, donít forgot about the belt. It should be a similar colour to your shoes but the match does not need to be exact.
Investors have been telling their advisors that they†must†have protection from the next 2008-type scenario every day since, well, 2008. And of course, this demand is not unreasonable - no one wants to see their retirement portfolio cut in half again for the third time in fifteen years. So as a result, tactical mutual funds, once an obscure corner of the industry, have seen their assets under management quadruple since 2007. Everyone wants to buy an umbrella once it's already rained, just like half of my town on Long Island raced to equip their homes with generators in the months following Hurricane Sandy. "I'm not going through†that†shit again." Unfortunately, investors (and their advisors) are now finding out that there is a price to be paid, a cost for this tactical "insurance" being added to the mix: In a bull market, it can easily be a drag. And if you pick a really poor manager, or a quantitative strategy with signals that no longer work, it can actually lose you money. And, even if they work great, they can be expensive (turnover, taxes, internal fees, sales loads) - more expensive, sometimes, than the drawdowns they claim to be protecting you from. No free lunch, same as it ever was. Here's Daisy Maxey at the Wall Street Journal on the phenomenon: There are 41 mutual funds with "tactical" in their names that are tracked by investment-research firm†Morningstar†Inc.,†including 18 that were launched since the beginning of 2012. Total assets in this fund category have risen to $4.92 billion from $1.10 billion in December 2007, according to Morningstar. Just as the so-called market-timing funds did years ago, the tactical funds are underperforming balanced portfolios: On average, they gained 6.9% over 12 months and 7.7% annually over three years through Aug. 31. A classically balanced, passively managed portfolio--with 60% invested in the S&amp;P 500 index and 40% invested in the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index--would have gained 10.2% and 12.1%, respectively, in the same periods, Morningstar said. With tactical funds now adding more drag than performance over the three year period relative to the most vanilla benchmarks available, I fully expect to see the trend toward tactical strategies on the wane in the coming year. And then, just when they're needed most, no one will own them† Rinse and repeat. Source: Tactical Funds Make Few Friends with Lagging Returns (WSJ) I've discussed this a lot over the years, some further reading below: How Volatility Affects Our Behavior (TRB) John Rekenthaler: Everyone Wants to Be Tactical at the Wrong Time (TRB)
We know that a bunch of our readers spend a lot of time in front of their monitors trading the markets.¬†It's basically their second home, so they have to tailor to their needs and strategy. That's why we'd like you to send us photos of your trading desk setup.¬† We also want you to tell us what makes your desk so awesome.¬† And no worries, we'll keep you anonymous if you wish. We're just curious. Here are some things we want to know: What sort of trading platform do you use (CQG, Bloomberg, Trading Technologies, PATS, Redi, Sterling, etc.)? ¬†Is it browser based or a standalone app? Or do you have your own proprietary software? Do you use a Bloomberg Terminal?¬† Do you use a squawk such as RANsquawk or TradersAudio or something similar? How many monitors do you use? What do you like to look at on your monitors? Any business news sites or blogs that you like to read? Do you have a TV by your trade station? If so, do you watch CNBC, Bloomberg or Fox Business?¬† Also, where in the world do you trade from?¬† And do you have anything special such as a killer view of the Hudson or the Pacific Ocean?¬† Finally, can you give us an overview of your strategy and why your tools are so important for executing it? Please send photos and descriptions to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com.¬†
AP ImagesT. Boone Pickens certainly has a way with words and a knack for telling it like it is. ¬† In fact, the 85 year-old energy tycoon/author of ¬†"The First Billion Is The Hardest"¬†has a ton of catchy/easy to remember phrases about life and business. They're affectionately referred to by his family and staff members as "Boone-isms."¬† We've compiled some of his business Boone-isms in the slides that follow from his website¬†boonepickens.com.¬† These and other verbal gems are often posted through his Twitter account @BoonePickens.¬†
REUTERS/Thomas PeterGerman Chancellor and head of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) Angela Merkel speaks to supporters at a CDU election campaign event in the eastern town of Ilmenau, August 26, 2013. German voters will take to the polls in a general election on September 22. The placards read "We vote for the Chancellor!" (L) and "Keep Cool and Vote for the Chancellor". "Angie" is a nickname of Chancellor Merkel, often used by her supporters.The first German election results will be out at noon EDT. Via Nomura, here's what you need to know. Note that in the previews below, the times are European time: Polls open at 8am and close at 6pm, with television stations ARD and ZDF releasing exit poll results at exactly 6pm. Bloomberg writes that unless the vote is very close, television networks should call the winners by 7pm, but the final result may take longer if the election is tight (as seems likely) with the ìfinal preliminaryî result usually available about midnight. Bloomberg adds that after polls close, the leaders of all the major parties will give a 45-minute joint TV interview scheduled to start at 8.15pm (broadcast by ARD and ZDF) while party leaders will meet on 23 September to decide how to proceed with coalition talks. The polls (and their margins of error) continue to suggest that the German elections remain finely balanced between a repeat of the current CDU/CSU and FDP coalition and a grand coalition between CDU/CSU and the SPD. While the immediate focus will be on coalition building (nb: agreement for a grand coalition took just over three weeks back in September/October 2005), we highlighted earlier this week the significant pipeline of policy decisions looming after the elections: (i) the exit strategies of programme countries (where the debate will likely be even more vociferous should the AfD reach the 5% threshold to enter the Bundestag), (ii) modalities around the SSM and second leg of banking union, and (iii) resumption of the debate on fiscal union. For more details, see NEMO, 16 September.
This week's edition of Weekly Indicators is coming to you from one of my favorite places in the whole world, Aroma's Coffeehouse in Colonial Williamsburg. Month over month August data included the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, up strongly, suggesting good growth for the next 6 to 8 months. Industrial production improved to a post-recession high, capacity utilization was up, the Philly manufacturing index improved, although the Empire State index decelerated. Existing home sales were up. Consumer prices barely budged. A big negative was the decline in housing starts and permits.  Let's again start this edition of the high frequency weekly indicators by looking at the real economic version of the Dow signal, i.e., comparing manufacturing with transport: Steel production from the American Iron and Steel Institute  ¬†  Steel production over the last several years has been, and appears to still be, in a decelerating uptrend. It had been negative YoY, but turned positive one week ago. Transport  Railroad transport from the AAR  ¬† ¬† ¬† Shipping transport  ¬† Rail transport had been both positive and negative YoY during midyear, but this week was the sixth positive week in a row since then, and equals its most positive showing in a long time.¬†The Harpex index had been improving slowly from its January 1 low of 352, but has generally flattened out for the last few months. The Baltic Dry Index has rebounded to make nearly a 2 year high. In the larger picture, both the Baltic Dry Index and the Harpex declined sharply since the onset of the recession, and have been in a range near their bottom for about 2 years, but stopped falling earlier this year, and now seem to be in an uptrend. Employment metrics  Initial jobless claims  ¬†  The American Staffing Association Index was up 1 98. It is up +5.1% YoY  Tax Withholding  ¬†  We can now estimate that after adjusting for state reporting glitches, one week ago initial jobless claims were ~318,000, still a 6 year low. Jobless claims remain firmly in a normal expansionary mode. Like each of the last three years that this same, a good, downside breakout has occurred.  Temporary staffing had been flat to negative YoY in spring, but has broken out positively in the last two months. Tax withholding, after a relatively poor August, is again posting better comparisons. Consumer spending  ¬† ¬† Gallup's 14 day average of consumer spending is positive, but significantly less so than earlier this year. The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012, while Johnson Redbook was generally below +3%. The ICSC has been weakening but improved for the second week in a row, and Johnson Redbook remains at the high end of its range, and has actually been improving. Oil prices and usage  ¬† ¬† The price of Oil continued its retreat from its recent 2 year high. The 4 week average for gas usage turned slightly positive, after two weeks of being slightly negative. Interest rates and credit spreads  ¬† ¬† Interest rates for corporate bonds had been falling since being just above 6% in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. Treasuries fell to a possible once-in-a-lifetime low of 1.47% in July 2012, and have decisively risen about 1.5% above that mark. Spreads, however, made another new 2 year low this week. Their recent high was over 3.4% in June 2011. Housing metrics  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association:  ¬† ¬† Refinancing applications have decreased sharply in the last 4 months due to higher interest rates, although this week's rebound makes up almost all of last week's precipitous decline. Purchase applications have also declined from their multiyear highs in April, but are still ever so slightly up YoY. Housing prices  Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012. This weeks's YoY increase remains near a 7 year record.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report:  ¬† ¬† Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. ¬†Over the last few months, the comparisons have completely stalled. Money supply  M1  ¬† ¬†  M2  ¬† ¬† Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and decelerated since then. Earlier this year it increased again but this week made a new 2 year low (although it is still positive). ¬†Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. ¬†Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. It increased slightly in the first few months of this year, then stabilized, but has declined again in the past several months. Bank lending rates  ¬† The TED spread is still near the low end of its 3 year range, although it has risen slightly in the last few months. ¬†LIBOR established yet another new 3 year low this week. JoC ECRI Commodity prices  ¬†  This week was generally positive, with the same concerns about the long leading indicators as I've had for the past several months. Interest rates are negative, mortgage applications and real estate loans have turned negative, and now even purchase mortgage applications are just barely positive YoY, and money supply is decelerating although still positive. Spreads between corporate bonds and treausries also were negative this week.  The shorter leading indicators of initial jobless claims are positive, even adjusting for California's computer problems. Temporary employment has turned strongly positive in the last two months. The oil choke collar is engaged but has eased off, especially as to gasoline. Commodities are neutral.  The coincident indicators once again look like they have broken out positively. Rail traffic, which had been a real concern, has broken to the upside strongly, as has shipping. Steel production is positive. Consumer spending is holding up reasonably well. Bank lending rates are at or near or at record lows. Tax withholding has also improved moderately in the last couple of weeks. House prices remain strongly positive.  Once again this week the story remains, if Washington can avoid destroying things, the economy appears ready to pick up steam again for the rest of the year. I still remain much more cautious about 2014. .
Venezuela's leftist government said Saturday it temporarily seized a major toilet paper factory hoping that it can end troublesome shortages of the staple personal care item. "The temporary occupation of Manpa (Manufactora de Papel) is aimed at verifying that toilet paper industry production, marketing and distribution" are all in line with state policies, Vice President Jorge Arreaza said on Twitter, without indicating how long the takeover would last. He said the decision had been taken by an economic panel sworn in last week by President Nicolas Maduro, a close ally of Communist-ruled Cuba. OPEC member Venezuela has vast crude oil resources, sitting atop the world's largest proven reserves. But efforts to centralize its economy like Havana have seen the country reach an inflation rate of 32.9 percent, and a toilet paper shortage rate of 20 percent, according to government data. Even hospitals have reported food shortages, while citizens routinely deal with shortages of coffee, flour, sugar or personal care basics like toilet paper. Venezuela imports half the food it consumes, and the government also has been taking over large farms hoping it can boost domestic production and supply. Maduro last week claimed the White House is plotting the "collapse" of his government next month by sabotaging food, electricity and fuel supplies. Maduro's predecessor, the late Hugo Chavez, also made regular claims about several alleged US plots to kill him. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Michael DalderA supporter holds a placard depicting German Chancellor Angela Merkel, with the slogan: "Mom's doing it", during a Christian Democratic Union election campaign meeting in Munich September 20, 2013. On Sunday, Germany holds national elections. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is widely expected to retain her place at the head of the German government, and financial markets don't seem too worried. However, even though Merkel's job is likely secure, there's a good chance that the elections will result in a different ruling coalition, which could present problems for Germany and for the eurozone. Merkel's current center-right coalition consists of her own Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party, its Bavarian sister party the Christian Social Union (CSU), and the Free Democratic Party (FDP). Though CDU/CSU remains atop the polls, the FDP's share of the vote has been on the wane, casting doubt on a continuation of the current government. If CDU/CSU and FDP combined are unable to gain a majority in parliament, Merkel's party may be forced into a grand coalition with the center-left Social Democratic Party (SDP). Here are the three things you need to know. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Anatoli Annenkov expects that if the current CDU/CSU coalition with FDP remains in power, Germany will be unlikely to budge from its current approach toward the eurozone. "As the current government has already shown flexibility on Europe ñ accepting some trade-offs of short-term austerity for long-term structural reform ñ we see no change in its determination to pursue reform in the crisis-struck countries, nor in its willingness to accept any form of debt mutualisation/forgiveness," says Annenkov. Morgan Stanley economist Elga Bartsch believes there will be "no post-election shift in [the] German stance on euro crisis," regardless of whether the composition of the government changes or not. "Many market participants and political counterparties seem to believe that Germanyís stance on the euro crisis will shift materially after the election," writes Bartsch in a note to clients. "In our view, a major shift on key issues, such as debt relief, joint issuance, or direct bank recaps, is unlikely given public opinion and constitutional constraints in Germany. In fact, we are concerned that a narrow majority for the centre-right may reinforce a relatively tough stance on additional aid." "In our view, the election result will have greater implications for domestic than European policy," wrote BofA Merrill Lynch economist Laurence Boone in a report published earlier this month. "Euro-area policies have not been a major issue in the campaign so far," said Boone. "In our view, the main challenge facing the new government will remain the implementation of 'Energiewende' (energy transition). This could significantly impair Germanyís competitiveness and, absenting as yet undebated structural reforms, poses a risk to Germanyís recent economic miracle." SocGen's Annenkov asserts that "Germany will be less stable after the election."† "With significant economic challenges ahead, there is a risk of greater political instability in Germany over the coming parliamentary term," says Annenkov. "With significant economic challenges ahead, there is a risk of greater political instability in Germany over the coming parliamentary term. This in turn risks leaving policy uncertainty high in Europe; thereby further negatively affecting German investment and economic activity." The SocGen economist says it would be worse if Merkel's CDU/CSU is forced into a grand coalition with SPD. "A strong win for the CDU/CSU and FDP should ultimately result in more of the same. Domestically, the government would likely focus on increasing labour supply, reforming energy policy and improving investment conditions in Germany, while we only see limited progress with liberalising service markets," says Annenkov. "In contrast, the opposition is likely to pursue policies that are suboptimal for growth, relying excessively on tax increases to fund social reforms and public investment." The euro is probably the first place investors will be watching for the market's reaction to the outcome of the election. "Re-election of the current coalition would not have a meaningful impact on equity markets but would likely be negative for the [euro]," says Morgan Stanley's Bartsch. "A coalition between CDU/CSU and either Greens or the SPD would be bullish for the [euro]. In rates space, we would expect some spread widening, while outright price action will be dominated by the Fedís decisions." BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategist Ralf Preusser doesn't expect to see much market reaction, regardless of what happens Sunday. "Beyond a short-term, initial reaction we do not see the German election as a major catalyst for markets one way or the other," says Preusser. Knee-jerk reactions could lead to underperformance of Bunds and out-performance of the periphery on election results that suggest a grand coalition is the most likely. A return of the current government would arguably be neutral for Bunds and potentially negative for the periphery, especially if the [Alternative f¸r Deutschland] does well."
SBS DatelineChina's ambitious urbanization plan has helped create many ghost cities. Two years after visiting some of China's most infamous ghost cities and malls, Australian reporter Adrian Brown revisited them for SBS Dateline, to see if they had changed. His tour of Tianducheng, the Paris replica that we reported on; the South China Mall; and Kangbashi in Ordos, China's most famous ghost city, showed that they were still empty. Tom Miller, a Chinese urbanization expert told Brown, it's as though Chinese officials "basically draw a circle on a map and they build it, and then they expect people to go and move in." The "gamble" is that cities might be empty now, but they will be filled up later, an argument Stephen Roach has previously made. While some argue that this is symptomatic of a massive property bubble in China, this really shows the presence on individual property bubbles across China.
AppleQuick heads up. We're going to get a good look at economic data from the most important parts of the world tonight. It's "Flash PMI" Day, which is when we get previews of the PMI Day data for China, the Eurozone, and the readings. These are preliminary surveys of manufacturing and service companies, wherein the respondents say how they see how the economy is doing from their perspective. China is tonight. Europe is early tomorrow. Check out the whole schedule of data releases here.
HONG KONG (AP) ‚Äî The year's most powerful typhoon was grinding closer to Hong Kong on Sunday, forcing hundreds of flights to be canceled and shutting down shipping after pummeling island communities in the Philippines and Taiwan with heavy rains and fierce winds. Typhoon Usagi was expected to make landfall just north of Hong Kong late Sunday or early Monday, with forecasters warning that it posed a "severe threat" to the southern Chinese city. Usagi ‚Äî Japanese for rabbit ‚Äî was classified as a severe typhoon, packing sustained winds of 175 kilometers (109 miles) per hour, with gusts of up to 213 kph (132 mph). The storm was downgraded from a super typhoon on Saturday ‚Äî when its sustained winds fell below 241 kilometers (150 miles) per hour ‚Äî as it passed through the Luzon Strait separating the Philippines and Taiwan, likely sparing residents in both places from the most destructive winds near its eye. In the Philippines, Usagi left at least two people dead and two others missing, while in Taiwan nine people were hurt by falling trees on Kinmen island off China's coast. By late Sunday afternoon, the typhoon was about 210 kilometers (130 miles) east of Hong Kong, moving west at 20 kph (12 mph), the Hong Kong Observatory said. It was expected to skirt Hong Kong about 100 kilometers (62 miles) to the north between Sunday night and Monday morning. The observatory said that by 7 p.m. local time it would raise the No. 8 storm warning signal, the third highest on a five-point scale, up from the current No. 3 standby signal. The typhoon wreaked havoc on flight schedules at airports in Hong Kong, nearby Macau and mainland China, upsetting travel plans for many passengers who were returning home at the end of the three-day mid-autumn festival long weekend. Hong Kong International Airport said 353 arriving and departing flights were canceled and another 67 delayed. Two of Hong Kong's biggest airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways and Dragonair, said flights to and from the city's airport would be canceled from 6 p.m. Sunday and resume Monday if conditions permit. Major Chinese airlines also canceled flights to Hong Kong, Macau and cities in neighboring Guangdong and Fujian provinces, China's official Xinhua news agency reported. Fujian province suspended shipping between mainland China and Taiwan, Xinhua said. The Guangdong provincial government urged people to prepare for the storm, which was forecast to slam into the manufacturing heartland of the Pearl River Delta as it skirted Hong Kong. Guangdong authorities asked more than 44,000 fishing boats to return to port, while Fujian province evacuated thousands of people from low-lying coastal areas, Xinhua said. In Taiwan, more than 3,300 people were evacuated from flood-prone areas and mountainous regions. The storm also caused a landslide that buried a rail line on Taiwan's southeast coast, but rail services were restored by Sunday morning. Another landslide late Saturday at a village in the southeast sent mud and rocks crashing through the ground floor of a resort spa, forcing the evacuation of frightened guests. The Chihben River breached its levies upriver, turning the town's main street into a rock-strewn stream, flooding homes and damaging vehicles. In the Philippines, a 50-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman drowned when a passenger boat capsized in rough waters off northeastern Aurora province, the Office of Civil Defense said Saturday. Two other people were missing in the incident, while the remaining nine passengers and crew were rescued. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
From Reuters, this big rock will soon hit the auction block in Hong Kong. A model poses with a 118.28 carat, D colour, flawless type, IIA magnificent oval diamond (L) and a very rare 7.59 carat, internally flawless, fancy vivid blue diamond at a Sotheby's preview in Hong Kong September 19, 2013. The oval diamond is expected to achieve between HK$220 (US28 million) to HK280 million (US$35 million), while the blue diamond is expected to achieve in excess of 148 million (US19 million) at Autumn Sales on October 7, 2013 in the territory, according to the auction house's press release.  REUTERS/Bobby Yip
 REUTERS/Jinan Intermediate People's Court/Handout via ReutersA Chinese court Sunday sentenced former leading politician Bo Xilai to life in prison after a sensational corruption trial that exposed intrigue and lavish lifestyles in the higher levels of the ruling party. Bo, a member of the Communist Party's 25-strong elite politburo before his dramatic downfall, was convicted of bribery, embezzlement and abuse of power. "The court sentences Bo Xilai to life imprisonment for taking bribes, deprives him of his political rights for life and confiscates all his property," the Jinan Intermediate People's Court said on its verified page on Sina Weibo, a Chinese equivalent of Twitter. As a state servant Bo "abused his power (and) caused heavy losses to the interests of the country and the people", it said, adding the circumstances of the case were "particularly serious". Bo was ousted from office last year after a scandal which saw his wife convicted of the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood. The court sentenced Bo to life after finding him guilty of taking 20.4 million yuan ($3.3 million) in bribes. It also sentenced him to 15 years in prison for embezzlement and seven for abuse of power. The life sentence was more severe than many analysts had expected. Bo's trial last month revealed a lifestyle in excess of what Communist Party officials on modest salaries should be able to afford, with evidence of bribes from rich businessmen, including a close associate who bought his family a villa in France. In the proceedings, Bo described a love triangle between his wife and his top aide, while the court said he had acted to suppress an investigation into his wife's murder of the British businessman who had helped Bo manage property abroad. Bo had also championed a leftist revival during his tenure as party chief of the southwestern mega-city of Chongqing, sending thousands of officials to the countryside to get closer to ordinary people, and holding mass concerts of "red songs" praising former leader Mao Zedong. A photo posted by the court showed a handcuffed Bo, 64, dressed in an open-collar white shirt, black trousers and black athletic shoes, in the court surrounded by four uniformed police officers. State TV later showed footage of Bo listening to the proceedings as two officers held him in place. At a press conference after the verdict, court spokesman Liu Yanjie said Bo did not indicate in court whether he would appeal. His lawyers could not immediately be reached for comment. The catalyst for Bo's fall came when his top aide -- Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun -- fled in February 2012 to the US consulate with evidence that the politician's wife had murdered the Briton the previous November. With factions in the upper echelons of the Communist Party reportedly split over how to handle him, a year and a half passed before he went to trial, becoming the most high-profile official to do so in decades. In last month's gripping five-day hearing he mounted a fierce and defiant defence against claims that he corruptly obtained money and abused his political position to cover up the murder. Joseph Cheng, a China politics expert at City University of Hong Kong, said Bo's active defence helped earn him a harsh sentence. "A defiant attitude and refusing to admit one's guilt is considered bad behaviour and attracts a heavier sentence," Cheng told AFP. "Bo Xilai would certainly like to retain a chance of a political comeback, and a heavier sentence from the state certainly indicates a rejection of any chance of giving him a political comeback." "This deprivation of political rights for life is an implicit answer to that kind of demand." Bo poured billions into public works and social housing programmes while party chief of Chongqing, where he launched a high-profile anti-crime campaign that won him admirers across China. Despite his popularity, reports of forced confessions and torture during the crime crackdown horrified Chinese liberals, while some top party leaders saw his ambition as challenging the party's cherished unity. The party's new leadership under President Xi Jinping is trying to show it is combatting corruption. But locals in Jinan in advance of the verdict expressed a widely held belief that trials of top officials are the outcome of political infighting, rather than purely legal proceedings. "Bo is the kind of leader ordinary Chinese respect, he did a good job in Chongqing," said Lu Mingcai, a 63-year-old retired chauffeur. "His mistake is a political one. It's got nothing to do with whether he was corrupt or not," Lu said, adding: "Bo will go to prison for sure." Liu Qing, a middle-aged market stall owner said: "(Bo) has been sacrificed in a political struggle. I don't know if he was corrupt. What government official isn't corrupt these days?" Dozens of police, some uniformed and others in plain clothes, surrounded the court in the eastern city of Jinan. Though edited transcripts from the trial were posted online, the government has tightly controlled information about Bo's case. Sunday's verdict drew often cynical responses on Chinese social media. Bo's trial "perhaps is not the victory of anti-corruption", a user wrote in English on Sina Weibo, calling it "further evidence" of rampant corruption, including in the judicial system. "Many questions arise: If he's corrupted, how many corrupted officers are there in China?" Despite the life sentence, Bo might not spend all his remaining days in prison. In the past, senior Chinese politicians given prison terms have reportedly been released on medical parole and held under strict security at their family homes. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
"The future is already here," intoned William Gibson, one of my favorite cyberpunk science fiction authors, "it's just not very evenly distributed." Paraphrasing Gibson, the pension crisis is already here; it's just not very evenly distributed. For the past two weeks we've been exploring the problems of state pension funds. This week we will conclude our look at pension plans for the nonce with a 30,000-foot overview of the states and then take a deeper dive into one city: mine. This will give you at least one version of how to do your own homework about your own hometown. But fair warning, depending on your locale, you may need medical help or significant quantities of an adult beverage after you finish your research. Then again you may be pleasantly surprised and congratulate yourself on choosing a particularly adept hometown. And be on notice that, no matter what your personal conclusion and how well-grounded your analysis is, there will be people who live in your neighborhood who think you are utterly full of, well, let's just say "nonsensical matter" and leave it at that. This is a family letter. † Into the Transformational Future First, a quick announcement. I am constantly asked where the future jobs will be, and I think hard about the answer to that very personal question (it's crucial to those of us who have young kids). Will we see Gibsonís dystopian world or Ian Banks' world of abundance? The answer is, of course, that secular growth in employment will come from the new, transformational technologies that are already being created all around us, truly new industries that will change everything and create opportunities for work that we can't even imagine yet, in the same way the automobile or telecommunications or the McCormick reaper both took some jobs away and created even greater opportunities. The transition is the thing, though. It will be filled with opportunities for some and forced change for others, while we wait for the future to become more evenly distributed. In the next few weeks, you are going to get a letter from me that will tell you about the newest addi tion to Mauldin Economics, the Transformational Technologies Alert, written by my longtime friend Pat Cox, who is no stranger to readers of this letter. Pat and I have long wanted to work together, exploring the future and especially biotech. He is the best, and you will want to join us from the very beginning. We invite you to charge ahead into the future with us, exploring opportunities that will begin to change your own life right now. And now back to pensionsÖ Through the courtesy of one of your fellow readers I've been given a treasure trove of data on 702 city pension plans. I won't say that I got lost in the data, but the search and rescue teams sent to find me had to go back for extra supplies. There were some very dark alleys that it took a while to find my way back out of. Not to mention some twists and turns that were totally surprising. So first I need to say a big thank you to Gregg L. Bienstock and Justin Coombs of Lumesis for giving me access to their data. Gregg is a cofounder of Lumesis, and their signature software is called (appropriately enough, given the oceans of data they plumb) DIVER. They've compiled data on 54,000 issuers of municipal and state bonds from over 100 sources. They sent me an Excel file on the major pension plans of every state and the pension plans of cities with populations over 100,000. And Justin was kind enough to create multiple spreadsheets and graphs upon request and patiently explain their data. The bulk of the data in this letter is from http://www.lumesis.com. The opinions are my own and should not be attributed to Lumesis. From time to time we will also look at another fascinating study from the Pew Charitable Trusts on pensions and retiree healthcare in 61 cities. As we have seen the last two weeks (here and here), the assumptions that states make about their future investment returns are fairly unrealistic and generally nothing like what they've achieved for the last 10 years. This makes their balance sheets look far better than they really are, and for some states the discrepancy is pretty stark. Witness Illinois, where unfunded pension liabilities run north of $280 billion, give or take. That is more than $20,000 for every man, woman, and child in the state. And the bill keeps rising every month as the state plows ever deeper in debt to its own future. Keeping in mind the caveat that the percentages may actually be worse than reported, let's look at a few graphs on a state-by-state basis. This first graph shows the funded ratio of state pension plans through 2012. (Note: on all the graphs the large "island" below Louisiana is a representation of Puerto Rico. To its left is Alaska, and both are obviously not to scale.) Mauldin The next graph shows actuarial required contributions (ARC). The ARC is simply the amount of money required to fund the pension plan given the return assumptions of the plan. The important thing to note here is the amount of blue in the graph. If you ask your local politicians how their pension plan is doing, they can probably tell you with a straight face (and because they don't know any better) that their state's pension is fully funded. I note with some alarm that "conservative" Texas doesn't fare very well. While Texas claims funding above 80%, a more reasonable assumption on returns suggests it is no better than 43%. Can Rick Perry run for president as a conservative on that number? Then again, can New Jersey Republican governor uber-star Chris Christie run on his state's funding level of 33%? Just asking. Mauldin Where in the World Is Your Pension? The more appropriate question to ask is "What percentage of my state's total future liability is unfunded?" And here the color pattern of the map changes. If you can look at this map and discern a political pattern, you are seeing something that I can't find. "Red states" can be adequately funded or a disaster, and the same goes for "blue states." This will also hold true when we look at cities. There is simply no rhyme or reason as to why some cities are paragons of virtue when it comes to funding pensions while others make drunken sailors look virtuous. Mauildin I asked Justin to give us one last chart, which is unfunded liability as a percentage of state GDP. This gives us an idea about the ability of a state to increase its level of funding if it needs to do so. Mauildin As we showed last week, the funded ratio represents a plan's assets as a percentage of liabilities, or the amount of money owed in benefits. The funded ratio is one of the primary measurements of a pension plan's overall funding health. It provides an additional layer of context that unfunded liabilities alone cannot. For example, California has a larger unfunded liability than Kansas does, but based on what these states currently know they will owe to retirees versus the amount of money they actually have, the funded ratio tells us that Kansas is in worse shape than California, with Kansas' plans being 29% funded and those of the Golden State being 42% funded. By this measure, the seven most poorly funded states are Illinois (24%), Connecticut (25%), Kentucky (27%), and Kansas (29%), along with Mississippi, New Hampshire, and Alaska, which are tied at 30% funded. At the other end of the spectrum, using a realistic assumption of future returns suggested by both Moody's and GASB, Wisconsin, the most well-funded state in the country, has just a 57% funded ratio, followed by North Carolina (54%), South Dakota (52%), Tennessee (50%), and Washington (49%).†This is in spite of their claiming a much higher ratio based on very aggressive assumptions. (Data is from a great report in which you can see how your state fares.) Rich City, Poor City, Beggar City, Thieves? I have struggled to find a way to convey the disparity among cities with regard to their pension programs. I suppose, given the realities of city politics, which can be the most vicious of all contact sports in America, the differences should not be surprising. Whether a city is rich or poor, the personal assassination and endemic corruption can be riddled through city politics like fat through bacon. It is a wonder that anyone would want to go into city politics. All real estate prices are local, we are told, and the same is true of pension funding. Take Lexington, Kentucky, a town full of Southern charm with a genteel feel sprouting in the midst of Kentucky horse (and basketball) country. And for whatever reason, in Lexington they seem to feel they should almost over-fund the city employeesí pension fund, at a level of 91% (only outdone in the database by Gainesville, Florida). And then go up the highway to their neighbor (and basketball archrival) Louisville. There must be something different in the water there, as they have decided to fund only 30% of their firefighters' pensions, while assuming they will get 7.5% returns on their investments, an unduly optimistic assumption that will surely make the true level of their unfunded liabilities even more egregious. We can go a little south to Nashville, Tennessee, one of my favorite cities, internationally known for its devotion to country music. Some of their pension programs are funded only to the tune of 20-25%. But their suburb Murfreesboro, a ZIP Code away, is 98% funded. Arlington, Texas, home to the Texas Rangers and the Dallas Cowboys and where I used to live and own a home, is overfunded by 20%. And then there is Dallas, where I have just purchased an apartment. The database tells me the city employeesí pension fund is 86% funded and assumes an 8.25% future return on its investments. Not all that bad in the grand scheme of things but nothing to brag about. Oh wait, you also have to look at the Dallas police and fire pension fund, which is only 76% funded. And they are projecting an 8.5% annual return, which puts them at the top of the charts for optimism about the future. But those numbers tell only part of the story. I randomly selected about eight cities and did further research on their pension funds. In almost every case there was far more than meets the eye, both good and bad. So rather than pick on Chicago (far too easy a target) or another random location, let's look at my new (as of June) hometown of Dallas. I would encourage you to do the same type of analysis on your own town or city. Let me first put on my Chamber of Commerce hat before I take off the gloves. Dallas is a thriving city with a history of very active and effective civic leaders. While some freeway is always under construction, it is relatively easy to get around the region. The Dallas-Fort Worth airport is a dream. There are very few places in the world that I can't get to with just one layover. I can walk out of my apartment in downtown Dallas and be through airport security in less than 30 minutes. Try that in Chicago or New York. The area in general and Dallas in particular has fabulous restaurants that honestly rival those of any city I've been in. The area has more live-theater venues than any city but New York (who knew?). From time to time our local sports teams have been known to achieve some success. Admittedly, the schools range from being ranked among the top in the nation to being complete failures, but there are many options. Taxes are generally low, and the area is a great place to do business. The infrastructure works, and the labor force is educated and abundant. The women are legendarily beautiful, and all the children are above average. Given that I could live almost anywhere, Dallas is where I want to be. And now, as Paul Harvey would say, here's the rest of the story. Most of the world knows Dallas through the 1980s television series Dallas, starring Larry Hagman as a swaggering oilman. The show was replete with beautiful women with big hair, stereotypical men in big hats, and lots of family feuds and vendettas. The truth is a lot different, but there is a rhyme or two here or there. And that brings up a tale that will lead us into the Dallas pension story. Back in 2007, some ambitious real estate developers decided to build a fabulous jewel of an apartment high-rise in the middle of what is known as the Arts District in downtown Dallas. Dallas civic leaders have chosen to develop its major museums, symphony hall and separate major opera hall, plus live-theater venues, in the center of town. They even built a massive (and very expensive) park over a freeway entirely with private money in the middle of the Arts District, which has become a gathering place for the citizens. And then came the financial crisis. Not to be deterred, the city went forward with the building called the Museum Tower. And I will admit that it is one of the more beautiful buildings in Dallas. When I was searching for places to live, I did a little research on it and quite frankly decided not to even take a closer look. Let's just say it was very aggressively priced. I ended up buying a very similar property only a few blocks away with great views for a fraction of their asking price. But there was another reason I didn't look: there was a major lawsuit going on between the building and its next-door neighbor, the Nash Sculpture Center, which is a truly wonderful venue supported by all the don't-cha-knows of Dallas. It seems the glass Museum Tower building reflects light onto the sculpture center, destroying the open-air ambience, or at least that's what their lawyers claim. The story that it is melting the sculptures is apparently b ogus. It doesn't help that a few "rogue" architects said during the planning sessions for the Museum Tower that the problem would occur. Who would want to buy a place when you don't really know what the homeowners' association fees are going to be? So who funded this luxury high-rise building? As it turns out, the Dallas Police and Fire Pension Fund did. To the tune of $200 million. Leveraged. Six percent of the current value of the fund, give or take. Which is already underfunded by around $1.2 billion, assuming they meet their stated objective of 8.5% annual returns. Plus, they have other unstated commitments to what are known as DROP accounts, which could become a liability totaling hundreds of billions, by my back-of-the-napkin estimation. Note: when you look at your city's or county's pension fund, don't just look at the readily available public reports. Sometimes you have to dig for the other, "off-budget" commitments of the city. Some cities report pension and healthcare commitments separately. Of the 61 largest cities in the US, 22 face larger unpaid bills for healthcare than they do for their pension funds. An astonishingly large number of cities have reserved next to nothing to cover future healthcare promises. Without looking at the local politics, I can almost guarantee you that those cities will end up shifting their liabilities to "Obamacare," that is, to federal taxpayers like you and me, in the very near future. It's is the only rational thing to do. Just like Walgreens and IBM did. Sort of. Just saying. I have to admit that when I first saw the data that suggested the city of Dallas expected to get 8.5% returns on their pension funds, I was aghast. That is the highest level of projected returns for any city I could find in the database. Here I have committed to paying taxes in Dallas, and I am looking at a personal major unfunded liability. But then I looked at the rest of the story. As it turns out, the management of the Dallas Police and Fire Pension Fund has actually returned 8.5% for the last 10 years. They rank in the top 1% of all city pension funds in the United States. Last year they did 11.4%, and for the last three years they did 6.7%, although if you go back five years and include the Great Recession, the returns have only averaged 1%. Even so, a fabulous track record for a major fund. If any fund could make a case, based on past performance, that 8.5% future returns are possible, they could. So I began to wonder, how in the heck have they done so well? You clearly don't do that through normal pension fund allocations. (Ask Illinois.) And of course they didn't. Fifty percent of the fund is in real estate ñ far above the normal allocation. And they manage the fund internally (which is both unusual and controversial). A fair amount of the fund is in luxury real estate (totaling $400 million or over 12% of the fund), some of which has been hammered. And they are saddled with lots of legal problems, which, not surprisingly, appear prominently in the local press. Why, the newspaper asks, is a supposedly safe police and fire pension fund invested in luxury homes in Hawaii, homes that haven't sold for five years? Why has the fund spent $1 million flying its executives around the world to fabulous locations to look at real estate? Why wouldn't they fix the building that is spoiling the ambience of the centerpiece of the Dallas Arts District? And why would they hire a local PR firm to create false Facebook posts (a ploy they claim no knowledge of, of course) and one of the most aggressive law firms in town to go after anyone who criticizes them? And yet, somehow management figured out how to make 12% on its global fixed-income portfolio (while the Templeton Global Bond fund returned a mere 7.6% the past year) and 16% on its global private-equity portfolio (as of 3/31/13), for one year. On private equity 12% seems to be closer to the average. I couldn't get details on the components of those returns or the specific funds involved, but the surface returns seem rather phenomenal. Wouldn't we all like to earn 35% above our benchmarks? Talk about all the children being above averageÖ Just saying. And herein lies one of the instructive lessons. The Dallas fund has significantly outperformed its peers by choosing a course that is far from the norm. They have made what would be normally called "alternative investments" a core holding. Not unlike David Swenson's approach at Yale, although he does it with a different mix of alternative investments. If I had the misfortune to be responsible for a large pension fund, I would be arguing for much a larger allocation to alternative investments. Real estate might not be my personal preference, but it is a good one nonetheless. The second lesson is that if you do it ("over"-allocate to alternatives) you're going to be heavily criticized, and you probably need skin thicker than the glass on the Museum Tower. And be just as able to reflect the glare of local criticism. For all their overall success, the Dallas fund's projections of future returns are still significantly higher than I consider to be prudent. And even given their projections, the fund is significantly underfunded, to the tune of $1.2 billion. Which is not small change, even in Dallas. If I were depending on that fund to be the source of my future retirement, I might well be asking the city of Dallas to pony up more than the $100 million they are contributing each year. And the city of Dallas might be thinking that the policemen and firemen should be offering to do a little more as well. All that being said, the average Dallas police or fire department employee will not be getting rich on his or her retirement. This is not a California prison guard retirement fund. It is rather bare bones, from what I can see. And when you read all the social commentary surrounding the fund, you come away with a strong sense of the local angst involved. These are real people with real issues, both taxpayers and city employees and retirees. And those issues are not different than in any other city in any other state. If you start reading the stories on the bankruptcy of Detroit, the situation is quite heart-rending, and logic flies out the window. (See http://mobile.nytimes.com/2013/09/20/us/residents-of-detroit-go-to-court-for-pensions.html.) "There is no room for austerity," said one Detroit resident. Somehow, those in charge should be made to come up with the money when they go bankrupt. But the politicians who made the decisions that led to the bankruptcy are long gone from the scene. Austerity is a consequence of prior decisions. If prudent decisions are not made in the present, the future shows up all too quickly. Some cities have made prudent decisions, others not so much. Meredith Whitney is famous for telling 60 Minutes that 50 to 100 municipalities would default in 2011. I was quite skeptical when she said it, and she was clearly wrong. But looking at the data, there are far more than 50 to 100 cities in potential trouble. Will a wave of defaults happen next year? I highly doubt it, as cities have the ability to kick the can down the road at least as well as Europe countries do. But would I want to live in Houston or San Diego? Not based on their pension liabilities. Nor would I want to live in Nashville or Louisville or any number of otherwise wonderful cities. Most cities and states that are in trouble still have the "luxury" of being able to deal with the problem in advance of being forced to buy the markets. They need to take the time they have to get their programs straightened out. Those cities and states that have been prudent are to be congratulated, but they might want to worry about being forced to fund their less prudent brethren from their own tax revenues. It can happen, as it did in Texas when the judiciary forced shared taxes for school districts even though voters and the legislature said no. Just when you think you are safeÖ Municipal bond markets are going to become far more difficult places to make money in the future because of pension issues. Municipal bonds make sense for certain investors, but it is going to become very important to know who your municipal bond fund manager is. Can they discern between good credit and bad local management? A small change in ZIP Code can make a huge difference in returns. Is this a national crisis? I don't think so, but it can certainly be a local one. If I were you I would do little research. And maybe it would be prudent for both of us to get a little more involved with our local cities. I still have scars from getting involved in city politics in Arlington many years and a couple of lifetimes ago, but maybe I need to ask a few questions here and there. And perhaps you should, too. Toronto, New York, Chicago, Tucson, and the Barefoot Ranch I leave tomorrow for Toronto, where I will be speaking with my friend Louis Gave at his conference on Monday. Sunday night I get to have dinner with good friends David Rosenberg and Louis and Steve Cucchiaro (of Windhaven Funds). The night won't be long enough to contain our conversation, but I know we will squeeze in as much as possible. I go from Toronto to New York City, where I will get to dine with my great friend Art Cashin and the usual suspects, plus a few new friends. I will be speaking at several events for Altegris Investments the following two days before returning to Dallas. Then it's a quick trip to Chicago, again speaking for Altegris Investments, before I move on to Tucson to celebrate my birthday at the Casey Conference with a lot of good friends. When I come back, I will get ready to head out to Kyle Bass's Barefoot Ranch to spend a few days with a number of investment types, discussing the issues of the day. I will report back. If all that sounds somewhat exhausting but enormously fun, that's because it actually is. I sometimes wake up wondering how it all happened and what I have to do to keep the magic going. That is on top of waking up and wondering what city I'm in. The exhaustion and exhilaration seem to go hand in hand. But I wouldn't change any of it, at least not right now. I am having way too much fun. It is time to hit the send button. In a few weeks I'll start telling you about a new book that will come out in about a month. Yes, I actually finished something, as opposed to the books that I keep telling you I'm going to write about the future of work or what the world will look like in 20 years. Which are indeed still works in progress. But it doesn't hurt to tell you about the things I keep thinking about and researching away on. The future of work keeps getting brought home to me in very poignant ways through conversations with my kids. They get frustrated when they go looking for jobs and can't find any that are more than part-time or that pay what you would think a college degree would be worth these days. I look at the data on employment and grow more concerned about the next generation. I vividly remember struggling when I was their age, sometimes waking up at two o'clock in the morning wondering whether I should pay the electric bill, my secretary, or the bank. Or where I could get money for just one more day. Some of my readers assume that life for me has always been the current bed of roses. It has been anything but. It's what makes me appreciate the remarkable turn of events I have wandered into. And it's what makes me appreciate you and sit down every week no matter where I am or what I'm doing to write to you about what I'm thinking. I am grateful that you in vest your most valuable commodity, your time, to consider my humble offerings. Have a great week. Pick up the phone and call an old friend. It'll make your day go better. Your needing to fund my own pension analyst,  John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. Thoughts From the Frontline is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting http://www.mauldineconomics.com. To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribe
