NewseumMost of the chatter about the sequester this week has revolved around the looming cancellation of White House tours. But outside of the nation's capital, local communities are starting to grasp what the cuts will mean for them. For the past few weeks, we've been taking a look at how local newspapers have been bracing their communities for what's to come.† Now that the cuts have begun to kick in, here's what they were warning about on Friday.
Las Vegas will always be known for its gambling. But in more recent years, Vegas has become a hub for high-end shops, amazing restaurants, and incredible shows. Here's an excerpt from a new research note from Bank of America Merrill Lynch: Perhaps the most important dynamic overall on the demand front is the changing composition of total Las Vegas Strip revenues over the past decade. As we show in Chart 38, historically, Las Vegas was a gaming-centric market, with 61% of revenues coming from the casino category in 1990. Today, non-gaming revenue comprises around 64% of Las Vegasí total revenue mix as a result of the market evolving over the past ten years into a more complete tourist destination with hotel, entertainment, retail, and F&amp;B/fine dining becoming increasingly important revenue drivers. ...the Strip now has 150K hotel rooms and room supply has grown +100% over the past 20 years, so the hotel category is arguably the most important within non-gaming revenue. This one chart shows how gambling has increasingly become an afterthought. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
REUTERS/Aly SongChinese exports surged 21.8 percent in February. After a surge the previous month, Jan-Feb exports are up 23.6 percent. This happens at a time when exports for Taiwan and Korea fell. Societe Generale's Wei Yao writes that the difference stemmed from a surge in Chinese exports to the EU (up 15.2 percent) and the U.S. (up 14.4 percent) in February. Part of this is cause of stronger exports from Taiwan and Korea in February 2012, but part of this was because China regained a larger market share. But there's also another theory floating about. "The bewilderingly solid export data might be the result of disguised capital inflows, as exporters could overstate export amount in order to move more yuan into the mainland," writes Yao, but she doesn't ascribe to this theory just yet. But if the export figures are accurate, are such strong numbers actually good for China? Not really according to Yao.† "...we think such strong exports may turn out to be more of a curse than a blessing for China. Against the backdrop of a meager global recovery and heightened concerns over potential currency wars, Chinaís bi-lateral trade surplus with the US, as suggested by Chinese data, reached a record high in four years; and China snatched market shares from neighbours. None of these will be the most welcomed development. Particularly, there is evidence that the Peopleís Bank of China has been intervening to keep the yuan from appreciating." Remember, American policymakers frequently accuse China of artificially weakening its currency to boost exports. Significant yuan depreciation could also cause investors to flee the offshore yuan market.
REUTERSChinese inflation data for February is out at 8:30 p.m. ET. Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for consumer prices to rise 3 percent on the year, compared with 2 percent the previous month. The reason this data is important is because¬† consensus reflects a rising inflation trend, one that policymakers are always watching closely. Producer prices are expected to fall 1.5 percent year-over-year (YoY), compared with a 1.6 percent decline last month. Bank of America's Ting Lu expects CPI to rise 3 percent, and PPI to fall 1.2 percent. Inflation like other data coming out around this time of the year is expected to be influenced by the Chinese New Year holiday. "Inflation pressures in China still remain subdued, though the different timing of the Chinese New Year (CNY) holiday would distort YoY CPI inflation downwards in Jan but upwards in Feb. The CNY was from 10 Feb this year but was on 23 Jan in 2012, and food prices usually increase sharply prior to the CNY and normalize afterwards." At the National People's Congress the government officially set the inflation target at 3.5 percent. Lu doesn't think inflation is a "big threat" this year and doesn't expect policymakers to tighten credit. Is this an accurate measure of inflation? Societe GeneraleSociete Generale's Wei Yao writes that in CPI, food inflation is the most volatile while housing and service inflation is the most "problematic". She also writes that PPI and CPI "move in tandem but without any clear leading or lagging relationship". Yao says consumer prices alone are not a good gauge of overall inflation. She thinks the GDP deflator captures more inflation since China's economy is investment heavy and there is a "disconnect between capital and consumer goods".
Mark Cohen, former CEO of Sears Canada and marketing professor at Columbia University, went on CNBC's Fast Money today to talk about JCPenney. He slammed CEO Ron Johnson and the changes he has made to the struggling retailer. "They've just closed their first full year under his watch, which has been an unmitigated catastrophe," he said. Since JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson started at the company, numbers across the board have nosedived. The company has had it particularly bad lately, reporting what could be one of the worst retail quarters ever, seeing a key investor run for the hills, and announcing another 2,200 job cuts. "I guess the question is whether you'd like to see the company go under in the short, medium, or longer term," said Cohen. "This is a crisis that needs prompt and aggressive remediation, because without it, this company's liquidity is going to disappear, and it could very well disappear as a viable enterprise." So, can JCPenney be saved at all? Cohen doesn't know if it's even possible at this point. "I'm not entirely sure that JCPenney can be saved," he said. I would suggest they're in a window of opportunity in which prompt and vigorous and appropriate action could be taken that could begin to bring their legacy customer back into their stores. It's going to require cooperation from all parties involved, from the vendors to the financial community, according to Cohen. JCPenney needs all the support possible to get out of this.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Actually, Stocks Hit All Time Highs A While Ago (Advisor Perspectives) There's been a lot of excitement about the Dow hitting a record high. But Doug MacKay, Bill Hoover, and Mike Czekaj of Broadleaf Partners argue that a look at total indices would show those all-time highs were actually reached a while ago and the current hype is inaccurate.¬† "The Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&amp;P 500 indices do not include the compounding effect of dividends paid by member companies. Any retiree will tell you that dividends represent a return of capital and useful income in the real economy. If you had reinvested those dividends back in the index as they were paid, the old time highs reached in October of 2007 likely would have been passed some time ago." They explain that the S&amp;P 500 is hovering near its highs but if we looked at the S&amp;P 500 index including dividends, its highs were probably already crossed in August 2012. This is important because: 1) "If the common indices ‚Äì including dividends ‚Äì hit new highs as much as a year ago, then not only are reports of all-time highs old news, but the reality might even serve as an encouragement rather than a deterrent to new investors." 2) "Dividends do matter". Broker Banned From Securities Industry After Recommendation To NFL Players (The Wall Street Journal) Lighthouse Point broker Jeffrey Rubin has been banned from the securities industry after his recommendation caused NFL players to lose millions of dollars.¬† Though Finra didn't identify the player, the Wall Street Journal says public records show that it was Tennessee Titans cornerback Samari Rolle who lost $3 million. Rubin had recommended investing in a casino in Alabama, and 30 other NFL players also invested in it based on his referrals. This Chart Shows What Happens After The Stock Market Hits A High (S&amp;P Capital IQ) Now that we've hit an all time high S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall thinks stocks will fall in the near term. He drew up a chart that showed that the median gain only lasts two months. S&P Capital IQ The Picture-Perfect World Is Not Unrealistic (JP Morgan) "In the picture-perfect world: We are all aware that the equity market looks "overheated" and that there are many stumbling blocks ahead, as we argued last week. The uncertainty surrounding the US sequestration and Italian election looms large, not to mention potential oppositions to Abe's TPP drive from within his own party. "What we might have learned in the past week, however, is that as long as economic recovery stays in its track, the equity market, albeit subject to short-term corrections, will likely steam ahead. "So let us assume that sequestration will become less of an issue and US economic growth remains intact. We will also assume that Italy will not abandon Euro and Abe‚Äôs economic agenda will receive approval from inside and out. "While this may sound all too picture-perfect, it is by no means unrealistic, in our view. And if we are right, comparing the current levels to the levels seen from 2005 to 2007 may become much more reasonable." When Picking Between Two Investment Theories Go With The Simpler One (Rick Ferri) "When two competing investment theories are presented with no definitive proof of which is better, the simpler one is better," according to Rick Ferri. In the case of efficient and inefficient markets, he says investors should pick the former. Those who believe in efficient markets go with diversified portfolios and don't try and "time markets". While the latter works for some people it doesn't mean it will work for everyone and it doesn't even those investors who have done it successfully once can replicate the result. What's more? The costs for mistiming markets are too high.
A new report from the OECD says the price of Brent crude will hit $190 (h/t FT). The reason is that worldwide demand is set to rebound ‚Äî the group says should world growth return to anything close to pre-crisis rates there will be a commensurate price increase "far above early 2012" levels. Here's the chart: OECD The only thing that could keep prices contained is if demand becomes much more sensitive to prices, something that the papers authors say doesn't actually happen much today.
The Federal Reserve's latest stress tests provide a rare look inside the balance sheets of some of the biggest banks. And a few oddities are popping up. One that nearly leaps off the page is the extreme risk in the corporate loan book of Goldman Sachs. The Fed said the median loss from commercial and industrial loans across the 18 banks tested would be 6.5 percent under the severely adverse scenario. But Goldman's loss would be a stunning 49.6 percent. Goldman doesn't have a giant C&amp;I loan book. According to the Fed, it has just $1.4 billion of these loans, whereas JP Morganhas $11.1 billion and American Express has $2.6 billion. But Morgan Stanley has a similar sized book, at $1.2 billion, and the Fed estimates its loss would be just 7.8 percent. No other bank even comes close to Goldman on this measure. It literally breaks the chart in the Fed's stress test. Goldman did not respond to my request for information about why its portfolio of this class of loans is so much riskier than its peers. I suspect that these are mostly syndicated leveraged loans. Goldman is active in the syndicated loan market, although it typically doesn't hold much of the loans it brings to market. These are probably the remnants of leveraged loans used in things like private equity deals, pieces that Goldman never sold off. That would go a long way to explaining why they are so much riskier than the loans held by other banks.
Art Cashin, UBS's Financial Services director of NYSE floor operations, is a legend at the Big Board.† He's also known across the Street for his must-read daily newsletter†Cashin's Comments.† At the end of each newsletter, Cashin includes a fun piece of trivia. The questions are usually a piece of logic or math or history related. They're a ton of fun, but they can be really tricky. He doesn't reveal the answer until the following newsletter comes out.† We've included a round up of a bunch of Cashin's recent brain teasers in the slides that follow. †Remember, Google is for cheaters!†
Flickr / lilfunky1Another all-time high for the Dow. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,390, +61.4 pts, +0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,551, +6.9 pts, +0.4 percentNASDAQ: 3,244, +12.2 pts, +0.3 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Sony / Francois DuhamelThe "Skyfall" may have earned more than $1 billion at the box office worldwide, but more than two thirds of its ticket sales came from overseas.With the box office¬†in a slump this season, Hollywood could use some hits.  While analysts are hoping for the first U.S. hit of 2013 with this weekend's "Oz the Great and Powerful," the answer for a quick box-office turnaround may be appealing to the right audience overseas.¬† Last year, Hollywood had its best year ever to date earning a record $10.8 billion.¬†¬† It wouldn't have come anywhere close to record numbers, however, if it weren't for the foreign box office.¬† With international grosses added into the mix, the top ten 2012 box office movies earned $9.2 billion at theaters. Without overseas earnings, the same films earned $3.2 billion.¬† Kirsten Acuna / Business Insider Even bombs benefited from overseas. "Journey 2: The Mysterious Island" earned $222 million abroad while barely surpassing the $100 million mark at home. The "Total Recall" remake earned more than three times its $58.9 million domestic gross overseas. And Tom Cruise's weak box-office performance with "Jack Reacher" at home ($79.7 million) earned $136.5 million in foreign grosses.¬† "Battleship" may have seen earnings of only $65 million here, but went on to earn a massive $303 million worldwide. Despite Disney's $200 million write down on "John Carter" last year the film made nearly 75 percent of its earnings overseas.¬†¬† Numbers: BoxOfficeMojo, Kirsten Acuna / Business Insider With the foreign box office acting as a cushion for poor-performing U.S. films, it gives incentive for Hollywood studios to take a gamble¬†on big budget films. If movies don't perform well at home, there's always the chance they will pick up abroad. But don't expect overseas earnings to save a total flop.  "Foreign box office took some of the sting out of major misses like 'Battleship' and 'John Carter,' but both films still lost tens of millions for their studios when you factor in prints and advertising,"¬†Jeff Gomez, CEO of¬†Starlight Runner Entertainment, tells Business Insider. "John Carter," for instance, resulted in Walt Disney Studios President¬†Rich Ross stepping down and a $200 million write-off. So, what explains the overseas surge? "Two significant markets have opened wider to Hollywood product." Gomez tells Business Insider. "Russia and China are both nurturing theatrical growth industries, and American movies will always be held as the gold standard there."¬† In the past year, five American-made films have surpassed the $50 million mark in China while another nine have crossed $25 million.¬† Last year, China overtook Japan to become the second-biggest box-office market in the world. A new report by Ernst &amp; Young pits the country to overtake the US film market by 2020.¬† Worldwide president of distribution at Sony Pictures, Rory Bruer, told TheWrap one reason its films do well overseas is because of the storylines.¬† ‚ÄúIf you look at the stories that we‚Äôre telling, like ‚ÄòThe Amazing Spider-Man,‚Äô these pictures are meant for every person on the planet,‚Äù said Bruer. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre not U.S.-centric. They‚Äôre relatable for everyone.‚Äù¬† 3D and IMAX showings are popular overseas, adding a boost at the box office.Gomez says another reason foreign box office has been booming is because of the increase of 3D and IMAX abroad in recent years. "One of the major factors in the foreign box office boom is that overseas filmgoers have embraced 3D, far more so than their American counterparts," says Gomez. "Action and spectacle have always been big winners internationally, and elements like 3D and IMAX boost the wow factor and continue to be enormously popular."¬† With the box office hurting right now,¬†¬†"Oz the Great and Powerful" could be the right combination both domestically and abroad with IMAX and 3D showings.¬† "Although the 'Wizard of Oz' story world has been relatively dormant for the past decade, it ranks with 'Star Wars' among the most highly recognized story worlds in all of global popular culture," says Gomez. "The film is tracking to be a hit domestically, and its huge international will be icing on the cake."
In its most recent defense, ECRI has sought to downplay the fact that the S&amp;P 500 has been rising to new highs long after the beginning of its alleged recession in July 2012. Most recently this morning in a television article they claimed that no bear market had ever occurred during the recessions of 1926-27, 1945, and 1980.  To begin with, even under ECRI's own chosen metric, the stock market has appropriately reacted to recessions in 12 of the 15 instances of recession in the last 90 years.  But there are further problems with its analysis. In the first place, by specifying a "bear market" as the metric,it is cherry picking. For, in the 6 month long 1980 recession, the stock market did make a peak less than 45 days in, on February 13, and thereafter fell 17% to a 52 week low in April, before rising again and thus predicting the end of that short recession: † † † The Bonddad Blog So the 1980 recession performance of the stock market actually supports ECRI's critics, rather than ECRI. Secondly, the 1945 demobilization recession only lasted 8 months.so the stock market did not rise through a recession that lasted longer than 8 months - where ECRI says we are now - in 1945. That only happened once in the last 90 years - in the 13 month long 1926-27 recession. So there are 14 instances that either don't support or outright contradict ECRI's claim, to only 1 instance in support. So which conclusion looks more compelling to you? While I'm at it, a similar likelihood plays out with regard to Nonfarm payrolls, which, according to ECRI, have now risen for 7 straight months into their recession. This length of a continued upturn has only happened exactly 1 time since World War 2 - in 1974. Payrolls turned down at worst only 3 months into each and every other recession. And initial claims have never continued to decline after the onset of a recession. And vehicle sales have never continued to rise after the onset of a recession. but they made a their most recent high in November. And the ISM manufacturing index - now over 54 a similarly has only been at this high a level only once in any recession since World War 2 - declining through it in the 1974 recession. So we either have a recession that is an exception to boatloads of reliable data from other recessions - ECRI's position. Or else no recession started in July in which case ECRI is wrong for the 4th time in the last year and a half about the onset of recession. I report, you decide. Update: ECRI just published a piece at their site, claiming that the YoY% growth in employment is recessionary - with a graph going back exactly one year. Just in case you're interested, here is the exact same graph extended back 70 years: The Bonddad Blog Yep, it sure look recessionary! Well, except for 1952, 1964, 1987, 1994, and 2002-03! 
Things are a bit lopsided in North Dakota when it comes to collecting tax revenues from the state's explosive oil boom. The state government ‚Äî headquartered of course, in the city of Bismarck ‚Äî collects a full 89 percent, while local communities take the paltry remains. Here's the table from Montana-based Headwaters Economics, with three other states' breakdowns shown for comparison: Harvest Economics As a result, some cities at the heart of the state's oil boom are in danger of going bankrupt, according to Bloomberg's Jennifer Oldham. The situation is compounded by the distribution formula the state uses to send money back to counties where the drilling takes place, Headwaters' Mark Haggerty told us by email. While ground-zero areas where the drilling actually occurs have fared better, cities and counties that ring those areas ‚Äî and often bear most of the costs ‚Äî get practically nothing. "We call this issue 'jurisdictional unevenness' but in English it just means that revenue goes to the place of production, not necessarily to the place of impact," he says. The only silver lining may be that the oil boom has been so huge the state ties with Wyoming for most revenue generated from a given Bakken-type well: $1.5 million in the first 35 months, according to Headwaters' report.
Former†General Electric†CEO†Jack Welch†says†Apple†deserves better than the treatment it's getting from David Einhorn, the hedge-fund manager pressuring the iPhone maker to cough up dividends. "Look, these guys are after a quick hit. I'd blow him off," he told CNBC's†"Closing Bell."†"I'd give Einhorn the back of my hand." Apple is in a vicious technology war with rivals big and small, and Welch said he thinks CEO†Tim Cook†should be given the space to run the company. "He's got†Samsung†and everyone nipping at his heels. And he risks running, rather than a sexy company, a commodities company." He said Apple needs to have the cash and the flexibility to move on an acquisition in a turbulent market. "Apple deserves, after all they've done, a chance to deliver on all their promises," he said. Welch also took some shots at the White House, saying the U.S. energy boom has the potential to power another "American Century" of economic dominance, if it weren't for the administration's heavy-handed regulations. "We can't keep throwing sand in the gears of the economy," he said. Welch said the cost of regulation under President Barack Obama is three-and-a-half times that of Bill Clinton's administration's first term and five times that of George W. Bush. And that's not counting Obamacare, he said. The economy now is being buoyed by $85 billion from the Federal Reserve each month, but the downward pressure from regulation, he said, is "enormous." He described the situation as a "regulatory morass." "That is holding back this economy from really taking off," he said. "All the conditions are right to take off, if the regulatory burden could be taken down." Welch was at GE's helm from 1981 to 2001, during which the company's value rose 4000 percent. In 2009, he launched the Jack Welch Management Institute, which is now part of Strayer University.
Parent company Dunkin Brands will announce a target date for using only 100 percent sustainable palm oil sometime in Q2 when it publishes its Corporate Social Responsibility report, according to a statement from DiNapoli's office. New York's state pension fund owns†$1.9 million in Dunkin' shares. Palm oil is used in over 50 percent of all consumer goods and imports to the U.S. have jumped 485 percent in the last decade, according to the Rainforest Action Network. Unsustainable palm oil manufacturing is associated with deforestation, animal habitat destruction and climate change. It has been estimated that deforestation and forest degradation account for nearly 20 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. ìDunkiní Brands should be commended for taking the necessary steps to use only sustainably harvested palm oil in its products,î DiNapoli said in a statement. ìConsumers may not realize that many of the foods and cosmetics they eat and use contain palm oil that has been harvested in ways that are severely detrimental to the environment. Shareholder value is enhanced when companies take steps to address the risks associated with environmental practices that promote climate change.î
 Eighteen months ago, in September 2011, the Economic Cycle Research Institute made a startling call: "The U.S. economy is... tipping into a recession. And there's nothing that policy makers can do to head it off." This call garnered a great deal of attention, in part because ECRI had made another startling call the year before. The earlier call came in the midst of a consensus that the U.S. was indeed headed into a recession. And ECRI's call, which proved to be correct, was that the U.S. was NOT headed for recession and that the consensus was wrong. The accuracy of the bold 2010 "no recession" call, combined with ECRI's insistence that its economic forecasts have never been wrong, focused a lot of attention on the 2011 recession call. And when the recession that the U.S. was supposedly "tipping into" did not materialize, many market observers wanted ECRI to acknowledge its mistake and eat some crow. But ECRI did not do that. The firm simply adjusted the time horizon for its recession call, saying that it would occur in the middle of 2012. By the end of that year, when a recession still had not occurred--at least not a recession that was visible in the statistics that most people generally use to define recessions (most notably, a sustained downturn in GDP), the calls increased for ECRI to admit its mistake. But ECRI has not admitted a mistake! (See my interview with ECRI Managing Director Lakshman Achuthan above). Instead, ECRI is simply insisting that the U.S. economy is mired in the middle of a mild recession that began in the middle of 2012... but we just don't know it yet. In support of this position, ECRI Co-Founder and Chief Operations Officer Lakshman Achuthan points out correctly that the timing of recessions is often determined only with the benefit of hindsight--often through revisions of prior numbers that initially did not show a recession. Achuthan thinks that, when the final revisions are in, they will show a recession that began in mid-2012. Achuthan also points to several other measures that he says are consistent with recessions. This data, in his opinion, illustrates that the economy is in fact in a recession. (See charts here). Ultimately, the distinction between a "recession" and a "crappy economy" is only important in economic forecasting circles, and our economy is certainly crappy. So the key question that most Americans want answered is "When is it going to get better?" Unfortunately, ECRI's Achuthan does not have an answer for that. All he can say is that he doesn't expect it to get better anytime soon. The action of the stock market, for what it's worth, suggests that the worst is long over and that the economy is rapidly improving. But the fiscal squeeze of increased taxes and reduced government spending will almost certainly act as a drag on this year's growth.
We still have nearly 8% unemployment in the United States, but the pressure on big companies is to fire people, not hire them. Why? Because when companies fire people, their profits go up. And the prevailing ethos of American capitalism is that bigger profits are better. Period. (This is a shortsighted view, even from a business perspective, because one company's wages are other companies' revenues, so by cutting wages you're kneecapping economic growth. But American shareholders have become so obsessed with near-term profitability that they don't care about anything else.) Other countries have different attitudes about capitalism. In France, for example, it's harder for companies to fire people, because the perception is that companies owe their employees more loyalty than companies do here. That's not necessarily "better" ó it makes the economy much more rigid--but it's an interesting difference. Here's what happened yesterday after the American company Goodyear announced job cuts at a factory near Paris. REUTERS/Jacky Naegelen Protestors scuffle with French CRS riot police in front of tire maker Goodyear Dunlop France headquarters during a demonstration against job cuts in Rueil Malmaison, near Paris March 7, 2013.  U.S. tiremaker Goodyear confirmed in January the project to close a French plant near the northern city of Amiens, which, if undertaken, would lead to the layoff of 1,173 jobs.
Most would agree that today's jobs report was a welcome one.¬† U.S. companies added more jobs in February than most economists expected. However, ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan sees it differently.¬† He just posted on ECRI's website: Year-over-year growth in nonfarm payroll jobs has now dropped to an 18-month low, and household job growth has dropped to a 16-month low. Following this morning‚Äôs jobs report we have updated the jobs growth charts in our recent presentation, Recession in the Yo-Yo Years, that illustrate the role of skewed seasonal factors in the economic data. Here's more from the presentation he references: Indeed, these pictures of job growth shown by both the establishment and the household surveys are quite similar, and affirm that job growth is rolling over rather than improving. The so-called ‚Äúimproving trend‚Äù in job growth is largely illusory, according to both the establishment and household surveys. Quite simply, U.S. job growth is worsening, not getting better. Achuthan believes this reinforces his thesis that the U.S. economy is currently in recession. Here's his chart: Economic Cycle Research Institute
Once I finished the water, I walked around the store searching for a recycling can but couldn't find one, so¬†I asked a barista for help. She told me that there was no place to recycle in the store.¬† I was surprised.¬†Could it really be true that I couldn't recycle at a Starbucks store with a display dedicated to reusable cups? Starbucks bottled water is called Ethos, and the company donates five cents per bottle toward purifying drinking water in other countries. The coffee chain has consistently had a tendency to promote its environmentalism. I wrote to Starbucks asking why it doesn't have recycling in NYC stores.¬† "Our recycling policies are dependent on the local infrastructure," a spokeswoman told me. "New York City doesn't recognize our cups are a recyclable product yet, so we are working with the city to take cups and recycle them."¬† Stores in other locations do recycle cups, bottles, and cans, she said.¬† The NYC stores should be able to recycle by mid-May, the spokeswoman said. The details have yet to be ironed out, so she couldn't provide any more specifics. But why not recycle plastics and cans at Starbucks?¬† "Because that begs the question of why customers can't recycle cups," she said, adding that it's likely that consumers would throw cups and other waste into a recycling bin.¬† New York City mandates recycling of cardboard, aluminum, and plastic at most businesses.¬†
The Dow Jones Industrial Average set a new all-time high this week. And the S&amp;P 500 is within points of its October 2007 high. Now what? S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall believes the odds suggest we're going to go back down again, at least for a bit. He compares the situation to the story of Pheidippides, the Marathon messenger, who made it all the way to only to his destination instantly perish: If history is any guide, for it's never gospel, it may respond like the messenger from Marathon.†In other words, the S&amp;P 500 may have little time to rejoice following the setting of a new record high before collapsing again, as the median advance following the recovery to break-even from bear markets since WWII has been only 3% before stumbling and falling into another meaningful decline within only two months. Here's his table, which we've annotated, showing what he's talking about: S&P Capital IQ The good news, Stovall notes, is that none of the recoveries was followed by the start of a new bear market.
flickr / Steve Snodgrass This is one of the more bullish takes we've heard lately on the way things are shaping up across global markets, courtesy of the equity derivatives team at JPMorgan (led by Michiro Naito). In the picture-perfect world: We are all aware that the equity market looks "overheated" and that there are many stumbling blocks ahead, as we argued last week. The uncertainty surrounding the US sequestration and Italian election looms large, not to mention potential oppositions to Abe's TPP drive from within his own party. What we might have learned in the past week, however, is that as long as economic recovery stays in its track, the equity market, albeit subject to short-term corrections, will likely steam ahead. So let us assume that sequestration will become less of an issue and US economic growth remains intact. We will also assume that Italy will not abandon Euro and Abeís economic agenda will receive approval from inside and out. While this may sound all too picture-perfect, it is by no means unrealistic, in our view. And if we are right, comparing the current levels to the levels seen from 2005 to 2007 may become much more reasonable. Sequestration, Italian elections, and Abenomics. Coincidentally, notably pessimistic PIMCO bond manager Bill Gross just doubled his U.S. GDP forecast today.
Nobody likes to admit that they were wrong, especially when the mistake is directly tied to one's job description. With the stock markets surging to all-time highs, Wall Street's most famous bears have found themselves struggling to explain to their clients why they were told to stay out of stocks. While each bear's explanation is different, one thing is consistent: no one admits error. Albert Edwards: Stocks rallied like this before the last crash The bearish strategist at Societe Generale has been telling his clients to keep as low an exposure to stocks as possible.† Fortunately for his clients, SocGen won't allow him to recommend anything less than 50 percent exposure to stocks. In a note published yesterday, Edwards reiterated his uber-bearishness towards stocks, arguing that this is looking more and more like 2007 before the markets crashed. "As the Dow surges to all time highs it feels eerily similar to the prior mid-2007 peak," he wrote. "Exactly the same jitters abound of a bond bear market and true to form Ben Bernanke is making the same complacent comments." Unfortunately, Edwards clients have been missing out on the money-making opportunity offered by the bubble. Bob Janjuah: I told you stocks would rise Nomura's Janjuah scared his followers out of the stock market with his repeated warnings that the S&amp;P 500 would crash to 800. He even suggested that the Dow and gold could converge at 7,000. In recent months, he has been patting himself on the back for suggesting that stocks would climb before tumbling down. We only wonder how many of his clients were willing to risk being long for modest gains ahead of a crash. Marc Faber: This just means the crash will be worse The author of the "Gloom Boom &amp; Doom Report" has been sounding a lot like Janjuah. While he has not explicitly forecasted that stocks would go up, he has warned that the more stocks rise, the uglier the crash will be. And rather than admitting error or expressing frustration, he has become increasingly excited about the prospect of a crash. "For the first time in four years," Faber told CNBC, "since the lows in March 2009, I love this market. Because the higher it goes the more likely we will have a nice crash, a big time crash." Meanwhile, most of the people shorting the market on Faber's words have probably been squeezed out of the market. Richard Russell: The Dow Theory is lying to us Many Dow theorists have been turning bullish lately.† Recently, the Dow industrials hit an all-time high, confirming an all-time high in the Dow Transports.† This is widely considered a buy signal by Dow Theorists. However, Richard Russell is warning everyone that this is a false positive. "[B]oth D-J Averages produced something never seen before, namely new highs during a post-crash upward correction," said Russell in a new note.† "My explanation of this unprecedented situation is that the advance to new highs was a direct result of never-before-seen manipulation by the Federal Reserve." So, the leading Dow Theorist is telling people not to trust the Dow Theory. Lakshman Achuthan: Stocks rise sometimes The head of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) has been the face of experts that have been wrong during this rally. While he is not in the business of making stock market calls, he does address the rally in the context of his repeated recession calls. In a new note, Achuthan discusses the current stock market rally. "It is true that 80% of the past 15 recessions had associated equity bear markets, but in three of those 15 recessions there were no cyclical downturns in stock prices," he wrote. "Specifically, this happened in 1980, 1945 and 1926-27. The chart on the left shows that, after the 1980 recession began, the S&amp;P fell 17% in 30 trading days, but then took off until the next recession came into sight. This was no bear market." "Sometimes people forget that the stock market is not the economy," he wrote.† And we couldn't agree with him more. But if you say that 80 percent of the last 15 recessions are associated with bear markets, and you also say that we're in a recession, then you're clients are probably missing out on this rally. Nouriel Roubini: I like stocks in the super short-term and the super long-term NYU's "Dr. Doom" has been very clear about his bearishness on the economy. However, his position on stocks has been consistently ambiguous. In an interview two weeks ago, Roubini told Yahoo's Aaron Task that he was "short-term bullish, long-term catastrophic."† His rationale was that the Fed's efforts would continue to inflate asset prices until everything tumbled. But it's probably unsafe to by stocks based on that alone. In an interview just this morning, Roubini warned CNBC's audience that the stock market would correct in the second half of the year. It's worth noting that Roubini has said in the past that 100 percent of his retirement portfolio is allocated in stocks. So... As long as an expert's reputation is on the line, you probably shouldn't expect them to admit error.
APJust crossing the wires. Below is the full release. -------------------------------- Fitch Ratings has downgraded Italy's Long-term foreign and local currency Issuer Default Ratings (IDR) to 'BBB+' from 'A-'. The Outlook on the Long-term IDRs is Negative. Fitch has simultaneously affirmed the Short-term foreign currency IDR at 'F2' and the common eurozone Country Ceiling for Italy at 'AAA'. KEY RATING DRIVERS The downgrade of Italy's sovereign ratings reflects the following key rating factors: The 'BBB+' rating reflects: RATING SENSITIVITIES The Negative Outlook reflects the following risk factors that may, individually or collectively, result in a downgrade of the ratings: The current Outlook is Negative. Consequently, Fitch's sensitivity analysis does not currently anticipate developments with a material likelihood, individually or collectively, of leading to an upgrade. However, future developments that may, individually or collectively, lead to a revision of the Outlook to Stable include: Financing conditions have been relatively benign in recent months. The potential backstop of external support from the ESM and ECB reduces the tail risk of a sovereign liquidity crisis for Italy and is supportive of the rating. While it remains uncertain under what conditions Italy would apply for official assistance, the request itself would be neutral for the rating. KEY ASSUMPTIONS The rating incorporates Fitch's assumption that the medium-term fiscal trajectory and commitments made by Italy under the Stability and Growth Pact and implied by the constitutional balanced budget amendments will be sustained by any new government. Fitch assumes that Italy will start recovering in H213 from its deep recession as the large shocks causing the current recession (fiscal consolidation, tight financing conditions, and weak external demand) gradually fade away. Fitch assumes that the contingent liabilities from the banking sector for the Italian government are limited. Nonetheless, if the recession is deeper and longer than currently anticipated, the risk that the government may be required to make further injections of capital, beyond the Monte dei Paschi recapitalisation, cannot be discounted. Fitch maintains its assumption that medium-term potential growth is 1% even in light of structural reforms adopted over the last two years. The current rating reflects Fitch's judgement that Italy will retain market access and, if needed, EU intervention would be requested and provided to avoid unnecessary strains on sovereign liquidity. Furthermore, Fitch assumes there will be progress in deepening fiscal and financial integration at the eurozone level in line with commitments by euro area policy makers. It also assumes that the risk of fragmentation of the eurozone remains low. Contact: Primary AnalystGergely KissDirector+44 20 3530 1425Fitch Ratings Limited30 North ColonnadeLondon E14 5GN Secondary AnalystDouglas RenwickSenior Director+44 20 3530 1045 Committee ChairpersonEd ParkerManaging Director+44 20 3530 1176 Media Relations: Hannah Huntly, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1153, Email: hannah.huntly@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com. The ratings above were solicited by, or on behalf of, the issuer, and therefore, Fitch has been compensated for the provision of the ratings. Applicable criteria, 'Sovereign Rating Methodology', dated 13 August 2012, are available at www.fitchratings.com.Applicable Criteria and Related Research¬†Sovereign Rating MethodologyALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: HTTP://FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEBSITE 'WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM'. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE 'CODE OF CONDUCT' SECTION OF THIS SITE.
Getty Images/ Stephen LovekinIt's International Women's Day, so we're publishing our first ever list of the 25 most powerful women on Wall Street. For the list, we talked to several people on Wall Street to see whom they regarded as the most powerful. Some of them we selected ourselves.¬† A big thanks to Bloomberg TV and anchor Stephanie Ruhle who helped provide names. ¬†Bloomberg TV "Market Makers" featured a bunch of these awesome ladies on-air today. If you feel we missed someone big, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We're always open to adding more women.¬†
Bloomberg TVBill Gross, who runs the biggest bond fund in the world at PIMCO, has been pessimistic on U.S. economic growth ever since the financial crisis in 2008. PIMCO coined the term "New Normal" shortly thereafter to describe an economic environment characterized by slow growth. Today on Bloomberg Surveillance, Gross said the U.S. economy may grow at a 5 percent nominal rate this year, and real GDP growth may hit 3 percent. This compares with PIMCO's latest forecast of 1.25-1.75 percent real GDP growth, which was published in December. In late January, PIMCO CEO Mohamed El-Erian told CNBC in an interview that the era of the "new normal" may be drawing to a close.
REUTERS/Adrees LatifBank of America has again revised up its home price forecast to 8 percent for 2013, up from 4.7 percent. This is after a 7.3 percent rise in 2012. In a new report titled "Someone say House Party?", BAML's Chris Flanagan, Michelle Meyer, and Justin Borst write that "a positive feedback loop has begun". Basically, when people think home prices are rising, they think they will keep doing so and¬† credit conditions will improve, and this in increases demand for homes. And there's proof of this. Fannie Mae's latest survey shows that 48 percent of respondents believe that home prices will rise over the next 12 months, only 10 percent forecast a fall. "It is a powerful positive relationship especially in this environment of historically low interest rates and a Federal Reserve determined to keep policy accommodative." Tight housing supply and affordability are likely to stoke demand and push home prices higher. What's more, the declining inventory isn't being driven by demand like it was during the housing boom, but by declining supply. And the drag from shadow inventory was also a lot lower than expected. In a note out yesterday, Capital Economics' Paul Diggle also upwardly revised his home price forecast to 8 percent for the year, up from his previous call for a 5 percent rise. "Prices of both new and existing homes are picking up, the latter by over 10% year-on- year. Indeed, after a couple of years during which new house prices outperformed, primarily owing to builders constructing more homes for the higher-end market, we now expect existing house prices to close the gap. As more consumers are able to access mortgage credit, homebuilders should widen their offering, while continued investment demand will bid up existing house prices." Capital Economics And Ivy Zelman was on CNBC yesterday saying "we're in a nirvana for housing. I'm the most bullish I've ever been". BAML's economists expect home prices to rise despite tepid economic growth. This is because the Fed will continue to keep mortgage rates low. Only a huge jolt to the payrolls would hurt the housing recovery. Both BAML economists and Diggle however expect the pace of home price growth to decline in 2014. BAML forecasts 6.5 percent in 2014. Diggle expects 5 percent growth in 2014 and 2015 because he thinks large gains in home prices can't be sustained through investor demand.
For the first time in history, the federal government holds more nonrevolving consumer debt than commercial banks in the United States, thanks to a surge in government-issued student loans since 2009. (Nonrevolving consumer credit includes loans with fixed repayment plans, like student loans and auto loans, as opposed to revolving credit, which includes things like credit cards.) This little detail from yesterday's monthly consumer credit release was pointed out by NBF Chief Economist St√©fane Marion in a note to clients following the release. According to the latest data, the government now holds $552.69 billion in student loan debt ‚Äìversus commercial banking institutions' holdings of all nonrevolving consumer credit, which only amounts to $545.7 billion. Check out the chart on the right: NBF Economy & Strategy (data via Federal Reserve and IHS)Click for larger image Marion writes: As today‚Äôs Hot Chart shows, non-revolving credit (70% of credit outstanding) has been the only source of growth in the past year as revolving¬†credit (credit cards for the most part) continues to stall. This being said, the bulk of the increase in non-revolving credit is not going towards purchases of durable goods. Student loans remain the primary driver of consumer credit growth with a 24% annual gain. Were it not for them, nonrevolving credit would actually have been up only 2.9%. The surge in student loans, which now account for 28% of total nonrevolving credit outstanding, has dramatically altered the credit landscape. As shown, the Federal government, which originates most of student loans, actually surpassed depository institutions in January as a primary holder of nonrevolving credit. Needless to say, the surge in student debt could become a significant problem down the road if labour markets fail to provide employment for younger workers. For the moment, growth in federally-issued student loan debt shows no signs of slowing down.

Things are heating up on the Korean border today. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has officially cancelled the nonaggression pact between North and South Korea that unofficially ended the Korean War in 1953, closed down the North's shared border with the South, and told his troops to "prepare for war." This all comes against a backdrop of annual shared military drills between South Korea and the United States, as well as U.N. sanctions against North Korea signed yesterday aimed at limiting food aid to the poverty-stricken country. Of course, this is far from the first time North Korea has engaged in blustery, provocative rhetoric like this. UBS's floor trader Art Cashin, though, says the guys who traders follow for their North Korea news are starting to sound the alarm bells, concluding in his latest note that it "could be an interesting weekend. Below is what Cashin has to say in his morning note today (emphasis added): Geo-Politics Might Spoil The Party - A variety of reliable people are hoisting more warning flags about what's going on in North Korea. For one, Bob Hardy, whose GeoStrat blog is followed by lots of traders, sent me this note this morning: I find the recent actions and words coming from North Korea particularly ominous and would not be surprised to see an incident, Kim and his regime seem to have misread the situation and are indoctrinating the population to prepare for something grim. They have created a crisis atmosphere by announcing the end of the Armistice Agreement. This will of course mean that a state of war exists, and the fact the DPRK is cutting off all communication with the U.S. and South Korea would seem to indicate it feels it is not being taken seriously. Cutting off communications is a basic indicator of preparations for War, which I doubt will occur, but view it possible that a live fire incident could be about to occur on or about March 11th. If they recall diplomatic missions and close airports that will be a sign of war readiness. A significant change to the security situation in the region is evident. The DPRK is gambling that it could take an action that would not lead a general war but would put it in a position to force negotiations from a different base point. The North Koreans have cast themselves as victims under threat of attack from the U.S. and South Korea to justify an incident. Away from Bob, there are contentions that North Korea has begun to rapidly camouflage trucks and facilities both military and civilian. Then there's the opening paragraph of North Korea's official statement yesterday as reported in the Korean Central News Agency: "First, now that the U.S. is set to light a fuse for a nuclear war, the revolutionary armed forces of the DPRK will exercise the right to a preemptive nuclear attack to destroy the strongholds of the aggressors and to defend the supreme interests of the country." Could be an interesting weekend. Something to be aware of, at the very least.
The "models and bottles"† lifestyle of NYC's club crowd are evolving as venues seek a more egalitarian atmosphere. Take the newly revamped Marquee in Chelsea, which has fewer tables and a bigger dance floor. Sure, the same bankers and pretty girls will flirt around their reserved bottle service table, but there's also a new line for prepaid ticket holders waiting to get in the door and see the DJ, The New York Post's Hardeep Phull reports. In that line, no one cares what clothes you're wearing, what you look like, or how big your wallet is. You bought a $30 ticket, so you'll get in the door. "The first time around, Marquee was geared strictly toward the celebrity crowd and the people who were too cool for school," club co-owner Jonathan Schwartz told the Post. "Now it's more of a hybrid where fans can be in the space with the VIPs." And it's not just in Manhattan. Williamsburg's new club Output bills itself as a place with no bottle service, no doormen, no nonsense. Via the club's FAQ page: "Output is open to anyone, but is not for everyone. Output welcomes individuals who value the communal experience of music over cameras and bottle service." Business Insider's Linette Lopez attended the opening of the new club, and described the scene: There was no hassle at the door. This is an important thing to many New Yorkers, and this is what many of them have been waiting to see at a proper, large-scale club Ö You do not go to Output to be seen. You go to dance. The music and dance scenes are now the major selling point at Output, Marquee, and the soon-to-be-opened Space nightclub in Manhattan. It appeals beyond the Wall Street-types and model-esque women to the music nerds, tourists, hipsters, dancers, and club rats willing to shell out $30 to get in and hear great music. It looks like the era of pretty girls and bottle service is ending, and the huge dance clubs like Palladium, Roxy, and Limelight from the '80s and '90s are back in style.
The oil and gas extraction industry added 1,100 jobs in February.† This is 27th-straight where the increase in payrolls hasn't been negative.† This is according to new stats from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.† The last time the sector saw a monthly decline was Nov. 2010.† The oil and gas drilling industry joins the Chicago Blackhawks†(24) and the Miami Heat†(16), two sports teams who haven't lost in a long time. Here's the chart: BLS
Bloomberg TelevisionJP Morgan's Tom Lee has earned a reputation for being a perma-bull for his consistently bullish calls on the stock market. And that bullishness has generally worked out for him.† Last year, he basically nailed the trajectory of the S&amp;P 500. However, we were taken aback by a note Lee put out on February 22.† It was titled "Stepping Aside Short-Term; Fade Strength and Look for Better Entry Point Around 1400-1450; Big Picture Constructive." The title speaks for itself.† And anyone who listened would've missed out on a rally that took the Dow Jones Industrial Average to its all-time high. In a note released this morning, Lee revisits that call. "Equities have since risen further, ending positive for February and up 2% so far in March," he writes.† "What have we overlooked?" He offers five points, which we paraphrase: Having said that, Lee is reiterating his short-term cautiousness. "Are we still expecting a pause?," he asks. "Yes." But just in case stocks continue to rise: "What could go wrong with our view? It is possible that equities are entering a new phase in this bull marketólower volatility and steadier gains. Thus, the greatest risk to our view is to the upsideó that rather than a pullback, the market simply is undergoing a rolling consolidation (laggard sectors fall to the wayside). Our big picture view remains constructive."
Google FinanceThe stock market jumped in the wake of a strong jobs report that crushed expectations. But that rally quickly faded, and now the S&amp;P 500 is in the red. With markets at their highest levels since 2007, some people are probably wondering if we're experience a top. Click Here For Full Coverage Of Today's Market Action &gt;
We remember this vividly. Late CNBCer Mark Haines made one of the greatest stock calls of all time, establishing the legendary "Haines Bottom." (Technically it wasn't four years ago today, because this year March 10 falls on a weekend, but you get the point.) Four Years Ago: twitter.com/CNBC/status/31‚Ä¶ FRED
flickr/Official U.S. Navy Imagery Everyone's talking about the most recent Federal Reserve stress tests. Not because anyone failed, but because all of Wall Street's biggest, baddest banks scored really low. We're talking about banks with trading floors ó JP Morgan, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. And here's what "scoring low" means. The stress tests are supposed to determine how much equity Wall Street banks would have in the event of another severe financial crisis. The metric everyone is paying attention to is the Tier 1 Common Capital ratio. That's the ratio between everything a company owns (with liabilities subtracted) and a firm's risk weighted assets (all of a firm's assets that weighted for credit risk). The point is, it's supposed to indicate how much a firm would be worth if everything goes terribly wrong. The Federal ReserveThe Fed set the minimum ratio at 5%. The biggest Wall Street banks came in just above that. Via WSJ: According to the test, Goldman alone would lose $20 billion in a doomsday scenario. Goldman, for its part, says that the Fed's calculation is flawed and that it would actually hold 8.6% of Tier 1 Common Capital. The only financial institution that scored lower than these banks was Ally Financial, which is going through a big bankruptcy proceeding to get rid of its mortgage unit. The bank with the highest ratio, by the way, was Bank of NY Mellon with a 13.2% ratio. What all the other low scoring banks above have in common, of course, is that they have big trading operations. That means more credit risk. This falls in line exactly with what analysts have been saying about banks. Take Meredith Whitney, for instance, she has always pointed out that banks that hold too much capital are sluggish, bad businesses. Her recommendation, though, was to hold less capital and make money from less risky, less fancy, high fee businesses like asset management. It looks like Wall Street agrees about capital = sluggish part. They're holding enough to get by, still pass the test, and keep their trading operations going.
Probably the two most-cited economic problems in the U.S. are: Long-term demographic headwinds, and U.S. unemployment. But good news! Those problems cancel each other out. Investor, engineer, and amateur economist Matt Busigin explained on Twitter. Everyone is talking about intergenerational war, class war...reality is closer to symbiosis, and we could get even closer yet. When your two biggest problems are unemployment and a large generation wanting to retire, this is an opportunity &amp; solveable problem. Not everyone has such neatly intersecting problems whose solutions solve for each other.The United States does. Today's jobs report showed it perfectly. First of all, we got a nice jump in Non-Farm Payrolls. At 236K, it is one of the best months since the recession. FRED And a big part of that jump was due to a gain in health care jobs, which is an industry that benefits massively from our aging demographics. Look how steady health care employment grows. It just keeps going up. FRED And yet, Labor Force Participation Rate continues to decline, in large part due to demographics. FRED So we have one issue, aging demographics, that's helping to take care of another issue, unemployment, by both creating openings in the workforce and creating a booming health care industry that creates tons of jobs every month.
So this is a bit of a head-scratcher. According to today's Non-Farm Payrolls report, the gain in movie industry/sound recording jobs was the biggest since they've been tracking this number. Check it out. FRED
APHouse Speaker John Boehner reacted to Friday's better-than-expected non-farm payrolls report by saying that it's "positive news." But seven words into his statement, he added that it could be better. Here's his full statement: ìAny job creation is positive news, but the fact is unemployment in America is still way above the levels the Obama White House projected when the trillion-dollar stimulus spending bill was enacted, and the federal government's ongoing spending binge has resulted in a debt that exceeds the size of our entire economy. As 180 economists said in a statement this week, our spending-driven deficit threatens our economy, and responsible spending cuts are needed ëto help put the country on a path to a balanced budget within ten years.í And yet thereís news today that the president's budget, which is already more than a month late, might slip to April. ìWithout a plan to control spending and balance the budget, our national debt will keep piling up on the backs of our children and grandchildren; our most important safety net programs will grow weaker and weaker; and the prospects for long-term economic growth will dim. Thatís why the House will begin work next week on a budget that offers a better path forward, one focused on more economic growth and more jobs. Our plan will balance the budget within 10 years. And it will lay the groundwork for a fairer, simpler tax code that closes loopholes and lowers rates to help create new jobs, increase wages, and grow our economy long-term. Every family has a stake in this debate." Earlier on Twitter, former White House senior adviser David Plouffe chided Boehner's office for taking so long to release a statement. (They're usually out fairly quickly.) Where is the Boehner release on job crushing tax hikes? Economy poised for solid growth. Need Congressto help not hurt thoseprospects
This morning, we got some great news. The U.S. economy added 236k jobs in February and the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent.¬† Although the numbers were much better than economists' expectations, they still reflect a job market that remains incredibly weak almost four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month putting the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession - worse than any other post-war recession - and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
Today's jobs report was not all good news. While the overall unemployment rate for most categories fell, two categories saw their rates rise: teenagers and those with bachelor's degrees and higher. To be clear, the unemployment rate is a very low 3.8 percent for the latter category. But it is nevertheless a concern as student loan delinquency rates continue to surge. Here's the table from the BLS: BLS
bytemarks / FlickrToday, nonfarm payrolls blew past expectations. Payrolls added in February amounted to 236,000 versus economists' predictions of a 165,000 gain. However, the labor force participation rate ticked down slightly to 63.5 percent from 63.6 percent. It's not a big drop in the participation rate, but it is notable because it was accompanied by a substantial decline in the overall size of the labor force. People reported not in the labor force rose to 89.304 million in February from 89.008 million in January. Bloomberg News economics editor Michael McKee put it this way following the release: The labor force participation rate dropped during the month, even though the labor force size dropped. So, you wonder, are people going to start coming back into the labor force because they think things are getting better, or is the unemployment rate being artificially depressed? Those are questions that we are going to have to sort out as the months go on. So, that is one data point tempering the good headline news from today's jobs report.
We got a strong jobs report. The dollar is spiking. And here's gold getting crushed. KITCO
Flickr / Kansas City DistrictThe jobs report crushed expectations, with jobs coming in at 236K, ahead of the 165K that analysts had expected. Here's an interesting sub-number. Construction jobs are booming: In February, employment in construction increased by 48,000. Since September,¬† construction employment has risen by 151,000. In February, job growth¬† occurred in specialty trade contractors, with this gain about equally split¬† between residential (+17,000) and nonresidential specialty trade contractors¬† (+15,000). Nonresidential building construction also added jobs (+6,000). Housing starts have been booming, but actual construction jobs have lagged a bit. No more.
Flickr / dfbphotosThe February jobs report is out and markets are moving. Dow futures are up 67.¬† S&amp;P futures are up 7 points.¬† Nasdaq futures are up 12 points. Minutes before the report, Dow futures were up 42 points.¬† S&amp;P futures were up 4 points.¬† Nasdaq futures were up 5 points. Also, the U.S. dollar is up and gold is down. Click Here For Full Coverage Of Today's Market Action &gt;
FlickrThe average†Twitter†prediction for today's non-farm payrolls report is 175K. The median estimate is 175K. The standard deviation from the mean is 37K. These figures are based on 78 Twitter submissions using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 7:42 AM ET. Wall Street economists forecast today's headline non-farm payrolls number will come in at†165K new jobs. We will have the jobs data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET.
Tambako the Jaguar / FlickrAt 8:30 AM EST this morning, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the November Employment Situation report.† Economists expect the unemployment rate to be unchanged at 7.9 percent. The consensus estimate for the change in nonfarm payrolls is 165k, with calls ranging from 121k to 225k. Societe Generale's Brian Jones is the economist on the high end of that range. Here's his commentary: We expect the BLS to report that nonfarm payrolls expanded by a well-above-consensus 225,000 in February ñ the strongest net hiring since last November. Fundamental and technical factors point to solid job growth last month. Indicative of a slower pace ìpink slippingî, the average number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance remained on a downtrend over the five weeks heading into the February survey, retreating to a five-year low of 355,600. Consistent with unemployed workers finding positions, regular state benefit recipients contracted by 101,000 between canvasses to 3.074 million ñ the lowest tally since June 2008. On the technical side, population-weighted heating degree days were just marginally above normal in February, supporting our view that weather conditions will have little impact on the February report. Looking backward briefly, we would not be surprised to see the previously posted jobs gains in January (157,000) and December (196,000) marked higher in the February report. Every economists' model is probably different and sensitive to different factors. The jobs report comes out at 8:30 AM ET.
Stuck in Customs / FlickrThe jobs number is out, and it's a big number! 236K new jobs came in WAY ahead of expectations of 165K. Unemployment fell to 7.7%, down from 7.9%. That was totally unexpected. This is a GREAT number. Private payrolls jumped 246K. That means that public sector cutting cost the US another 10K jobs this month. The full report is here. One really interesting sub-detail is the big spike in construction employment. Housing starts have been picking up for awhile, jobs in this area have been a little slow in coming. One interesting, and slightly negative aspect of the report, is that the labor force participation rate actually fell.
AP ImagesAn empty trading floor during Superstorm Sandy.The jobs report comes out at 8:30 AM. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus presents the "setup" in markets right now: Futures are up 30bp (Bear in mind new SPX contract trading) ñ following a 70bp jump in the DAX.† EU Spreads are all considerably tighter, with Italy and Spain 10bp+ tighter to Bunds, driving the 10YY upside 2% this AM.† Japan surged another 2%+ on the weaker Yen, and Miners in Aussie jumping on a solid China trade report.† EUís VIX has dropped 6% overnight, and 20% this week ñ Eyes will be on the US VIX nearing the downside of 14† Aussie-Yen jumping hard as Yen weakness continues to point to risk-on.† The Pound is continuing itís rally against the Dollar ñ and Äis mixed, but the Yen whack has DXY higher ñ causing a natural headwind for commodities.† Zinc, Plat, Lumber and Gold are all higher, but seeing weakness in Copper and Oil.† Focus in the states will be on 2 main items ñ reaction from the Fedís Stress Tests released last night (C and BAC marked higher ñ JPM and GS marked lower) ñ and NFP today at 8:30 ñ Is bad news good, or is good news bad?† Consensus add for 160k, but after ADP and Claims this week, ìwhispersî have headed higher towards 180k jobs added.
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
The data that's coming in right now is incredibly important. We're now well into the period where everyone is seeing the impact of the expiration of the payroll tax holiday on their paychecks. People have wondered: Will this increase in taxes derail the recovery? The answer so far? No. Here are a few charts we've gotten that show things aren't just muddling, but chugging along nicely. First, here's New Orders from both the ISM Manufacturing and ISM Services surveys. Both ticked up nicely in February. FRED Now here's a look at the year-over-year change in revolving consumer credit (credit cards). The data is improving at its best pace in 3 months and generally keeping pace with the steady rate of growth in this area. Credit expansion is key ot economic recovery, and we're seeing that consumers are not going back into debt-paydown mode (what that means longer-term is a different story). FRED And here are initial jobless claims. With yesterday's reading of 340K, we're close to the best levels since the recession. FRED Bottom line: The data isn't deteriorating at all according to some important measures. Of course, there are still the sequester spending cuts, and we'll have to see the impact of those in the coming months. But the private sector expansion ó helped by credit and real estate ó should outweigh the GDP impact from the government belt-tightening.
Last night, Sam Ro posted this chart from Morgan Stanley, which shows the correlation between the US dollar and the S&amp;P 500. Morgan Stanley For a long time, the dollar was highly negatively correlated with "risk," meaning that when stocks and other risky assets did well, the dollar was usually falling. That's because during the crisis years, when people were in panic mode, they would rush to hold safe-haven dollars, dumping everything else. And then when they were panicking less, they would step out of dollars, and buy other stuff. But the chart above means the crisis is coming to an end, or has come to an end. There's no longer this phenomenon where the dollar represents something you hold when you're panicking about everything else. You can buy stocks, and also feel eager to hold dollars. In addition to the crisis mentality, the dollar just looks a lot better than other currencies. There's a feeling that Europe is going back into the gutter and the ECB has to do more. Japan is (as everyone knows) doing a lot more easing. Britain is crumbling again. So pretty much the US is the only place where we're talking about the central bank doing an exit. This is an important trend that smart folks are picking up on. Yesterday, SocGen's Kit Juckes titled his morning note: "Buying the dollar for growth rather than safety..." And recently UBS' Drew Magnus had a big piece about a "third" dollar bull market. A big shift is happening, and it's coinciding with some other big trends: Credit expansion is happening, real interest rates are rising, and gold is crumbling. And yes, people are talking about a "great rotation" from fixed income assets back to stocks. It's all connected.
APToday we we get the biggest labor market indicator of the month: February nonfarm payrolls (NFP), due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists expect nonfarm payrolls to rise by 165,000 after adding 157,000 the month before. Private payrolls are expected to increase 170,000 after posting a gain of 157,000 in January, and manufacturing payrolls are expected to increase by 8,000, compared with a 4,000 rise in January. On Wednesday, ADP's employment report suggested that the U.S. economy added 198,000 private payrolls in February. This was better than the 172,000 figure predicted by economists. On Thursday, weekly initial jobless claims fell to 340,000 from 344,000 the week before, below estimates of an increase to 355,000. A few economists, like Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna, have mentioned a possible distortion in the data arising from the effects of a snowstorm that hit the Northeast region in early February. However, the strong ADP reading Wednesday could cast a bit of doubt on that thesis. On Wednesday, LaVorgna raised his NFP estimate to 180,000 from 125,000 before the ADP release. Jim O'Sullivan of High Frequency Economics acknowledges the robust ADP reading, but is not adjusting his estimate upward like LaVorgna. Sullivan still thinks weather is going to be a factor in tomorrow's release: More relevant from a timing perspective, the ADP private payrolls estimate was 198K, above the consensus for the BLS data tomorrow: +170K for comparable private payrolls and +160K in total. Despite the strength in ADP, we have not changed our 130K forecast for the BLS payrolls series, and 140K for private payrolls. Indeed, we had forecast a fairly strong 180K rise in the ADP series. Our forecast for the BLS data allows for a 50K drag from the big Northeast snowstorm that struck just prior to the sample week; such weather effects tend to be much more noticeable in the government data than in the ADP series. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Brian Jones is one of the most bullish on the Street ahead of tomorrow's release. Below is his take: We expect the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) to report that the employment situation improved markedly in February. The decline in the mean number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance over the five weeks heading into last monthís establishment survey period, along with a sizable reduction in regular state benefit recipients between canvasses, suggests that nonfarm payrolls expanded by 225,000, besting the 200,000 average posted over the prior three-month span. Projected readings on average hourly earnings (0.4%), the private workweek (34.5 hours) and unemployment (7.8%) are expected to add to the buoyant tone of Fridayís report. Fundamental and technical factors point to solid job growth last month (see accompanying table). Indicative of a slower pace ìpink slippingî, the average number of persons filing new claims for unemployment insurance remained on a downtrend over the five weeks heading into the February survey period, retreating to a five-year low of 355,600. Consistent with unemployed workers finding jobs, regular state benefit recipients contracted by 101,000 between canvasses to 3.074 million ñ the lowest tally since June 2008. On the technical side, population- weighted heating degree days were just marginally above normal in February, supporting our view that weather conditions will have little impact on the February report. We will have full coverage of the February jobs report Friday morning, including the full report at 8:30 AM ET. Click here to follow the release LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
Roubini was interviewed by CNBC's Ross Westgate in Italy today, and Roubini had a lot of negative things to say a bunch of stuff. Some key bullets: Here are two Roubini videos. The first is on Italy. The second is on the U.S.  
James Glassman made waves today when he (re)released his famous ‚ÄúDow 36,000‚Ä≥ declaration. ¬†A 150% rally in the Dow seems a bit over the top, but who knows any more? ¬†After all, what we‚Äôre seeing in Japan is (at least temporarily) throwing conventional wisdom entirely out of the window. ¬†In Japan we have a government that has now pledged to do ‚Äúwhatever it takes‚Äù to get the economy going again. ¬†And that means everything from fiscal stimulus to aggressive monetary policy to currency devaluations to stock market ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äù targeting. In this case, Japanese officials have done something unusual by saying that they‚Äôd like to see the Nikkei at 13,000. ¬† I don‚Äôt know what you call that. ¬†Maybe ‚Äúwealth effect targeting‚Äù. ¬†Who knows anymore? ¬†Certainly not me. ¬†But whatever is going on, it seems to be working to some degree as the Nikkei is up another 2.5% overnight to 12,250. ¬†For those keeping track, that‚Äôs up from about 8500 in Q3 or about 45%. ¬†Those Japanese sure are wealthy now! But it makes you wonder. ¬†If economic ‚Äúprosperity‚Äù is so simple then why not just have central banks name target prices all over the world? ¬†Then when a few thousand people place orders at those perceived prices we can all ‚Äúfeel the wealth‚Äù. ¬†Of course, here‚Äôs to hoping that everyone doesn‚Äôt try to hit the bids at the same time to cash out on the ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äù. ¬†That would create a ‚Äúpoverty effect‚Äù and we wouldn‚Äôt want that. ¬†But hey, this is a fun experiment. ¬†Here‚Äôs to hoping it works out in the long-run. ¬†If so, maybe none of us can work in the future and we can just have a central banker tell us what underlying production of everything is ‚Äúworth‚Äù. PS ‚Äì This should go without saying, but do me a favor and don‚Äôt short the Nikkei. ¬†At least not yet. PragCap
The two most-hated currencies in the world are the yen and the British pound. Here's the story. Japan's currency is falling as the new government and the new head of the Bank of Japan are promising A LOT more stimulus to get the country out of deflation. Britain's currency is falling because the economy is weak, exports are in decline, and it's believed that the incoming Bank of England chief will favor more aggressive monetary policy. Both have been getting pummeled this year. And according to Citi's Steven Englander, both have more room to go. Englander's new now isn't based so much on monetary policy, but on the decline of Japanese and U.K. exports. He says if weaker currencies are going to help return either of these countries to stages of past glory, then there needs to be a lot more decline. Here's the key chart from Englander. It's a little complicated, but the top part basically just shows the decline in Japanese exports (as a percent of Asian exports in one line and as a percent of Asian exports excluding China in another line) as well as the decline of U.K. exports (as a percent of eurozone exports to outside the UK). The bottom part shows the U.S. dollar against both currencies. Citi Says Englander: Using export shares as a crude measure of the impact of JPY depreciation on competitors, the likely impact is down by 30-50 percent versus the last episode of yen weakness. Japan is not yet as small as New Zealand in impact, but with such a sharp reduction in regional export importance, a JPY drop just is not what it used to be in terms of impact on the rest of Asia. For another vivid chart on the lack of momentum in either Japanese or U.K. exports, just check out the trajectory of their exports to the U.S. Almost everyone exporting to the U.S. over the last decade has seen nice growth. Except it's been total stagnation for Japan and the U.K. Citi Again, the point? To get competitive again, these countries need A LOT of currency help.
It's jobs day in America. At 8:30 AM ET, the non-farm payrolls report for February comes out. In the meantime, markets are in rally mode. Italy is up 0.9 percent. Germany is up 0.5 percent. But the real show of the day was ‚Äî once again ‚Äî Japan! As is per usual now, the market had another huge day. The Nikkei gained 2.6 percent, as the market finally got around to hitting pre-Lehman levels. The yen also weakened to new lows for the cycle. Here's the Nikkei. Nikkei
