Flickr/GusttyTOKYO/SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian markets marked a second day of gains on Tuesday after a string of upbeat factory data around the globe boosted shares and most commodities, while a delay in a potential U.S. strike on Syria diminished the safe-haven appeal of gold and the yen. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; added 0.3 percent, building on Monday's 1.2 percent rise and on track for a fourth day of gains, and Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; added 1.9 percent. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) &lt;.KS11&gt; rose 0.2 percent, though caution ahead of U.S. employment data at the end of this week limited gains. Friday's U.S. job data that could provide clues on when the U.S. Federal Reserve will begin rolling back its bond-buying stimulus program, noted Hi Investment &amp; Securities analyst Kim Seung-han in Seoul. "Initially the market will reflect on the euro zone's data but cues ahead may limit the extent of foreign inflows and cap market gains," he said. The dollar rose 0.3 percent to 99.62 yen after touching a one-month peak of 99.67 yen, while gold eased about 0.2 percent to $1,391.96 an ounce as investors rediscovered an appetite for risk. The Reserve Bank of Australia holds its monthly policy meeting on Tuesday and is widely expected to hold rates steady, after having cut rates to a record low of 2.5 percent in August. While Wall Street was closed for the Labor Day holiday on Monday, U.S. stock futures posted solid gains with the S&amp;P 500 contract up 0.9 percent. Broad gains across European bourses lifted MSCI's world equity index &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; 0.6 percent. Prospects for the global economy brightened considerably according to a fresh round of purchasing managers' surveys for August. &lt;TOP/MACRO&gt; Factory activity in the euro zone rose at its fastest pace in more than two years, and even manufacturing in struggling Spain grew for the first time since April 2011. The UK's version of the survey far outstripped expectations and sent sterling up 0.1 percent to $1.5551 as the market brought forward the likely timing of the first rate hike there in years. All of this reinforced the impact of China's PMI, which showed activity in the country's vast manufacturing sector was at its highest in more than a year. That continued to buoy commodities, with copper prices rebounding 0.4 percent to $7,270 a tonne. Markets were also unwinding many of last week's safe-haven trades as worries about an imminent military strike against Syria abated after U.S. President Barack Obama decided to seek congressional approval. U.S. crude oil prices slipped 0.7 percent to $106.85 a barrel, while Brent lost 0.1 percent to $114.25. (Additional reporting by Jungmin Jang in Seoul; Editing by Eric Meijer)
Dave Stokes via www.flickr.com creative commons If you're an American, you're in the waning hours of the long three-day Labor Day weekend, which represents the unofficial end of summer. If you weren't paying attention at all since Friday, here are the two big market/economics things you missed. First: So there you have it: Strong data, and bullish markets. Welcome back! It's going to be a huge September.
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesThe cost of prescription drugs is a perennial subject of heated debate, as advocates on one side argue that drug companies make windfall profits and overcharge health care systems and advocates on the other side argue that higher drug prices simply reflect a higher cost of doing business and a need for companies to make a return commensurate with the risks they take on. Although I have no delusions that I'll change the minds of those who believe drugs are too expensive and that drug companies are abusing patients and insurance companies, the impact of rising costs of drug development can't be ignored.Costs Keep Climbing According to a study done by Tufts University, roughly 40 years ago (1975) it only cost $100 million in 2005 dollars to develop one drug from the lab to FDA approval. By 1987, that figure had tripled and by 2000 the cost was up to $800 million. In 2005, the per-drug cost of a successful approved drug had reached a whopping $1.3 billion.†It's not hard to see why costs are rising. Above and beyond the ìeverything's just more expensive nowî argument, drug companies have had to significantly expand the size and complexity of their studies. The number of procedures performed as part of drug trial (that is, particular tests, treatments, and other such steps) has increased by 50% to 65% just in the last ten years, and as anyone who has seen a recent bill from a clinic or hospital can attest, every test comes at a cost. At the same time, drug trials have become larger and larger, and drug companies are required to study the effect of drugs in larger and more diverse populations than ever before. There are at least three notable factors playing a role in these larger, more complex drug trials. First, the FDA has steadily increased its expectations and requirements for approval ñ over the last decade, for instance, it has become a nearly established requirement that companies looking for approval of new diabetes drugs must include a cardiovascular outcomes study. With a growing burden on establishing the safety of new drugs, then, there are more required tests throughout the clinical trial process. On a related note, larger drug companies are increasingly looking to larger, more complex studies as a way of de-risking the approval process. In most cases it is cheaper to conduct a larger, more complex Phase 3 study than to face FDA rejection and a requirement to go back and do another study to address a perceived deficiency in the drug's data package. Last and not least, drug companies have seen more pressure from their insurers to conduct more thorough studies ñ with the cost of legal settlements also rapidly rising, insurance companies are demanding more thorough (and expensive) safety testing as a way of reducing product liability payouts.Success Is Far From Assured At its core, drug development is still a high-risk endeavor. Only about 19% to 21% of drugs in Phase 1 trials will ultimately see approval. Phase 1 studies are not particularly demanding, though, and roughly 70% of drugs go on to Phase 2 where the odds of ultimate approval are still quite low (roughly 28%). Once a drug makes it into Phase 3 testing, the odds significantly improve (58% to 62% make it through to approval), but the costs also go up considerably ñ Phase 3 studies are about one-third more expensive on a per-patient basis and Phase 3 studies are almost always considerably larger (6x to 30x the number of patients versus Phase 2). Of those drugs that are ultimately approved, as much as 90% of the development spending can occur in Phase 3 (though 65% to 75% is likely a closer estimate for the typical drug). Only about 32% of drugs put into human studies will it make it to Phase 3, and those failures (nearly seven out of every 10 drugs) will cost around $40 million each on a median basis, but with some pre-Phase 3 programs costing as much as $100 million. Once those drugs make it into Phase 3, trials can cost anywhere from hundreds of millions of dollars on average to more than $2 billion depending upon the disease in question (cardiovascular disease drugs, for instance, tend to require much larger phase 3 studies). My calculations suggest that, on the basis of past company-reported surveys regarding per-patient trial costs and using data from ClinicalTrials.gov to estimate median trial sizes, for the two approved drugs out of 10, a drug company may spend around $800 million, while the cost of the eight failures will total to almost $750 million. Clearly these numbers are lower that the $1.3 billion/per drug figure cited earlier in the Tufts study, and at least some of this has to do with how to allocate expenses like preclinical development and ìbasic researchî, licensing fees, and so on, and some of it also the difference between median and mean spending. There's a sizable difference between mean and median costs, as certain kinds of drugs (particularly cardiovascular, metabolic, and autoimmune/inflammatory) require much larger and more expensive trials. All things considered, independent biotechs tend to focus on developing drugs with more modest Phase 3 requirements, while the largest trials are often only run by the big drug companies. Arena's (Nasdaq:ARNA) Phase 3 BLOOM study (which was just one of three Phase 3 studies for the obesity drug lorcaserin) enrolled almost 3,200 patients and likely cost upwards of $200 million. By comparison,†Medivation's (Nasdaq:MDVN) Phase 3 AFFIRM study for prostate cancer drug Xtandi enrolled 1,200 patients, while a single Phase 3 study of Eliquis, an oral Factor Xa inhibitor marketed by†Pfizer†(NYSE:PFE) and†Bristol-Myers†(NYSE:BMY), enrolled more than 18,000 patients and the total Phase 3 development program enrolled more than 60,000 patients across multiple studies. Even if Pfizer and Bristol-Myers somehow managed to do those trials at about only half the cost of a normal Phase 3 study, that's still upwards of $1.5 billion in Phase 3 development costs.Earning Back Those Costs Not only do approved drugs have to pay for themselves, but they also have to subsidize the company's failures and still leave something for shareholders. While multi-billion dollar blockbusters like Pfizer's Lipitor,†AbbVie's (Nasdaq:ABBV) Humira, and†Sanofi†(NYSE:SNY)/Bristol-Myers' Plavix certainly have more than paid their way, they really are the exception. The average approved drug generates about $300 million per year in revenue over its lifetime. Excluding R&amp;D costs, the average Big Pharma drug will generate a margin of approximately 50% and will have a productive revenue-generating life of about 15 years. Looking again at the averages (and excluding taxes or the cost of capital), those two-of-10 approved drugs will earn back their cost of development in about three years and pay for their failed siblings in another two and a half years. That means roughly one-third of the productive life of an average drug goes to paying back the cost of drug development. It also explains why drug companies are so willing to spend on marketing and follow-on label extension studies and so fierce in protecting their patents ñ each extra year of branded drug sales has a significant impact on the net present value of the drug in question. Using the prior inputs, that portfolio of 10 drug candidates could be expected to produce an IRR of about 13.25%. Just one extra year of exclusivity on the back-end for both drugs would improve the overall IRR by about a quarter-point, and the development of blockbuster drugs like Lipitor can lead to huge IRRs. By the same token, though, companies that hit dry spells in their clinical development and/or have major disappointments and late-stage trial failures can see their portfolio IRRs quickly plunge.The Bottom Line At the end of the day, any analysis of the cost of drug pricing comes down to a question of fairness. While some advocates and commentators choose to focus on what's fair for patients and payers, I think it's also worth considering what is fair the drug companies as well. I will admit that the mix of medians, averages, and estimates makes the conclusions here only rough at best, but is a 13% internal rate of return excessive when the odds of success are pretty poor and large sums of money have to be invested with no expectation of any returns for five to 10 years? Looking at it differently and using an NPV approach, a 10% discount rate on those cash flows would lead to a net present value of about $270 million for that fictional 10-drug portfolio. While it's certainly true that the occasional blockbuster drug can lead to substantially higher returns for pharmaceutical companies, it's likewise true that a dry spell in the clinic and/or expensive late-stage failures can lead to periods of very poor returns. Again, ìfairî is a very subjective concept. I see nothing wrong with pharmaceutical companies earning a good return given the large amounts of capital and high risks that go with drug development. Perhaps just as much to the point, if the public continues to demand new drugs that allow them to live longer and/or better and that are proven to be relatively safe, they need to realize that they're going to have to pay for them to keep the companies motivated to take on the development risks. Disclosure -†At the time of writing, the author did not own shares of any company mentioned in this article. Stephen D. Simpson, CFA, is a freelance financial writer, investor, and consultant. He has worked as an equity analyst for both sell-side and buy-side investment companies in both equities and fixed income. Stephen's consulting work has focused primarily upon the healthcare sector, while he has also written extensively for publication on topics pertaining to investments, security analysis, and healthcare. Simpson operates the†Kratisto Investing†blog, and can be reached there.
China has already¬†emerged as the world‚Äôs largest car market, surpassing the U.S. in 2009. According to a new study, it¬†could also become the home of the world‚Äôs most massive traffic jams. Commuters of all nations will find the International Energy Agency‚Äôs report, ‚ÄúA Tale of Renewed Cities,‚Äù as bleak as any Dickens novel. But the news is especially bad for Chinese drivers. The IEA expects global vehicle travel to double by 2050, overriding advancements in green¬†technology. As a result, vehicle emissions are expected to increase by 70 percent during that time. China is projected to be responsible for much of that increase. Distance driven is expected to increase from less than 1.5 trillion kilometers in 2010 to around 9 trillion in 2050. IEA According to¬†China Car Times, eight Chinese cities are proposing limits on car sales to curb pollution. While the restrictions have not been officially announced, the Chinese Association of Automobile¬†Manufacturers ¬†is already fighting them, saying they will hurt the economy more than they will help with the pollution problem. The trend of rising global vehicle¬†usage may also be felt in the United States. U.S. drivers could soon¬†experience Labor Day-weekend levels of traffic¬†year-round on some routes as early as 2020. REUTERS/Jason Lee Lines of cars are pictured during a rush hour traffic jam on Guomao Bridge in Beijing July 11, 2013. Eight more cities in China, the world's biggest auto market, are likely to announce policies restricting new vehicle purchases, an official at the automakers association said, as Beijing tries to control air pollution _______________________________________________ Follow GreenCarReports on¬†Facebook,¬†Twitter, and¬†Google+.
ShutterstockWhile some investors are trailblazers and do their own research, many investors attempt to mimic the†portfolios†of well-known investors, such as†Warren Buffett†of Berkshire Hathaway, in the hope of being able to cash in on those investors' world-class returns.  But copying another investor's portfolio, particularly an†institutional investor's†portfolio, can actually be quite dangerous. So, before you jump on the copycat bandwagon, get to know the pitfalls of this approach to investing. An Inability to Adequately Diversify Holdings It is not uncommon for a major institutional investor, such as a†mutual fund, to own more than 100 stocks in a given portfolio. Even†Berkshire Hathaway†(Warren Buffett's investment vehicle), which has a tendency to invest in fewer stocks as opposed to more, owns shares in lots of different public companies! Institutional investors like Warren Buffett are able to spread their risk over a number of companies so that if one particular company,†sector, industry or even country hits a rough patch, other investment holdings may pick up the slack. Unfortunately, most individual investors have neither the funds, nor the financial wherewithal, to ever†achieve such diversification. So what do investors do when they realize that they cannot maintain as many positions as an institutional investor? Usually, the individual investor will copy or mimic a small portion of the institution's holdings (that is, heavily invest in some holdings and ignore others entirely). Unfortunately, this is where trouble can occur ñ especially if one or more of those core holdings heads south. An individual investor's inability to†adequately mimic an institution's diversification profile†and mitigate risk is a major reason why many individuals fail to outperform major mutual funds - even if they maintain similar holdings.Different Investment Horizons Many people like to†refer to themselves as longer-term investors, but when it comes down to it, most investors want to see results in the first 12 to 24 months of owning a particular stock. In fact, on average, institutions seem to have much more patience than their individual-investor counterparts. In short, even if individual investors achieve diversification similar to the institutions they are looking to mimic, they might not be able to afford or have the patience to sit on a given investment for five or 10 years. Instead, they may need to tap into the funds to buy a home, pay for school, have children or take care of an emergency situation, and doing so may adversely impact their investment performance.Institutional Knowledge/Research In spite of regulations meant to level the playing field between individuals and institutions (such asReg FD, which outlines a company's disclosure responsibilities), institutions often employ teams of seasoned industry analysts. These trained experts typically have many contacts throughout the supply chain and tend to have more frequent contact with a given company's management team than the average individual investor.  Not surprisingly, this gives the institutional analysts a far better idea of what is going on at a company or within a given industry. In fact, it is almost impossible for the individual to ever gain the upper hand when it comes to such knowledge. This relative lack of knowledge about future earnings potential, opportunities for growth, competitive forces, etc. can adversely impact investment results. In fact, a lack of knowledge is another major reason why many individual investors tend to underperform mutual funds over time. This is compounded by the fact that analysts can sit and wait for new information, while the "average Joe" has to work and attend to other matters. This creates a lag time for individual investors, which can prevent them from getting in or out of investments at the best possible moment.Keeping Tabs on Institutions Is Tough Even if an individual has enough money to adequately diversify him- or herself, the willingness to hold positions for an extended time period and the ability to accurately track and research multiple companies, it is difficult to copy the actions of most institutions. Why? Because, unlike Berkshire Hathaway, many mutual funds buy and sell stocks with great vigor throughout a given quarter. What happens in between? Frankly, those†looking to mimic the institution's portfolio†are left guessing, which is an extremely risky strategy, particularly in a volatile market.Trading Costs Can Be Huge, and Treatment May Vary By definition, institutions such as mutual funds have more money to invest than the average†retail investor. Perhaps not surprisingly, the fact that these funds have so much money and conduct so many trades throughout the year causes retail†brokers†who service these accounts to fawn over them. Funds often receive favorable treatment. In fact, it's not uncommon for some funds to be charged a penny (or in some cases a fraction of a penny) per share to sell or purchase a large block of stock ñ whereas individual investors will typically pay 5-10 cents per share. In addition, even though there are rules to prevent this (and time and sales stamps that prove when certain†trade tickets†were entered), institutions often see their trades pushed ahead of those of retail investors. This allows them to realize more†favorable entry and exit points. In short, the odds are that the individual, regardless of his or her wealth, will never be able to garner such preferential treatment. Therefore, even if the individual was able to match an institution in terms of holdings and diversification, the institution would probably spend fewer dollars on trades throughout the year, making its investment performance, on a net basis, better overall.Bottom Line While it may sound good in theory to attempt to mimic the investment style and profile of a successful institution, it is often much harder (if not impossible) to do so in practice. Institutional investors have resources and opportunities that the individual investor cannot hope to match. Retail investors may benefit more, in the long run, from an investment strategy more suited to their means. Glenn Curtis started his career as an equity analyst at Cantone Research, a New Jersey-based regional brokerage firm. He has since worked as an equity analyst and a financial writer at a number of print/web publications and brokerage firms including†Registered Representative Magazine,Advanced Trading Magazine, Worldlyinvestor.com, RealMoney.com, TheStreet.com and Prudential Securities. Curtis has also held Series 6,7,24 and 63 securities licenses.
Wall Streeters have a penchant for pulling pranks on each other¬†and they're usually pretty funny. But this Velociraptor chase from a game show in a Japanese office takes the prize for the best prank ever. [via i09.com] Watch below:¬† 
† en.wikipedia.org The Economist "CHINAíS banks are not real banks," says Andrew Rothman of CLSA, a broker recently acquired by Chinaís CITIC Securities. The countryís biggest financial institutions are so closely held by the state that they are, in effect, arms of the treasury. Cosseted by rules that protect them from competition, they deliver huge profits in good times: bank profits as a share of Chinaís economic output equalled nearly 3% last year, whereas the highest ratio achieved in recent decades by American banks was only 1% of GDP (in 2006). In bad times the state is there to clean up, just as it did during a surge in dud loans in 1990s. But the bargain that has driven Chinaís "Big Four" banks to the top of the global league tables is breaking down. Profitable though they are now, another wave of non-performing loans will soon hit them. As the Chinese economy rebalances, the state is less willing than it was in the past to pour credit into state-owned enterprises (SOEs) at the expense of households and private firms. Mr Rothmanís epithet will not hold for ever. Chinaís big banks are slowly becoming real institutions. The Economist That will matter outside China as well as inside it. Its biggest lenders are giants of the banking world. Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), which showed a pre-tax profit of nearly $50 billion last year, was named recently by The Banker, a trade publication, as the worldís largest bank measured by core capital. In 2000 ICBCís Tier-1 capital was just $22 billion; by the end of last year it had shot up to $161 billion, overtaking JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. Three other Chinese banks have made it into the top ten: China Construction Bank (CCB), Bank of China (BOC) and Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). The sheer size of these institutions is breathtaking. ICBC and ABC have over 400,000 employees each, nearly as many as Volkswagen, the worldís biggest carmaker. ICBC has over 4m corporate clients. CCB has some 14,000 branches. The Big Four were carved out of bits of the Peopleís Bank of China (PBOC), the central bank, in the 1980s--though the original BOC dates back to the Qing dynasty. Ostensibly they were to be run like private commercial banks: all four have floated shares on the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges. But the state has maintained majority stakes in them as well as in the next-biggest bank, the Bank of Communications. The Big Four are led by senior figures in the Communist hierarchy, with bosses shuttling easily between banks and regulatory agencies. Wang Hongzhang, CCBís chairman, was previously a deputy governor at the PBOC and party secretary at its "discipline inspection commission". Xiao Gang, BOCís former chairman, now heads the China Securities Regulatory Commission, which supervises stockmarkets. Such incestuous ties are a sign of the special role that the Big Four play in Chinese economic policy. Put bluntly, they are the chief instruments of financial repression. Because of the official ceiling on deposit rates, the big banks have a source of cheap funding that they can direct to favoured SOEs and other arms of government. ICBC, CCB and ABC enjoyed the highest net interest income of any banks around the world last year. But these headline figures hide a multitude of sins. Chinaís use of its biggest banks to implement the 2009 economic stimulus has left a legacy of murky accounting, off-balance-sheet transactions and dodgy lending. Official data on non-performing loans put their level at just 1% of bank assets. No one believes that number. The banksí quarterly results released this week showed profits with little increase in provisions. But Morgan Stanley, an investment bank, reckons a more realistic figure may be 10% for all banks, and 6-8% for the biggest. Things are worse in the many industries saddled with overcapacity: 17% of loans to the manufacturing sector, for example, could become duds if the economy sours, says Morgan Stanley. The big banks have been here before. In the 1990s an elaborate bail-out was devised to recapitalise the Big Four and transfer dud loans to asset-management companies. It is improbable that a big Chinese bank would be allowed to go under if a similar situation arose again. Nevertheless their market share is rightly under threat. Three changes in particular are weakening their position. The first is the stagnation of SOEs, which stands in sharp contrast with the dynamism of the "bamboo capitalists" in the private sector. Nicholas Lardy of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a think-tank, calculates that over the past decade SOEs have destroyed so much value that, in the aggregate, they have produced negative real returns on capital employed. But private industrial firms, which create most jobs and much economic growth, have sharply positive returns. As the economy slows, Chinaís leaders have decided that resources should not be squandered in this way. Recent official proclamations threaten to cut investment in bloated state-run industries. Chinaís big banks must therefore change how they do business, though they will still be tempted to lend to big firms that they suspect will not be allowed to fail. Policymakers are also concerned about the rise of the shadow-banking sector. Because savers make little return on their bank deposits, they have sought riskier alternatives, anything from property to shadowy investment instruments known euphemistically as "wealth-management" products--some of them little better than Ponzi schemes. Charlene Chu of Fitch, a ratings agency, argues that shadow banking is pushing financial intermediation from a few big banks to tens of thousands of financing, leasing and guarantee firms and other less regulated, informal outfits. This, she thinks, is making financial data murky and less reliable. If Chinaís leaders ever did end the cap on deposit rates it would mean a revolution in banking. In the short term "the profits of almost all banks would shrink," says Oliver Rui of the China Europe International Business School. In the long term, though, he thinks the resulting competition would lead the better banks back to healthy margins. It might also gear them up to win back some market share from the shadow-banking sector, reckons Peter Williamson of Cambridge Universityís Judge Business School. A reported decision to allow banks soon to start issuing tradable certificates of deposit seems like another step towards preparing them for an end to the cap. But it would also expose them more to short-term funding risk. The third force for change is Chinaís long-awaited shift from an investment-led economy to one fired by domestic consumption. Over the past two years real consumption has contributed more to economic growth than has gross fixed capital formation; services oriented toward the domestic middle classes have grown more strongly than has export-oriented manufacturing. If this trend accelerates it will encourage the banks themselves to make more loans to small and medium-size enterprises and middle-class consumers. That will force a cultural change at banks which in the past paid little attention to customer service or credit quality. Joseph Ngai of McKinsey, a consultancy, argues that "lending will no longer be a sellerís market", in which firms ram credit down the throats of SOEs. His firm forecasts that loans to small companies and households, which together made up just 22% of the total in 2006, will soar to 57% of all loans (as measured by value) by 2021. Put all of these trends together and the future looks less than rosy for the Big Four. Wen Jiabao, Chinaís former prime minister, declared last year that they "make profits far too easilyÖwe have to break up their monopoly." Recent proclamations from the PBOC talk of boosting "private capital" in banking. On August 9th the China Banking Regulatory Commission, the industryís main regulator, unveiled draft rules for banking licences that are designed to encourage the entry of private capital into the industry. Competition has already begun to dent the Big Fourís monopoly. Smaller banks known as joint-stock commercial banks (JSCBs) were formed in the late 1980s and early 1990s by raising money from both the government and the private sector. The ambitious growth of JSCBs like China Minsheng and China Merchants has meant that the Big Fourís share of banking assets had already shrunk to below 50% by 2010. As lending demand from small firms and households rises, the years of experience that JSCBs already have in this sector will count for even more. Competition is also emerging from unexpected quarters. Alibaba and Tencent, two Chinese internet giants, are moving energetically into financial services. Tencent offers online payment services to fund managers, and wealth-management services to users of WeChat (a popular social-media app with more than 300m users). Alipay, Alibabaís online-payment arm, has introduced a service called YuíE Bao ("remnant treasure") which offers e-commerce customers an easy way to divert leftover cash into high-interest funds. In just a few months it has attracted over $1 billion in investments. These firms and smaller upstarts have a minuscule market share, but "this threat is all that any bank president here wants to talk about today," says a financial-industry specialist. Caixin, a Chinese financial magazine, reports that "several large banks have formed an 'Ali-bashing groupí to fight what they see as Alibabaís invasion of their turf." They are right to be worried. For one thing, punters actually like the products and services offered by the internet interlopers. What is more, unlike Chinaís aloof bankers, these innovators already have volumes of proprietary data on the online purchasing habits and creditworthiness of consumers. The Big Four may yet be disrupted by Big Data. With bad loans and competition rising, Chinaís largest banks face tougher times ahead. ChinaScope Financial, a research firm partly owned by Moodyís, a ratings agency, has analysed how declining net interest margins will affect Chinaís banks. It estimates that the sector will need an injection of $50 billion-100 billion over the next two years just to keep its capital ratios at todayís level. The managements of the Big Four realise this, and have won approval from their boards to raise over $40 billion in fresh capital over the next two years. But Andrew Sheng of the Fung Global Institute, a think-tank, reckons the sector will need to raise even more later: up to $300 billion over the next five years. If the big banks rise to this challenge, greater transparency and more competition should follow. That would not just be good news for China. The once-parochial big banks are following their customers abroad. Nearly a quarter of BOCís assets are now overseas; ICBCís overseas assets grew by some 30% last year, more than double the rate of growth of the bank overall. They are also starting to invest in foreign banks. Chinaís biggest banks are already world-beaters in terms of size. In time they may become world-class. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The big story today is about a new development in London's financial district dubbed The Walkie Talkie due to its unusual shape.  The combination of its shape (which is curved), its placement, and its height has apparently created a tremendously intense reflection and beam of light that creates extraordinary heat on a nearby block, and one Jaguar owner says his car literally suffered melting damage from having been parked in that spot. The news was first broken by Jim Waterson at City AM. Anyway, a photo of the car has been revealed by the BBC, which tweeted out a photo of a clearly warped Jaguar. A London skyscraper is blamed for reflecting light which melted parts of a nearby car: http://t.co/EbJUqc4wUg pic.twitter.com/sPijHkIoEw In a joint statement, developers Land Securities and Canary Wharf said: "We are aware of concerns regarding the light reflecting from 20 Fenchurch Street and are looking into the matter. "As a precautionary measure, the City of London has agreed to suspend three parking bays in the area which may be affected while we investigate the situation further." Mr Lindsay said the developers had apologised and agreed to sort out the £946 repair costs. Meanwhile, an Instagram user has found a great shot showing just how white hot the spot on the street seams to get. 
REUTERS/StringerTraders stand near a screen showing the Indonesia Stock Exchange Composite Index during the first day of trading in 2012 in Jakarta.The chaos in emerging market stocks, bonds, and currencies this summer has been stunning. Richard Koo now warns emerging markets are in for a tumultuous new era. Stephen Roach believes we could be in the early stages of another global economic crisis. But the warning signs have been out there for years. And many emerging market experts are surprised at how slow investors have been to realize this. Here's Citi Emerging Markets strategist Markus Rosgen in a note to clients last week: "It is clearly a slow news summer. No A, B or C list movie star is making a fool of themselves, parliaments are in recess, heads of government on holiday, so nothing substantive to report on. Newspapers still have to go to print and attract readersí interest, and the same goes for the financial newswires. And so for some reason, EM has become top of the headlines. Thatís not to say that some EM countries havenít got their work cut out. But in many cases, some of these issues have been well known for quite a while ñ current account (CA) deficits tend not to appear overnight, unlike measles, nor do overvaluations or crowded trades" In recent weeks, these massive current account deficits have been blamed for the big sell-offs in India and Indonesia. Wells Fargo's John Silvia charted the evolution of those current account deficits for the four worst performing EM currencies this year. Like Rosgen said, it's an old story: Wells Fargo "The weakness in EM currencies the past two months is not simply a consequence of rising US rates," said Morgan Stanley's Jason Draho. "The weakness has been happening over the past two years, and reflects broader EM structural problems." Here's Draho's chart of EM currencies falling against the dollar: Morgan Stanley And slowing growth hasn't helped. Here's a look a look at GDP growth at the largest emerging markets from Barclays. Growth has been trending down. Barclays Industrial production confirms the weak GDP. Morgan Stanley All of the deceleration has translated into slowing Emerging Market earnings, have trended down with most of the developed world: Morgan Stanley And weakening profits have been bad for stocks. Indeed, this next a chart from from Deutsche Bank's Priyal Mulji and John-Paul Smith shows how EM stocks have underperformed developed market stocks†for years. "Except a short patch during the financial crisis of 2007-8, the period from end-2010 to present marks the only episode during which EM equities have consistently underperformed for over ten years," wrote Mulji and Smith.† "The EM underperformance gap versus DM has persistently widened over 2013." Business Insider If there were a catalyst for the bleeding, it was the Federal Reserve's talk about tapering quantitative easing, which marked the beginning of the Treasury market sell-off. Below is a chart of the U.S. 10-year yield and emerging market fund flows from Barclays' Christian Keller and Koon Chow.† But even the rise in rates has been expected widely for a while. Barclays
REUTERS/Marko DjuricaHumans have remarkable control over their own happiness. In her book, "The How of Happiness: A New Approach to Getting the Life You Want," psychology professor Sonja Lyubomirsky says a person's happiness is 50% due to genetics, 10% due to circumstances, and the remaining 40% is "within our power to change." But it takes work. That's why we've compiled 25 different ways to boost your mood. Happiness is different for each person, but hopefully at least one of these methods will help you find your inner sunshine.
The fact that rich people often think they're better than poor people is one of those unspoken truths of society. We all know it happens, even if no one likes to admit it. Luckily, we've got the research to prove it. In a series of studies, University of California at Berkley¬†Psychologist Paul K. Piff tested the links between social class, entitlement, and narcissism. "Americans may be more narcissistic now than ever, but narcissism is not evenly distributed across social strata," Piff wrote. "Higher social class is associated with increased entitlement and narcissism." Here's how he proved it:¬† Study 1: Piff selected two groups of 100 or so adults to take a¬†questionnaire that measured the extent to which they felt they deserve more than others.¬†Next, he had them look at a picture¬†of a ladder with 10 rungs representing people with different levels of income, education, and occupational prestige. Participants had to select a rung to represent where they felt they stood relative to others. Findings: Wealthier people, particularly those whose parents were highly educated, were significantly more likely to think they deserved more than others. Combined with the second test, Piff found that the higher people put themselves on the ladder, the higher their sense of entitlement. Study 2:¬†Study groups completed something called a "Me Versus Other" scale to show how they see themselves versus others. Subjects choose between seven sets of four circles, in which the circle containing the word "me" is larger or smaller compared to the three circles containing the word "other." The larger the "me" circle you pick, the more likely you're a narcissist.¬†Then they chose from¬†40 two-statement pairs (eg: ‚ÄúI like to look at myself in the mirror‚Äù or ‚ÄúI am not particularly interested in looking at myself in the mirror‚Äù), with one answer indicating narcissism.¬†Afterward, they listed their income level. Findings:¬†¬†Upper-class individuals were significantly¬†more prone to increased narcissism, which is in part due to their greater sense of entitlement.¬† Study 3:¬†Piff first had participants answer a series of questions about their financial upbringing. As they left the study room, they were asked to pose for a photograph for another study and told that there was a mirror down the hall where they could check themselves out before the photo was taken. Findings:¬†¬†More than 60% of the participants used the mirror, and Piff found upper class people were significantly¬†more likely to want to see themselves first.¬† Study 4:¬†Piff wanted to see whether simply reminding people of egalitarian values could change their levels of narcissism. He asked one group of people¬†to list three benefits of regarding others as equals. He asked another group to list three activities they did during an average day. Afterward, both groups took a questionnaire meant to show their sense of entitlement. Findings:¬†People who thought about egalitarian things showed much lower entitlement than those in the control condition. "Bringing emerging social class theory to bear on the issue of historical trends in narcissistic personality, my research reveals that recent rises in narcissism may be most pronounced among upper-class individuals and less accelerated, if increasing at all, among lower-class individuals," Piff concluded.
MovieClips / YouTubeDumb & DumberOne of the scariest things about retirement is the¬†variability¬†of the¬†market. What happens if the¬†market¬†crashes while you are drawing down your retirement portfolio? Even if you build up a good¬†nest egg, you might still end up running out of¬†money¬†during retirement, especially when it comes to your monthly¬†cash flow. The goal for many retirees, then, becomes securing a steady¬†incomestream that can be relied on, no matter what. While it can be tempting to go with¬†cash, this might not be your best¬†option. A better choice might actually be an¬†annuity. An¬†annuity¬†is a contract, usually offered through an insurance company, that agrees to provide you with a payout. You might agree to a specific amount of¬†money, paid to you regularly, for a set amount of years. It‚Äôs also possible to purchase an annuity that pays a regular amount to you indefinitely. (Realize that if you opt for an annuity without a definite¬†term, you are likely to see a smaller payout. However, a set payout term, such as 10 or 20 years, might not be long enough to ensure that you outlive your¬†money.) In the past, annuities have gotten a bad reputation due to their high fees, low yields and onerous¬†terms¬†when it comes to¬†taxes¬†and survivorship. And many annuity products deserve the bad names they have been given. You do need to be very careful when choosing an annuity. However, if done right, an annuity can be a way to secure some portion of your retirement¬†income. One of the popular choices in annuities is the immediate annuity. With this arrangement, you take some of the money in your retirement account and use it to purchase an annuity that begins payouts immediately. Your lump-sum¬†investment¬†purchases you¬†cash flow¬†that you can count on. This is in contrast to a¬†deferred annuity, in which you make payments to the annuity over time and receive benefits at a later date. When it comes to retirement planning, it is usually better¬† to choose the immediate annuity. After all, it‚Äôs more about making sure you have a reliable source of retirement¬†income¬†than it is about buildingwealth. The low yields associated with a deferred annuity aren‚Äôt likely to help you build your¬†nest egg; instead use high-yielding¬†investments¬†to build a retirement account that is large enough to purchase an immediate annuity later. As with all¬†investing, make sure that you have sufficient diversity in your portfolio. Don‚Äôt take your entire¬†nest egg¬†and use it to purchase an annuity -- even if it is an immediate annuity. You‚Äôll still want some of your retirement portfolio money in a ‚Äúbucket‚Äù that still has the potential to provide inflation-beating returns.¬†Note¬†that your annuity is only as good as the company backing it; if the company folds, you could lose out. If appropriate, take a portion of your retirement account and use the money to buy an immediate annuity. It doesn‚Äôt need to provide for all of your income needs; often, just having half or three-quarters of your required retirement income provided for can make a big difference in how you feel about your financial security. The income from the annuity can provide you with a certain amount of stability, and help you get through the difficult times in the markets. The¬†Investing¬†Answer:¬†Don‚Äôt assume that all annuities are bad. There are some immediate annuity products available with reasonable, straightforward fees and survivor benefits. Talk to a financial professional (who isn‚Äôt earning¬†commission¬†on your choice) about your situation. Discuss whether an immediate annuity could be incorporated into your retirement financial plan to provide a degree of stability with your¬†cash flow. Explore companies with solid¬†ratings, in order to reduce the chance of losing out through a failed company. Also, check your state‚Äôs guaranty program. In some cases, a portion of your annuity money might be insured through the state. P.S. --¬†How are ordinary investors generating a second income month after month and year after year? In short, it's thanks to a new approach to investing. It's a discovery I call "The Dividend Trifecta," and it's helping thousands of regular people live the life they want without the worries of a volatile stock market.¬†Find out about this amazing strategy here
Chip Somodevilla /Getty ImagesNew York mayoral candidate Joe Lhota (R)The next mayor of New York, if he or she is to do a good job, will have to say ‚Äúno‚Äù a lot. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to public employee unions who want a retroactive raise the city can‚Äôt afford. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to city councilmembers who will try to spend every tax dollar that comes in instead of rebuilding the city‚Äôs reserve funds. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to NIMBYs who don‚Äôt want anything new built in their neighborhoods. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to commuters seeking relief from fare increases, bridge tolls, parking fines, and an alleged ‚Äúwar on cars.‚Äù Today, Dan Amira¬†gave the candidates a ‚Äúno‚Äù test, and only Republican Joe Lhota passed it. The question was: Would you shut down two subway lines for 90 minutes to save a couple of kittens who are loose on the tracks, as NYC Transit did yesterday? Christine Quinn said she would. Bill Thompson said he would ‚Äúwork‚Äù to save the kittens. Anthony Weiner said he wouldn‚Äôt just shut down the subway, he‚Äôd personally crawl across the third rail to rescue them. John Catsimatidis submitted a few noncommittal lines of poetry. It‚Äôs a microcosm of this whole campaign, in which the candidates run around making big promises with no apparent acknowledgment of the city‚Äôs tight finances, or of the fact that policy choices involve trade-offs, or even of the mayor's lack of control over certain policy areas, like income taxation, rent control, and anything the MTA does. Yes, the candidates say, I‚Äôll save the kitties, I'll make the Wall Street fat cats pay for it, and I‚Äôll give you a middle-class tax cut while I do it. Only Lhota gave the correct answer: No, you do not strand thousands of New Yorkers for 90 minutes in a futile effort to herd two cats whose lives we are inexplicably prioritizing over the rats who are run over, or drowned, or exterminated in the subways every day. The most terrifying aspect of this campaign is that New York is poised to elect its first non-asshole mayor since Abe Beame. There‚Äôs a reason big cities elect mayors like Mike Bloomberg and Rudy Giuliani and Rahm Emanuel and Richard Daley and Ed Rendell. The mayor‚Äôs main job is to say ‚Äúno.‚Äù Those guys are good at saying ‚Äúno.‚Äù Lhota is the only person in the field who resembles them.
For those of you who are a bit behind, emerging-market stocks, bonds, and currencies have been getting slammed this year. "The proximate cause of all these bloodbaths in emerging markets is the declaration by Fed Chairman Bernanke in mid-May that the Federal Reserve would begin to ‚Äútaper‚Äù its purchases of securities should the U.S. economy continue to recover," said Wells Fargo Chief Economist John Silvia. But you can't just blame the Fed for the emerging markets' woes. Silvia what's happening with the four worst emerging-market currencies in his latest Weekly Economic &amp; Financial Commentary: Wells FargoThis foreign selling of emerging market assets has caused the currencies of many developing economies to depreciate vis-aÃÄ-vis the U.S. dollar (top chart). Among large developing economies,¬† the worst performing currencies over the past three months have been the Turkish lira, which has weakened about 10 percent against the greenback, the Indonesian rupiah and the Brazilian real (both down about 15 percent or so). The Indian rupee has plunged 20 percent, and it nosedived to an all-time low against the dollar this week. What distinguishes these currencies from, say, the Taiwanese dollar, which is only a bit weaker versus the U.S. dollar relative to early May? Wells FargoWhat these countries have in common is that they each run current account deficits at present . In some cases, the rise this week in oil prices, due to the escalation of the Syrian crisis, has added to the selling pressure on some emerging market currencies. India and Turkey import most of their crude oil needs, so higher oil prices automatically lead to wider current account deficits. Current account deficits need to be financed from capital inflows from abroad, but when foreign investors head for the exits the currencies depreciate. This depreciation makes exports less expensive to foreigners and imports more expensive to domestic residents. Over time, currency depreciation should cause current account deficits to narrow again. So, eventually, this should work itself out. But in the near term, it looks like the pain will continue.
en.wikipedia.orgWhat was Andrei Melnichenko thinking?On December 7, 2012, Andrei Melnichenko told prospective buyers of $750 million in loan participation notes that he was gung-ho on the future of the potash business of his Eurochem group. For Eurochem ó 92% owned by board chairman Melnichenko; 8% by chief executive Dmitry Strezhnev ñ potash was, still is, a brand-new line of business. But in a decade or so, Melnichenko told investors, he aimed to be number-1 for potash in Russia and in Europe; and for potash, nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers combined, close to number-1 in the world. Apparently nothing stood in his way ñ not Uralkali, Russiaís current potash monopoly producer; nor Suleiman Kerimov, the control shareholder of Uralkali. Not Belaruskali, the state-owned potash monopoly of Belarus, nor Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. Those four names donít appear in the risk or strategy sections of Melnichenkoís investment prospectus, a copy of which has just fallen from a Eurochem truck. How he proposed to defeat such rivals the Eurochem prospectus didnít even acknowledge as a problem. Can Melnichenko have been so unthinking as to expect his rivals to surrender their market positions and profits without a fight? Did Melnichenko take his bond buyers for dolts and boobies?Just sixteen days after Melnichenkoí prospectus, on December 22, 2012, in Minsk, President Lukashenko†signed Decree No.566. This cancelled the exclusive right of the Belarusian Potash Company (BPC) to export potash produced by the Belarus state producer, Belaruskali. The practical impact was unmistakeable ñ it threatened unrestricted competition from what Lukashenkoís decree†called†ìother organizations selected by the head of state.î In the preceding weeks, the international spot price for potash had dropped from the yearís peak of $476.25per tonne to just $425 ñ a drop of 11%. After Lukashenko showed his hand, potash slipped to $395. POTASH SPOT PRICE CHART, SEPTEMBER 2012-AUGUST 2013 Helmer Seven months later, Uralkali, the Russian partner in the potash sales cartel managed by BPC, fired its retaliation shot on July 30, 2013. Uralkali announced it was pulling out of BPC altogether, selling its own potash through its Swiss trading company in as large a volume and at as low a price as the market would bear. That story can be read†here. The outcome is that for the foreseeable future the price of potash will be lower than the cost at which Eurochemís proposed new mines can produce. As Lukashenko and Kerimov slug it out, they appear to have floored Melnichenkoís championship bid with a phantom punch. That leaves the Eurochem prospectus of December 2012 ñ and the question of whether Eurochem misled its investors, either intentionally or negligently. According to page iii, ìthe opinions, expectations and intentions expressed in this Prospectus with regard to EuroChem and the Group are honestly held, have been reached after considering all relevant circumstances and are based on reasonable assumptions; (iv) there are no other facts with respect to EuroChem, the Group, the Notes or the Loan the omission of which would, in the context of the issue and offering of the Notes, make any statement in this Prospectus misleading in any material respect.î Read the 432-page document†here. Potash was the key to Eurochemís future, the prospectus declared, because Eurochem was promising to ìbecome one of the five leading mineral fertiliser producers in the world in terms of production, sales and profitability. To achieve this objective, the Group has been implementing a strategy that includes the following key elements: diversifying product range, building and launching own potash production and further improving product quality.î The prospectus indicated that Melnichenko was planning to spend $3.5 billion on boosting his potash business from zero production to 8.3 million tonnes per annum within a decade or so. Over the same period Uralkaliís annual capacity over the same period is projected to rise from 11 million and 15 million tonnes, with extra mineable volume of another 5.5 million tonnes per year on call after 2020. Thatís almost 21 million tonnes for Uralkali. Add Belaruskaliís capacity to lift from 6 to 10 million tonnes on to the market (in 2012 output was 7.9 million tonnes). Was Melnichenko really thinking of topping them both? According to the Big-Fert revenue table in the prospectus, Eurochem saw itself with its nitrogen and phosphate sales as already running ahead of Uralkali. The purpose of the $750 million bond issue, Melnichenko implied, was to match Uralkaliís 2012 potash output, and more than double Uralkaliís sales revenues. He didnít exactly say so, but the implication was clear ñ Melnichenko was telling Kerimov, <U+0434><U+043E> <U+0441><U+0432><U+0438><U+0434><U+0430><U+043D><U+0438><U+044F>. GLOBAL FERTILISER COMPANY COMPARISON BY 2011 REVENUES HelmerSource: Eurochem prospectus, page 52 In the risks section, the prospectus acknowledges that ìthe global and domestic fertiliser industries are highly competitive and the Group may not be able to compete successfully.î Thatís obvious now, in retrospect. But last December, this is how Eurochem reported the market competition. ìFertilisers are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and, to a lesser extent, on customer service and product quality. The Group competes with a number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidised entities. Some of these competitors have greater resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertiliser sales, which makes them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Some of the Groupís traditional competitors (in the global markets, Yara (Norway), PotashCorp (Canada) and The Mosaic Company (USA), as well as other producers in North America, North Africa, the Middle East and Asia, and, in the Russian and the CIS markets, PhosAgro, Acron, Uralchem, Sibur and Mineralnye Udobreniya) also benefit from control over or access to raw material reserves, functional locations near major suppliers or consumers, market reputation and long-standing trade relationships with global market participants.î Not a word about the potash market there ó the Russian mentions are nitrogen and phosphate producers. There is no mention at all in the prospectus of Belaruskali. Melnichenko was born in Belarus, so he knows where it is; whoís in charge; and how important potash revenues are to the state budget, and to Lukashenko personally. The prospectus reports as its second category of risks that ìchanges in government policies could have a material adverse effect on demand for and prices of the Groupís products.î But Belarus is ignored, and there is no reference to what Lukashenko was about to decree. This is despite the fact that it was well-known in the potash market that Belarusís strategy has been to stabilize income from potash sales by†selling larger volumes, and for several years it has been exporting potash cargoes outside the BPC cartel limits. So too, on a smaller scale, was K+S, the European fertilizer producer in which Melnichenko is the largest shareholder. Melnichenkoís nominee on the K+S board, George Cardona, also sits on the boards of the Cyprus companies through which Melnichenko owns Eurochem. Cardona also sits on the board of the Isle of Man company which owns the art works in Melnichenkoís house and garden; and the companies which own Melnichenkoís airplane, boat, and†other assets. The records of a recent federal US court lawsuit over the disputed price of a sculpture for Melnichenkoís garden reveal how closely Melnichenko and Cardona watch the prices of the art market. So if Cardona had been doing his job, he would have been telling Melnichenko how threatening Lukashenko and Belaruskali were to the potash price and the break-even price for Eurochemís potash mines long before the December 2012 decree. So why was the Eurochem prospectus silent? Buyers of Eurochemís bonds were told ìthe Group faces risks related to the development of its potash deposit license areasî. But this was an acknowledgement of technical and contract problems at the Gremyachinskoye mine in Volgograd region, not the cost and profitability of potash at the minehead, if global prices fell sharply. The Volgograd story was told†here. Special Russian risks were acknowledged in the prospectus because ìemerging economies, such as Russia, are subject to rapid change and that the information set forth herein may become outdated relatively quickly.î Commentary from Belarus on the potash market always assumes that Uralkali and its shareholders act in concert with Kremlin policy. By contrast, the Eurochem prospectus told bondholders it couldnít predict what might happen. ìState authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and at times exercise their discretion arbitrarily, without conducting a hearing or giving prior notice, and sometimes illegally.î Was this a hint from Melnichenko that he wasnít confident where his proposed new potash business stood with the Kremlin? For a fund-raising intended for Melnichenkoís potash strategy, the prospectus is puzzling because it makes minimal reference to the Russian potash market. There are just these three lines on page 135: ìIn the potash segment of the mineral fertiliser market, Uralkali is the largest Russian producer. In 2008, the Acron Group obtained a license to develop the Talitsky area of the Verkhnekamskoe potassium deposit.î Omitted from disclosure was the likelihood that the combination of potash expansion plans from these two would dwarf Eurochemís strategy; potentially doom it. In November 2012, the month before Eurochem finalized the prospectus with its bankers ñ Barclays, Citi, BNP Paribas, and Sberbankís CIB subsidiary in Cyprus ñ Acron reported that it had raised $400 million from two Russian state banks, VEB and Eurasian Development Bank, plus Raffeisen. This was for Acronís new Talitsky potash mine; its target production capacity of 2 million tonnes is planned to come on stream between 2016 and 2018. To make this possible Acron has given up shares in the new mine for the cash, ceding the Kremlin 29% equity†in the project. Melnichenko has ceded no shares at all. There are 162 pages of audited financial reports in the Eurochem prospectus, and they carefully omit identification of Eurochemís bank lenders. ìA leading Russian bankî was reported to have loaned Rb20 billion (now $606 million) for a 5-year term (September 2016), but the other lenders of about Rb64 billion ($2 billion) in Eurochem debt appear to be non-Russian. The only mention of Sberbank in the prospectus is its involvement in the sale of K+S shares held as collateral. A recent report suggests that the non-Russian banks have grown much more reluctant to lend to Eurochem after the breakup of the potash cartel†became public. Sberbank appears to be Melnichenkoís only state banking sponsor. Country risk, as the Eurochem prospectus acknowledges about Russia, includes unpredictability of state policy. Search the prospectus for the term ìarbitraryî, and you will find four references, each identifying the possibility of a Russian government or state action ìwhich could have a material adverse effect on the Groupís business.î Mitigating that risk is elementary practice for Russians, even Belarusians like Melnichenko, by sharing the risk exposure with the state banks; their risk and credit committees, and boards of directors, make sure of Kremlin approval at the highest level required for the amount of risk involved. This is why the volume of credit and share collateral securing state bank loans to potash mining projects is a telltale measure of Kremlin underwriting. The special relationship of Acronís control shareholder, Vyacheslav Kantor, with President Vladimir Putin has also been reported†before. So what would Eurochemís bond buyers have understood about Melnichenkoís potash prospects had they known last December what is obvious now? Uralkali and Acron far outweigh Eurochem in state bank underwriting; Sberbankís commitment appears to be to Eurochemís nitrogen business, not to potash. Eurochem has issued a single comment on the potash market since the July revolution began. In its second-quarter†financial release, issued on August 14, the company said: ìFollowing the announced withdrawal of Uralkali from BPC, the probability of a migration of the potash market toward a more commodity type structure where prices are based on marginal producer cost levels has increased. This has no bearing today on our investments and commitment to potash. Given the fairly advanced development stages of both of our two greenfield potash projects and their projected position on the global cost curve, the break-even potash price necessary to justify future investments is meaningfully below todayís marginal producer level.î There has been no specification of that price threshold, not in the bond prospectus, nor since. Melnichenkoís spokesmen in Moscow and London†refuse to respond†to requests for clarifying their chief executiveís earlier suggestion that break-even was around $400. If Melnichenko was tiptoeing, tripping, or bluffing towards an exit when he posted the December 2012 prospectus, the writing was on the wall. It just doesnít appear to be inside the advertisement. Coming soon from Dances With Bears: Vladislav Baumgertnerís writing on the wall of his prison in Minsk.
Flickr/h080Congress comes back from their vacations this month. Among other things, they'll have to address the debt ceiling as well as the expiring continuing resolution, which threatens to shutdown parts of the government after September 30. This is all stuff that Americans have dealt with before. And to a certain extent, we've all been calloused by fiscal brinksmanship. "So far, investors have been complacent about the risks posed by the looming budget fight," said Nouriel Roubini. "They believe that ‚Äì as in the past ‚Äì the fiscal showdown will end with a midnight compromise that avoids both default and a government shutdown." "But investors seem to underestimate how dysfunctional US national politics has become," he warned. "With a majority of the Republican Party on a jihad against government spending, fiscal explosions this autumn cannot be ruled out." So how should investors think about the coming debt limit and spending debate? Perhaps we should consider what happened in the recent past. Goldman Sachs economist Alec Phillips wrote about this in an August 16 note to clients: Will Markets React After So Many False Alarms?Since it is likely that the upcoming fiscal issues will be resolved at the last minute, it would be natural for some market participants to become more concerned as the dates approach. That said, after several rounds of fiscal brinkmanship over the last few years, markets may be somewhat desensitized to the headlines, at least until shortly before the deadline. Not all fiscal showdowns are alike, and the potential market reaction depends on what is at stake. The debt limit debate in 2011 may have had the broadest effect, since the debt limit itself posed an immediate risk to the financial system, while the fiscal reforms being negotiated alongside the debt limit would affect the fiscal stance, sectors dependent on federal spending, and economic growth more broadly. For this reason (as well as unrelated factors, such as deterioration in the Euro Area around the same time) significant effects were seen in confidence, interest rates, and equities, among other measures. By contrast, a government shutdown would have much more limited consequences and thus should also have much more limited market effects. Exhibit 5 shows equity volatility, the change in 10-year Treasury yields, and the change in a basket of equities with exposure to government revenues constructed by our colleagues in equity research. We would be surprised to see the perceived risk of a government shutdown‚Äîwhich we view as unlikely in any case‚Äîweigh on market sentiment, but it is possible that the debt limit could result in short-lived volatility around the deadline. Like the title says: "Not all fiscal deadlines are created equal." Goldman Sachs
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is expected to retire when the year ends. Currently, the frontrunners to fill that vacated seat include current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen. Yellen has been one of the more dovish members of the Fed, supporting the rationale for easy monetary policy. While Yellen is expected to continue Bernanke's policies, some fear that she'll want to keep things easy for too long. In other words, she's considered a perma-dove. But in a research note to clients on Thursday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Michael Hanson says that's not correct. From his note: First, Yellen isn‚Äôt the perma-dove that some think. She has a centrist‚Äôs record through both easing and tightening cycles. When times called for tighter policies, Yellen supported them ‚Äî she has never cast a dovish dissent. Indeed, former Fed governor Meyer has written that he and Yellen attempted ‚Äî unsuccessfully ‚Äî to convince then-Chairman Alan Greenspan to raise rates in the fall of 1996 due to inflationary concerns. She was also early at the Fed in citing risks from the over-heating housing market, which is hardly an ‚Äúeasy at all costs‚Äù position. Yes, Yellen is very much on the dovish side right now, but that is because the economy arguably warrants it: both inflation and employment growth are too low relative to the Fed‚Äôs dual mandate. Her position also reflects less conviction of a rapid recovery than many of her Fed peers; a recent WSJ analysis showed Yellen has been the most accurate forecaster on the FOMC since the crisis began. So she may seem dovish today, but her track record shows that she was hawkish when the Fed needed to be hawkish.
Flickr/Charalampos KonstantinidisThe beginning of a new month brings a wave of economic data, including the important South Korean trade report. Korean exports accelerated to a year-over-year growth rate of 7.7% in August, up from 2.6% in July. The pace of growth was a 7-month high. And it was much higher than the 3.8% growth expected. Economists across Wall Street dub South Korean exports as the global economic canary in the coal mine. Korean trade data is extremely sensitive to the economic activity in developed and emerging Asia. It usually comes before the first trading session of the month in Asia, which makes it the first of the world's major economic indicators to be released. Here's a break down of the August numbers from Societe Generale's Suktae Oh: A majority of key sectors showed double-digit yoy growth: auto (43.9%, though due to base effects from last yearís large-scale labour strike), ships (26.2%, due to usual volatility in deliveries), mobile phones (25.9%), semiconductors (22.1%) and petrochemicals (12.1%). But sectors like machinery, steel, oil products and display panels contracted from a year ago. In the breakdown by destination, according to the preliminary figures until 20 August, China and US continued to be the key markets for Koreaís exports, while the exports to Japan and the Middle East showed negative yoy growth. Societe Generale
REUTERS/Edgar SuA cosplay enthusiast poses at the Singapore Toy, Game and Comic Convention August 31, 2013.This week brings the August jobs report, the last jobs report before the September Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. This is important because economists currently expect the Fed to begin tapering its $85 billion monthly purchases of mortgage and Treasury bonds. But the decision to taper hinges on the health of jobs and the direction of inflation. This is just one of the many things investors need to worry about as September unfolds. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Chaos in the Emerging Markets has Societe Generale's Albert Edwards warning that we have¬† heard "the final tweet of the canary in the coal mine." "The emerging markets ‚Äòstory‚Äô has once again been exposed as a pyramid of piffle," wrote Edwards. "The EM edifice has come crashing down as their underlying balance of payments weaknesses have been exposed first by the yen‚Äôs slide and then by the threat of Fed tightening." "At the risk of being called a crackpot again, I repeat my forecasts of 450 for the S&amp;P, sub-1% US 10y yields and gold above $10,000," he added. Yikes.
A building in London's financial district ("The City") has been alleged to literally be melting cars on the street via the reflection it creates from the sun. The allegations were reported by Jim Waterson on the website City AM (via Telegraph): THE WALKIE Talkie skyscraper in the City has caused extensive damage to a Jaguar parked on a nearby street ñ as other drivers come forward to say it has also melted parts of their vehicles.† As revealed in City A.M. last week, the buildingís unusual shape is reflecting an ultra bright light onto Eastcheap, with those unlucky enough to park below finding the beam is causing serious damage.† Martin Lindsay, director of a tiling company, said he was distraught to see the warped panels along the side of his high-spec Jaguar XJ.† He said: ìTheyíre going to have to think of something. Iím gutted. How can they let this continue?î The building ó technically called 20 Fenchurch ó is a 37-story skyscraper due for completion next year. Some pictures of the building, found on Instagram, give you a sense of its curvature (which might explain the intense light effect?).   UPDATE: The BBC has tweeted out a photo of the melted car. A London skyscraper is blamed for reflecting light which melted parts of a nearby car: http://t.co/EbJUqc4wUg pic.twitter.com/sPijHkIoEw
Earlier this morning, we gave a rough overview of the global economy. It goes like this: Europe is rebounding, China is doing a tad better than expected, and the US continues along the same path it's been on, which is essentially one of decent, but disappointing performance. So here's a perfect, practical counterpoint to that: Morgan Stanley's European Equity Strategy team has put together 4 big investment ideas to play this world economy. They are: #1 Buy European Exposure #2 Buy China Exposure vs India Exposure #3 Buy China Consumer¬† vs Investment Plays #4 Cautious on Domestic UK Stocks Some of these ideas should be intuitive. The European economy is just starting to lift off again, so betting on Europe should do well (although European stocks have been trouncing US ones lately). The long China vs. India is a reflection of the fact that despite all the "hard landing" hype, China's economy looks far more stable at the moment than its BRIC counterpart. Within China, consumer seems like the play, as the government seems willing to go down a path of "quality" growth, rather than just growth driven by investment, which has already lead to overcapacity in many sectors. And on the UK, Morgan Stanley feels as though there's already been too much of a run there. Meanwhile, here's Morgan Stanley's list of companies with strong exposure to the Chinese consumer. Morgan Stanley
A record was shattered in the world of European football (soccer) this weekend, when Real Madrid paid $144 million to acquire star player Gareth Bale from Tottenham Hotspur. This chart the long history of record breaking European transfer fees. Reuters
It hasn't gotten that much attention, as the world's Bitcoin fascination has faded since this spring. BUT: Worth pointing out that the actual price of Bitcoins has been on a major tear again lately, as it presses up near $150. This is despite increasing oversight and subpoenas from regulators, and all kinds of pronouncements about Bitcoin's death. Via ClarkMoody: Clarkmoody
The biggest story in world oil markets is... Libya. The FT reports on something we talked about last week, which is the fall off in output in recent months. While Syria may have stolen the headlines in the oil market last week, oil traders and refiners are paying closer attention to Libya. The north African country has seen oil output slashed from around 1.4m barrels a day to around 250,000, as ports and oilfields have been closed by striking workers and militias. In the context of global crude production of around 90m b/d, that may not sound like a huge loss. But in the much smaller market for high quality crude oil in which Libya plays a key part, it is critical. This chart from UBS (which we've marked up slightly) shows monthly outages from various countries around the world, and as you can see, in the last two months there's been a big spike in how much oil has come offline. UBS Anyway, while Syria seems to be moving the price of oil psychologically (oil dropped hard in the opening of trading after strikes were delayed), this is where a lot of the real supply issues are coming from.
UK economic data has been improving lately, but wow, this is stunning. August Manufacturing PMI surged to 57.2 from 54.8 in the previous month, as the turnaround gets fierce. Markit
Flickr/Mr. T in DCToday is the perfect day to step back and take a big picture look at the world economy. For one thing, it's Labor Day in the US, so it's a natural time to gain perspective. It's also, fortuitously, PMI Day in the rest of the world, so we have a lot of fresh economic data. So let's hit on the big themes. 1) Europe is coming back. We've been writing about this since early in the summer, but the latest data makes it clear that across the Eurozone, a comeback is happening. Both Spanish and Italian PMIs had their best months since Spring 2011. Germany remains solid. And even Greece (!) is surging back. It's nearly back to growth. This table from Markit nicely tells the whole story in the Eurozone. Markit And it's not just the Eurozone. UK data has been solid lately, and Eastern European numbers are looking very strong. Here for example is the Czech Republic (Poland looks similar). Markit Europe is not "out of the woods" or anything. But the numbers are going in the right direction, which makes everything from debt to politics a lot smoother. 2) China is not crashing For years, China has been in a a Schrˆdinger's Hard Landing. Some people are convinced that it's all falling apart. Others insist that things are just fine, or maybe slowing a tad. Earlier this year there was serious concern about a hard China fall, but the recent data has eased those concerns somewhat. Again going to the latest PMI data, it looks like things are doing fine. Growth isn't at its most spectacular levels, but the situation is not deteriorating too hard, and the numbers right now are a tad better than expected. Markit Anyway, the more important story in China seems to be the government's eagerness to see "quality" growth (i.e. growth that's not just driven by aggressive investment), and also a push to reform and crack down on corruption, which we're seeing in the newsflow coming out of the country. So China might not be the voracious consumer of the world's commodities quite the way it used to be, but a full-on meltdown in the world's most populous country doesn't seem that likely either. 3) Emerging Pain Outside of China, it's clear that several of the world's formerly red-hot emerging markets are experiencing serious pain. Indonesia and India are the pits, as both are seeing deteriorating economic data, a rush of outflows, diving currencies, diving stock markets, inflation, and all that stuff. What's causing the weakness? Part of the issue is being ascribed to the rise in US interest rates causing dollar strength and a reversal of hot-month investment inflows. Strong inflows in earlier years had helped paper over, it's argued, structural flaws in the economy, that now need to be addressed. Just today, both clocked in with some ugly numbers. India had its worst PMI Manufacturing report in years, and Indonesia whiffed on a trade number. The Jakarta Market fell 2.6%. The question is not whether the scene is bad, but whether things develop into a real "crisis." So far, the thinking seems to be that this doesn't have to be an actual crisis-crisis, a la the late 90s. 4) The US: A little better than same-old, same old Better-than-expected growth is right around the corner in the US... of course we've been saying that for like 3 years now. But now, maybe this time it's real. Maybe? Possibly? Economic data in 2013 is a bit stronger, and seems more durable than at any time since the crisis. The labor market continues to improve, and the strength of the housing market is well known. But none of it is that good, especially on the labor front, and lately some of the housing data has been mediocre (though actual prices are quite robust). Once again, goings on in Washington appear likely to be unhelpful. The coming September chaos (Fed nomination, Fed tapering, budget debates, and debt ceiling) are very well known. Once again, it seems like we can't get out of our own way: 5) Some other themes So there's your state of the world: We have the tantalizing prospect of all of the major economies: Japan, Europe, the US, and China in a state of decent growth, which would be something we haven't seen at all since the 2008-2009 global economic crisis. But we have a fresh spate of geopolitical concerns hanging over everything, and the familiar shenanigans out of Washington threatening to the spoil the party.
And as we wrap up our jag of European PMI reports, here's Germany, hitting its best level in over 2 years. Final Germany Manu #PMI rises from July‚Äôs 50.7 to 51.8 in August. Highest reading in just over two years pic.twitter.com/6LZHY5ci7x
Le meh. Whereas its fellow European countries saw nice bounces in August, French manufacturing stayed in contraction at a level of 49.7 in August, per Markit. Markit
And yet more evidence of a European recovery. The Italian PMI manufacturing report, which is up to 51.3. The improvement looks very similar to Spain, which also had its best month since Spring 2011. Markit
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderUS Markets will be closed today, but European markets have started off fall on a great foot. All the big indices are up. Italy, Germany, and France, are all up in the neighborhood of 1.5%. The decision to hold off on Syria by President Obama is being taken as good news by markets. Add in some solid data (improving manufacturing data in both Europe and China) and you have an excuse for gains. SocGen strategist Kit Juckes summarizes the situation thusly: ¬†Better data, a new month and a delay to military action are all decent enough reasons for the yen to fall, peripheral European bonds to out-perform, and high-beta currencies to rally, I am not going to get carried away. Military action is only delayed, for starters. A more meaningful EM/risk rally, is likely only once the Fed has announced ‚Äòtapering' and the Treasury has conducted an auction or two thereafter. I doubt the new, post-taper clearing price for Treasuries is dramatically different from current levels, but we need to cross that hurdle before market confidence can be rebuilt. After that, we shift our attention to the timing and extent of US rate hikes, and since they remain distant, the first move could be to go yield-hunting. So, I'm looking for a ‚Äòproper' risk rally when September ends. For now though, short JPY, long European bonds vs. the US (long Spain vs US for maximum short-term movement) seem like sensible trades.
The evidence keeps piling up that Europe is in a recovery that includes not just the "core" but the periphery as well. Thanks to strength in foreign demand, Spanish manufacturing just had its best month since April 2011, according to the just-released August PMI report from Markit. The PMI (Purchasing Managers Index) is a survey of manufacturers that attempts to gauge whether they saw conditions improve of worsen from the month before. Any reading over 50 indicates growth. Spain's PMI just came in at 51.1, up from 49.8. Markit
India is in the eye of the emerging market storm these days, and we can't stop talking about how the stock market and the currency keep getting whooped. Not surprisingly, it's PMI report came in very weak for August, showing the first monthly economic deterioration in four years. Here's the quick summary. Markit
