REUTERS/Jayanta DeyThe Federal Reserve is currently "reviewing" a landmark 2003 decision that first allowed regulated banks to trade in physical commodity markets. Why exactly shouldn't banks be able to trade physical commodities? To see one argument, take a look at a big report from David Kocieniewski in today's New York Times. According to Kocieniewski, a Goldman Sachs-owned company has been involved in an elaborate plan to move around aluminum in a way that has inflated market prices. The report states that every time an American consumer buys a product containing aluminum, they pay a price that has been affected by this maneuver. Sources told The New York Times that in total the plan has cost American consumers more than $5 billion over the last three years, Kocieniewski's investigation centers on Metro International Trade Services, an aluminum storage company that Goldman Sachs bought three years ago. According to the Times, since Goldman bought the company the average wait time at the storage facility has gone up more than 20-fold. As the wait times are longer, the companies' revenues for storing the aluminium are higher. This cost is reflected in the market price of aluminum. Aluminum storage facilities are not allowed to mindlessly sit on aluminum ‚Äî industry standards require them to move 3,000 tons of the metal every day. However, according to the Times, Metro International gets around this law by moving the metal between its own warehouses every day. One analyst estimated that around 90% of the metal moved each day went to another Goldman-owned warehouse. The body that governs the industry has shown little interest in reforming the practice, Kocieniewski writes. This may be because the body ‚Äî the London Metals Exchange ‚Äî collects 1% of the rent from aluminum storage facilities. Limiting the amount of rent received would cost it millions. This all makes for a somewhat absurd working environment. Workers told the Times that they'd routinely see the same drivers making three or four round trips a day. Some warehouses reportedly sat empty 12 or more hours a day, the Times reports, despite the huge backlog. If the practice is as the Times describes it, it is very hard to see what value is given to society by the activity. A loose coalition of companies that use aluminium ‚Äî including Boeing and Coca-Cola ‚Äî have begun to put pressure on Goldman. However, the issue may go beyond aluminum ‚Äî JP Morgan, Blackrock and Goldman have all been given approval by the SEC to buy a large amount of copper available on the market and stockpile it, Kocieniewski reports.
" ...there are downside risks to economic growth relating to the housing market. This sector has been a key source of strength in the current expansion, and the concern is that, if house prices fell, the negative impact on household wealth c ould lead to a pullback in consumer spending. Certainly, analyses do indicate that house prices are abnormally high‚Äîthat there is a "bubble" element, even accounting for factors that would support high house prices, such as low mortgage interest rates. So a reversal is certainly a possibility. Moreover, even the portion of house prices that is explained by low mortgage rates is at risk." And in 2006 she was talking about "ghost towns" in the West: According to some of our contacts elsewhere in this Federal Reserve District, data like these are actually "behind the curve," and they're willing to bet that things will get worse before they get better. For example, a major home builder has told me that the share of unsold homes has topped 80 percent in some of the new subdivisions around Phoenix and Las Vegas, which he labeled the new "ghost towns" of the West. What was Larry Summers saying about housing in 2005 and 2006? From the WaPo: In August 2005, Raghuram Rajan, an economist at the University of Chicago‚Äôs Booth School of Business, predicted the financial crisis. And he did it at possibly the least friendly of venues: a conference of high-powered economists who had convened in part to honor Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. Rajan presented a paper titled ‚ÄúHas Financial Innovation Made the World Riskier?‚Äù His answer, put simply, was ‚ÄúYes.‚Äù He was dismissed by the assembled masters of the universe. ‚ÄúMisguided,‚Äù said Larry Summers. But Rajan was right. Note: I started this blog in January 2005, and I was writing frequently about the housing bubble - the coming housing bust - and the impact on the U.S. economy.¬† I quoted Yellen on housing, but never Summers (I'm pretty sure Summers didn't see the housing bubble). I'd like to see reporters dig into the track record of both individuals instead of just reporting on "personality" differences. As an example, most people (not all) now understand that a little inflation is better than no inflation. Janet Yellen was able to convince Alan Greenspan of this view in the '90s. From Binyamin Appelbaum at the NY Times: Possible Fed Successor Has Admirers and Foes  In July 1996, the Federal Reserve broke the metronomic routine of its closed-door policy-making meetings to hold an unusual debate. The Fed‚Äôs powerful chairman, Alan Greenspan, saw a chance for the first time in decades to drive annual inflation all the way down to zero, achieving the price stability he had long regarded as the central bank‚Äôs primary mission. But Janet L. Yellen, then a relatively new and little-known Fed governor, talked Mr. Greenspan to a standstill that day, arguing that a little inflation was a good thing. She marshaled academic research that showed it would reduce the depth and frequency of recessions, articulating a view that has prevailed at the Fed. And as the Fed‚Äôs vice chairwoman since 2010, Ms. Yellen has played a leading role in cementing the central bank‚Äôs commitment to keep prices rising about 2 percent each year. Unfortunately most of the focus now seems to be on leadership style (I prefer Yellen's style), from a Bloomberg article: Yellen or Summers: Who'd Be Better at Running the Fed? Where Yellen and Summers may differ most is in their leadership style. That may be the critical issue for a Fed that's trying to be more open about its thinking despite disagreements among its top policy makers. The Fed's minutes show Yellen as influential but not particularly loud and outspoken. It's safe to say Summers would be loud and outspoken -- and authoritarian rather than merely influential. And from the LA Times: Obama may choose between two economists to replace Bernanke at Fed President Obama's choice for replacing Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke probably comes down to a quiet consensus builder, who would be a historic pick, or one considered brilliant but difficult to work with. I don't believe in the indispensable man (or woman), but I think Janet Yellen is the right person for the job.
(Reuters) - Wall Street is experiencing its best month since January and looks poised to extend the rally with a deluge of†earnings†next week, though significant gains may be harder to come by with major indexes at record highs. Eight†Dow†components and†Apple†(AAPL.O) are among the companies that will report in one of the busiest weeks of the†earnings†season. Some 157 companies in the†S&amp;P†500 index will release results. Second-quarter†earnings†have been above forecasts so far, but analysts' estimates have dropped precipitously since the start of the year. Earnings for†S&amp;P†500 companies are seen rising 2.9 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data, down from an 8.4 percent growth expected at the start of the year. Revenue is seen growing 1.1 percent. Still, stronger-than-expected reports spurred gains in IBM (IBM.N), General Electric (GE.N) and others. In addition, Wall Street†banksCitigroup, Goldman Sachs and†Morgan Stanley†reported strong earnings. For this week, the Dow rose 0.5 percent, the S&amp;P added 0.7 percent and the†Nasdaq†fell 0.3 percent. The benchmark S&amp;P is up 18.6 percent for the year. On the other side of the ledger, Microsoft (MSFT.O) was a big disappointment, and its shares fell 12 percent on Friday. Both Microsoft and Google (GOOG.O) fell short of Wall Street expectations, causing their shares to slump. Of the 104 companies in the S&amp;P 500 that have reported through Friday, 65.4 percent had earnings above analyst expectations, while 51 percent topped revenue estimates. EYES ON APPLE Apple, the second-largest U.S. company by market capitalization, will be watched to see if it can reverse the trend of weaker-than-expected tech sector earnings. The company, which is due to report on Tuesday after the market's close, is expected to show a drop of more than 21 percent in quarterly profit and revenue growth of 0.2 percent. The Federal Reserve has been the primary driver of the market for a long time. But that should change, at least for a time, after investors were reassured that the Fed would be flexible in the timing of its withdrawal of stimulus measures and would keep interest rates ultra-low for an extended period. The Fed's stimulus played a major part in the S&amp;P's advance so far this year. Investors now speculate earnings will be the next catalyst to push stocks higher. "So far it's been about the Fed supporting the movement upwards, but at a certain point there's a handoff, and earnings will have to take over," said Kristina Hooper, head of investment and client strategies at Allianz Global Investors in New York. "Earnings are going to be so critical to the future of the stock market recovery." Analysts have generally been bullish on 2013's second half, though they have been slowly lowering estimates for the third and fourth quarters to reflect concerns about the economy's growth. Per-share earnings growth is expected to be 7.8 percent in the third quarter and 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter. That compares with a July 1 estimate of 8.5 percent growth and 13 percent growth, respectively, according to Thomson Reuters data. NEED FOR REVENUE GROWTH "Revenue growth is especially important," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial in Boston. "If revenues aren't increasing, it's going to be awfully tough for the bottom line to increase." Joy, who helps oversee about $708 billion in assets, added that it was encouraging to see revenue coming in slightly ahead of expectations. "My sense is that the markets can hang in there next week," he said. "The trend is to the upside." General Electric Chief Executive Jeff Immelt said he was bullish on the outlook for the rest of the year, a sentiment echoed by other executives. But Nick Heymann, an analyst at William Blair &amp; Co, which trades GE shares, said for GE to achieve its goal of boosting 2013 margins by 0.7 percent would "require Herculean improvement in the second half. With 21 percent of the S&amp;P components having reported, roughly two-thirds have beaten profit expectations, slightly above the historical average. About half of the companies have topped revenue forecasts, a rate better than the average over the past four quarters. Next week's earnings roster includes Dow components AT&amp;T (T.N), McDonald's (MCD.N) and Boeing Co (BA.N). Ford Motor Co (F.N), Visa (V.N) and United Parcel Service (UPS.N) are also due. UPS, which is viewed as a proxy for business activity, recently cut its outlook, citing a weak U.S. economy and overcapacity in the global air freight market. Economic indicators next week include sales of new and existing homes. Sentiment among builders remains bullish, though housing starts and permits for future homes hit a 10-month low in June. "Obviously a big surprise there to the downside will cause a lot of caution," said Andrew Yorks, chief investment officer at Four Wood Capital Partners in New York. "The housing sector's been a core part of what the Fed is focusing on." June existing-home sales, which are due Monday, are seen rising 0.6 percent compared with a 4.2 percent jump in the previous month. New-home sales for June are also seen rising, according to Thomson Reuters estimates.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The¬†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission¬†on Friday charged hedge fund mogulSteven A.¬†Cohen¬†with failing to supervise a former¬†SAC Capital¬†Advisors portfolio manager and another SAC executive, both of whom are facing criminal and civil insider trading charges. The SEC charges are part of a long-running probe of¬†Cohen¬†and his $15 billion hedge fund by regulators and federal investigators in which nine one-time SAC employees have been charged or implicated with insider trading. Here is a timeline of major events in the investigation: 2009 -¬†Raj Rajaratnam, founder of hedge fund the¬†Galleon Group, is arrested in October and charged with securities fraud and conspiracy. 2009 - Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a co-founder of hedge fund¬†Spherix Capital¬†and former¬†SAC Capital¬†employee arrested as part of the Galleon probe, begins cooperating with the government. He provides authorities with evidence of alleged insider trading he may have engaged in while at¬†SAC Capital. 2011- U.S. prosecutors charge three hedge fund portfolio managers and a hedge fund analyst with insider trading, including former SAC portfolio managers Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil. Freeman pleads guilty in February 2011 and Longueuil pleads guilty in April 2011. 2011 - Former SAC analyst¬†Jonathan Hollander¬†reaches a civil settlement in April 2011 with the SEC over allegations he engaged in insider trading in his personal account while working at SAC. 2012 - Technology analyst¬†Jon Horvath, who was supervised by¬†Michael Steinberg¬†at SAC, is charged with using inside information on Dell Inc to help SAC earn a $1 million profit. Horvath pleads guilty in September 2012. 2012 - In December a grand jury indicts¬†Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at¬†CR Intrinsic Investors, one of SAC's funds, in what prosecutors call the "most lucrative" insider trading scheme ever. The case is the first to make reference to¬†Cohen, calling him the owner of the fund. Martoma pleads not guilty. 2013 - In March U.S. prosecutors charge¬†Michael Steinberg, a top executive at SAC, with insider trading in shares of computer maker Dell Inc and chipmaker Nvidia Corp that generated about $1.4 million in illegal profits. He is the most senior SAC employee to be indicted in the probe. He pleads not guilty. 2013 - In March SAC affiliate CR Intrinsic agrees to pay more than $600 million to settle charges relating to the Martoma investigation. It is the largest settlement of its¬†2013 - In May,¬†Cohen¬†and four other SAC executives receive subpoenas to testify before a federal grand jury about allegations of insider trading.¬†Cohen¬†declines to testify, citing his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. 2013 - In June, SAC investors ask to withdraw about $3 billion from¬†Cohen's fund as the insider trading probe heats up. 2013 - In July the SEC charges¬†Cohen¬†with failing to supervise¬†Mathew Martoma¬†and¬†Michael Steinberg, seeking to¬†bar¬†Cohen¬†from the financial industry and managing other people's money. SAC says¬†Cohen¬†will fight the charges "vigorously."kind.¬†Sigma Capital Management, also an SAC unit, agrees to pay nearly $14 million to settle a separate insider trading case. 2013 - In April lawyers for SAC call a meeting with U.S. prosecutors and FBI agents to argue that there should be no insider trading charges filed against¬†Cohen¬†or his hedge fund.¬†Cohen's lawyers make a detailed presentation as to why authorities did not have enough evidence to charge¬†Cohen¬†with either insider trading or any other securities law violation. ¬† ¬†
Library of CongressDetroit filed the largest municipal bankruptcy in history this week before a Michigan judge declared it unconstitutional. The city has long been in decline and rapidly losing population, but it hasn't always been that way. The automobile industry had its home base in Detroit and the population spiked from just over†285,000 in 1900 to over 1.5 million by 1930. Downtown was bustling with large industrial buildings, hotels, trolleys and street cars. There were also numerous parks, theaters and opera houses for recreation.These photos from the Library of Congress and Wikimedia Commons show what Detroit looked like in its prime. Shlomo Sprung contributed to this story.
Hedge funds get all the glory... and now they're even going to get all the press, courtesy of the JOBS Act, and I'm more than excited to see who thinks they actually need to advertise to bring in the flows. However, while a hedge fund is structured to make one man insanely rich and a few others relatively wealthy, the asset management business has a much wider set of financial outcomes for its employees, and even more for its owners. The purpose of this article is to give you guys an idea of what the business itself really is when we say an Asset Manager or a Hedge Fund. I'll try to go over what makes each different (the basics), how each makes money, and why one may be much more ideal for you than the other, especially early in a career. With that, let's respect our elders, so we'll start with the Asset Managers. Traditional Asset Management The standard form of asset management is a long-only strategy designed to offer investors various levels of equity exposure in certain industries, company sizes, and whatever else they may please. In general there's three different types of investors that utilize these services: retail clients via mutual funds, high-net worth individuals via separately-managed accounts, and institutional investors via large dedicated products. Fees are very straightforward, though they can be tiered by investor type and bulk discounts aren't too uncommon. Generally speaking, the big money gets the lowest fees, meaning the institutional products which make up the majority of the typical firm's AUM aren't paying your typical 1%... more like half of that or slightly more if you're particularly good. Institutional money sends out an RFP to a bunch of different firms they like and you essentially bid on their accounts. All the usual suspects tend to be involved: your big guys like a Fidelity or a T. Rowe, some of the smaller but reputable firms (see my Top Asset Manager thread for more on that), and any specialty firms that might be particularly skilled at the kind of asset class the accounts are trying to invest in. Institutions like pensions, endowments, brokers, private wealth, etc. all are the customers that dominate this portion of the business. This is probably the least sticky of the three businesses, as short-term performance matters most and allocations can be taken away fairly quickly when you start to hit a rough patch. Mutual funds generally cater to the retail investor as well as the institutions mentioned above. Fees here tend to be around 1% in most cases for actively managed funds, but can be significantly lower with funds that are a lot larger, and south of 15bps in most types of passive fund, usually 10bps and sometimes even lower. High-net worth is one most places no longer spend much time on, as it's a lot more relationship-driven and tends to be much less sensitive to performance as a result. Clients have much different objectives than your typical institutional money and therefore things are a lot more sticky, fees can be slightly higher, etc. though more and more the industry is seeing high-net move away from being a direct relationship, as financial planners and consultants are making the investing decisions for these individuals and things become a lot more institutionalized and formal. "Models and Bottles" isn't the motto here, more like "Flows before Hoes." You can imagine how unbelievably scaleable the business can get once you build AUM. The only real costs of the business are your variable costs on transactions, payments to gatekeepers that distribute funds or act as finders , etc. These variable costs can eat pretty significantly into your take-out, but after the variables are all covered up, assuming something like a weighted average on AUM around 70-75bps, you're probably still left with a cool 20bps for the last big piece of cost... compensation. In a decent-sized fund that would see this kind of breakdown (like my old fund), and by decent-sized I mean something like 30-100B. So if you're running, say, a $50B firm and raking 15bps to comp your analysts and equityholders, that's not all that shabby at $75M. This illustrates the scaleability, given you don't really need to take on any more analysts or pay any meaningful incremental overhead to accommodate another $1B when you're running $50B already... so that 15bps may be $75M to 20 analysts and partners today, but doubling AUM would turn that 15bps into $150M to the same 20 analysts and partners. And that can make those 20 guys pretty rich pretty quick, especially with a better cost structure than the one I've laid out. The Hedge Fund Model This one's different and obviously it's not as uniform in structure as asset management because there's way more room for differentiation and the competition isn't as fierce on the fee side as a result of that. Fees work out generally as a management fee that is assessed the same way as an asset manager would, and an incentive/performance fee where the fund gets a percentage of the profits it makes for its investors (over a certain "hurdle rate" in some cases, and only over the fund's high water mark, basically meaning they can't double charge you fees on gains that are really just making up for previous losses). This structure is arguably better for incentivizing money managers, or worse for giving them the incentive to take additional risk so they can rack up huge fees. Hedge funds do attract some of the same clients as asset managers, but generally you don't invest with a hedge fund unless you are looking for a very different type of strategy (hence the word "hedge" in the name... we can short and that's frequently what they want from you) or even just investors willing to pay up for a brand name manager or to feel savvy because they like the idea of a hedge fund better. Hedge funds tend to make one man insanely rich, and in most cases funds are very flat across the analyst pool but most/all decisions are made by a single PM or very limited number of PMs. Walking through the dynamics of a $1B fund, things would go like this... in this environment, and without a very distinguished track record and/or superstar managers, you'd be beyond lucky to get the old 2 and 20 fee structure. More normal now in my experience is a 1-1.5% management fee and a 15-20% incentive, though you tend to charge up on smaller accounts and down on larger ones. So let's say we're running a 1%/20% fund with $1B under management... and let's say we hugged the S&amp;P for the most part and came away with a 20% return last year. We'll get $10M in management fee on our 1%, and 20% of our $200M return, or $40M. So essentially, we've had very little unique outperformance and yet we walked away this year with $50M on $1B with which to pay costs of perhaps 40% of that, and then comp our analysts. Keep in mind our buddies running $50B who probably performed comparably (as they are long-only) or possibly better, are only getting $75M to our $30M on $1B. However, had we lost money, we'd be looking at $10M or maybe even less, and our costs are fixed... so it might be more like all of that (or more) to cover expenses. All the sudden nobody's getting a bonus, rather than 8 analysts all getting a million bucks and the PM walking away with $22M for his 20% year. With a profile like that, hedge funds are much less about flows and way more about hitting the long ball. One amazing year can make a PM extremely rich, and that's all he needs to basically have enough money to spend in 10 lifetimes. Rather than the "flows before hoes" mantra of the AM industry, this is more like "go big or go home." And like I said, this can sometimes warp manager incentives to the point that they're no longer even investing with the type of strategy their LPs were paying them for in the first place. For the rest of this piece head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Preqin Hedge Fund AnalystIn June, the hedge fund industry posted negative monthly returns ‚Äì losing 1.52% ‚Äì for the first time in over a year. Industry-wide performance last month was so bad that hedge funds barely managed to eke out positive returns ‚Äì only 0.14% ‚Äì in the second quarter. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 was up 2.36% in Q2, marking a continued trend of hedge fund underperformance versus the broader market. "The third quarter of this year could prove to be a decisive one for the industry; investors are still hungry for strong performance following weak returns in 2011 and the flat to negative performance in Q2 has dampened the year to date success of hedge funds," says research consultancy Preqin in its latest quarterly report. "Investors and fund managers alike will be waiting to see improvement in July‚Äôs figures in the hope that the industry can recover from the disappointment in June." The Preqin report offers some color on what's going on in the industry right now: Three hundred funds have been launched so far in 2013. In Q2 2013, we have witnessed further growth in the proportion of event driven strategies coming into the market, as fund managers continue to see opportunities in this space. Conversely, launches in the CTA and macro strategy sector, the two worst performing strategies over 2013 so far, continue to slow.  Over 250 investors initiated searches for new funds in Q2. Long/short equity funds are most commonly being sought by institutional investors and we have also seen an increase in investors looking to invest through separately managed accounts to take advantage of the additional transparency, liquidity and control these structures can offer. The table below shows recent monthly and quarterly performance figures for various hedge funds grouped by strategy. Preqin Hedge Fund Analyst
en.wikipedia.orgSteve Vernon, F.S.A., is a consulting research scholar at the Stanford Center on Longevity and president of¬†Rest-of-Life Communications, where he delivers retirement planning workshops. Vernon writes the¬†Money for Life¬†blog for CBS MoneyWatch and is author of¬†Money for Life: Turn Your IRA and 401(k) Into a Lifetime Retirement Paycheck. The New York Times recently published an article headlined ‚ÄúFor Retirees, a Million-Dollar Illusion,‚Äù which questioned whether $1 million in savings is enough to retire on, given today‚Äôs low interest rates and stock market volatility, the potential for inflation and increased life spans.¬†The article sparked a media frenzy ‚Äì how could $1 million¬†not¬†be adequate, many people responded ‚Äì and only served to further depress the majority of Americans with retirement savings of far less than $1 million.¬†So is $1 million enough money to retire on?¬†(MORE:¬†Tool: Retirement Planning Estimator)Where $1 Million Might Not Be EnoughI‚Äôd say the answer is yes, unless perhaps you live in a high-cost area, like New York City or an affluent section of Los Angeles, San Francisco or Washington, D.C.Even with $1 million, however, you‚Äôll still need to make smart decisions about generating retirement income from your savings and when to claim Social Security benefits.¬†Let me show you how your retirement could work out if you‚Äôre part of a married couple who are both 65 and have $1 million in total retirement savings. I‚Äôll also explain how you can retire with less than¬† $1 million and reduce your anxiety about outliving your money.¬†The first step is to establish how much annual income you¬†really¬†need in retirement.¬†The 80 Percent Rule May Not Hold for YouThe Times article cited the often-repeated goal of aiming for a retirement income equal to 80 percent of your pre-retirement income. As this theory goes, you‚Äôll need less than 100 percent of your pre-retirement income because your income taxes will be lower in retirement, you won‚Äôt be paying FICA taxes or incurring work-related expenses and you won‚Äôt be saving any more for retirement.¬†The story estimated that a couple could piece together an annual retirement income of $61,000 to $71,000 with a $1 million portfolio and Social Security, but said that probably wouldn‚Äôt be enough for people accustomed to living on at least $150,000 per year. (That's the median income for the top 10 percent of households, roughly the ranking of a family with $1 million in assets.)¬†(MORE:¬†Are You Saving Enough for Retirement?)Maybe living on $71,000 or so would be a challenge for readers of The New York Times, but I‚Äôm sure many Americans could do just fine on it. The U.S. Department of Labor‚Äôs¬†Consumer Expenditure Survey¬†shows that households headed by people age 65 to 74 had an average annual pretax income of $52,521 in 2011.¬†For many people, however, even the 80 percent rule of thumb overestimates how much retirement income you‚Äôll need.¬†That's because you‚Äôll need significantly less income compared to your career years if you‚Äôve paid off your mortgage by the time you retire or shortly thereafter; you‚Äôre no longer supporting your kids financially; you won‚Äôt be taking expensive vacations each year and you don‚Äôt need to buy the latest car or electronic gadget.¬†You might well find that you can get by with a retirement income of 50 to 75 percent of your pre-retirement income.¬†The bottom line: Don‚Äôt use general rules of thumb. Estimate¬†your¬†budget for retirement living expenses, based on¬†your¬†circumstances. You might want to use a free online retirement planning calculator, like¬†Fidelity‚Äôs Retirement Income Planner¬†or the¬†Employee Benefit Research Institute‚Äôs Ballpark E$timate calculator.Indexing Retirement Income for InflationThe Times article also repeated another oft-cited rule of thumb ‚Äì that your retirement income must be fully indexed for inflation.¬†(MORE:¬†The Most Important Thing to Know About Your 401(k))While inflation should be a concern when planning your retirement, people actually spend¬†less¬†money as they age. For example, according to that Consumer Expenditures Study, households headed by people age 75 and older had an average annual pre-tax income of $32,144 in 2011, significantly below the average for people between 65 and 74.¬†This phenomenon could rationalize arranging for some retirement income that doesn‚Äôt increase fully for inflation.¬†How Much $1 Million Could ProvideBy my calculations, our hypothetical couple with $1 million and Social Security could generate a total annual retirement income of about $75,000 starting at age 65. That‚Äôs well above the current average income for Americans 65 to 74.¬†More than half of that income ‚Äì 60 percent ‚Äì could be guaranteed for life, indexed for inflation and not impacted by stock market declines or interest rate volatility.¬†Here‚Äôs how the couple could assemble this retirement income:¬†The primary breadwinner would delay claiming Social Security benefits until age 70¬†using¬†strategies advocated by Dr. John Shoven, director of the Stanford Institute for Economics Policy Research.¬†The breadwinner would ‚Äúfile and suspend‚Äù Social Security benefits at age 66, enabling his or her spouse to start receiving Social Security spousal benefits at 66. If you‚Äôre unfamiliar with this strategy, read an¬†article I wrote about the file and suspend strategy.¬†The couple would set aside a portion of their retirement savings to withdraw between age 65 and 70.The annual amount withdrawn would cover the Social Security income they would have received beginning at 66 had they chosen to start taking the breadwinner‚Äôs Social Security benefits then.¬†The remaining assets from their portfolio would be split in half, with both halves devoted to generating retirement lifetime income starting at 65.¬†Half of this savings would be used to buy low-cost sources of lifetime monthly retirement income guaranteed by well-rated insurers. This pot would be split in half again, divided between an annuity with fixed monthly payments and an inflation-adjusted annuity.¬†If the couple was worried about the possibility that the insurer might go bankrupt, they could limit the purchase amount of each annuity to the amount guaranteed by their¬†state‚Äôs guaranty association.¬†They‚Äôd invest the other half of their savings in low-cost mutual funds; 60 percent in stocks and 40 percent in bonds. The couple would withdraw roughly 4 percent of the remaining value of assets each year. The resulting retirement income would fluctuate, depending on the performance of the stock and bond markets.¬†Now what if you don‚Äôt have $1 million in savings?¬†Income From a $500,000 PortfolioWell, let‚Äôs use the same strategies, but assume the couple has a $500,000 retirement portfolio.¬†By my calculations, they could generate a total retirement income of about $52,500 a year at 65, which is roughly equal to the average income for Americans in this age group. More than three-fourths of this income would be guaranteed and indexed for inflation.¬†And here‚Äôs another possible scenario: Let‚Äôs assume the couple will work part-time until age 70; have $500,000 in retirement savings that they won‚Äôt touch until they‚Äôre 70 and will still use the file and suspend strategy to start the spouse‚Äôs Social Security benefits at 66. (This example presumes they‚Äôll be healthy enough to keep working and that they‚Äôll be able to find part-time jobs.)¬†By my calculations, this couple would have a total retirement income of about $60,000 a year starting at age 70, with more than two-thirds of the money guaranteed and indexed for inflation.¬†So it¬†is¬†possible to retire with $1 million in savings ‚Äì or even with¬†half¬†that amount.¬†By the way, the same strategies I‚Äôve mentioned could be used for singles to achieve similar results.¬†P.S. Want to check my numbers?¬† Here are my assumptions: Like this article?¬†Sign up for Next Avenue's weekly newsletter¬†to get more fascinating articles and blogs about work, finance and lifestyle issues geared to a 50+ audience.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFrederick Smith, Chairman and CEO of FedEx Corporation, listens to remarks at a news conference held by members of the Energy Security Leadership Council in Washington in December 13, 2006.FedEx ships¬† goods all over the world. As such, economists follow the company closely as it is considered to be one of the most reliable bellwethers of global economic activity. FedEx CEO Fred Smith gave a brief presentation this week to the Committee for Economic Development titled "Restoring America's Economic Growth." In it, he presented 14 economic charts that he considered important to understanding what's going on. He expressed particular concern over persistent unemployment amid slow growth.¬† "Lack of investment, the U.S. dependence on foreign petroleum, and finally the inability to engage in a more productive trade relationship are at the heart of low growth rates," said Smith. Smith favors corporate tax reform that would encourage business investment, which he demonstrates, is tightly correlated to job creation.
REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (L), who is also leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, shakes hands with voters during his stumping tour for the July 21 Upper House election in Funabashi, east of Tokyo July 19, 2013. Japanese shares recoiled from a two-month high on Friday in a sudden reversal sparked by profit-taking before a weekend election that should see Abe gain control of the upper house of parliament.After this weekend, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo†Abe "will have no more excuses," say SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economists Kiyoko Katahira and Klaus Baader. Abe's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), along with its coalition partner, appears poised to take control of the Japanese Diet's Upper House after dominating the Lower House elections in December. With a majority in both houses of the Japanese legislature, Abe will now have a chance to implement the third and most important part of his "Abenomics" program of experimental economic stimulus: long-term structural reform. The first two components of Abenomics ñ fiscal and monetary stimuli ñ have already been put in place by the Bank of Japan and the Abe administration. These measures have already caused a substantial depreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar and a concurrent surge in the Japanese stock market, in line with the government's objectives. Business Insider/Matthew BoeslerSince late May, however, the Japan rally has faltered, and the dollar has paused in its upward trajectory against the yen. The implication is that financial markets have already priced in the fiscal and monetary measures and are now waiting to see what progress can be made with all-important structural reforms, which will take longer and be more difficult to implement. Strategists like Makoto Yamashita at Deutsche Bank argue that given the likelihood that LDP takes a majority in the Upper House this weekend, the outcome of the election has already been discounted by financial markets. "The Upper House election will be held on the 21st, but the market does not seem focused on it," says Yamashita. "The market appears to be turning its attention to fiscal policy following the election." Goldman Sachs equity strategist Kathy Matsui agrees, writing in a note to clients this week, "Since an LDP/Komeito majority is widely expected by investors, the net impact on the equity market would be neutral (or potentially positive if the LDP wins a landslide victory)." On the other hand, strategists like SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale's Kit Juckes see this weekend's election as the catalyst for the next big move in the Japan rally. "Control of both houses would give PM Abe freedom to push through policies that should see the yen weaken significantly further," says Juckes. "I think the move to USD/JPY 110 starts†on Monday." (The dollar is currently trading around •100.60.) What happens next? SocGen's Katahira and Baader write in a note to clients: After the upcoming upper house election, there are no scheduled national elections for three years. So, assuming that PM Abe maintains high approval ratings, Japan can look forward to a period of stable, and strong, government. But this also means that the government has†no more excuses not to embark on what is likely to prove the hardest bid of Abenomics, namely reforming and restructuring the economy so as to boost its medium- to long-term growth potential, i.e. the so-called third arrow. Until now, this has remained rather ill-defined, with some heroic goals pronounced, but little in the way of concrete†policies of how to get there. Ahead of the upper house election, this was quite understandable, as reforms will undoubtedly challenge vested interests, which Mr Abe would not want to antagonize. But with power consolidated, there can be no more excuses. Indeed, unless the government aggressively pushes ahead with the third arrow, the honeymoon the Abe administration†has enjoyed with both voters and investors may quickly come to an end. It is no exaggeration to say that the third arrow is by far the most important of the lot. Below is a breakdown of the election math from the global macro strategy team at UBS: The LDP and its coalition partner the New Komeito party should win at least a†majority of the seats in the country's upper house election this Sunday. Half of†the upper houseís 242 seats are up for election, with 121 seats up for grabs ñ 44†of which belong to the opposition Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ). The LDP†and new Komeito coalition need to win 63 seats to gain a majority in the upper†house. This appears very achievable according to recent public polls. Several†media organizations project the LDP-led bloc to garner more than 76 out of the†121-contested seats, which would constitute an ìabsolute stable majority.î This†would allow the LDP to effectively control all of the major committees in the†upper house as over 50% of the committee members would come from the LDP†and all major committee chairmen would also be appointed by the LDP. This†coupled with the LDP-led coalition majority in the lower house would give them†an unchallenged hold over policymaking. Also note that if the LDP can win 72†seats on its own then it will have a single-party majority in the upper house that†would leave it less dependent on its coalition partner the New Komeito party. UBS, Mainichi, Asahi and Yomiuri news, The House of Councillors, The House of Representatives 
Note from dshort: I'm reposting this commentary to share links to a fascinating series of articles called to my attention this morning by Kimberly Green: These three articles provide an excellent context for my observations below. My friend Robert Brokamp, one of the stalwarts at The Motley Fool, called my attention to an interesting Atlantic article published earlier this week: A Mystery Behind the Rise of Student Debt. The mystery is embedded in this set of observations: The mystery, it seems, is how to explain the 25% decline in real (inflation-adjusted) out-of-pocket funding during the roaring '90s, when real household incomes actually rose, unlike the 21st century (more on household income here). The Atlantic article comes to no conclusion, and I have nothing definitive to offer in that regard. However, it's useful to consider the out-of-pocket funding in the context of the long-term trend for college tuition and fees. Here is a chart of data from the relevant Consumer Price Index subcomponent reaching back to 1978, the earliest year Uncle Sam provides a breakout for College Tuition and Fees. As an interesting sidebar, I've thrown in the increase in the cost of purchasing a new car as well as the more substantial increase for the broader category of medical care, both of which pale in comparison. † † During that decade of the '90s, when real out-of-pocket funding declined 25%, tuition and fees rose 92%, which sounds substantial ... until you compare it to the 1140% across the complete data series. Since the days of my own modest private college expenses (a decade before the timeframe in the chart above) paying for college was sort of like buying a car. But in recent decades, it has become more like buying house, for which the strategy of a minimum down payment is commonplace for first-time buyers. The annual stair-step rise in college costs is probably the most dramatic visualization of inflation data I routinely produce. The only chart I have that rivals it is my quarterly snapshot of federal loans to students from the Fed Flow of Funds report. Sadly, the chart above illustrates only about half of student loans outstanding. I don't have a data source for private loans for college expenses, but most estimates I've seen suggest that federal loans only constitute about half the total student indebtedness.
Fed Chairman Bernanke used his appearance before the House and Senate finance committees as yet another opportunity to soft-pedal his original ill-conceived effort to explain the eventual winding down of QE. In doing so he emphasized the risks to the economy in the coming period and the FOMCís intention to keep monetary policy as accommodative as needed. His testimony had the intended effect of boosting the stock market, but was far less successful in talking down the long-term bond rate that is so crucial to keep the still-fragile housing market growing. Bernanke, while giving a seemingly token nod to what he called ìimprovingî economic conditions, stated that the economy still faces ìsignificant risksî. He said it was too early to tell if the economy had weathered the full impact of tighter fiscal policy ìor that the debate concerning other fiscal policy issues, such as the debt ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery.î He added that ìwith the recovery still proceeding at only a moderate pace, the economy remains vulnerable to unanticipated shocks, including the possibility that global economic growth may be slower than currently anticipated.î The Chairman took pains to point out that the Fedís asset purchases were ìby no means on a preset courseî and could be maintained longer if their economic and inflation forecasts were less favorable than they expected. He even mentioned the possibility of actually increasing the pace of purchases if necessary. To further reassure the markets, he pointed out that even reaching the previously stated goal of a 6.5% unemployment rate would not necessarily result in monetary tightening if it occurred for the wrong reasons, namely a significant additional drop in the labor force participation rate. In our view, however, reassuring investors was not Bernankeís only reason for putting such heavy emphasis on the risks to the economy. The Chairman must know that the economic projections the FOMC issued after their last meeting are already obsolete on the high side. The committee finished its meeting on June 18th, meaning that their projection of likely 2013 GDP growth in the range of 2.3%-to-2.6% had to be compiled sometime before. The disappointing first quarter GDP growth of only 1.8% was released on June 26th. Subsequently, below par reports on retail sales, inventories and exports led most economists to reduce second quarter GDP growth to about 1% or even less. At the time the FOMC made their 2013 GDP forecast, the previously reported GDP growth for the first quarter was 2.4% and consensus second quarter forecasts averaged about 2%. With the first quarter GDP growth now revised down to 1.8% and second quarter estimates marked down to about 1%, the FOMC forecast of fourth quarter 2012 to fourth quarter 2013 growth of even the lower end of the range (2.3%) looks like a real stretch. Doing so would require an average growth rate of about 3.2% in each of the last two quarters of the year, a goal which seems exceedingly difficult to reach. We believe that the continued tepid growth in the economy means that the Fed will curtail its asset purchase program later rather than sooner. Unlike most observers, however, we think that this will be bearish for stocks. The market is currently cheering continuing monetary accommodation while at the same time looking for a more robust economic recovery and far higher earnings. The problem is that while investors can have one or the other, they canít have both. A stronger economy means an imminent reduction of QE that the market doesnít like, while a weaker economy that results in an extension of QE leads to corporate earnings far lower than current forecasts. We therefore think that the current market strength is irrational in the same way as the dot-com boom of the late 1990s and the subprime mortgage boom of 2005-2007, both of which were ignored by investors for lengthy periods
