BloombergTVFormer Cyprus central bank chief Athanasios Orphanides was on BloombergTV this morning with Tom Keene. His overall view on the events of the last week: The overall treatment of Cyprus was a scandal, but the approach taken this weekend (big haircuts for big depositors) was a fairer solution than the previous tax and confiscate plan that was agreed to the previous weekend. Said Orphanides: I have to say that these are difficult times for Cyprus. But I believe that the Cypriot people have demonstrated that they want to stay in the euro area and they are willing to make sacrifices to that effect. Frankly, let me point out something else that is important from this revision in the euro group deal that came out this morning. The other periphery countries in Europe should thank the Cypriot parliament for rejecting the earlier plan--that was about 10 days ago--that essentially asked for the confiscation of deposits. I think it is a very positive step that because of the rejection of that plan by the Cypriot parliament, we have returned to more traditional ideas and a greater respect of how banking issues should be resolved in a country. There are all kinds of new precedents being set, and we'll see how they play out. But Europe should be relieved that the path of confiscating insured depositor assets is not a precedent. Watch the full clip here on Bloomberg.com &gt;
We get two crucial housing data points tomorrow. First is the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index for January, out at 9 a.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for home prices to rise 0.8 percent month-over-month (MoM), and 7.85 percent year-over-year. This compares with a 0.88 percent MoM and 6.84 percent YoY rise in the 20-city index in December. This is followed by new home sales for February out at 10 a.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for new home sales to fall 3.9 percent MoM, to an annual rate of 420,000. This compares with a 15.6 percent rise in January to an annual rate of 437,000. Housing analysts have been getting increasingly bullish on housing and have upwardly revised¬† home price forecasts. Others warn that a lot of the increase in home prices is being fueled by investor demand and not more traditional homebuyer demand. Economists closely watch indicators like new home sales, that also give us insight into housing supply, because they
AP PhotoLONDON (AP) ‚Äî A post-mortem examination found that self-exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky died from hanging, and there was nothing pointing to a violent struggle, British police said Monday. Thames Valley Police said that further tests, including toxicology examinations, will be carried out. The force did not specify whether the 67-year-old businessman hanged himself. A forensic examination of Berezovsky's home will continue for several days, police added. Once one of Russia's richest men and a Kremlin powerbroker, Berezovsky fled to Britain in 2001 and claimed political asylum in the country after a bitter falling out with Russian President Vladimir Putin. He had since been a vocal critic of the Kremlin. Berezovsky's body was found by an employee on the bathroom floor at his upscale England home on Saturday. The employee called an ambulance after he forced open the bathroom door, which was locked from the inside. Police said the employee was the only person in the house when Berezovsky's body was discovered. The businessman had survived several assassination attempts, including a car bomb in 1994 that killed his driver. He amassed his fortune in the 1990s during the chaotic privatization of the Soviet Union's state-run economy, building up an empire that included a car dealership, media interests and oil assets. But in recent years his fortunes declined with numerous expensive court cases. Last year Berezovsky lost a huge legal battle against former business partner and fellow Russian tycoon Roman Abramovich, which left him with legal bills estimated to cost tens of millions of pounds. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
After the decline in European and US stocks, the subdued trading environment extends to Asia. Japan has opened lower by about 0.5%. Nikkei
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisCyprus continued to dominate headlines. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,447.75, -64.28, -0.44%S&amp;P 500: 1,551.69, -5.20, -0.33%NASDAQ: 3,235.30, -9.70, -0.30% And now the top stories:
REUTERS/Olivia HarrisSlowly, information about the scene where Boris Berezovsky was found dead is trickling in. The wealthy oligarch, former partner to billionaire Roman Abramovich, and anti-Putin agitator was found dead this weekend at his Berkshire estate. Authorities have yet to find evidence of a third party's involvement. However, The Guardian reports that Nikolay Glushkov, Berezovsky's right hand who also fell out of favor with the Kremlin, says that the 67 year-old was found with marks around his neck. He heard that from Berezovsky's ex-wife, Galina. She said: "A scarf was there. There were traces of him being strangled around the neck," according to The Guardian. Berezovsky has been living in The U.K. since 2000. There, he's openly used the fortune he made during the Yeltsin years to try to bring down Vladimir Putin's regime. British authorities uncovered a plot to kill Berezovsky in 2007 and deported the alleged hitman. Since then, Berezovsky's fortune has fallen apart. In part because of a massive divorce settlement he paid to Galina (over $120 million) and in part because of the legal fees he was ordered to pay last year when he lost a $5 billion lawsuit to his former partner, Roman Abramovich. Authorities have said they expect to complete Berezovsky's autopsy today.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'Passive Investing Has Reached A Watershed Moment' (Investment News) The California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS), the second largest pension fund in the country, is considering moving to a passive portfolio. Moreover, brokerages are also promoting passive ETFs. At a time when returns are low, many investors are looking to cut down on costs. "Investors' preference is clearly shifting, though. Active management's market share was down to 72% as of the end of last month, and passive funds clearly have all the momentum now. "As investors have gotten back into stocks this year, they have done so largely through passive funds. Passive funds took in $65 billion in the first two months of the year, while active funds took in $40 billion." Another Way For Advisors To Look At Risk (CFA Institute) Advisors often try to steer clients away from risk and focus on the long-term, according to Aaron Klein at the CFA Institute. But this isn't necessarily the best strategy he says. "I have a very contrarian view on such thinking. The very best advisers are embracing the opposite approach: They‚Äôre using risk to make better investing decisions in the first place, and they‚Äôre ensuring that their clients are invested within the bounds of their risk tolerance. I call it being a ‚Äúrisk-aware adviser. "‚Ä¶Imagine if we quantified a client‚Äôs risk tolerance and a comfort zone for the portfolio over a relatable period of time (I‚Äôve found six months to be the best). We could then build a portfolio with a high mathematical probability of staying within that comfort zone. "Is this stacking the deck? Absolutely. And that‚Äôs exactly what clients are paying their advisers to do: help them grow their assets when the markets are up while protecting their downside risk when the markets drop."  40 Years Of Long-Term US Dollar Cycles (Deutsche Bank) Shareholder Fraud Lawsuit Against Pitney Bowes Is Dismissed (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) A Connecticut Judge dismissed a shareholder fraud lawsuit against Pitney Bowes that accused it of withholding problems in its business from shareholders in 2007. The problems caused the company to miss its forecasts¬†¬† for the first time in seven years. "A company need not be prescient, it need only be aware of its business environment and warn of factors and circumstances present in its business environment which could affect the company's results," Judge Vanessa Bryant wrote. Corporate profit margins are near all-time highs. But these have been beefed up at the expense of the American worker that faces low wages and high unemployment. 
We'll say this, at least it's for charity. Every year billionaire Mayor Michael Bloomberg performs at the Inner Circle Charity Dinner. Every year there's a highlight reel, every year it's painful. However, it isn't every year that the Mayor sings songs from the Phantom of the Opera, wears a mask and a hoodie, or dances to Journey classic 'Don't Stop Believing.' Thankfully. Watch the video below (via Daily Intelligencer):  
Wikimedia CommonsCompetitors are challenging Lululemon's status as the golden child of retail. Once lauded for its revolutionary business model the yoga retailer has fallen on hard times recently. Last week, the company recalled 17 percent of its pants for being too sheer.† Athleta is seen as Lululemon's biggest competitor. The catalogue business was acquired by Gap in 2008. Since then, the retailer has expanded to include stores and a large e-commerce contingent. From selection to customer service, Athleta has several competitive advantages over Lululemon.†They could be enough to give Athleta global dominance.†
www.youtube.comActor Stephen Dorff says e-cigarettes are cool.Less regulated and possibly healthier than traditional cigarettes, e-cigarettes could be a huge growth market for big tobacco.¬†Already e-cigarette use in the US doubled from 2010 to 2011, according to the Center for Disease Control. But the industry faces big risks too. States are starting to regulate them, and it may be only a matter of time until the Food and Drug Administration comes out against them.¬†E-cigarettes still don't taste as good¬†as cigarettes and some of them don't work very well. Finally, there's the question of whether e-cigarettes will ever be cool. This is a big deal for an industry that has long relied on perceived coolness (with lots of help from Hollywood) to attract new smokers. Some e-cigs are designed to look like cigarettes, right down to the glowing red tip, though they don't burn down when smoked. Others come in sleek black with glowing blue tips.¬†Either way, it's hard to feel like James Dean while sucking a plastic glow stick. E-cigarette-makers are tackling the image problem head-on, with press releases talking about¬†how¬†Robert Pattinson, Leonardo DiCaprio, Ashton Kutcher, Katherine Heigl and Uma Thurman¬†and other celebrities are turning to e-cigs. Then there are paid celebrity endorsements, like this video of¬†actor Stephen Dorff looking handsome while smoking a Blu cigarette on the beach. Still, many aren't convinced. Last month, Oasis guitarist Noel Gallagher¬†mocked the drummer from Muse¬†after he caught him smoking an electronic cigarette. Said Gallagher:¬†"I had to say to him: 'Really? Really? Is that where you are at? Do me a favor, mate, either have a proper one outside, or don't have one.' It lit up green when he had a drag of it. Nonsense." E-cigs are inspiring¬†"contempt" from many traditional smokers,¬†according to The Guardian's Lionel Shriver. What do other people think? Among the many commenters on Nolan's article, the consensus seems to be that e-cigarettes are not cool but that that's not why people smoke them. RealAmurrican writes: "They sure do take all the coolness and romance out of smoking, but I was gifted one about a week ago, and let me say that they are PHENOMENAL for helping you quit." MrSnaps writes: "I have been using an electronic cig for over a year, mostly because I feel better in the mornings than when I did smoking traditional cigarettes. That said, no, E-cigs are not cool." Onceler writes: "heh, well, people may start smoking because it 'looks cool' and 'represents danger' or whatever, but they keep smoking because they are addicted to the chemical cocktail that's unleashed when you inhale the smoke. and it's very difficult to quit once you're addicted. only in America would an invention like this come along that could save millions of lives (literally) and the cultural elite or what have you decide to mock it because it's not 'cool enough' or 'dangerous enough' for them." There will be a demand for e-cigarettes regardless of the cool factor.¬†Purported lameness will, however, prevent some smokers from switching and limit the number of new smokers. That's why more and more of the $10 billion¬†spent on tobacco advertising in 2008 will be redirected to e-cigarettes. Luckily for the industry, it can advertise for e-cigarettes in many places where tobacco ads are banned.¬†And don't underestimate what the ad industry can accomplish. One of the greatest feats in PR history was when Edward Bernays made smoking cool for women by getting debutantes at a 1929 parade to light up in unison, an event branded as Torches Of Freedom. Cigarette ads from back in the day were legendarily effective too ‚Äî and you may remember that the first episode of "Mad Men" is all about branding for Lucky Strike. ¬†NJOY currently controls¬†40 percent of the U.S. electronic cigarette market.¬†Big tobacco companies are getting into the business too, with¬†Lorillard buying blu ecigs¬†earlier this year, and¬†Reynolds developing its own technology. An analyst from investment bank Jefferies said he had¬†"high hopes for Next Generation Products" from Philip Morris¬†too.
What remains are games of musical chairs, Ponzi schemes, frauds, swindles, stonewalls, ruses, ploys, scams, dodges, bluffs, subterfuges, QE martingales, interventions, rehypothecations, pretenses and other modes of evading or disguising reality. The reality is that there is not enough real wealth to go around, certainly not enough to cover the giant web of obligations that masquerades as "money."  So, now whenever somebody or some company or government or entity is called upon to put up or shut up, the danger arises that the whole web will disintegrate, since all the participants are broke. You want "your" money? Wait three days. Make that four days. Check that, let's say next week. How about two months from now? Oh, forget about it....  No wonder folks are spooked.¬† ¬† ¬† This is really getting out of hand. That's why the ills of the poor, untoward, tiny crypto-nation of Cyprus have got everyone's knickers in a twist. Cyprus is everybody writ small. Cyprus ran out of pretense. It's banks are toast. It can't take care of itself. It is too poor to be a "modern" economy. It failed trying to be a money laundromat for the brigands of Russia and the dope merchants of the Eastern Mediterranean. The tourists and retirees may even have to pack up and leave now because there will be no access to ready cash for day-to-day living.¬† ¬† ¬† The terms of the latest bailout announced Sunday night are curious. The New York Times reports that, "the deal would scrap the highly controversial idea of a tax on bank deposits, although it would still require forced losses for depositors and bondholders." Say, what? In fact, there is no material difference between the so-called "tax" and the "forced losses." That was just semantics. The word tax had been bandied about two weeks ago when the EU first proposed that the Cyprus government might pass a legislative act skinning its bank depositors. That didn't go down, of course, so now its just an EU mandated haircut on deposits over E-100,000 and bank bondholders.  As for the deposits under E-100,000... you're welcome to them, the catch being that the banks aren't open for business... and the EU bailout money will not arrive in Cyprus until May. They are sending it by packet boat from Antwerp and hoping for fair winds.¬† ¬† ¬†Cyprus has to become somebody's ward again.  Cyprus was either Turkey's or Great Britain's ward for most of the past 400 years. The population is ethnically split about 60 / 40 Greek / Turkish making for chronically uncomfortable governance. The island remains physically divided into two separate and hostile north-south zones. If you look at it on the map, it is nowhere near Greece, but rather tucked right up under Turkey's bosom. It is strategically a naval hub of the Middle East and is occupied both by NATO troops and by two remaining British military bases - a convenience given the ongoing deterioration in Middle East geopolitics, as nation after nation melts down, and threatens to impinge on much of the world's oil supply. My guess is that Turkey will eventually recover administration of Cyprus by dint of sheer geographical proximity. It is said to possess considerable offshore gas, but the politics there are so problematic that the stuff may not be logistically recoverable, especially with the rest of the Middle East in flames. The current bailout deal with its confiscations and haircuts is the first time in the multi-year melodrama of the wobbling EU that big-shot EU officials had voiced the idea that they had any authority to snatch private property (money) of a member's citizens. So, instantly the notion reverberated around Europe that they could easily do the same thing in Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Greece - the usual broke suspects - if the EU was pushed too hard. And a few nervous nellies stateside began to wonder out loud when the US government might try some confiscational monkey business, such as the much-blogged-about notion of forcing retirees to put all their money in US Treasury instruments.¬† ¬† ¬† More to the point perhaps was the additional notion that the money was not there in the first place. Or anywhere. It was not snatchable. The banks were insolvent. They had pissed their meager reserves away on bad paper - like every other financial enterprise around the world - and the collateral was a joke. Depositors in Cyprus banks might indeed lose their money, but the EU would not collect any theoretical plunder either, so the whole bailout exercise was just another empty bluster. Even more to the point was the additional notion that no money in any bank in any sovereign EU member would be plunderable because there is no money in any of them, and the fiasco in Cyprus was leading to the recognition of the utter bankruptcy of the system. In other words, this charade is far from over. There will be more bank runs. They may or may not take the form of disgruntled depositors physically standing in line along the pleasant blocks of Europe's cities as the street trees burst into lovely spring bud and flower. In the first flush of activity post-Cyprus, a lot of hypothetical cash will probably just end up shifting out of Europe altogether and into the clutches of Jamie Dimon and his fellow miracle workers, primed for grand new acts of rehypothication with the inflow.¬† ¬† ¬† The chatter around this crisis has not included any consideration of the dark forces roiling in the alternate universe of rackets known as derivatives ‚Äî which should now be primed to detonate whatever remains of financial legitimacy even while governments and central banks rally with new sets of excuses and "ring-fence" strategies for the floundering banks. All the ruling parties this whole world round won't face the fact that absolutely nobody can cover his losses, and the losses just keep mounting with every central bank keystroke. Welcome to the age of phantom money. Read more posts on Kunstler.com ¬ª
Entertaining and eating with clients is a big deal on Wall Street, and for the most part, no amount of money is too large for top notch food and top notch service. That said: Wall Street's favorite restaurants aren't always the most expensive, or even the top rated. In a great city like NYC, you can find excellent food basically anywhere ó that means huge debates on what's really good and what really matters. And there's another element ó being seen by people who really matter. Mix all that together and you can come up with a pretty solid list of Wall Street's most beloved restaurants. Only one, however, can be crowned Wall Street's favorite. Have your say in the survey below and we'll let you know which restaurant takes all. †
Flickr / Partij van de ArbeidJeroen DijsselbloemFT Alphaville editor Paul Murphy just published a scathing review of Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem's handling of his first major crisis as President of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers, a post he took over in January. Murphy's conclusion, in short: Fire Dijsselbloem. (The title of Murphy's post is "Dijsselbloem, do remember that careless talk costs lives‚Ä¶*" and the first sentence reads, "‚Ä¶and it‚Äôs really about time it cost you your job.**") The post is mainly a reaction to comments made by Dijsselbloem today in an interview with Reuters and the FT. In the interview, Dijsselbloem said that the way Cypriot banks are to be restructured (per the terms of last night's bailout deal) could be viewed as a template for other struggling banking systems around the euro area, should they eventually have to be restructured as well. That¬†sent bank stocks in peripheral countries like Spain and Italy tumbling¬†as investors placed bets that the "read-across" from the Cyprus deal to other euro area banks was decidedly negative. In other words, could Dijsselbloem's comments cause Spanish, Italian, and other depositors around the euro periphery to pull deposits from banks in those countries, sparking renewed funding pressures and causing a crisis to flare up once again? Murphy seems to think so. Regarding the Dijsselbloem comments, he writes: It‚Äôs a direct call to depositors across the eurozone ‚Äî retail and corporate alike ‚Äî to move cash now and spread it across a portfolio of the largest available banks. It‚Äôs direct advice to dump bank debt. And it‚Äôs a direct invitation to speculate that the EFSF, the ESM, and the rest of the alphabetic bailout soup is going to be discarded in favour of calling on depositors‚Äô money across the Continent. There is an argument to be made that taking the Cyprus approach is good for the euro area because it represents a shift away from saddling the public sector with additional public debt to finance bank bailouts. Citi Chief Economist Willem Buiter visited this idea extensively in a recent piece, saying that if the Cyprus bailout does in fact signal a change in the way the euro zone conducts bailouts, then it is the best thing that has happened to Europe in years. However, the Eurogroup has already issued a statement attempting to mitigate the comments made by Dijsselbloem in the interview earlier, saying that the Cyprus deal should NOT be viewed as a template for future bailouts. The rapid backtracking by the Eurogroup over Dijsselbloem's comments is interesting because Dijsselbloem himself clearly seemed to be inviting the sort of negative market reaction his comments were bound to inspire. According to the FT's Peter Spiegel, Dijsselbloem said in the interview that "investor skittishness could ultimately make the financial sector healthier since it would raise the cost of financing for unsound banks." That certainly does sound like an invitation for investors to sell. Regardless of which side of the argument you come down on ‚Äì whether or not future restructurings in the euro area should follow the "Cyprus template" ‚Äì one thing is certain: Dijsselbloem and the Eurogroup have already blinked. Maybe what the Eurogroup needs is a leader who isn't willing to back down at the first sign of reprisal from financial markets. Read Murphy's full post at FT Alphaville &gt;
Courtesy of CalPERSInvestment News reports that California CalPERS,¬†the second biggest U.S. public pension fund, is weighing taking its massive $255 billion assets under management and moving it to an all-passive portfolio.¬† Why would this matter?¬† Well, it would matter a lot for active managers who receive management fees from CalPERS, Josh Brown, who runs the popular financial blog the Reformed Broker, points out on Twitter.¬† The¬†California Public Employees' Retirement System already has more than half of its investible assets in passive strategies. CalPERS is expected to make the decision in about five months, the report said.
flickr / Partij van de ArbeidEarlier today, Eurogroup President Jeroen Dijsselbloem made some comments in an interview with¬†Reuters and the FT to the effect that the Cyprus bailout deal could considered a template for bank restructurings elsewhere in the euro area. Naturally, this sent bank stocks in the euro periphery tumbling. Now, it appears that the Eurogroup is backing off from the stance taken earlier by Dijsselbloem in the interview. It just put out a two-sentence statement clarifying its position: Cyprus is a specific case with exceptional challenges which required the bail-in measures we¬†have agreed upon yesterday. Macro-economic adjustment programmes are tailor-made to the situation of the country¬†concerned and no models or templates are used. Below, via Reuters, are the comments Dijsselbloem made in the interview earlier. "What we've done last night is what I call pushing back the risks," Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the Eurogroup of¬†euro zone¬†finance ministers, told Reuters and the Financial Times hours after the Cyprus deal was struck. "If there is a risk in a bank, our first question should be 'Okay, what are you in the bank going to do about that? What can you do to recapitalise yourself?'. If the bank can't do it, then we'll talk to the shareholders and the bondholders, we'll ask them to contribute in recapitalising the bank, and if necessary the uninsured deposit holders," he said. If that doesn't drive the point home that Cyprus could be viewed as a template for future restructurings going forward, additional comments from the FT's writeup of the joint interview should: But he said that investor skittishness could ultimately make the financial sector healthier since it would raise the cost of financing for unsound banks. ‚ÄúIf I finance a bank and I know if the bank will get in trouble, I will be hit and I will lose money, I will put a price on that,‚Äù Mr Dijsselbloem said. ‚ÄúI think it is a sound economic principle. And having cheap money because the risk will be covered by the government, and I will always get my money back, is not leading to the right decisions in the financial sector.‚Äù Apparently all it took was the market's reaction during the final few hours of trading in Europe for Dijsselbloem to rethink his comments.
Business Insider is looking for an awesome Associate Editor to join our fast-growing Contributors team. The ideal candidate, above all, is interested in editing, copy editing, packaging, story selection, and is a voracious consumer of news on the web, with a whole roster of interesting blogs and Twitter feeds they follow.¬† To do this job well, this editor needs to be meticulous in their attention to detail. Among other things, this Associate Editor's responsibilities would be to: If interested, please send your resume and cover letter to jliebman@businessinsider.com. Be specific: why are you the one for the job? Please note that this job is full-time out of our Manhattan headquarters.
Flickr / FederalReserveFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is speaking today at a conference at the London School of Economics. It starts at 1:15 PM ET. Via Bloomberg, Bernanke says most advanced economies are "appropriately" easing because they are in the grips of a slow recovery. Bernanke says these policies don't constitute a competitive devaluation nor a "beggar-thy-neighbor" approach. On the contrary, easing helps emerging markets and the world economy, says Bernanke. The title of the event is "What should economists and policymakers learn from the financial crisis?" and the teaser posted on the event's web page reads, "Five years on, the global economy continues to come to terms with the impact of the financial crisis.¬†This event examines the lessons that both economists and policymakers should learn in order to lessen the chance of future crises." Below is the full text of the speech. ------------------------------------------------- Monetary Policy and the Global Economy I'm very pleased to participate in this conference honoring my good friend Mervyn King. As Mervyn noted in a recent speech in New York, we had adjoining offices at MIT as young academics and never imagined that 30 years later we still would be colleagues--as central bankers.1¬†¬†Now, as then, I value his advice and insight. The topic of this session is lessons learned from the financial crisis. For me, perhaps the central insight is that the recent crisis, despite its many exotic features, was in fact a classic financial panic--a systemwide run of "hot money" away from assets whose values suddenly became uncertain. In that respect, the crisis was akin to many other financial crises faced by governments and central banks--including that most venerable of central banks, the Bank of England--over the centuries. The response to the crisis likewise followed the classic prescriptions of liquidity provision, liability guarantees, asset evaluation and disposition, and recapitalization where necessary. Although the crisis had classic features, to a significant extent it took place in a novel institutional context, making diagnosis and response more challenging: For example, in the United States, collateralized wholesale funding rather than conventional bank deposits constituted the hot money, and run pressure was experienced not only by banks but by diverse other institutions, such as structured investment vehicles. In addition, the scale and complexity of globalized financial institutions and markets made it difficult to predict how the crisis might spread or to coordinate the response. One of the few positive aspects of this episode was the extraordinary degree of international cooperation achieved among policymakers, including the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve, in responding to the crisis. Because I have developed these themes in some detail elsewhere, I thought today I would tackle a different and more recent issue that has arisen in the aftermath of the crisis--the issue of whether, in the widespread easing of monetary policies, we are seeing a competitive depreciation of exchange rates.2¬†¬†Like other aspects of the crisis, the notion of competitive depreciation has strong classical antecedents, particularly in relation to the global Great Depression of the 1930s. So let me start by briefly revisiting the older discussion and its evolution. As my audience knows, on the eve of the Great Depression the exchange rates of most industrial countries were determined by the rules of the international gold standard--or, more technically, by the gold-exchange standard, as foreign exchange (primarily dollars and pounds sterling) was used along with gold as a form of international reserves. The gold standard, which had been suspended during World War I, was painstakingly rebuilt in the 1920s. Unfortunately, the reconstructed gold standard had a number of serious problems. For one, the exchange rates implied by the gold valuations that countries chose for their currencies following World War I were in some cases far from the levels consistent with balanced flows in trade and payments. Notably, as John Maynard Keynes pointed out in his famous pamphlet,¬†The Economic Consequences of Mr. Churchill, the British pound was overvalued under the new gold standard, which disadvantaged British exports and contributed to weak economic conditions in the United Kingdom in the late 1920s.3¬†¬†One of Mervyn King's predecessors as governor of the Bank of England, Montagu Norman, who presided over both Britain's return to the gold standard and its subsequent exit, said of the ill-fated choice of parity for the pound: "Only God could tell whether it [the value in gold chosen for the pound sterling] was or was not the correct figure"; another commentator added, "But of course the Deity may not be an Economist."4¬† Another problem, which became clear as the global economy weakened and financial conditions deteriorated, was that fixed exchange rates under the gold standard were vulnerable to speculative runs. Although runs, or in some cases policy decisions, effectively took a number of countries off the gold standard in the early 1930s, the financial world was shaken to its foundation when the United Kingdom, the unofficial center of the global gold standard, was forced by a speculative attack to leave gold in September 1931. Over the next five years, essentially all of the world's industrial nations left the gold standard, either de facto or de jure. Declines in the value of the departing nation's currency, sometimes very sharp ones, typically followed. The uncoordinated abandonment of the gold standard in the early 1930s gave rise to the idea of "beggar-thy-neighbor" policies. According to this analysis, as put forth by important contemporary economists like Joan Robinson, exchange rate depreciations helped the economy whose currency had weakened by making the country more competitive internationally.5¬†¬†Indeed, the decline in the value of the pound after 1931 was associated with a relatively early recovery from the Depression by the United Kingdom, in part because of some rebound in exports. However, according to this view, the gains to the depreciating country were equaled or exceeded by the losses to its trading partners, which became less internationally competitive--hence, "beggar thy neighbor." Over time, so-called competitive depreciations became associated in the minds of historians with the tariff wars that followed the passage of the Smoot-Hawley tariff in the United States. Both types of policies were decried--and in some textbooks, still are--as having prolonged the Depression by disrupting trade patterns while leading to an ultimately fruitless and destructive battle over shrinking international markets. Economists still agree that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing tariff wars were highly counterproductive and contributed to the depth and length of the global Depression. However, modern research on the Depression, beginning with the seminal 1985 paper by Barry Eichengreen and Jeffrey Sachs, has changed our view of the effects of the abandonment of the gold standard.6¬†¬†¬†Although it is true that leaving the gold standard and the resulting currency depreciation conferred a temporary competitive advantage in some cases, modern research shows that the primary benefit of leaving gold was that it freed countries to use appropriately expansionary monetary policies. By 1935 or 1936, when essentially all major countries had left the gold standard and exchange rates were market-determined, the net trade effects of the changes in currency values were certainly small. Yet the global economy as a whole was much stronger than it had been in 1931. The reason was that, in shedding the strait jacket of the gold standard, each country became free to use monetary policy in a way that was more commensurate with achieving full employment at home. Moreover, and critically, countries also benefited from stronger growth in trading partners that purchased their exports. In sharp contrast to the tariff wars, monetary reflation in the 1930s was a positive-sum exercise, whose benefits came mainly from higher domestic demand in all countries, not from trade diversion arising from changes in exchange rates. The lessons for the present are clear. Today most advanced industrial economies remain, to varying extents, in the grip of slow recoveries from the Great Recession. With inflation generally contained, central banks in these countries are providing accommodative monetary policies to support growth. Do these policies constitute competitive devaluations? To the contrary, because monetary policy is accommodative in the great majority of advanced industrial economies, one would not expect large and persistent changes in the configuration of exchange rates among these countries. The benefits of monetary accommodation in the advanced economies are not created in any significant way by changes in exchange rates; they come instead from the support for domestic aggregate demand in each country or region. Moreover, because stronger growth in each economy confers beneficial spillovers to trading partners, these policies are not "beggar-thy-neighbor" but rather are positive-sum, "enrich-thy-neighbor" actions. Again, the distinction between monetary policies aimed at domestic objectives and trade-diverting exchange rate devaluations or other protectionist measures is critical. The former can be mutually beneficial, the latter are not. Indeed, it was this view that prompted the Group of Seven central bankers and finance ministers to issue a statement in February agreeing to refrain from actions focused on achieving competitive advantage by weakening their currencies and reaffirming that fiscal and monetary policies would remain oriented toward meeting domestic objectives using domestic instruments.7¬† Among the advanced economies, the mutual benefits of monetary easing are clear. The case of emerging market economies is more complicated. To a first approximation, industrial countries are most concerned that domestic aggregate demand be set at the level that best fosters price stability and a return to full employment at home. In contrast, many emerging market economies may be concerned not only with the level of domestic demand (as needed to achieve objectives for employment and inflation) but with other considerations as well. First, because in recent decades many of these countries have pursued an export-led strategy for industrialization, they may be leery of expansionary policies in the advanced economies that, all else being equal, tend to cause the currencies of emerging market economies to appreciate, restraining their exports. Second, because many emerging market economies have financial sectors that are small or less developed by global standards but open to foreign investors, they may perceive themselves to be vulnerable to asset bubbles and financial imbalances caused by heavy and volatile capital inflows, including those arising from low interest rates in the advanced economies. I agree these challenges are significant. However, a few points should be made. Regarding the effects of monetary easing on exchange rates and exports, I would note that trade-weighted real exchange rates of emerging market economies, with some exceptions, have not changed much from their values shortly before the intensification of the financial crisis in late 2008. Moreover, even if the expansionary policies of the advanced economies were to lead to significant currency appreciation in emerging markets, the resulting drag on their competitiveness would have to be balanced against the positive effects of stronger advanced-economy demand. Which of these two effects would be greater is an empirical matter. Simulations of the Federal Reserve Board's econometric models of the global economy suggest that the effects are roughly offsetting, so that accommodative monetary policies in the advanced economies do not appear, on net, to have adverse consequences for output and exports in the emerging market economies.8¬†¬†A return to solid growth among the advanced economies is ultimately in the interest of advanced and emerging market economies alike. Regarding capital flows: It is true that interest rate differentials associated with differences in national monetary policies can promote cross-border capital flows as investors seek higher returns. But my reading of recent research makes me skeptical that these policy differences are the dominant force behind capital flows to emerging market economies; differences in growth prospects across countries and swings in investor risk sentiment seem to have played a larger role.9¬†¬†Moreover, the fact that some emerging market economies have policies that depress the values of their currencies may create an expectation of future appreciation that in and of itself induces speculative inflows. Of course, heavy capital inflows and their volatility pose challenges to emerging market policymakers, whatever their source. Policymakers do have some tools to address these concerns. In recent years, emerging market nations have implemented macroprudential measures aimed at strengthening their financial systems and reducing overheating in specific sectors, such as property markets. Policymakers have also experimented with various forms of capital controls. Such controls raise concerns about effectiveness, cost of implementation, and possible microeconomic distortions. Nevertheless, the International Monetary Fund has suggested that, in carefully circumscribed circumstances, capital controls may be a useful tool.10¬†¬† In sum, the advanced industrial economies are currently pursuing appropriately expansionary policies to help support recovery and price stability in their own countries. As the modern literature on the Great Depression demonstrates, these policies confer net benefits on the world economy as a whole and should not be confused with zero- or negative-sum policies of trade diversion. In fact, the simultaneous use by several countries of accommodative policy can be mutually reinforcing to the benefit of all. Let me end these remarks as I began, by paying tribute to Mervyn King. He has been a leader in the central banking community during an extraordinarily difficult period. I wish him the very best in the next stage of his career. ¬† 1.¬†See Mervyn A. King (2012), "Talk to the Economic Club of New York," speech delivered at the Economic Club of New York, December 10, http://econclubny.com/events/Transcript_MervynKing2012.pdf.¬†Return to text 2.¬†See, for example, Ben S. Bernanke (2009), "Reflections on a Year of Crisis," speech delivered at "Financial Stability and Macroeconomic Policy," a symposium sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., August 20-22; and Ben S. Bernanke (2012), "Some Reflections on the Crisis and the Policy Response," speech delivered at "Rethinking Finance: Perspectives on the Crisis," a conference sponsored by the Russell Sage Foundation and The Century Foundation, New York, April 13. See also Ben S. Bernanke (2010), "Causes of the Recent Financial and Economic Crisis," statement before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, September 2.¬†Return to text 3.¬†See John Maynard Keynes (1925),¬†The Economic Consequences of Mr. Churchill(London: Hogarth Press).¬†Return to text 4.¬†As quoted in C.A.E. Goodhart (1972), review of¬†British Monetary Policy 1924-1931: The Norman Conquest of $4.86, by D.E. Moggridge,¬†Economica, vol. 39 (November), pp. 450.Return to text 5.¬†See Joan Robinson (1947), "Beggar-My-Neighbour Remedies for Unemployment," inEssays in the Theory of Employment, 2nd ed. (Oxford, U.K.: Basil Blackwell), pp. 156-70.Return to text 6.¬†See Barry Eichengreen and Jeffrey Sachs (1985), "Exchange Rates and Economic Recovery in the 1930s,"¬†Journal of Economic History, vol. 45 (December), pp. 925-46.Return to text 7.¬†For the full text of the Group of Seven statement, see Bank of England (2013), "G7 Statement," press release, February 12, www.forexmg-pt.com/2013/02/12/bank-of-england-publications-news-releases-news-release-g7-statement.¬†Return to text 8.¬†Other work also supports the finding of no adverse spillovers. For example, one that finds strong positive spillovers is Bennett T. McCallum (2003), "Japanese Monetary Policy, 1991-2001 (PDF)¬†," Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Economic Quarterly, vol. 89 (Winter), pp. 1-31.¬†Return to text 9.¬†For example, Fratzscher, Lo Duca, and Straub find that factors other than U.S. monetary policy have been substantially more important as drivers of capital flows to emerging market economies; see Marcel Fratzscher, Marco Lo Duca, and Roland Straub (2012), "A Global Monetary Tsunami? On the Spillovers of US Quantitative Easing (PDF)¬†," Centre for Economic Policy and Research, Discussion Paper Number 9195 (London: CEPR, October). See also Atish R. Ghosh, Jun Kim, Mahvash S. Qureshi, and Juan Zalduendo (2012), "Surges (PDF)¬†," IMF Working Paper WP/12/22 (Washington: International Monetary Fund, January); and International Monetary Fund; Strategy, Policy, and Review Department (2011), "Recent Experiences in Managing Capital Inflow--Cross-Cutting Themes and Possible Policy Framework (PDF)¬†," paper (Washington: IMF, February).Return to text 10.¬†Importantly, such circumstances exclude the use of capital controls to avoid other necessary macroeconomic policy adjustments, such as greater exchange rate flexibility. See, for example, International Monetary Fund (2012), "The Liberalization and Management of Capital Flows: An Institutional View," (Washington: International Monetary Fund).¬†Return to text 

Flickr/Paul Denton CockerMarkets are falling today following comments from President of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers Jeroen Dijsselbloem, to the effect that the Cyprus bailin could be a good model for future banking crises. In other words, rather than blank checks and sanctified status for creditors, it's ideal to see them take a hit or a haircut. This sentiment isn't horrible. Another feature of the Cyprus bailin is the fact that Cyprus's debt sustainability is a lot better now than it would have been had the country just been given a loan from the IMF or something like that. So now in addition to austerity and reform, Europe will focus more on taking pain and clipping creditors, rather than just papering over crises with more money. But they're still dancing around the real point, which is the flawed monetary structure. The reason Europe is in this mess -- and the reason it's assumed that there will be more messes for which Cyprus can serve as a template -- is because these countries lack their own currency and monetary flexibility. That's the essence of the sovereign debt crisis (which is why Cypriot banks got into trouble on Greek bonds) and the reason Cyprus is at the mercy of the outside world in dealing with its own banks. The Germans like to convince themselves that they're the ones writing the checks in Europe, and that's partly true, but the fact of the matter is the only thing that's really worked to calm the European crisis over the last few years is the ECB stepping up its role as a backstopper of government debt. That's what's really worked. Other efforts have been a sideshow. So great that they want to talk about debt sustainability and all that. But it's missing the point about the world that needs to be done.
Bloomberg TVToday Bloomberg TV is starting a new line-up and introducing day-time viewers on the East Coast to star reporter, Emily Chang. Chang is the host of Bloomberg West which will now air two hours a day. It was previously only on in the evenings on the East Coast, but they've added a 1 PM ET timeslot. Today, she'll be interviewing Twitter CEO Dick Costolo. Bloomberg West started two years ago covering tech, media and innovation. It's the only global TV news program originating from San Francisco and Cory Johnson and Jon Erlichman contribute as well. Bloomberg was kind enough to let us peak into Chang's life for a day, just in time for her brand new time slot.
Florida Gulf Coast UniversityFGCU's dormsAlthough Florida Gulf Coast University is only 22 years old, its economics department has already developed a reputation for it's pro-free enterprise philosophy. A 2011 article by Jean Gruss of the Florida-based Business Observer describes how department is run by¬†"core group of a half dozen economists whose research supports the ideas of free-market capitalism, still an unpopular subject in most faculty lounges." Every economics student gets a copy of Ayn Rand's objectivist novel Atlas Shrugged, Gruss reports, and the school offers classes like "Moral Foundations &amp; Capitalism." One of the professors leading the effort is Bradley Hobbs, Ph.D.¬† Hobbs is a visiting professor at Clemson this semester. But he's still employed by FGCU, and he summed up his academic philosophy for the Business Observer in 2011: ‚ÄúWe also need diversity of thought,‚Äù says Hobbs, whose own early leftist views shifted ‚Äúfrom Marx to Hayek‚Äù later in his career. ‚ÄúThe best debater is the one who knows the other side‚Äôs argument better than they do,‚Äù he quips. ‚ÄúWe hold students‚Äô feet to the fire.‚Äù The reporter asked Hobbs about the fact that he worked for the government (FGCU is a public school), to which he replied, "It‚Äôs one of the great ironies of my life." His website features this graphic: FGCU.edu So even though FGCU is still in its infancy, it looks like its already established a bit of an academic reputation.
U.S. manufacturers saw profits totaling $142.1 billion in Q4, which was up 5.6 percent from Q3. This is according to new data from the Census Bureau. However, profits declined 4.3 percent year over year, which suggests the industry could be stalling. But Census' chart shows that overall, profits have stalled since 2010: Census Iron and steel producer profits led Q4 YOY declines at -19.75 percent to -$8 million. Textile mills saw the greatest jump in the quarter, 653 percent to $339 million. It may be more evidence for Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius' contention that America's "manufacturing renaissance" just isn't real yet.
There's speculation that Russian billionaire Boris Berezovsky was murdered in his estate outside London this weekend. But there's also a great argument for suicide. He was found unconscious in his bathroom with the door locked from the inside. Authorities found no trace of third party involvement in his death either, and they even tested for radioactive materials (they've been used to kill anti-Putin agitators before). According to close friends, Berezovsky was increasingly depressed in his last days. In part, he regretted being the king-maker that put Vladimir Putin in line to succeed Boris Yeltsin in 1999. Even more importantly, Berezovsky felt deeply betrayed by the man he mentored, Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich. Last year, Berezovsky sued Abramovich for $5 billion in London, alleging that Abramovich had intimidated him into selling his stake in their oil company, Sibneft, at a rock bottom price. Abramovich argued that Berezovksy's stake was imaginary, that he was running Sibneft, and Berezovsky had only been the equivalent of a fundraiser, or an initial investor. In fact the word in Russian is krysha ‚Äî the man who provides protection, like a godfather. It all goes back to the rise of the oligarchs during the privatization of Russian state-owned companies back in 1994. That year, Abramovich and Berezovsky and met on a mutual friend's sailboat in the Carri bean. Berezovsky had already made his fortune in the auto business, media, commodities, and more industries. He was a high profile guy in Moscow's social scene known to have then-President Boris Yeltsin's ear. That's why Abramovich needed him. Abramovich was wealthy in his own right, but super secretive. In fact, even after his meteoric rise to an advisor to the Kremlin, it was years before the Russian media released pictures of his face. In his early days, Abramovich lacked Berezovsky's connections, but he wanted to take advantage of the new Kremlin program to jump start the economy called "loans for shares." Essentially, the program was an attempt to jump-start the privatization of Russian state-held companies. Banks lent the government money in exchange for shares in these badly managed companies. If the government defaulted on the loan, banks got to keep their stake. Abramovich and Berezovsky had their sights set on Russian oil producer Sibneft. In his lawsuit, Berezovsky alleged that Abramovich agreed to give him 25% of the company. He also said the Abramovich agreed to give another 25% to his most trusted partner, Badri Patarkatsishvili. That's why, according Vanity Fair, Berezovsky used his government connections and his control of Russian TV station O.R.T. to make Yeltsin a deal he couldn't refuse. Berezovsky said he'd deliver the 1996 election for Yeltsin if Yeltsin ensured that he and Abramovich would win their bid for Sibneft. And they did, but naturally there's no documentation detailing any of these agreements ‚Äî not with the Yeltsin regime and not between Abramovich, Patarkatsishvili and Berezovsky. From Vanity Fair: No document shows that either Berezovsky or Patarkatsishvili owned any part of Sibneft. Abramovich says that this is because they did not in fact own any part, while Berezovsky says that this is because, given how deep his own involvement in politics was, an off-the-books arrangement was necessary. Abramovich made annual payments to Berezovsky and his partner, but this clarifies nothing: Berezovsky claims that these were dividends, while Abramovich objects that Sibneft never showed a profit in the 1990s, so there would have been no basis for dividends. In Abramovich‚Äôs account, these were essentially payments to Berezovsky for his political influence.¬† Then Vladimir Putin came to power in 1999 and Berezovsky fell out of favor with him and moved to London. From London, Berezovsky openly used his vast fortune to take down Putin. Abramovich, on the other hand, stayed friends with the regime. More from Berezovsky's testimony in Vanity Fair: ‚ÄúIn early 2001, Badri reported to me that Mr. Abramovich had told him he was being squeezed by the Kremlin to stop his relations with us, and that if we did not sell our interest in Sibneft, President Putin would expropriate it,‚Äù Berezovsky said in his prepared witness statement before the trial. ‚ÄúI understood Mr. Abramovich to be threatening that Badri and I could either sell our interest in Sibneft and receive some money (albeit at a gross undervalue), or he would ensure that we would lose our interest in any event.‚Äù Abramovich‚Äôs version is different. He says that Patarkatsishvili approached him in January 2001, demanding a final payment that would serve to close the long-running relationship between Abramovich, the owner of Sibneft, and Berezovsky, the godfather. Whatever the truth, Berezovsky and Patarkatsishvili received $1.3 billion. Two years later, Sibneft merged with the oil giant Yukos; at that time Yukos paid $3 billion for 20 percent of Sibneft‚Äôs shares. So Berezovsky felt like he'd been had. Unfortunately, the¬†Judge Elizabeth Gloster did not agree. She said Berezovsky ‚Äúhad deluded himself into believing his own version of events,‚Äù and ordered him to pay the trial's legal fees. It was the trial of the century too. Abramovich's lawyer, Jonathan Sumption, alone took home $12 million in legal fees. The entire bill reportedly wo totaled around $160 million. The Guardian VideoBoris Berezovsky's Berkshire estateMeanwhile, Berezovsky was already in a tough spot financially after living a lavish life of properties in France and England, fancy cars (he had a 1927 Rolls Royce), and tons of security for himself and the 6 children he had with three different women. In 2011 he paid his ex-wife, Galina Besharova, a $152 million divorce settlement (no prenup). His former mistress Elena Gorbunova was suing him for $7.6 million when he died too. From The Guardian: One Russian lawyer, Alexander Dobrovinsky, said Berezovsky "was in a dreadful, horrendous state; covered in debt, almost broke. In 1997, Forbes estimated Berezovsky's fortune at $3 billion. In 2009 it had shrunk to $1 billion. This year he was not on the list. He did, however, give Forbes's Russian magazine his last interview on Friday night (from the Telegraph): lya Zhegulev, a commentator with the Russian edition of Forbes magazine, met the 67-year-old oligarch in the restaurant of the Four Seasons hotel on Park Lane on Friday evening. Mr Berezovsky said had had lived through "many disappointments" in London. He said: ‚ÄúI‚Äôve lost the point‚Ä¶ there is no point [or meaning] in my life. I don‚Äôt want to be involved in politics. I don‚Äôt know what to do. I‚Äôm 67 years old. And I don‚Äôt know what I should do from now on.‚Äù He said he wanted to return to Moscow: ‚ÄúI want nothing more than to return to Russia. Even when they opened a criminal case against me, I wanted to return to Russia‚Ä¶ that was my main miscalculation: that Russia is so dear to me that I cannot be an √©migr√©.‚Äù Those are, perhaps, the words of a heart-broken, suicidal man at the end of his wits.
REUTERS/Alessandro GarofaloEurogroup President and Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem was just quoted by Reuters and the FT as saying that the Cyprus bank bailout deal agreed to last night ‚Äì which includes a big hit on uninsured depositors at the two biggest Cypriot banks ‚Äì will serve as a template for euro-area bank restructurings going forward. European bank stocks have been falling all day on the news, but they've taken a leg lower since the Dijsselbloem comments hit the wires. In Italy, shares of Intesa Sanpaolo are down 6.1 percent, Unicredit is down 5.9 percent, Ubi Banca is down 5.1 percent, and Banco Popolare is down 4.8 percent. In Spain, Banco Popular Espa√±ol is down 4.1 percent, Bankinter is down 4.0 percent, and Banco de Sabadell is down 3.8 percent. The fear for those banks is that if the new approach is to "bail in" senior creditors in future restructurings ‚Äì which may ultimately be necessary elsewhere in the euro area, as the sovereign debt crisis of the last few years has taken a serious toll on bank balance sheets ‚Äì it will make it harder for banks to sell debt in the open market, thus increasing their cost of funding and bringing them under renewed pressure.
Bloomberg TVJefferies strategist David Zervos is a long-time bull who suddenly turned bearish following last week's shocking developments in Cyprus. In the wake of the Cyprus deal, he's still nervous. He writes that he's staying in his bunker. As for the market reaction, it has NOT been painful to exit risk and sit on the sidelines for the last week: the Euro remains weak; the Yen remains strong; Treasuries trade within last weekís ranges; and Bunds trade amazingly well. Finally, as I sit here and watch spoos bounce around 1555/1560, there is NOTHING about the price action that makes me want to buy. In fact, it feels quite easy to be in the bunker with nothing on the books. For me, it is more tactical than fundemental. We have been pounding the table for risk-on all year (and certainly alot longer than that). We told clients to ignore the sequester and Italian election results with good results. And heading into this Cyprus mess the spoo was +10 ytd and nky was +20 ytd. Its been a great start. Why play with an extremely hard to value tail situation. If you miss 1 to 2 percent in risk because it all calms down then so be it. You are still dealing with a 20 to 30 percent chance of material set back. I just don't like the odds with the market at the highs. US stocks are falling today, in part due to comments from the Eurogroup President that the Cyprus situation might not be a one-off. So Zervos is looking good right now. Find mor Zervos at Markit Hub &gt;
Reuters/Eric VidalCyprus finally got a deal done with the EU to bail out its troubled banking system last night. Instead of levying a nationwide "tax" on bank deposits, the plan follows a more typical restructuring approach, seeing shareholders, bondholders, and uninsured depositors in the country's two biggest banks take heavy losses in restructurings. This way, Cyprus will avoid increasing its own public debt stock as much as it would have done if it were to take loans from the troika to finance the full amount of the bailout. Officials at the IMF and German politicians like this approach because it is seen as a more sustainable approach to tackling the sovereign debt issues that plague many peripheral countries in the euro area. Today, in an interview with Reuters and the Financial Times, Dutch Finance Minister and President of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers Jeroen Dijsselbloem said that the Cyprus deal will serve as a template for future bank restructurings in the euro zone. Reuters reporter Luke Baker has the scoop: "What we've done last night is what I call pushing back the risks," Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the Eurogroup of¬†euro zone¬†finance ministers, told Reuters and the Financial Times hours after the Cyprus deal was struck. "If there is a risk in a bank, our first question should be 'Okay, what are you in the bank going to do about that? What can you do to recapitalise yourself?'. If the bank can't do it, then we'll talk to the shareholders and the bondholders, we'll ask them to contribute in recapitalising the bank, and if necessary the uninsured deposit holders," he said. European bank stocks¬†are extending their losses today on the news. However, that appears to be somewhat by design. FT correspondent Peter Spiegel published more comments from the interview with Dijsselbloem that seem to indicate this: But he said that investor skittishness could ultimately make the financial sector healthier since it would raise the cost of financing for unsound banks. ‚ÄúIf I finance a bank and I know if the bank will get in trouble, I will be hit and I will lose money, I will put a price on that,‚Äù Mr Dijsselbloem said. ‚ÄúI think it is a sound economic principle. And having cheap money because the risk will be covered by the government, and I will always get my money back, is not leading to the right decisions in the financial sector.‚Äù In short, though euro area leaders have stressed that the Cyprus deal was a special case, it's becoming increasingly clear in the wake of negotiations that this is the new normal for euro zone bank restructurings. Citi Chief Economist Willem Buiter argued extensively in a recent piece that this sort of thinking ‚Äì if it represents a shift in the way the euro area handles restructurings ‚Äì could be the best thing to happen to the euro zone in years. Since the report hit the newswires, the euro has extended its losses against the U.S. dollar and is now down 0.75 percent today. The S&amp;P 500 is also making new intraday lows. The index is currently trading down below 1554 and is down 0.2 percent on the day. Click here to read the full interview at Reuters &gt;
One of the hottest stories in the global financial markets is the comeback of the U.S. dollar. In its latest "House View" presentation, Deutsche Bank includes this chart the shows how dollar cycles have historically lasted around six to 10 years. "We expect the USD has now entered a sustained multi year uptrend," writes the analyst at Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank
Whatever "euphoria" there was post-Cyprus is quickly dissipating. Italy is getting slammed. It was down 1.55% a few minutes ago. Now it's down 2.3%. FRSE MIB Other European indices have turned negative. US stocks which had been nicely up, have turned down. The Dow is off 28.
flickr / david.nahasThe Dallas Fed's latest monthly survey of regional manufacturing activity is out. The headline index surged to 7.4 from last month's 2.2 reading, easily surpassing expectations of a smaller advance to 3.2. The gains were led by the shipments sub-index, which jumped to 10.6 from 2.4 last month. The new orders sub-index rose to 8.7 from 2.8, finished goods inventories increased to 9.9 from 4.2, and wages and benefits increased to 18.5 from 12.9. Unfilled orders continued to contract, falling to -5.6 from -3.5 last month. Below is the full text from the release: Texas factory activity increased in March, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The¬†production¬†index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 6.2 to 9.9, indicating a slightly faster pace of output growth. The share of manufacturers noting a decrease in production fell to its lowest level in two years. Other survey measures also suggested a pickup in manufacturing activity, with the new orders and shipments indexes moving up strongly in March after dipping in February. The¬†new orders¬†index came in at 8.7, up from 2.8, and theshipments¬†index rose 8 points to 10.6. The¬†capacity utilization¬†index held steady at 5.5, posting its fourth consecutive positive reading. Perceptions of broader business conditions improved in March. The¬†general business activity¬†index rose from 2.2 to 7.4, reaching its highest level in a year. The¬†company outlook¬†index moved up from 6.3 to 9.6. Labor market indicators remained mixed. The¬†employment¬†index has been in positive territory so far in 2013 and edged up to 2.6 in March. Sixteen percent of firms reported hiring new workers compared with 14 percent reporting layoffs. Thehours worked¬†index remained slightly negative but ticked up to from ‚Äì3 to ‚Äì2.4. Upward pressure on prices and wages increased slightly in March. The¬†raw materials price¬†index rose to 19.1, up from 15.8 in February. The¬†finished goods price¬†index increased from 4.6 to 7.2, suggesting selling prices rose at a stronger pace in March. The¬†wages and benefits¬†index increased from 12.9 to 18.5, although the great majority of manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs. Looking ahead, 44 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 27 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions increased in March. The indexes of future¬†general business activity¬†and future¬†company outlook¬†reached their highest levels in five months, coming in at 15.5 and 21.6, respectively. Indexes for future manufacturing activity also rose this month. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state‚Äôs factory activity. Data were collected March 12‚Äì20, and 92 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been¬†seasonally adjusted¬†as necessary. Click here for the full release &gt;
Shares of Russian steelmaker Evraz, whose controlling shareholder is Roman Abramovich, slipped this morning on a Russian business news agency's report that the Russian billionaire was being detained by the FBI. Shortly after 9 a.m. E.T. this morning, Russian news outlet RBC.com Tweeted that Abramovich had been detained in the U.S. –ú–æ–ª–Ω–∏—è! –í –°–®–ê –∑–∞–¥–µ—Ä–∂–∞–Ω –†–æ–º–∞–Ω –ê–±—Ä–∞–º–æ–≤–∏—á. –ü–æ–¥—Ä–æ–±–Ω–æ—Å—Ç–∏ —Å–∫–æ—Ä–æ Minutes later, RBC.com posted a story on its site. ¬†Then Russia Today Tweeted the report.¬† BREAKING: Russian tycoon, Chelsea owner Roman #Abramovich detained in US - news agency @ru_rbc. Details to follow rt.com The FBI declined to comment.¬† RBC's report appeared to move Evraz's stock though. ¬†Check out the chart from Yahoo! Finance. ¬†The stock, which is traded on the London Stock Exchange, tanked right after 1 p.m. GMT, which would be right after 9 a.m. ET when the report first surfaced.¬† Yahoo! Finance
Best Buy co-founder Richard Schulze is returning to his chain of consumer electronics retail stores, according to the company. Schulze had been preparing a buyout bid for months, but he and a group of investors never managed to put together a formal offer. Now, he'll be chairman emeritus. Schulze†has nominated two former Best Buy executives to join the company's board: former CEO Brad Anderson and former COO Al Lenzmeier. It seems that Schulze has deemed new CEO Hubert Joly, who joined the retailer in August from his job at the helm of hospitality company Carlson, worthy enough to move Best Buy forward. ìOver the past several months, I have come to know and respect Hubert, and have a high regard for the work he and his executive team are doing to revitalize Best Buy for the benefit of all stakeholders,î said Schulze in a release. ìMy dedication to the company that I founded and love is unwavering and, together with Hubert and the Board, I determined that the best way to support Best Buy would be to return in support of the initiatives underway.î Joly doesn't come from a retail background, but he's an accomplished turnaround manager.†He has already made quite a few big changes in his few months at Best Buy. He hit headquarters with†a round of job cuts†and killed the company's "Results Only Work Environment" (ROWE), which allowed employees work from wherever they wanted as long as they got the job done. Best Buy also announced a key price-matching initiative to destroy the threat of "showrooming" ó the phenomenon of customers using physical stores to view products, then making the actual purchase online. Schulze, who had been chairman until last May, had left the board in June after an internal investigation exposed an inappropriate relationship between then-CEO Brian Dunn and a female employee.
Walter Hickey/BIMathematics has little surprises that are designed to test and push your mental limits. The following 12 simple math problems prove outstandingly controversial among students of math, but are nonetheless facts. They're paradoxes and idiosyncrasies of probability.† And they're guaranteed to start an argument or two.† If you're looking for a mathematical way to impress your friends and beguile your enemies, here's a good place to start.
WikimediaOasis, "Definitely Maybe"Sam Stovall, S&amp;P Capital IQ's chief investment strategist and noted stock market historian, says everyone's been asking him if the market's current stratospheric price levels can be justified, especially given rather weak U.S. GDP forecasts. His answer: definitely, maybe. He first notes that the pace of the economic recovery has been well below the post-WWII average. Meanwhile, stock prices have been all over the place, Stovall writes:¬† Despite this anemic growth in our economy, the S&amp;P 500 increased in price at a swifter pace than it normally did during the first four years of economic recovery since 1949. Normally, the S&amp;P 500 recorded price advances of 12.6%, 10.3%, 4.6% and 1.0% during years 1-4 of economic expansions since the late 1940s, respectively. This time around the S&amp;P 500 posted price advances of 12.1%, 28.1%, 3.1% and 14.3% (through March 22, 2013). He also looks to the Conference Board's Leading Economic Indicator for guidance, but finds it cannot tell us much about the future given current conditions: ...the undulation of average P/E ratios during increasing quintiles of year-over-year LEI percent changes...shows a wide range of observations from as high as 31.9X to as low as 7.8X and an average of 17.6X. What‚Äôs more, rather than indicate the tendency for market multiple to rise as this economic indicator improves, the results appear inconsistent to us. That's an incredibly wide range of scenarios.¬† Here's Stovall's table: Sam Stovall/S&P Capital IQ His conclusion: we can't conclude anything: ...the S&amp;P 500 is fairly valued. Yet based on the range of observations since inception, history shows (but does not guarantee) that the market could also experience a substantial amount of P/E expansion ‚Äì or contraction. Maybe it goes nowhere.
AP Images/Leftrtis Pitarakis A press spokesperson for Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich is denying reports of his arrest, TV Rain reports. Russia's RBC TV had reported earlier that oligarch Roman Abramovich had been arrested by the FBI. RBC's initial report was quickly picked up by other news outlets, but few other details are available at present. Business Insider reached out the to FBI who would not confirm or deny there was an investigation. In a statement to the Independent's Shaun Walker, Abramovich's spokesman John Mann said that his client was in the US but had not been detained or arrested in any way. An official tweet from Mann says that the reports of an arrest are "NOT TRUE". According to the Telegraph's Tom Parfitt, RBC's story was based on "rumors": Just watched @ru_rbc 6pm Moscow bulletin. Smoking gun on Abramovich "arrest" turned out to be "rumours" which it cannot substantiate. Abramovich had recently beat Berezovsky, once his business partner and mentor, in one of the costliest legal cases in UK history. Berezovsky's death is not being treated as suspicious at this time. Shares of Russian steelmaker Evraz tanked the arrest report. Abramovich is a major shareholder in the company.
Wikimedia CommonsWhen exiled Russian Oligarch was found dead in his London home this weekend, speculation immediately turned to murder. Violent death, after all, had followed Berezovsky throughout his adult life. Berezovksy fell out of favor with the Kremlin shortly after Vladimir Putin took power. President Boris Yeltsin stepped down in 1999, and Berezovsky, as one of Yeltsin's close advisors known as the "Family", helped select Putin to succeed him. It was an incredibly important decision for all of Russia's super rich oligarchs. They needed someone who could hold the country for capitalism as, towards the end of the Yeltsin administration, it was unclear whether or not the Communists would come back in to power, repossess all the companies that were privatized, and ruin the party for Russia's new elite (the oligarchs). Berezovsky thought Putin was the man for the job, but Vanity Fair¬†describes how their relationship soured about a year after Putin took office in 2000: In August, a Russian nuclear submarine, the Kursk, sank off Russia‚Äôs Arctic coast; 118 men died, 28 of them likely as a result of bungled rescue efforts that the country watched unfold in real time. The tragedy became a public-relations disaster, in part because Berezovsky‚Äôs O.R.T. aired an audio recording of the president‚Äôs meeting with victims‚Äô families, during which Putin lost his temper, lashing out at the families and at unnamed enemies. By this time, another oligarch and media magnate, Vladimir Gusinsky, had been jailed briefly and forced to leave the country‚Äîbut only after signing his media assets over to a state-owned company. The same fate now seemed likely to befall Berezovsky. In October 2000, the French newspaper Le Figaro published an interview with Putin in which he held forth on the oligarchs: ‚ÄúGenerally, I don‚Äôt think that the State and the oligarchs are irreconcilable enemies. Rather, I think that the state is holding a big club in its hands, which it will use only once. To deliver a crushing blow on the head. We haven‚Äôt yet resorted to that club. We just picked it up‚Äîand that was enough to attract public attention. But if we get really angry, we will not hesitate to use it.‚Äù Berezovsky read this interview at his vacation home in Cap d‚ÄôAntibes, France. He took it as a direct threat‚Äîconfirmed by a summons to present himself for interrogation‚Äîand decided not to return to Moscow. He has lived in exile ever since. So Berezovsky lived to regret his role as King-maker. He used his estimated $3 billion fortune to bring down the Putin regime from his new home in London. He even admitted that openly to Reuters in 2006, which prompted the British government to ask him to stop meddling in Russian affairs. It was essentially a request for him to save his own life, as it was around this time that people with connections to Berezovsky started winding up dead. The most famous of these mysterious deaths is the case of Russian spy, anti-Putin activist, and former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko. In 2006 he was poisoned when radioactive polonium 210 was slipped into his tea. U.S. and British officials had never seen anything like it.  Litvinenko's wife, for what it's worth, told the Telegraph she does not believe Berezovsky killed himself, despite his depressed state at the end of his life. From the Telegraph: "From my point of view it is not likely that he committed suicide," she said. "He had a lot of enemies. He was an outspoken person and never tried to hide what he thought. "When I talked to him last he was a little recovered and I believed he would be better. He started to take interest and to ask about my son." Another former KGB officer who met with with Litvinenko the day he was poisoned, Dmitry Kovtun, was also hospitalized after their meeting and had traces of polonium 210 in his system. Kotvun insisted Litvinenko poisoned him. Then there's Yego Gaidar, a Russian economist that helped carry out the "loans for shares" program that made Berezovsky and other Russian oligarchs so rich. He was a Yeltsin man. The day after Litvinenko was poisoned, he collapsed on a book tour and said he was poisoned as well. He died three years later of a blood clot. Finally, Berezovsky's busienss partner Badri Patarkatsishvili was died in 2008. Patarkatsishvili was part of whatever deal Berezovsky made with Abramovich in 2004. Reports say that he died of a heart attack, but there are doubts. From The Standard: Even if a post mortem reveals Patarkatsishvili died from a heart attack, if there is no evidence of long-term heart disease police inquiries are likely to continue. This is because a number of compounds known to be used by the former KGB can induce heart failure, but leave virtually no trace. One is sodium fluoroacetate, a fine white powder derived from pesticide. It causes irregular heartbeat and breathing difficulties before a fatal heart attack. Patarkatsishvili had difficulty breathing a few hours before he died and left a meeting to go outside for fresh air. In 2007 Scotland Yard intercepted a plot to kill Berezovsky in London and kicked the suspected hit man out of the UK. So wouldn't you suspect some foul play here?
MoneyBlogNewz / FlickrU.S. markets will be closed on Friday.¬† But it'll still be a busy week loaded with crucial information. Lots of members of the Federal Reserve will be giving speeches this week, perhaps offering clues as to what's next for monetary policy. Among the key economic data releases this week will be the personal income and spending report, which is arguably the most important report of the year so far. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update "We think the stock market still has room to rise because equities are now more attractively valued¬†and¬†of higher quality than they were at previous peaks," argues Seth Masters of Alliance Bernstein. However, there is plenty of political uncertainty looming that could crush the rally. Former OMB head and current Citi vice chairman Peter Orszag recently spoke with Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal and explained why we should soon expect another debt ceiling debate.¬† In case you forgot, the debt ceiling debate of 2011 ended with the U.S. losing its AAA credit rating and the stock market plunging. Watch the interview with Peter Orszag here:
Here's the deal: The Cyprus crisis never created a big ripple in world markets. And now the bailout of Cyprus isn't creating much of a boom or anything. Now the Euro is below where it was. Also, the US markets have opened to very muted gains. Basically people just don't care. FinViz
London's Mayor Boris Johnson lashed out at a BBC journalist after things got a little too personal. Johnson, whose goofy charm and successful handling of London's 2012 Olympic Games have led to talk of him becoming prime minister, was interviewed ahead of a BBC Two documentary that will delve into allegations from his past. Johnson was asked about his days as a journalist when he was fired from the Times for making up a quote. "I mildly sandpapered something someone had said. It is very embarrassing, and I am very sorry about it," he responded. The mayor was also asked about allegations that he lied to a journalist, and that he provided a friend with the address of a journalist that the friend wanted to rough up. At one point the host, Eddie Mair, says to Johnson "You're a nasty piece of work, aren't you?" -->-->  The interview is especially tense when you read the transcript (which you can see here as a pdf). Note that "over" means Mair is talking over Johnson: EDDIE MAIR: (over) Yes. You made something up. Let me ask about another little, er‚Ä¶BORIS JOHNSON: (over) Well, I mean, I mildly sandpapered something somebody said, and yes it‚Äôs very embarrassing and I‚Äôm very sorry about it.EDDIE MAIR: Let me ask you about a bare-faced lie. When you were in Michael Howard‚Äôs team, you denied to him you were having an affair. It turned out you were and he sacked you for that. Why did you lie to your Party leader?BORIS JOHNSON: Well, I mean again, I‚Äôm‚Ä¶ with great respect‚Ä¶ On that, I never had any conversation with Michael Howard about that matter and, you know, I don‚Äôt propose‚Ä¶EDDIE MAIR: (over) You did lie to him.BORIS JOHNSON: Well, you know, I don‚Äôt propose to go in to all that again.EDDIE MAIR: I don‚Äôt blame you. Here's another brutal section: EDDIE MAIR: (over) Aren‚Äôt you in fact, making up quotes, lying to your party leader, wanting to be part of someone being physically assaulted? You‚Äôre a nasty piece of work, aren‚Äôt you?BORIS JOHNSON: Well, Eddie, I think of all three things I would dispute ‚Ä¶EDDIE MAIR: You don‚Äôt factually dispute them.BORIS JOHNSON: Well I do. And I can, you know, if we had a long time, which we don‚Äôt, I could explain that I think all three interpretations you‚Äôre putting on those things aren‚Äôt wholly fair. And certainly, the final thing which you raise, which is the case of my old friend Darius, yes, it was certainly true that he was in a bit of state and I did humour him in a long phone conversation, from which absolutely nothing eventuated and‚Ä¶ you know, there you go. But I think if any of us had our phone conversations bugged, they might, you know, people say all sorts of fantastical things whist they‚Äôre talking to their friends.EDDIE MAIR: But even Conrad Black, your friend. Convicted fraudster, even he says he doesn‚Äôt trust you completely. BORIS JOHNSON: I hadn‚Äôt seen that Conrad had said that, but obviously,¬† you know, nonetheless I have got a great admiration for Conrad who in my¬† view is a pretty good journalist and a pretty good proprietor. What's so weird about this is that Johnson has known about these accusations (if they are even that ‚Äî he doesn't dispute them) for years, and still has no good way to explain his behaviour. On Twitter it seems the reactions are unanimous ‚Äî it was a bloodbath: And here's *that* Boris Johnson interview bbc.co.uk/news/uk-219163‚Ä¶ Cleaners at the Beeb are still mopping him off the walls Downing St formally responds to Boris Johnson's #nightmairBBC interview twitter.com/DavidPrescott/‚Ä¶ Eddie Mair is roasting Boris. Asking him all the tough questions that no broadcaster ever has done before #marr -->-->  
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderHigh frequency trading is one of the most polarizing issues on the Street. It's also so complex it's hard to talk about in normal conversation. To broaden the investing world's understanding of the topic, a new film called "The Ghost Exchange" is examining the impact of high frequency and algorithmic trading on U.S. capital markets, the lack or regulation on HFT and the systemic risks it poses. It's directed by Camilla Sullivan and the co-produced by Rob Lyall. To get the full story, the producers interviewed a number of market practitioners from all aspects of the market ó traders, academics and regulators. "The Ghost Exchange" focuses on three of the most recent market events, which have called into question the integrity of these marketsó the "Flash Crash" of May 2010, the Facebook IPO snafu and Knight Capital losing over $400 million from a trading error. What's really interesting is the producers of the film said they got to work on the idea in January 2012 after a conversation about the "Flash Crash." They were actually planning to interview Knight CEO Tom Joyce for the film before his firm's trading error. "As we were already on the road to Jersey City, we got a call. Seems thereíd been a slight software error ñ to the tune of $440M in trading losses. Tom had to cancel our interview. However, turning lemons into lemonade we decided to see whom we could talk to about what just happened ñ an example of trading technology gone haywire. Well thatís what the movie is about isnít it?!," they said in a release.† The real question the film raises, though, is how all these issues impact outside investors. It's important to know whether or not HFT ultimately takes away money and opportunity from our markets as people lose confidence in the entire system. We went to an advanced screening at the Tribeca Grand Hotel this month and have included the highlights in the slides that follow.†
Charles Barkley might have said that Twitter is for "losers"¬†in the past, but the NBA star turned announcer might be changing his tune shortly after taking on the role of social media friendly Capital One's spokesman, Adweek reports. Capital One svp/brand marketing Marc Mentry said: "I think he's going to [join Twitter] as a part of this. We hope he's pretty out and proud in terms of what he's doing." Barkley has been pretty out in the out and proud about his thoughts on Twitter, though. He posted a video on his personal website in October 2011 that ranted: "Tweet is for losers. And what I mean by that, if you wake up in the morning and you're worried about what I'm doing, you a damn idiot. You are a damn idiot. I don't feel the need to put every thought that comes in my head out to the world. I don't feel that. And I hope nobody wakes up in the morning and says let me follow Charles Barkley for the day." But Barkley has done crazier things for brands in the past. He put on a dress for Weight Watchers, after all. (He also got a lot of slack for accidentally calling the Weight Watchers spokesman gig a "scam" live on TNT ‚Äî a comment which he later tried to clarify.) Capital One would be smart to get the huge personality on Twitter and actively discussing the company. Social media is a crucial part of marketing campaigns, after all. Mentry told Adweek,¬†"We see digital as the next front where we need to engage consumers very specifically around things like March Madness." Let's see if Barkley's Twitter sticks.
Flickr / Mike_flemingNearly 2m homes in the UK will be heated by shale gas from the US within five years, under a deal agreed on Monday that is likely to be the first time major exports of the controversial energy source are used in the UK. The US government has kept a tight rein on exports since the shale gas boom started more than five years ago. But the deal struck by energy company Centrica marks the start of a new era in gas use in the UK, because it opens up the market to cheap supplies from the US, as North Sea gas fields run out and pipelines to Europe remain expensive. Shale gas exploitation has been blamed for environmental problems in the US, including water, ground and air pollution and leaks of methane. Under the deal, Centrica will pay ¬£10bn over 20 years for 89bn cubic feet of gas annually ‚Äì enough to heat 1.8m homes ‚Äì from Cheniere, one of the first US companies to receive clearance from the federal government to export shale gas in the form of LNG (liquefied natural gas). The first deliveries, by tanker, are expected in 2018. The announcement of the deal comes at a crucial time, as Britain's gas reserves have been severely depleted by the unseasonable cold snap, which has increased demand. Last week, it emerged that there were only two days' worth of gas left in storage. Though there was no immediate danger of a cut-off, because of imports through pipelines connecting to supplies from Russia and Norway, the tightening of supply raised grave concerns. The failure of a key pipeline on Friday morning caused an immediate doubling of gas prices in the spot market ‚Äì though prices fell back later as the problem was resolved, the incident highlighted the vulnerability of the UK to energy shocks, because of the high dependence on gas imports for heating and power generation. The prime minister, David Cameron, was forced to intervene last week to reassure households that there would be no cut-off. On Monday he said: "I warmly welcome this commercial agreement between Centrica and Cheniere. Future gas supplies from the US will help diversify our energy mix and provide British consumers with a new long-term, secure and affordable source of fuel." Sam Laidlaw, chief executive of Centrica, said: "In an increasingly global gas market, this landmark agreement represents a significant step forward in our strategy ‚Ä¶ helping to ensure the UK's future energy security." There have been other deals on US gas imports to the UK in the past two years, including a deal struck by BP and one from British Gas, but they are unlikely to reach the volume of the Centrica deal and may take longer to reach delivery. Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at Friends of the Earth, said of current imports: "Emergency gas shipments to maintain Britain's energy security are yet further evidence of our shambolic energy strategy. It makes no sense for the UK to rely increasingly on overseas shipments of ever more expensive gas while ministers sideline the vast potential of homegrown energy from the wind, waves and sun. It's time to pull the plug on our fossil fuel dependency and switch to a 21st century energy policy based on clean power and slashing waste." Shale gas has brought about a revolution in US energy, with thousands of wells drilled across the country releasing billions of tonnes of fuel. Gas prices have plummeted as a result, to about $2 a unit, compared with about $10 to $12 in Europe and Japan, but those price falls have not yet affected the international market. That is because the US has behaved, in the words of the International Energy Agency, as a "gas island". Exports have been restricted, in part by government regulation that has favoured domestic use, and by the lack of infrastructure for converting the gas to liquid and transferring it to tankers. But if these vast supplies of fossil fuels are burned, they could put global climate change targets of holding warming to less than 2C above pre-industrial levels out of reach. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk
APA key political point from last night's Cyprus deal is that Angela Merkel has scored an epic victory in an election year. Wolfgang Munchau's Eurointelligence notes: One wonders what the point is in these late night negotiations if the result is always a near total German victory. Last night‚Äôs agreed deal is almost the same as the one proposed by the IMF and Germany initially ‚Äì with ultimately only some minor technical modifications. The final agreement foresees the resolution of Laiki, with deposit of under ‚Ç¨100,000 put into a good bank, which in turn will be merged with Bank of Cyprus. Shareholders, junior and senior bondholder, and large depositors in Laiki will be wiped out. There are so many reasons why Cyprus was a win for Merkel: In an election year, you really couldn't do much better.
Flickr / alles-schulmpfEconomist Tyler Cowen shares some thoughts on the Cyprus deal on his blog, and one line is dramatic but important: ¬†The capital controls will have to be strict.¬† What will the price of a Cypriot euro be, relative to a German euro?¬† 50%?¬† I call this Cyprus leaving the euro but keeping the word ‚Äúeuro‚Äù to save face. In other words, because Cyprus plans to impose restrictions on moving money out of the country, a euro in a Cypriot bank isn't worth what a euro in a German bank is worth. Ed Conway, the great economics reporter at Sky News, had basically the same thought in a blog post he put up yesterday as he was heading to Cyprus: If capital controls get put properly in place,¬†it‚Äôs the end of this monetary system as we know it ‚Äì at the very least it‚Äôs probably¬†the end of Cyprus‚Äôs place within¬†it. A euro within Cyprus will suddenly be worth¬†significantly less than a euro in Germany or, for that matter, Greece. Or to¬†put it in more¬†economic, and slightly more doomsday terms, consider this: there‚Äôs¬†a pretty fundamental rule in economic policy that nation states must choose¬†two¬†(but not three) of the following: independent monetary policy (in other words¬†the power to set your own interest rates), a fixed exchange rate¬†and free¬†movement of capital. Economists call this the ‚Äúimpossible trinity‚Äù or trilemma,¬†because you can never have all three at any one time. If¬†Cyprus is to abandon¬†the free movement of capital, the next economically-logical step is for it to¬†have its own independent monetary policy, in¬†other words to leave the single¬†currency. Think tank Open Europe says the same: Ultimately, money is no longer fungible between Cyprus and the rest of the Eurozone and, at this point in time, it‚Äôs hard to argue that a euro in Cyprus is worth the same as a euro elsewhere. The real problem though may not be imposing the controls but removing them ‚Äì Iceland still has capital controls in place, five years after it installed them (despite having the advantage of a devalued currency).¬† And @pawelmorskimakes the argument further: I can guarantee we'll see a parallel market for Cypriot ‚Ç¨. AFAICS would be legal. If anyone spots pricing, let me know. If I want to buy house in Cyprus: send ‚Ç¨100k? Or offer to pay Cypriot (say) ‚Ç¨90k in London, he pays ‚Ç¨100k from cap controlled account.
Flickr / FederalReserveThis will be a short week as markets will be closed for Good Friday. However there are a bunch of Federal Reserve officials giving speeches. Speakers include Bernanke and Dudley on Monday; Fisher on Tuesday; and Kocherlakota, Pianalto, and Rosengren on Wednesday. "All of the speeches are on the economy and/or monetary policy, so they will warrant attention," writes Deutsche Bank's Carl Riccadonna. Here's more from Riccadonna: In particular, we will listen to hear if New York Fed President Dudley remains firmly aligned with the dovish Bernanke-Yellen camp of policymakers. These three are largely viewed as the ìdovish coreî of the FOMC, and as long as their assessment of QE efficacy and economic conditions remains consistent, current policy accommodation will remain in place. While President Fisherís remarks are likely to remain hawkish, and President Rosengren to remain dovish, Dudley and Pianalto could signal if the moderates remain comfortable with current policy... Given the persistent weakness in the labor market, Riccadonna doesn't expect anyone to stray from the Fed's consensus that the first rate hike will come in 2015.
Jason Merritt / Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Library of CongressEuro zone leaders have finally structured a deal to bail out Cyprus' financial system. But the terms come with harsh austerity and a massive deleveraging requirement. "As part of the agreement, the Cypriot financial sector will be downsized to match that of the EU average by 2018," writes Societe General economist Michala Marcussen. So, Cyprus' financial system may have been saved (for now).† But it doesn't mean all will be well in the economy. Here's Marcussen: Depression for Cyprus: Our Cypriot GDP forecast entails a drop of just over 20% in real GDP by 2017. This forecast had already factored in much what was agreed, but did not account for the additional uncertainty shock generated by the past weekís appalling political mess. Risks are clearly on the downside and Cyprus will in all likelihood require additional financial assistance further down the road. Accounting for less than 0.3% of euro area GDP, any downward revision to Cyprus will be barely visible on the euro area aggregate. Depression, downside risks, and more bail outs.† The Cypriot nightmare continues.
Bloomberg TVLast night, euro zone leaders finally agreed on a deal to bail out Cyprus' financial system.¬† Among other things, depositors with over 100,000 euros in their accounts will get slammed. While an immediate and disorderly collapse of Cyprus' banks may have been averted, this story clearly isn't over yet. In his daily comment on UBS.com, economist Paul Donovan notes that Cyprus' current financial system continues to be unsustainable.¬† Furthermore, he warns that the precedent set by deal regarding depositor haircuts could make depositors in other countries worried. Here are Donovan's four bullets verbatim from UBS.com:
Agence France PresseChinese electric car producer BYD, which is partly backed by US investment titan Warren Buffett, said its net profit plunged more than 94 percent year-on-year in 2012, hit by slowing growth in the country. The company, based in the southern boomtown of Shenzhen, said in a statement Sunday that net profit came in at 81.38 million yuan ($12.92 million) last year, down from 1.38 billion yuan in 2011. A subsidiary of Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway owns 9.56 percent of BYD. "Under the impact of slower economic growth, the automobile industry in the PRC (People's Republic of China) remains weak," the statement said. China is the world's biggest auto market, with total sales rising 4.3 percent year-on-year in 2012 to 19.31 million vehicles. But slowing domestic economic growth, limits on car numbers by some cities and a political row between China and Japan that hurt sales of Japanese-brand cars weighed on the market last year. China's economy expanded 7.8 percent in 2012, its slowest pace for 13 years, in the face of weakness at home and in key overseas markets. BYD, which makes both conventional as well as hybrid and electric cars, sold 420,000 vehicles last year, which it said was a "slight decrease" from 2011 but gave no comparative figure. "The solar energy business was under great pressure due to the sluggish photovoltaic industry, resulting in considerable adverse effect on the overall results of the group," it added. BYD also produces telephone handsets, rechargeable batteries and solar products including cells and panels. The global solar industry has been burned by the economic slowdown in Europe and the United States, together with weak prices blamed on Chinese companies which sought to build market share by undercutting competitors. Last week, China's Suntech -- once the world's largest solar panel producer -- said its main subsidiary was facing bankruptcy. BYD closed up 0.47 percent to 23.51 yuan in Shenzhen trading on Monday but its Hong Kong-listed shares were down 0.40 percent at HK$24.85 ($3.23) in late afternoon trade. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Over night, euro zone leaders agreed on a bail out deal for Cyprus. The good news: Cypriot depositors with under 100,000 euros in their bank accounts will be safe.¬† The bad news: depositors with over 100,000 euros in their accounts will get hit. Twitterer @Tukxi points our attention to this screen grab of Laiki Bank's UK home page. Laiki is Cyprus' second largest bank.¬† "This means that if our Bank is unable to meet its financial obligations, your eligible deposits are protected up to a total of ‚Ç¨100.000 per Depositor (which is equal to Sterling ¬£87,080 based on the exchange rate of 0.8708 as at 11/03//2013 from FX rates quoted by Laiki Bank UK)," they write. You can bet the UK offices will be getting some phone calls about this: Laiki Bank
ArchivesThe good old days. As expected, Cyprus and the EU reached a new late-night bailout deal†last night that will reduce the chance that Cyprus's financial system and economy will completely implode. The new deal is better than the last deal in one key respect: That's very important. Those deposits were ostensibly "insured." To seize them, the way the last bailout deal would have, would have been grossly unfair and would have set a truly alarming precedent. Now, small depositors in European banks can breathe more easily. At least in this case of gross malpractice on the part of reckless bank managers, their life savings have been preserved. Alas, the good news ends there. Although deposits under 100,000 euros will be spared, deposits over 100,000 euros will be seized and subjected to an as-yet undetermined haircut--with the confiscated money going to bail out the gambling losses of the aforementioned reckless idiots who run some of Cyprus's banks. This seizure, needless to say, will dampen the enthusiasm of rich depositors for keeping money in banks that get themselves into financial trouble. And because many, many banks in Europe have gotten themselves into financial trouble, this will create a general state of unease among rich depositors throughout the Eurozone. And it should wig out some bank lenders, as well. After all, never before in the history of this global financial crisis has a major banking system allowed depositors to lose money, no matter how reckless and stupid and greedy their bank managers have been. And only rarely have bank lenders--those who hold bank bonds--been asked to pony up. In this case, however, the depositors will lose money. Perhaps a lot of money. And if there had been big bank debtholders in Cyprus, they probably would have been socked with losses, too. It's possible that everyone will just laugh off Cyprus, viewing it as an exceptional one-off. After all, the Cyprus banking system was notorious for being the offshore money-laundering arm of many Russian oligarchs, so many folks will likely view this asset seizure as a case of "just desserts."† But this optimistic view of the Cyprus horrorshow overlooks one key fact: The main reason that Cyprus depositors will lose their cash is because it has become politically difficult (impossible?) for leaders in Germany and other rich European countries to bail out their brethren in the "periphery" without taking many pounds of flesh. And it is that precedent, in addition to the fate of big depositors in Cyprus, that should spook Europe's big bank depositors and lenders. If Germany is done bailing out countries and banks without having those countries and banks cover some of the cost, it's not clear why Germany will relent next time Spain, Italy, Greece, and other countries in near-desperately bad financial shape come rushing to the EU with their hands out. Unlike Cyprus, the banking systems in these countries do have bondholders that can get haircut before the depositors get haircut, but the effect will be the same. For the first time since the collapse of Lehman Brothers, those who lend their money to banks or keep their money in banks are at risk. Because the neighborhood loan shark (Germany) is now extracting much more onerous terms. That's a sobering precedent. And it will likely cause many people to wonder and worry about where their money is. SEE ALSO: This Crazy Cyprus Deal Could Screw Up A Lot More Than Cyprus
I was reading this report from Zillow on the future of home prices and it got me thinking about some of the macro trends in real estate. †Iíve turned much more constructive on housing in the last year than I had been for the past 5-6 years. †Before about 12 months ago I wouldnít have told anyone to purchase a home in the USA, but about a year ago I started saying: ìIf youíre planning on†living†in a house (as in, 10 years of actually living in a home) then you should have no great fears about buying today.î Admittedly, the year over year surge in home prices has been greater than I expected, but the halt in price declines doesnít surprise me at all. †After all, weíve fallen 30%+ from the peak in many areas so the risk/reward structure of the real estate market has shifted†favourably†for buyers. † But I do worry that the misconceptions regarding housing persist as this quote from the Zillow report implies: ìWeíve just finished compiling our Q1 2013 Zillow Home Price Expectations Survey (ZHPES), where professional forecasters provide predictions for housing market growth in the near term. This survey marks a break with the past in that the survey benchmark is now the national Zillow Home Value Index rather than the Case-Shiller index. The prediction for appreciation in 2013 is 4.6 percent, with the lowest projection at 3.5 percent depreciation and the highest at 8.5 percent appreciation. This edition of the survey was compiled from 118 responses, including the projections of economists, market and investment researchers and real estate experts. Itís also interesting to break up the market by growth periods to compare historical annual average rates to expectations, as done in Figure 2 above. Covering expectations for annual average growth to the end of 2017, the average of all respondents, at 4.1 percent, is above the pre-bubble average of 3.6 percent. Indeed, the optimists, on average, seem to expect the recovery to continue modestly picking up speed. And while on average the pessimists expect things to slow, it would not be too far below the pre-bubble average.î Real estate returns are not rocket science. †Because theyíre such a huge portion of the consumer balance sheet they tend to be tied very closely to wage growth. †Wage growth, by definition, is very closely tied to the rate of inflation. †That explains why the long-term historical return of real estate is roughly in-line with the rate of inflation. †But this survey from Zillow shows that real estate ìinvestorsî are probably still too optimistic. Iíve compiled the same data using the Case Shiller nominal price index in figure 1 below. †US real estate has averaged about 3.7% since 1890. †Thatís just a tad above the average historical inflation rate of 3.2% in the USA. †When I started calling housing a bubble back in 2005 it was largely due to this one simple mathematical reality ñ house prices cannot deviate from wage growth in perpetuity. †So when Robert Shiller started posting his famous inflation adjusted house price chart (figure 2) all over the place it should have sent us all into a worried frenzy. †But it didnít for some reason. †Instead, most people shrugged it off and it directly contributed to one of the worst economic calamities in US history. Looking forward, I wouldnít expect house prices to break their bubble peak until about 2025. †Figure 1 shows the historical Case/Shiller data with Zillow survey results. †The most probable scenario (historical average) assumes a real return of about 0%. †But the average respondent to the Zillow survey expects 4% nominal growth. †That sends us back to new highs by 2022. †Thatís not terribly unreasonable. †But the most optimistic real estate investors are expecting something closer to bubble-era nominal growth of 6% per year. †That gets us back to the bubble peak by 2019 and sends us shooting 41% over that level by 2025. †Thatís just not realistic and not sustainable in any way. Of course, the future wonít play perfectly to the averages or even my practical assumptions. †Itís entirely possible that the Fedís implicit asset targeting approach will veer us closer to something like the ìmost optimisticî scenario. †Combine that with the broadly held myth that housing is a good ìinvestmentî (itís actually a crappy investment in terms of †real, real returns) and we might have all the ingredients for the highly unusual post-bubble bubble. †I for one, hope prices stagnate with inflation rates and basically move sideways per the Case-Shiller chart, but Iíd be lying if I didnít say I am getting at least moderately worried about the impacts of the Fedís policies at present. †Itís way too early to start declaring this an environment consistent with a disequilibrium like 2005, but we should be proactive thinkers, not reactive like our friends at the Fed. Orcam (Figure 1 ñ Housing Scenarios via Orcam Research) Orcam (Figure 2 ñ Real House Prices via†Orcam Research)
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisCyprus got its bailout last night. The details are here, but basically it goes: Depositors over 100K at the two biggest Cypriot banks will get clobbered. Everyone else is spared. The deal does not need to be voted on by the Cypriot parliament, so that part is over. There's probably no reason to expect a gigantic relief rally, since markets didn't decline much over the course of last week. But markets are higher at the moment. Italy has opened up 0.7%, while its national borrowing costs have ticked down a few basis points. US futures are modestly higher. In Asia, Japan rallied 1.7%. Markets higher around the world on Cyprus bailout --&gt;
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisLast night, European leaders came to a deal for Cyprus that basically amounts to gigantic haircuts for uninsured depositors at Cyprus' two biggest banks, and no tax or haircuts for anyone else. You can read the details here. The plan doesn't need to pass the Cypriot parliament, because it's a restructuring that was enabled via a vote last Friday. There's no new tax. Even if the deal holds, and there's not some immediate consequence, it's still bad news for Europe and the Euro, argues Citi's Steven Englander. We would expect the EUR to be trading lower by the end of the NY day. The reason is that the Cyprus crisis has opened up some precedents that will make investors more worried about how future euro zone crises will evolve and does nothing to enhance growth, and if anything brings back the Germany that can say ‚Äòno‚Äô to just about everything. So we think that the EUR will have trouble regaining 1.31 and will probably drift below 1.30 in the course of time. It is not a first-order negative for the euro but adds to the baggage it will carry in future crises. ... It makes the euro zone more susceptible to bank deposit runs in the event that banks come under question. This may make any future bank-related crisis more intense. The fact that deposit insurance was called into question so casually will make other depositors wary of policymaker assurances that they would not behave similarly. It told depositors that policymakers could act that way if they wanted to. The German FM‚Äôs comments that deposit insurance does not apply to levies and is only as good as the sovereign backing the insurance will be remembered at the next crisis. So now we have a deal that does not involve repudiating deposit insurance or imposing a levy on deposits¬† -- yet is has managed to raise fears of deposit insurance repudiation and deposit levies down the road. Sparing insured depositors was a good move, but even still the large depositor haircuts were shocking, and the fact that initially they were willing to consider the one-off tax was fairly stunning. And as we've argued, the political contagion is a big issue. Germany looks like a bully, and that will foment anti-Euro opposition in countries like Greece and Italy.
The Euro spiked a bit last night after a deal was announced on Cyprus, but as you can see here it's basically already gone. In fairness, this just wasn't a big market moving event. Last week markets didn't fall much. So there's not much reason for there to be a relief spike. FinViz
