SINGAPORE¬†(Reuters) - A shareholder who suffered losses in a penny stock trading debacle in Singapore¬†is suing Goldman Sachs, accusing the investment bank of arbitrarily selling her holdings and saying the sales contributed to a crash in their prices. Last month, Blumont Group Ltd, Asiasons Capital Ltd and LionGold Corp Ltd - three firms interlinked by cross shareholdings and common officers - lost a combined market value of about S$8 billion ($6.4 billion) in just three days of trading. The court case may shed light on the causes of the crash. Both the crash and huge run-ups in their share prices earlier in the year left many in the market mystified, prompting the¬†Monetary Authority of Singapore¬†and the stock exchange to launch an extensive review. The lawsuit was filed in the¬†High Court in London¬†on November 20 by¬†Quah Su Ling, who held stocks in all three companies and is the chief executive of investment firm IPCO International Ltd, the second-largest shareholder in Blumont. It is being brought against¬†London-based Goldman Sachs International, a fully owned unit of Goldman. Quah said that on October 2 Goldman demanded she pay back about S$61 million ($49 million) in loans in cash, giving her only 1.5 hours to do so, according to the filing which was seen by Reuters. As Quah failed to make the repayment, Goldman issued a notice of default and immediately started to sell Quah's collateral, including shares in investment firm Asiasons, Blumont, a natural resources investment company, and gold miner LionGold, the filing says. She also said that Goldman neglected to contact Hong Kong-based¬†Vicario Investments Limited, which had agreed to buy 10 million shares each in LionGold and Blumont from her in cash, according to the filing. "...the Defendant continued to sell the Claimant's LionGold and Blumont shares knowing full well that the continued sale of the said shares would depress the share prices and jeopardize the intended purchase by Vicario," the filing added. Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for Goldman in¬†London, declined to comment on the case. Quah, who is seeking unspecified damages, could not be reached for comment. Blumont and Asiasons did not respond to requests for comment about Quah's case. LionGold declined to comment. All three companies have previously denied any wrongdoing in relation to the falls in their share prices. Contact details for Vicario Investments could not be immediately obtained by Reuters. The alleged action by Goldman came after¬†Singapore¬†Exchange Ltd on October 1 issued a particularly detailed query to Blumont, asking if its activities had justified an eightfold rise in its share price in the first nine months of the year. The query was one of several made to the three companies in September and early October about the rise in their share prices. Over the next few days, the three stocks started to plummet, transforming them back into the penny stocks they had once been. Three other individuals also received demands from Goldman Sachs to repay loans on October 2, including¬†Wong Chin Yong, chief executive officer of Innopac Holdings Ltd, James Hong, executive director at Blumont and¬†Ng Su Ling, a director at LionGold and at the time, also a director at Blumont, according to the court papers. Hong told Reuters that he was also suing Goldman Sachs but declined to elaborate further. It was not clear if a suit had been filed. Records from the¬†High Court in London¬†show Ng has filed a lawsuit against Goldman, though details were also not immediately available. Ng could not be reached for comment, while LionGold said that Ng's suit was a personal case and did not relate to the management of the company. Goldman's Bullock declined to comment on Ng's lawsuit and possible legal action by Hong. Wong and Innopac, a property and equity investment firm, did not immediately reply to requests for comment. Some brokers in¬†Singapore¬†had put trading restrictions on the stocks during September due to concerns that their value was no longer matched by fundamentals. The¬†Singapore¬†Exchange queried Asiasons and Blumont twice and LionGold once about their share prices in the weeks leading up to the crash, but did not put in place trading curbs until after the stocks started to fall. The exchange later came under fire for lifting those trading curbs before the companies could issue clarifications about their stock moves. It has said that it deployed a series of tools to restore stability in the market when the stocks began to fall and that it uses separate measures to investigate possible wrongdoing. ($1 = 1.2543¬†Singapore¬†dollars) (Additional reporting by Rachel Armstrong in¬†SINGAPORE¬†and Kirstin Ridley in¬†LONDON; Editing by Edwina Gibbs)
SINGAPORE¬†(Reuters) - A shareholder who suffered losses in a penny stock trading debacle in Singapore¬†is suing Goldman Sachs, accusing the investment bank of arbitrarily selling her holdings and saying the sales contributed to a crash in their prices. Last month, Blumont Group Ltd, Asiasons Capital Ltd and LionGold Corp Ltd - three firms interlinked by cross shareholdings and common officers - lost a combined market value of about S$8 billion ($6.4 billion) in just three days of trading. The court case may shed light on the causes of the crash. Both the crash and huge run-ups in their share prices earlier in the year left many in the market mystified, prompting the¬†Monetary Authority of Singapore¬†and the stock exchange to launch an extensive review. The lawsuit was filed in the¬†High Court in London¬†on November 20 by¬†Quah Su Ling, who held stocks in all three companies and is the chief executive of investment firm IPCO International Ltd, the second-largest shareholder in Blumont. It is being brought against¬†London-based Goldman Sachs International, a fully owned unit of Goldman. Quah said that on October 2 Goldman demanded she pay back about S$61 million ($49 million) in loans in cash, giving her only 1.5 hours to do so, according to the filing which was seen by Reuters. As Quah failed to make the repayment, Goldman issued a notice of default and immediately started to sell Quah's collateral, including shares in investment firm Asiasons, Blumont, a natural resources investment company, and gold miner LionGold, the filing says. She also said that Goldman neglected to contact Hong Kong-based¬†Vicario Investments Limited, which had agreed to buy 10 million shares each in LionGold and Blumont from her in cash, according to the filing. "...the Defendant continued to sell the Claimant's LionGold and Blumont shares knowing full well that the continued sale of the said shares would depress the share prices and jeopardize the intended purchase by Vicario," the filing added. Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for Goldman in¬†London, declined to comment on the case. Quah, who is seeking unspecified damages, could not be reached for comment. Blumont and Asiasons did not respond to requests for comment about Quah's case. LionGold declined to comment. All three companies have previously denied any wrongdoing in relation to the falls in their share prices. Contact details for Vicario Investments could not be immediately obtained by Reuters. The alleged action by Goldman came after¬†Singapore¬†Exchange Ltd on October 1 issued a particularly detailed query to Blumont, asking if its activities had justified an eightfold rise in its share price in the first nine months of the year. The query was one of several made to the three companies in September and early October about the rise in their share prices. Over the next few days, the three stocks started to plummet, transforming them back into the penny stocks they had once been. Three other individuals also received demands from Goldman Sachs to repay loans on October 2, including¬†Wong Chin Yong, chief executive officer of Innopac Holdings Ltd, James Hong, executive director at Blumont and¬†Ng Su Ling, a director at LionGold and at the time, also a director at Blumont, according to the court papers. Hong told Reuters that he was also suing Goldman Sachs but declined to elaborate further. It was not clear if a suit had been filed. Records from the¬†High Court in London¬†show Ng has filed a lawsuit against Goldman, though details were also not immediately available. Ng could not be reached for comment, while LionGold said that Ng's suit was a personal case and did not relate to the management of the company. Goldman's Bullock declined to comment on Ng's lawsuit and possible legal action by Hong. Wong and Innopac, a property and equity investment firm, did not immediately reply to requests for comment. Some brokers in¬†Singapore¬†had put trading restrictions on the stocks during September due to concerns that their value was no longer matched by fundamentals. The¬†Singapore¬†Exchange queried Asiasons and Blumont twice and LionGold once about their share prices in the weeks leading up to the crash, but did not put in place trading curbs until after the stocks started to fall. The exchange later came under fire for lifting those trading curbs before the companies could issue clarifications about their stock moves. It has said that it deployed a series of tools to restore stability in the market when the stocks began to fall and that it uses separate measures to investigate possible wrongdoing. ($1 = 1.2543¬†Singapore¬†dollars) (Additional reporting by Rachel Armstrong in¬†SINGAPORE¬†and Kirstin Ridley in¬†LONDON; Editing by Edwina Gibbs)
ReutersA woman drives a car in Saudi Arabia October 22, 2013. A conservative Saudi Arabian cleric has said women who drive risk damaging their ovaries and bearing children with clinical problems, countering activists who are trying to end the Islamic kingdom's male-only driving rules.Saudis are internationally renowned for their lavish lifestyles and their taste for luxury goods. Yet in recent years the country has also seen an increasing demand for less expensive goods. In the auto sector in particular, cheaper Chinese car brands are now posing a serious threat to established carmakers from Japan, Korea &amp; the US. Most prominent of these is Geely, the owner of Sweden's Volvo Cars and one of China's biggest carmakers. With four own-brand models in its portfolio (the LC Panda, GX2, EC7 &amp; EC8), Geely sold 13,000 units in Saudi Arabia in 2012, earning a market share of 1.7%. Now with the addition of Emgrand X7 SUV model, the brand is confident it can top 2%. Geely's success is partly down to its choice of partner, after it teamed up with experienced Saudi dealer Haji Hussein &amp; Alireza Group. The latter has followed its success by securing the rights to sell another Chinese brand, this time a commercial vehicle maker. Maxus offers two variants of its V80 model: one a 15-seater passenger van and the other a cargo van. Both vehicles come with 2.5L diesel turbocharged engine with direct fuel injection system. Great Wall, another Chinese carmaker, is also making inroads, bringing in its medium weight pick-ups to the market. Meanwhile JAC Motors is racking up market share, thanks to its dealers in Saudi Arabia, Al-Jedaie Motors (owned by Al-Jedaie Group). Price is right The Saudi auto market is used to waves of new competitors. Until recently, the market was dominated by Japanese brands, which had moved in during the 1980s to take sales off their US and European rivals. Toyota now holds a 40% market share, followed by Nissan on 9.5% share. US and European brands make up 6.5% and 18% respectively. Only a few years ago, however, South Korean automotive brands, notably Hyundai and its sister company Kia, started capturing market share for both passenger car range and, to a lesser extent, commercial vehicles. Helped by a reputation of value for money, South Korea has now become the second highest source of car imports in Saudi Arabia, although its share is now under threat fro the Chinese. The main attraction of Chinese cars, in Saudi Arabia as elsewhere, is price. Rising inflation has made the Saudi middle class far more careful with their money, and keen to snap up a new car with decent features and usually backed by a good service and maintenance plan. The low-cost car market is also helped by a ban on imports of second-hand cars over five years old. Chinese cars are particularly popular with expatriate buyers, fleet buyers and as a second car for school runs. Demand could get an extra fillip if Saudi women ever gain the right to drive. Even without that, the Economist Intelligence Unit expects sales to rise by around 6.5% a year, reaching 1m by 2017. Chinese carmakers should continue to profit from that. Nevertheless, overhauling Toyota's market lead will not be easy. The Japanese carmaker is backed by the by far the biggest local distributor, the giant Abdul Latif Jameel, which has the clout to offer great financing deals. The Chinese will also have to cope with the launch of a joint Saudi-South Korean project to build low-cost cars in the kingdom. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
ReutersA woman drives a car in Saudi Arabia October 22, 2013. A conservative Saudi Arabian cleric has said women who drive risk damaging their ovaries and bearing children with clinical problems, countering activists who are trying to end the Islamic kingdom's male-only driving rules.Saudis are internationally renowned for their lavish lifestyles and their taste for luxury goods. Yet in recent years the country has also seen an increasing demand for less expensive goods. In the auto sector in particular, cheaper Chinese car brands are now posing a serious threat to established carmakers from Japan, Korea &amp; the US. Most prominent of these is Geely, the owner of Sweden's Volvo Cars and one of China's biggest carmakers. With four own-brand models in its portfolio (the LC Panda, GX2, EC7 &amp; EC8), Geely sold 13,000 units in Saudi Arabia in 2012, earning a market share of 1.7%. Now with the addition of Emgrand X7 SUV model, the brand is confident it can top 2%. Geely's success is partly down to its choice of partner, after it teamed up with experienced Saudi dealer Haji Hussein &amp; Alireza Group. The latter has followed its success by securing the rights to sell another Chinese brand, this time a commercial vehicle maker. Maxus offers two variants of its V80 model: one a 15-seater passenger van and the other a cargo van. Both vehicles come with 2.5L diesel turbocharged engine with direct fuel injection system. Great Wall, another Chinese carmaker, is also making inroads, bringing in its medium weight pick-ups to the market. Meanwhile JAC Motors is racking up market share, thanks to its dealers in Saudi Arabia, Al-Jedaie Motors (owned by Al-Jedaie Group). Price is right The Saudi auto market is used to waves of new competitors. Until recently, the market was dominated by Japanese brands, which had moved in during the 1980s to take sales off their US and European rivals. Toyota now holds a 40% market share, followed by Nissan on 9.5% share. US and European brands make up 6.5% and 18% respectively. Only a few years ago, however, South Korean automotive brands, notably Hyundai and its sister company Kia, started capturing market share for both passenger car range and, to a lesser extent, commercial vehicles. Helped by a reputation of value for money, South Korea has now become the second highest source of car imports in Saudi Arabia, although its share is now under threat fro the Chinese. The main attraction of Chinese cars, in Saudi Arabia as elsewhere, is price. Rising inflation has made the Saudi middle class far more careful with their money, and keen to snap up a new car with decent features and usually backed by a good service and maintenance plan. The low-cost car market is also helped by a ban on imports of second-hand cars over five years old. Chinese cars are particularly popular with expatriate buyers, fleet buyers and as a second car for school runs. Demand could get an extra fillip if Saudi women ever gain the right to drive. Even without that, the Economist Intelligence Unit expects sales to rise by around 6.5% a year, reaching 1m by 2017. Chinese carmakers should continue to profit from that. Nevertheless, overhauling Toyota's market lead will not be easy. The Japanese carmaker is backed by the by far the biggest local distributor, the giant Abdul Latif Jameel, which has the clout to offer great financing deals. The Chinese will also have to cope with the launch of a joint Saudi-South Korean project to build low-cost cars in the kingdom. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Chicago Tribune: - On Saturday, 19 suburbs in DuPage and Cook counties will collect used cooking oil to convert it to clean-burning biofuel. School and Community Assistance for Recycling &amp; Composting Education, or SCARCE, a Glen Ellyn-based environmental education nonprofit, organized the collection with oil recyclers Green Grease Environmental and Chicago Biofuels. Recycling cooking oil is a "win-win-win," SCARCE founder Kay McKeen said. "It saves residents and cities money, keeps water cleaner and generates clean fuel." Though she hopes more communities will begin offering year-round oil recycling, McKeen said she decided to start with Thanksgiving because so many families deep-fry their turkeys, each using about 4 gallons of oil. Even though these types of projects remain fragmented across the US, the efforts to manufacture more biofuels are paying off. The latest data show biodiesel production at record levels. Sober Look And while it may take decades for biofuels and other alternatives to rival fossil fuels (see post), your Thanksgiving turkey oil should still help.
Monty Python And The Holy GrailOne of the most disturbing trends in this country is the rise of extreme wealth and income inequality. As the following charts show, America is rapidly becoming a country of a few million overlords and 300 million serfs. Unfortunately, this issue has been politicized, which means that people don't think about the implications of it ‚Äî they just start yelling. But extreme inequality is bad for everyone, even the overlords. Why? Because when inequality gets bad enough, serfs can't afford to buy products from overlords. This hurts the overlords' ability to get even richer. And that's what's wrong with the American economy right now. The serfs are tapped out. The overlords are responding by cutting costs (firing serfs), to increase profits. Unfortunately, one person's "costs" are another person's "wages," so this is making the problem worse. The best way to start reversing our inequality trend is not to increase taxes on overlords and give the additional money to the serfs. That just inflames class warfare and gets people yelling about "socialism." The best way to fix inequality is to persuade our overlords that it is in their best interests to share more of their wealth by paying their employees more for their work ‚Äî work that, not incidentally, is what makes the overlords rich.¬† In other words, the best way is to persuade companies that it's better to focus on creating value rather than just profit. Given America's current obsession with short-term profit, however, this will likely take a while.¬† So let's just start by helping everyone understand just how extreme the inequality in this country has become. It's way worse than most people think it should be. And it's way worse than most people think it is.  The following screenshots are from a video created by a pseudonymous videographer called "Politizane." You can watch the video here or at the end of this presentation. There's one criticism of it that I'll address at the end, but the basic message is correct:
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiLeave it to uber-bear Marc Faber to bring bad news on Black Friday. Faber, editor and publisher of The Gloom, Boom &amp; Doom Report, told CNBC on Friday he believes a "massive speculative bubble" has encroached on everything from stocks and bonds to bitcoin and farmland. He attributed the vast bubble to "symptoms of excess liquidity." Faber said the markets, which have reached record highs, could still rise before the bubble bursts, if stimulus programs such as the Federal Reserve's massive monthly bond purchases and super-low interest rates continue. "Now can the market go up another 20 percent before it tumbles?" Faber said on"Squawk Box". "Yeah, it can go up even more, if you print money."† (Read more:†Take cover! Bond market 'hell' could be on the way) Warning investors that they could see disappointing long-term returns in equities, Faber said he thought a correction in equities was overdue when the†S&amp;P 500index crossed 1,600 points. The benchmark index surpassed 1,808 points this week. Faber pointed to a high Shiller price-to-earnings ratio, a market indicator named after Yale University professor and Nobel Prize winner Robert Shiller, which relies on 10 years of adjusted inflation, as an indicator of the bubble. He said a high Shiller P/E ratio suggests low returns in the future. (Read more:†Superbear Marc Faber sees opportunities) Faber also referred to the rapid rise of bitcoin, the digital currency that crossed $1,200 early Friday, as an area affected by excess liquidity. "Farmland is up 10 times over the last 10 years," Faber said. "And bitcoins are up now and who knows what next will go up." During recent interviews with CNBC, Faber†predicted†that European equities would outperform stocks in the U.S. and emerging markets, and that†a credit boom in China†puts the world in a worse position than it was in 2008, before the global financial crisis.  By CNBC's Jeff Morganteen. Follow him on Twitter at†@jmorganteen. Reuters contributed to this report.†Disclaimer.
REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 Things To Know About The Current Bond Market (Morningstar) There are five key things to remember about today's bond market, according to John Rekenthaler at Morningstar. 1. Despite the run-up in interest rates, the 30-year Treasury yield is up to 3.8%, from 2.8% about six months ago, this is¬† still lower than the 5.2% average since 1926. 2. Being long bonds could be dangerous. "Whereas intermediate-length Treasuries almost never shed 10% in total return during a bond-market sell-off, long Treasuries have done so a dozen times." 3. High quality corporate bonds look good as companies are posting big profits and healthy balance sheets and recession worries have faded. 4. When rates rise stocks are flat and don't lose money because investors have already been anticipating the rise and have absorbed some of the losses. Whereas bonds are "outright losers." 5. Bonds still look more expensive than stocks. Advisors Should Watch For These 5 Regulatory Changes That Could Be Coming In 2015 (Think Advisor) There could be five key regulatory changes to watch for in 2014, according to Nancy Lininger, founder of California-based The Consoritum. 1. Fiduciary standard - "All financial advisors should have full disclosure of services, fees, conflicts of interest, and act in the best interest of the client." 2. Bringing various brokerage and advisory services under "one regulatory regime," though Lininger admits this is more her "ideal futuristic shape of the industry." 3. Some states could prohibit arbitration clauses in broker dealer and investment advisor contracts. 4. Regulators could require some sort of business continuity plan (BCP) from investment advisors and broker dealers in the event of unforeseen risks to businesses. 5. While many firms have already implemented the Federal Trade Commission‚Äôs (FTC) Red Flags Rule other groups that don't think of themselves as 'financial institutions' or 'creditors' could also come under the scanner. 5 Creative Presents For Clients Around The Holidays (WealthManagement.com) Megan Leonhardt at WealthManagement.com created a list of creative presents advisors can get their clients over the holidays. Here are five of the ideas.¬† 1. Pies to help ease the pressure off the Thanksgiving feast 2. A trip to the shooting range. 3. Personal presents like a coffee table book on a destination you might visit with a client when considering an investment. 4. A dinner and a show. 5. Clients' children often get an early acceptance into their schools around the holidays and some advisors gift them a sweatshirt or other memorabilia from the school. Advisors Avoid Bitcoin Even As It Surges¬†(Investment News) Even as bitcoin crossed the $1,000 mark last Friday, advisors are staying away from the digital currency, reports Megan Durisin at Investment News. "Because it hit that $1,000 mark, [investors] think it's going to go to $2,000, going to go to $5,000," Phil Christenson, portfolio manager at Phillip James Financial told Investment News. "This is probably the time to ignore it. Other advisors admitted that while they aren't ready to jump on the bitcoin band wagon just yet, they will research it if a client broaches them on the subject.
Snapchat is being sued by Reggie Brown, a former classmate and fraternity brother of CEO Evan Spiegel and CTO Bobby Murphy. Brown alleges he was the app's third co-founder and says he was wrongfully ousted from the company. He is after one-third of Snapchat. It's a lot like the Winklevoss vs. Facebook lawsuit, which awarded the Winklevoss twins tens of millions of dollars in Facebook stock. In the past two weeks, Business Insider has published never-before-seen deposition videos from April in which Spiegel gives a lot of credit to Brown and expresses regret about what happened. The key moments are summarized below: 1. The premise for Snapchat, photos that disappear, was Reggie Brown's idea according to Evan Spiegel.¬† "Did you come up with the idea for Deleting picture messages?" A lawyer asked Spiegel during his deposition. "No," Spiegel replied. "Did Bobby come up with the idea for deleting picture messages?" "No he did not. "Who came up with the idea?" "Reggie did."¬†  2. Spiegel seems to think Brown may deserve "something" for his early work on Snapchat, even though he was never given equity. He told lawyers during his deposition:¬†"Reggie may deserve something for some of his contributions."  3. Spiegel and Brown used to be good friends, which makes you wonder if either of them regret what happened. It turns out Evan Spiegel has a lot of regrets when it comes to Reggie Brown. Spiegel told lawyers during his deposition that he "lost a good friend" and wishes he hadn't yelled at Reggie so much during Snapchat's early days. But he also told lawyers he feels victimized by Brown. "I regret inviting him to my house [to work on Snapchat]. I regret spending that time with him at my house. I regret giving him so many chances ... He exploited my attempts at generosity ... the generosity was¬†giving Reggie an opportunity to work on something like this ‚Ä¶ for experience that he didn't have." While Spiegel has regrets about his former friend, he says he doesn't regret Brown sharing the disappearing photo idea with him.
REUTERS/StringerFor the first time ever, the world will have ended the year installing more new solar capacity than wind, according to¬†Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Photovoltaic plants will add about 36.7 gigawatts globally in 2013, a 20% jump from last year. Wind will only add 35.5 gigawatts, down from 25% in 2012.¬† ‚ÄúThe dramatic cost reductions in photovoltaics, combined with new incentive regimes in Japan and¬†China, are making possible further, strong growth in volumes,‚Äù said Jenny Chase, BNEF‚Äôs head of solar analysis. Meanwhile in the U.S., the amount of new solar capacity installed in 2013 through October ‚Äî 2,528 megawatts ‚Äî is nearly double the amount installed for wind, at 1,027 megawatts, for the same period,¬†according to FERC. And in terms of net generation, solar's 6,407 megawatt hours through September is 92% higher than it was through September 2012. For wind, the figure is just 22% higher, according to the EIA, though at 123,978 megawatt hours the overall amount of power generated by wind remains several orders of magnitude larger than solar. Monthly solar net generation growth in 2013 averaged 17% through September; for wind, monthly average growth was 0%. Here's the chart: Rob Wile/Business Insider, data from EIA¬†
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonFor many, the actual act of holiday shopping is the scourge of an otherwise cheerful season. A good gift is hard to find for anyone, but if you've got an investor in your life, it can prove especially difficult. Not to fear, because we've got a bunch of great options for you. Whether it's a desktop essential, a must-have book, or a premium item, we have you covered this year. Prices may vary, but these are sure to keep any investor risk-on for 2014.
REUTERS/Eliana Aponte MEXICO CITY (AP) ‚Äî Mexican drug cartels looking to diversify their businesses long ago moved into oil theft, pirated goods, extortion and kidnapping, consuming an ever larger swath of the country's economy. This month, federal officials confirmed the cartels have even entered the country's lucrative mining industry, exporting iron ore to Chinese mills. Such large-scale illegal mining operations were long thought to be wild rumor, but federal officials confirmed they had known about the cartels' involvement in mining since 2010, and that the Nov. 4 military takeover of Lazaro Cardenas, Mexico's second-largest port, was aimed at cutting off the cartels' export trade. That news served as a wake-up call to Mexicans that drug traffickers have penetrated the country's economy at unheard-of levels, becoming true Mafia-style organizations, ready to defend their mines at gun point. Three Michoacan state detectives were wounded in an ambush earlier this week when they were traveling to investigate a mine taken over by criminals. When reinforcements arrived, those officers were also ambushed, part of a string of attacks on police in Michoacan on Wednesday and Thursday that left two officers dead and about a dozen wounded. The Knights Templar cartel and its predecessor, the La Familia drug gang, have been stealing or extorting shipments of iron ore, or illegally extracting the mineral themselves and selling it through Pacific coast ports, said Michoacan residents, mining companies and current and former federal officials. The cartel had already imposed demands for "protection payments" on many in the state, including shopkeepers, ranchers and farmers. But so deeply entrenched was the cartel connection to mines, mills, ports, export firms and land holders that it took authorities three years to confront the phenomenon head-on. Federal officials said they are looking to crack down on other ports where drug gangs are operating. "This is the terrible thing about this process of (the cartel's) taking control of and reconfiguring the state," said Guillermo Valdes Castellanos, the former head of the country's top domestic intelligence agency. "They managed to impose a Mafia-style control of organized crime, and the different social groups like port authorities, transnational companies and local landowners, had to get in line." Valdez Castellanos said that even back in 2010, the La Familia cartel would take ore from areas that were under concession to private mining companies, sometimes with the aid or complicity of local farmers and land owners, then sell the ore to processors, distributors and even, apparently, foreign firms. Mexico's Economy Department said the problem was so severe that it prompted the government to quietly toughen rules on exporters in 2011 and 2012 and make them prove they received their ore from established, recognized sources. Many exporters couldn't. In 2012, the department denied export applications from 13 companies, because they didn't meet the new rules. And the problem wasn't just limited to Michoacan, or the Knights Templar cartel. "Since 2010, evidence surfaced of irregular mining of iron in the states of Jalisco, Michoacan and Colima," the department said in a statement to The Associated Press. "That illegal activity was encouraged by the great demand for iron by countries such as China, to develop their industries," according to the department. "Many trading companies began to build up big stockpiles of legally and illegally obtained iron (ore), that was later shipped out for export." A Mexican federal official, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said the cartels would use a combination of threats and outright theft to get the ore from mines. He said the nexus between the cartels and export companies was key. "They extort the merchandise from mining companies and then export it through legal companies, or they rob trucks full (of ore) that later turn up in a legal manner," the official said. Ofelia Alcala, a resident of the Michoacan mining village of Aquila, said that since 2012, the Knights Templar cartel has demanded residents hand over part of the royalty payments from a local iron ore mine operated by Ternium, a Luxembourg-based consortium. Alcala, a member of a self-defense group that rose up in arms in Aquila this summer to kick the cartel out, said the cartel also had been hiring people to extract the ore without permits, and then exporting it through another Pacific coast port, Manzanillo. "They weren't content with getting our money and robbing our trucks, so they began secretly extracting our minerals," said Alcala. Ternium said in a statement that it has received reports of irregular mining near its operations in Aquila. "Those have been passed on to the appropriate authorities," the company said in a statement. Government figures show the amount of iron ore being exported to China quadrupled between 2008 and the first half of 2013, rising to 4.6 million tons per year, precisely during the period the La Familia cartel and later the Knights Templar cemented their control over Michoacan. In 2008, Lazaro Cardenas handled only 1.5 percent of Mexico's iron ore exports to China; by mid-2013, the seaport was shipping out nearly half. In 2010, the attorney general's office estimated the cartels shipped 1.1 million tons of illegally extracted iron ore abroad that year. Officials said the export scheme may have involved other sea ports, and that more military takeovers may be necessary. The cartel mining issue also resurfaced last year in the coal-mining state of Coahuila bordering Texas. The former governor, Humberto Moreira, called a press conference to claim that Heriberto Lazcano, leader of the Zetas cartel, was running illegal coal mining ventures and partnering with legitimate ones. So far, none of the accusations have been proven. The only known arrests related to cartel mining operations occurred in Michoacan in 2010, when Ignacio Lopez Medina, an alleged member of La Familia, was accused of selling ore illegally to China, the federal Attorney General's Office said at the time. But the arrest apparently came to little; the Attorney General's Office could not say whether Lopez Medina had been tried or convicted of that crime, nor could The Associated Press determine if he is represented by a lawyer or is still in custody. The Chinese Chamber of Commerce did not immediately respond to requests for information on companies that have been involved in buying ore from cartels, knowingly or otherwise. The Chinese Foreign Ministry declined to comment on whether China had any measures in place to ensure the legal provenance of such imports. The iron ore, meanwhile, has both swelled the cartels' bankrolls, giving them more money to buy guns and bribe officials, and fed the hunger of Asian steel mills. And it may be a two-way trade: Precursor chemicals the cartel uses to make methamphetamines often arrive from China at both the Lazaro Cardenas and Manzanillo ports. ___ Associated Press writer E. Eduardo Castillo contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Corcoran GroupThe 20 villages of the Hamptons have long been a destination for New York's "it" crowd, and there are plenty of historic mansions to prove it.¬† Southampton's Normandy House, designed in 1923 and constructed over a seven-year period, was just sold to an unknown buyer for $28 million, according to The Wall Street Journal. The six-bedroom mansion lies on 8.4 acres of land that front Lake Agawam. There are plenty of intricate, elegant details that are a reminder of the house's past ‚Äî plus, there's a lakefront pool and a three-bedroom guest house.¬†
Reuters/Shannon StapletonFormer Citibank employee Debrahlee Lorenzana (L) and her attorney Gloria Allred answer questions during a press conference in New York June 28, 2010A notorious ex-Citi banker who claimed she was fired for being too sexy has quietly filed a new lawsuit claiming that Quest Diagnostics screwed up a blood test, the New York Daily News reports. Debrahlee Lorenzana, 36, says she suffered severe injuries after a hapless nurse drew her blood. The lawsuit claims she suffered ‚Äúsevere shock and damage to her nervous system and certain internal injuries,‚Äù according to the Daily News. The allegedly shoddy bloodwork ‚Äúdamaged her psychophysical motor skills,‚Äù making her "suffer severe physical pain and mental anguish as a result,‚Äù according to the lawsuit. Her lawyer, Frank Panetta, told the Daily News that the allegations that his client got nerve damage from bad bloodwork aren't all that odd. "What‚Äôs unusual about that?" he told the Daily News. "Sometimes they screw up.‚Äù Lorenzana gained national prominence in 2010, when she filed a lawsuit claiming she got harassed at Citibank for being too hot and then fired. That year, she spoke to Elizabeth Dwoskin of the Village Voice about her experience at the bank. From Dwoskin's article: Her bosses told her they couldn't concentrate on their work because her appearance was too distracting. They ordered her to stop wearing turtlenecks. She was also forbidden to wear pencil skirts, three-inch heels, or fitted business suits. Lorenzana, a 33-year-old single mom, pointed out female colleagues whose clothing was far more revealing than hers: "They said their body shapes were different from mine, and I drew too much attention," she says. The case went into arbitration (an outside-of-court dispute resolution), and Citi has made it clear that it didn't pay her a cent.
First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Screenshot via CNBC2013 was great year for stocks and a crazy year for bonds. But the amount of money you made depends on how you traded. Dennis Gartman, editor and publisher of the Gartman Letter, has 19 rules of trading from 2013. But these hold true in general. Here they are verbatim:
Shipping stocks are having a big day. Frontline is up 13.5%. Nordic American Tankers Limited has climbed 6.4%. DryShips Inc. is 5.7% higher. ¬†The reason: the Baltic Dry index climbed more than 9% Thursday. ‚ÄúDespite abysmal earnings levels for dry bulks, asset values have improved ‚Äì leading us to take the view that ‚Äòsomething has got to give‚Äô ‚Äì either rates come up or asset values will fall back down," Arctic Securities analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth said in a recent note according to Reuters.¬†"We think the former is the case and maintain our take that there will be an improvement in freight earnings in H2/13 to support the rise in asset values.‚Äù¬† Here's the chart for Frontline: Google Finance
What this says is that there's a slightly negative correlation between Black Friday sales and total holiday sales. I wouldn't read too much into that negative result, but the message is pretty clear. People spend what they're going to spend on gifts during the holiday season. What happens specifically in the days immediately following Thanksgiving is probably driven by the weather, regulatory changes, etc. For example, I'm sitting in my dad's living room right now and have no particular intention of leaving any time soon. If it were warmer, I'd probably go for a walk and check out some stores. A related point is that Black Friday hype stories often include the factoid that consumer spending drives 70 percent of total economic output. That is true, but what the hypesters don't tell you is that paying the dentist to fill a cavity or paying an fee to your bank to use an out-of-network ATM counts as consumer spending. Which is to say that household consumption is a very large share of the economy because household consumption is defined as being a very wide range of activities. What we think of as "consumer goods" (shirts, toasters, Playstations) is only a fraction of total consumption.
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthThe Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, caused a furor this week with a speech at London's†Centre for Policy Studies in London, a†neo-liberal free-market think tank. The section of the speech that caused the most anguish was, on the surface, about making sure London is a more meritocratic society. Johnson said he wanted to "shake the pack" to ensure that the most ablest people were able to rise to the top. He wanted to do this with selective state schools (known as grammar schools in the U.K.) and state-funded scholarships for the smartest students from low-income backgrounds to attend elite private schools. However, in a passage where Johnson linked IQ to economic inequality, the Mayor of London betrayed a misunderstanding of meritocracy that many of the wealthy share. Here's the controversial passage: Whatever you may think of the value of IQ tests, it is surely relevant to a conversation about equality that as many as 16 percent of our species have an IQ below 85, while about 2 percent have an IQ above 130. [According to the Guardian, Johnson†then asked whether anyone†in the audience had a low IQ. To muted laughter he asked: "Over 16% anyone? Put up your hands."] There are many problems with this statement. First, it's a fudging of what IQ measures. IQ testing is designed to show someone's intelligence relative to others. An IQ of 100 is based on the†median score, and higher or lower scores are based on their relation to this median score ó scores each†standard deviation†(SD) up or down are defined as 15 IQ points greater or less. †What this means is that if you somehow managed to make the everyone with an IQ below 85 leave the U.K., the curve on which IQ is based would shift, and there would be a new 16% of the population with an IQ below 85. All Johnson is really saying which such a statement is that some people score above average on a test, and some people score below average. Then there's the question of whether IQ tests themselves are actually worthwhile. There has been a lot of controversy about this, but the evidence that IQ tests are ó at best ó flawed is persuasive. "Intelligence" as we conceive of it is now thought to be a very broad field, and one simple test is just not a good indicator of it. What's more, studies have shown that IQ tests can change dramatically over time depending on outside circumstances: They do not appear to show any kind of "innate" intelligence, but rather they appear to show how well someone has developed academically.† Then there's Johnson's assertion that high IQs strongly correlate with economic success. Johnson doesn't cite any data for this, but multiple academic studies have disputed this. ìYour IQ has really no relationship to your wealth. And being very smart does not protect you from getting into financial difficulty,î†Jay Zagorsky, author of the study on IQ and wealth and a research scientist at†Ohio State University 's Center for Human Resource Research, said in one interview.†Other studies have found that while IQ may help people get into certain professions, once they are in those professions their emotional ability plays a larger role. These factors are almost forgivable, I'd say. Johnson isn't trying to be precise with this speech ó he's a famously glib speech maker ó and there's a lot of academic debate about these matters. What is truly awful though, is the context. Johnson is a man who was born into a wealthy and well-connected family, and has had a fantastically successful life. Most of the people he was talking to at the†Centre for Policy Studies were highly educated people involved in the finance world. When Johnson quipped†"Over 16% anyone?" he was referencing this. Meritocracy is, of course, a worthy aim for any society. But Johnson was using meritocratic ideas to justify the enormous, unprecedented success of an elite. Johnson may have thought he was talking about equality of opportunity, but with his comments about IQ, he made it clear he felt the current status quo clearly deserved their success, and should never be questioned. That's the very essence of elitism.
Reuters/Robert GalbraithLouis C.K.Comedian Louis C.K. does a great skit showing how oblivious we can be when complaining about our lives. We get frustrated when our cell phone reception goes out for 30 seconds without realizing how amazing cell phone technology is. "Can you give it a second?" Louis asks. "It's going to space. Can you give it a second to get back from space?" "The worst cell phone in the world is a miracle," he says.¬†"Why are you so mad at it?" ¬† It's a wise question to ask. When something doesn't work perfectly but is still much better than it used to be, you are better off. Our perceptions and emotions play an evil trick by convincing us otherwise.¬† "Everything is amazing and nobody is happy," Louis says. This could apply to the U.S. economy, too. Everywhere you go these days, gloom wins. "Jump in percentage of those saying things not going well," reads one headline. "Americans see more doom and gloom in the economy," writes another. "Americans Are Pessimistic, Miserable and Completely Fed Up," warns another. A lot of Americans are in bad shape. Their problems are worse than bad cell phone service. They're unemployed, uninsured, underpaid, underappreciated, overmedicated, and overpromised. But this is nothing new.¬†It has always been true. And by most measures, most Americans live in a better, safer, more prosperous world today than they could have dreamed of a few decades ago. Take income. You've probably read about how average household incomes have declined since 2000, adjusted for inflation. It's a scary statistic.¬† But it needs perspective. 2000 was a fantasyland bubble where dynastic wealth could be created with fake dot-com companies in your parents' basements. Same with the ensuing years, when teenagers became overnight real estate tycoons. Those were the aberrations, not today. Benchmarking success to bubble years gives an inflated sense of reality. If I say the average family earns less today than it did in 2000, it sounds depressing. If I say the average family earns more today than it did in 1995, you get a much different view. Bureau of Labor StatisticsDo you remember 1995? It was awesome. We were in awe of how prosperous the country was. Consumer confidence was near a multi-decade high. "Our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades," President Clinton said in his State of the Union address that year. "We have the lowest combined rates of unemployment and inflation in 27 years. We have created nearly 8 million new jobs. America is selling more cars than Japan for the first time since the 1970s. And for three years in a row, we have had a record number of new businesses started in our country." Sounds wonderful. And folks, the average American family earns more today than it did back then, adjusted for inflation.¬† Go ahead, argue that 18 years of near-stagnant real incomes is a failure. I hear you. Just realize that¬†2.8 billion people around the world¬†earn less than $2 a day, and you're upset that we aren't richer than we were when we were already rich and felt like kings. "First-world problems," as they say.¬† And it's misleading to say the average household only earns a little more than it did in the 1990s. It actually earned quite a bit more in total compensation; it's just that more of its compensation comes from employers paying for ever-growing health insurance premiums. Total compensation per hour -- which includes things like health insurance and 401(k) matches -- ¬†has done great over the last 40 years: What are we getting in return for rising health insurance costs? More life. The average American born in 1950 could expect to live to age 68. The average American born in 2010 can expect to live to almost 79. Think about that: In two generations, the average American gained a decade of life expectancy. Do you know what can happen in a decade? A little more than 10 years ago, AOL dominated the Internet, oil cost $13 a barrel,¬†Fortune¬†magazine named Enron one of America's "most admired corporations," and Apple was a joke. Everything can change, in other words. You get an extra one of those now. Minorities have made even greater progress. African Americans have gained 15 years of life expectancy since 1950. Odds are this will continue. Biomedical gerontologist Aubrey de Grey thinks the first person to live to see their 150th birthday is already alive.¬†As¬†San Francisco Chronicle¬†columnist Jon Carroll joked, "Americans have come to view death as optional." The biggest reason life expectancy has gone up is because childhood mortality has plunged, from 32 per 1,000 in 1950, to 19 in 1970, all the way down to six in 2012. How often do we have BREAKING NEWS when stocks fall half a percent? Several times a week. But no one ever says, "Breaking news: Far Fewer Children are Dying Than Used To." We ignore the really important news because it happens slowly, but we obsess over trivial news because it happens all day long. This is another evil trick our minds (and media) play on us.¬† Not only are fewer children dying, but older Americans are experiencing something they couldn't dream about a few decades ago: retirement. We constantly worry about the looming "retirement funding crisis" in America without realizing that the entire concept of retirement is unique to the last five decades. It wasn't long ago that the average American man had two stages of life: work and death. Even in the nostalgic 1960s, more than 40% of men age 65 and over were still working or looking for work:  Economic History Association, Bureau of Labor StatisticsThink of it this way: The average American now retires at age 62. One hundred years ago, the average American died at age 51. Poverty among the elderly has plunged, too. More than a quarter of those over age 65 were living in poverty in the 1960s, compared with less than 10% today. Medicare has only been around since the 1960s. Before that, as one 1963 Social Security report put it, "paying for necessary health services and providing adequate insurance for non-budgetable expenses remains beyond the economic capabilities of most aged persons." As Frederick Lewis Allen wrote in his 1950 book¬†The Big Change: "One out of every four families dependent on elderly people and two out of every three single elderly men and women had to get along in 1948 on less than $20 per week [$188 in today's dollars]." The job market Americans are retiring from has changed dramatically, too -- largely for the better. Perhaps you've heard about the laborforce participation rate falling over the last few years. It's true -- it's declined, though¬†largely due¬†to demographics. But¬†a higher percentage¬†of American adults are working or looking for work today than were in the 1950s, 1960s, or 1970s. That's mostly because more women have entered the laborforce. And why did they enter? Because for the first time in history, they were treated as somewhat equal to men. The economy was excellent for white males in the 1950s and 1960s, but as Stephanie Coontz recently¬†wrote: The workplace has become safer, too. In 1975, there were nine cases of occupational injuries or illness per 100 full-time workers per year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. By 2009, it was fewer than four. Employers now allow their workers to have a life outside of work, which not long ago was a charming but unrealistic concept. Frederick Lewis Allan described working life in the first half of the 20th¬†century: According to the Dallas Federal Reserve, the average work week has declined from 61 hours in 1870, to 48 hours in 1930, to 40 hours in 1950, to 39 hours today. We're using that extra time to have fun. The average American household now spends three times as much of its income on recreation as it did in the 1950s, according to the Consumer Expenditure Survey. The average employee with five years on the job receives 22 days paid vacation and holiday pay per year, up from 16 days in 1970, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The list goes on and on: "Today," Matt Ridley writes in his book¬†The Rational Optimist, "of Americans officially designated as 'poor,' 99 per cent have electricity, running water, flush toilets, and a refrigerator; 95 per cent have a television, 88 per cent a telephone, 71 per cent a car and 70 percent air conditioning. Cornelius Vanderbilt had none of these." I'm not arguing that inefficiencies, injustices, and inequalities don't exist today. Of course, they do. But they always have, and by comparison, we are living in one of the most prosperous times in the history of this world. We have a lot to be thankful for.
REUTERS/Alexander F. YuanChinese president Xi Jinping has been compared with the ruthless chairman Mao Zedong. His moves to consolidate power and his ideology have both come under scrutiny. The crackdown on corruption and Xi's emphasis on "mass line" ó a leadership method created by Mao Zedong that calls for Party officials to forge stronger ties with the masses ó has many wondering if Xi's presidency will see a re-emergence of Mao-era rules. But not everyone agrees. There is a camp that thinks Xi is more like Deng Xiaoping ó China's paramount leader from 1978 until his death in 1997. Economist George Magnus describes Deng as "a master of political economy and execution." Deng is widely credited with opening up the Chinese economy, even though there were some calls for reform before him. But history also remembers Deng as the leader under whom the pro-democracy protests of Tiananmen Square were squelched. During the handover of power last year, former president Hu Jintao warned in his outgoing speech that corruption "could prove fatal to the party, and even cause the collapse of the party and the fall of the state." It would appear that Xi took that message to heart. Earlier this year, Arthur Dong, a professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University, told Business Insider that he has heard of more Party indoctrination: "I met with a party member, who happens to be a high-ranking member of the party. I had lunch with him and what he expressed to me was all senior-level party members are being sent to an essentially re-education. They're being sent to the equivalent of their West Point and they're undergoing more party indoctrination, where they have to wear uniform. "He showed me a picture where they're donning their uniforms of Mao's long march. They're all being required to partake in this sort of party cleansing exercise, where they have to be reminded of the roots of their past, wear the uniforms of the long march, go through this sort of re-education process to remind them about party loyalty, and also to be faithful to the party's ideals." In September, Chinese officials met in Shijiazhuang for "Maoist-style self-criticism sessions," reported Dexter Roberts at Bloomberg. IISH/Stefan R. Landsberger Collections via ChinesePosters.Net And Chinese state media have taken to warning about a collapse of power as seen in the Soviet Union. Communist Party officials have been asked to watch a documentary called "In Memory of the Collapse of the Communist Party and the Soviet Union," South China Morning Post reports. The documentary blames the nation's collapse on democratic reforms in the style of the West that were copied by Mikhail Gorbachev. "In the next five years, the CPC [Communist Party of China] will have been in power for as long as the CPSU [Communist Party of the Soviet Union], and it intends to keep the red flag flying in China far beyond that and for the foreseeable future," writes economist George Magnus in a note to UBS clients. Critics argue that Xi's efforts have gone toward consolidating his power, not just that of the Communist Party. The anti-corruption campaign, for instance, largely targeted Bo Xilai ó whose political career was on a meteoric rise ó and his allies. The State Security Committee (SSC) that was announced after the third plenum is reportedly an effort on Xi's part to wrest control from the Peopleís Liberation Army and bring it under the control of the Communist Party and more directly, under him. Some say Xi's "neo-Maoism" can be traced to his childhood. Xi grew up in the lap of luxury when his father Xi Zhongxun was appointed vice-premier. But after the older Xi fell out with Mao Zedong, he was sent to prison. Xi Jinping was then sent to work in the countryside. In an essay titled "Son of the Yellow Earth," Xi explained that he despised farm work and ran away to Beijing, only to be captured and sent back. But his time in the countryside is said to have been extremely formative. Xi is quoted writing (from The NY Times), "Much of my pragmatic thinking took root back then, and still exerts a constant influence on me." On his return, he is said to have committed to his work and eventually sought out the approval of the Communist Party's youth league. Xi has been described as "redder than red." And during a visit to Mexico in 2009, he showed his intolerance for Western criticism of China with a comment that is believed to have been directed at the U.S. "There are some foreigners who have eaten their fill and have nothing better to do than point their fingers at our affairs," Xi said during a press conference. "China does not, first, export revolution; second, export poverty and hunger; or third, cause unnecessary trouble for them. What else is there to say?" Not everyone thinks Xi is a Maoist though. In Xi's parlance, "'mass line' means eliminating undesirable work styles such as formalism, bureaucratism, hedonism and extravagance among officials," according to Xinhua. "Both the 'eight-point' instruction and the 'mass line' campaign are the CPC leadership's endeavor to shoot persistent problems such as red tape, corruption and Party-people alienation among officials." Take his iteration of the "mass line," for instance. That "is more narrowly typical of the more carefully circumscribed intra-party campaigns of the post-Mao period to promote party solidarity ideologically and politically, and to improve the partyís work style and public image than it is with the mass-driven criticism campaigns of the Mao era," writes Alice Miller, research fellow at the Hoover Institution, an American public policy think tank, in The Road to the Third Plenum.  "I have been arguing for a while that he looks more Dengist than Maoist, and the Third Plenum Decision only makes that view stronger," Bill Bishop, author of "Sinocism," told Business Insider. "My guess is he is a Marxist-Leninist, single party authoritarian pragmatist. Like Deng, but perhaps with greater aspiration to power." Some have pointed to the third plenum, and the reform roadmap that has been laid out since, to reiterate this view. "The reform outline from the 18th Central Committee's Third Plenum includes expanded property rights, fair and transparent market regulation, and prices set by the market. At the same time, China's new leaders are tightening political repression," writes The Wall Street Journal staff in an editorial. "This is the model pioneered by Deng Xiaoping, and new party chief Xi Jinping is showing that he intends to follow in Deng's footsteps." Magnus thinks Xi has a much harder task ahead of him because the Chinese economy is now bigger, more complex and Chinese citizens are more connected and empowered. "Economic reforms may work up to a point and governance may improve, but without political reform, they canít really be labeled ëtransformationalí. "Where Mao had preached 'communes are good,' Mr. Deng simply preached 'markets are good,'" wrote Patrick E Tyler in The New York Times back in 1997, the day after Deng's death. While comparisons with chairman Mao abound, Xi, it would appear, is following in Deng's footsteps.
"We have had so many bubbles that, as I first addressed in 2011, we are having a ìbubble in bubbles,"" said Barry Ritholtz earlier this month. This morning, economist Nouriel Roubini pointed to no less than 17 housing markets that he thought lookedbubbly. And minutes ago, bond king Bill Gross of PIMCO tweeted: "We should call this ìGreen Fridayî ñ Be careful, though, of red numbers in 2014. All markets are bubbly." Gross: We should call this ìGreen Fridayî ñ Be careful, though, of red numbers in 2014. All markets are bubbly.
Odd Andersen/AFP/FileA British police officer directs traffic in Grosvenor Square in London on November 24, 2006India's largest real estate developer Lodha Group said Friday it has bought Canada's embassy building in London's prime Mayfair district for around $530 million. The seven-storey Canadian High Commission in Grosvenor Square, known as Macdonald House, will be converted into luxury residences for the super-rich, Indian media said. "We will create a world-class development, which befits the status of the address," said Abhishek Lodha, managing director of Lodha Group. The Lodha group was chosen as the buyer of the property by the Canadian government after a competitive bidding involving global developers and sovereign wealth funds, the Lodha group said. The Indian firm is buying the property through internal funds and does not plan to raise debt to finance the deal, officials said. In 2010, India's Sahara group had acquired the Grosvenor House hotel in London for around $750 million from the Royal Bank of Scotland. In December last year, the Lodha group bought the US Consulate's Washington House property in Mumbai for $54 million. The Lodha group is building what it claims is the world's tallest purely residential tower in Mumbai, called "World One", set to be completed in 2014.
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthHome prices have been picking up in London and the Bank of England has acted to avoid a housing bubble. On Thursday, Mark Carney said the central bank would stop the Funding for Lending Scheme (FLS) that it announced last year to boost mortgage lending. Carney heads the Financial Policy Committee (FPC), which was created to maintain financial stability and act as the macroprudential authority.¬† What does that mean? Macroprudential policies requires commercial banks to act "prudently" and identify risks to financial stability in the form of exposure to runs, excessive leverage and so on.¬† And one of the advantages to macro prudential policy is that "it can be targeted at the specific sector that might be threatening financial stability," American Economist Donald Kohn explained in a Brookings paper. And that's just what Carney seems to be doing. He pointed out that rising property prices could come as a shock to households and hurt banks' balance sheets. "We did not see an immediate threat coming from the housing market, but we are concerned about the prospective evolution of that market in the absence of some of these changes," Carney said in a press conference on the Financial Stability Report. "‚Ä¶ So the concern is where this could go. We definitely see short-term momentum, and we're starting from relatively high levels of valuation and indebtedness of households.Those are the challenges." The FPC created a "new macroprudential tool" to ensure that underwriting standards stay up to the mark. The tool: "the ability to vary the affordability criteria that mortgage borrowers must meet." From the report:  "The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) should require mortgage lenders to have regard to any future FPC recommendation on appropriate interest rate stress tests to use in the assessment of affordability." The Bank's decision to act early shows us two key things, according to Brian Hilliard at Societe Generale: first, that the rise in home prices are cause for concern, and second, that the bank is using macroprudential tools rather than monetary policy tools to address it.¬† "The more effective are these macroprudential measures, the more latitude will the MPC have to continue with its low interest rate policy and so allow a broader economic recovery to ensue," writes Hilliard. "We have already stressed that the market is building in too early expectations of rate increases Big forecast changes but still no BoE rate increase and these macroprudential measures add to our confidence in this regard." Janet Yellen, who has now been backed by the Senate to be the next Fed chair, is clearly also in favor of using macroprudential tools to contain systemic risk.
heydary.comJavad HeydaryA high-profile Canadian lawyer has possibly left the country following allegations that more than $3 million of his client's money has disappeared, The Toronto Star reports.¬† Javad Heydary ‚Äî who's representing investors in the Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower in Toronto ‚Äî has been incommunicado since Nov. 15, according to The Star. At that time, he told colleagues that he was going back to Iran to take care of an ailing relative. The Financial Post reports¬†that The Law Society of Canada has taken control of his clients' files, records, and trust accounts, alleging that he left Canada while the $3 million was missing from the firm's trust account. Heydary is representing investors in a high-profile lawsuit over the "Trump Toronto," Canada's tallest residential building, according to the Financial Post. Investors who bought units in Trump Toronto claim they're losing tons of money on their investments because of low occupancy rates. The $3 million that's allegedly missing isn't related to the Trump suit, though. The money belongs to an entrepreneur named¬†Hasan Abuzour, according to the Toronto Star.¬†Abuzour hired Heydary to help him dissolve a printing business partnership. As part of the deal, Abuzour was to receive $3.6 million through a trust account controlled by Heydary. Now, The Star reports, Abuzour is "virtually penniless." Nobody really knows if Heydary is really in Iran. One source told The Star that his wife told his law partners that he's dead. We emailed Heydary to give him a chance to comment and received an "away" message suggesting he should have been back in his office on Nov. 26. We will update this post if we hear back from him.
Click for sound. ¬† Bitcoin investors Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, and Lightspeed Ventures partner Jeremy Liew discuss whether bitcoin can become a real currency, or whether it will just remain a speculative tool. Watch an excerpt from a panel on digital currencies from our Ignition conference.  Produced by Kamelia Angelova, Alana Kakoyiannis and Justin Gmoser
Google FinanceInvestors and traders are back after their Thanksgiving holiday, and they're bidding up stocks. The Dow and S&amp;P have both breached new intraday highs. There's no economic data being released today. All eyes will be on next week's November jobs report. "The November labor market report will likely show the unemployment rate resuming its earlier downtrend but a slower 160,000 nonfarm payroll gain as a late Thanksgiving may have delayed seasonal retail hiring," said UBS's Maury Harris.
Down 5.9% from the last London Fix of October, Dollar gold this morning touched $1249 per ounce. That would be the lowest monthly finish since June's 3-year low. Global stock markets meantime hit fresh 6-year highs on the MSCI World index, as the Japanese Nikkei closed its strongest November since 2005. The Japanese Yen today hit its lowest level in a half-decade to the Euro. Gold for Japanese investors rose to 1-week highs Friday morning, cutting November's drop to 1.9%. "Trading has been relatively subdued," says a European bank dealing desk, pointing to the US Thanksgiving holidays. "Some light buying from short-term players," says a Swiss refiner's note, again citing "very thin conditions." Tracking Friday's rally in gold, silver also rose but held $2 per ounce below the end of October, heading for a 9.1% drop in November at $19.93. "Physical [gold] demand is solid," says ANZ Bank's commodity team in a special report, "but not bullish enough to spark significant short covering [by bearish traders in gold futures]. "[That's] reflected in subdued Shanghai Gold Exchange premiums." Trading volumes in Shanghai gold slipped back Friday, pulling the premium above London settlement down to $6 per ounce from the recent peak of $9 hit Thursday. ANZ now forecasts 2013 gold imports to China of 1,050 tonnes, topping last year's record by some 80%. "[But] we believe caution is warranted in expecting the growth in Chinese gold demand will be repeated next year," says the banks' analysts, stating a "baseline expectation" of a drop in 2014 imports back to 900 tonnes. Meantime in former world No.1 gold consumer nation India, where gold prices on the MCX futures market ended the day unchanged near 6-week lows, "People have started coming with recycled gold," Reuters quotes a gold retailer in the famous Zaveri Bazaar.  Thanks to the Indian government's gold import rules effectively shutting legal inflows, "There is no gold available in the market this wedding season," the retailer, Kumar Jain, goes on. So the parents of brides-to-be "have started exchanging their old gold for new, and paying the labor charges," he adds, forecasting perhaps 400 tonnes of gold recycling this year, compared with more typical levels of 130 tonnes. Import duties, the lack of supply and other costs have pushed Indian gold dealers' quotes for physical bullion to $130 per ounce above world prices this month. Adrian Ash BullionVault Gold price chart, no delay | Buy gold online Adrian Ash is head of research at BullionVault, the secure, low-cost gold and silver market for private investors online, where you can fully allocated bullion already vaulted in your choice of London, New York, Singapore, Toronto or Zurich for just 0.5% commission. (c) BullionVault 2013 Please Note: This article is to inform your thinking, not lead it. Only you can decide the best place for your money, and any decision you make will put your money at risk. Information or data included here may have already been overtaken by events ‚Äì and must be verified elsewhere ‚Äì should you choose to act on it.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonEarlier this month, someone paid a record $142 million at auction for a triptych portrait by Francis Bacon of fellow artist Lucian Freud.¬† We offered up an explanation of how that painting in particular ended up as the new global benchmark.¬† There may be an even simpler explanation: We are now in an era where someone will drop a hundred-million-plus for a painting in general, without much hesitation.¬† In his profile for this week's New Yorker of the world's second-most successful art dealer, a relatively level-headed sounding German named David Zwirner, Nick Paumgarten beautifully articulates what the art world in 2013 in general is all about: The accumulation of greater wealth in the hands of a smaller percentage of the world‚Äôs population has created immense fortunes with a limitless capacity to pursue a limited supply of art work. The globalization of the art market‚Äîthe interest in contemporary art among newly wealthy Asians, Latin Americans, Arabs, and Russians‚Äîhas furnished it with scores of new buyers, and perhaps fresh supplies of greater fools. Once you have hundreds of millions of dollars, it‚Äôs hard to know where to put it all. Art is transportable, unregulated, glamorous, arcane, beautiful, difficult. It is easier to store than oil, more esoteric than diamonds, more durable than political influence. Its elusive valuation makes it conducive to extremely creative tax accounting. Paumgarten is arguably the New Yorker's most talented writer and the whole piece is worth checking out. Anyway, that's a pretty good summation of where things stand these days.
The price of Bitcoin is now within a stone's throw of the price of gold. The digital currency already set a record earlier today on the Mt. Gox exchange, touching $1,242 (it's since come back down to $1,162). Meanwhile, gold is at $1,250 an ounce. At this point, the unending surge in Bitcoin prices appears to be riding a wave of speculative momentum. The price of a March Bitcoin future on Swedish-based ICBIT.se (though on admittedly thin volume) is more than $1,700.¬† Here's a helpful chart, from Bespoke Investment Group: Bespoke Investment Group We'll update this as soon as the cross actually occurs.
APAs America struggles with high unemployment and record inequality, everyone is offering competing solutions to the problem. In this war of words (and classes), one thing has been repeated so often that many people now regard it as fact. "Rich people create the jobs." Specifically, by starting and directing America's companies, entrepreneurs and rich investors create the jobs that sustain everyone else. This statement is usually invoked to justify cutting taxes on entrepreneurs and investors. †If only we reduce those taxes and regulations, the story goes, entrepreneurs and investors can be incented to build more companies and create more jobs. This argument ignores the fact that taxes on entrepreneurs and investors are already historically low, even after this year's modest increases. And it ignores the assertions of many investors and entrepreneurs (like me) that they would work just as hard to build companies even if taxes were higher. But, more importantly, this argument perpetuates a myth that some well-off Americans use to justify today's record inequality ó the idea that rich people create the jobs. Economic Policy InstituteIn the last 15 years, almost all of the income gains have gone to the richest Americans.Entrepreneurs and investors like me actually don't†create the jobs -- not sustainable ones, anyway. Yes, we can create jobs temporarily, by starting companies and funding losses for a while. And, yes, we are a necessary part of the economy's job-creation engine. But to suggest that we alone are responsible for the jobs that sustain the other 300 million Americans is the height of self-importance and delusion. So, if rich people do not create the jobs, what does? A healthy economic ecosystem ó one in which most participants (especially the middle class) have plenty of money to spend. Over the last couple of years, a rich investor and entrepreneur named†Nick Hanauer†has annoyed all manner of other rich investors and entrepreneurs by†explaining this in detail. Hanauer†was the founder of online advertising company aQuantive, which Microsoft bought for $6.4 billion.† What creates a company's jobs, Hanauer explains, is a healthy economic ecosystem surrounding the company, which starts with the company's customers. The company's customers buy the company's products. This, in turn, channels money to the company and allows the the company to hire employees to produce, sell, and service those products. If the company's customers and potential customers go broke, the demand for the company's products will collapse. And the company's jobs will disappear, regardless of what the entrepreneurs or investors do. Now, again, entrepreneurs are an important part of the company-creation process. And so are investors, who risk capital in the hope of earning returns. But, ultimately, whether a new company continues growing and creates self-sustaining jobs is a function of the company's customers' ability and willingness to pay for the company's products, not the entrepreneur or the investor capital. Suggesting that "rich entrepreneurs and investors" create the jobs, therefore, Hanauer observes, is like suggesting that squirrels create evolution. Or, to put it even more simply, it's like saying that a seed creates a tree. The seed does not create the tree. The seed starts the tree. But what actually grows and sustains†the tree is the combination of the DNA in the seed and the soil, sunshine, water, atmosphere, nutrients, and other factors that nurture it. Plant a seed in an inhospitable environment, like a desert or on Mars, and the seed won't create anything. It will die. So, then, if what creates the jobs in our economy is, in part, our companies' customers, who are these customers? And what can we do to make sure these customers have more money to spend to create demand and, thus, jobs? The customers of most companies are ultimately American's gigantic middle class ó the hundreds of millions of Americans who currently take home a much smaller share of the national income than they did 30 years ago, before tax policy aimed at helping rich people get richer created an extreme of income and wealth inequality not seen since the 1920s. She'd like to create jobs. But she can't afford to anymore. Click to see how extreme inequality has gotten.America's middle class has been pummeled, in part, by tax policies that reward "the 1%" at the expense of everyone else.† It has also been pummeled by globalization and technology improvements, which are largely outside of any one country's control. The prevailing story that justifies tax cuts for America's entrepreneurs and investors is that the huge pots of gold they take home are supposed to "trickle down" to the middle class and thus benefit everyone. Unfortunately, that's not the way it actually works. First, America's companies are currently being managed to share the least possible amount of their income with the employees who help create it. Corporate profit margins are at all-time highs, while wages are at an all-time low. Second, as Hanauer observes, America's richest entrepreneurs, investors, and companies now have so much money that they can't possibly spend it all. So instead of getting pumped back into the economy, thus creating revenue and wages, this cash just remains in investment accounts. Hanauer explains why. Hanauer takes home more than $10 million a year of income. On this income, he says, he pays an 11% tax rate. (Presumably, most of the income is dividends and long-term capital gains, which carry a tax rate of about 20%. And then he probably has some tax shelters that knock the rate down the rest of the way). With the more than $9 million a year Hanauer keeps, he buys lots of stuff. But, importantly, he doesn't buy as much stuff as would be bought if his $9 million were instead earned by 9,000 Americans each taking home an extra $1,000 a year. Why not? Because, despite Hanauer's impressive lifestyle ó his family owns a plane ó most of the $9+ million just goes straight into the bank (where it either sits and earns interest or gets invested in companies that ultimately need strong demand to sell products and create jobs). For a specific example, Hanauer points out that his family owns 3 cars, not the 3,000 cars that might be bought if his $9+ million were taken home by a few thousand families. If that $9+ million had gone to 9,000 families instead of Hanauer, it would almost certainly have been pumped right back into the economy via consumption (i.e., demand). And, in so doing, it would have created more jobs. Hanauer estimates that, if most American families were taking home the same share of the national income that they were taking home 30 years ago, every family would have another $10,000 of disposable income to spend. That, Hanauer points out, would have a huge impact on demand ó and, thereby job creation. So, if nothing else, it's time we stopped perpetuating the fiction that "rich people create the jobs." Rich people don't create the jobs. Our economy creates jobs. We're all in this together. And until we understand that, our economy is going to go nowhere. SEE ALSO: The Truth About Tax Rates: Rich People Have Rarely Had It So Good †
The October durable goods orders report, which was released on Wednesday, was worrisome. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, aka core capex, unexpectedly fell by 1.2%. This was was much worse than the 0.8% increase expected by economists. Core capex is a fancy way of saying business investment. "Paul McCulley, the former legendary economist and fund manager at PIMCO, who was once being touted to join the Fed as a policymaker, told me...the YoY trend in the three-month moving average of core capex orders had for a long time been his preferred indicator of how the broader economy was going to fare a few quarters into the future," said economist David Rosenberg in a year-old research note. While this indicator remains positive, it has decelerated. "The 'Paul McCulley' indicator softened for the first time in six months to stand at 7% in October, down from 8.5% in September," said Rosenberg on Thursday. "There is no denying that while the manufacturing survey data have been broadly decent, the actual monthly figures that feed into the capex part of GDP remain depressed ... one reason could be that much of the industrial strength is being concentrated in exports." Gluskin Sheff
REUTERS/Gus RuelasNouriel Roubini, Chairman and Co-Founder, Roubini Global Economics, takes part in a panel discussion titled "Global Overview" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California on April 29, 2013. Economist Nouriel Roubini is sounding a big warning about global housing bubbles. In a new piece for Project Syndicate, he identifies at least 17: Now, five years later, signs of frothiness, if not outright bubbles, are reappearing in housing markets in Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Finland, France, Germany, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and, back for an encore, the UK (well, London). In emerging markets, bubbles are appearing in Hong Kong, Singapore, China, and Israel, and in major urban centers in Turkey, India, Indonesia, and Brazil. Signs that home prices are entering bubble territory in these economies include fast-rising home prices, high and rising price-to-income ratios, and high levels of mortgage debt as a share of household debt. In most advanced economies, bubbles are being inflated by very low short- and long-term interest rates. Given anemic GDP growth, high unemployment, and low inflation, the wall of liquidity generated by conventional and unconventional monetary easing is driving up asset prices, starting with home prices. Roubini notes that some countries are trying to contain these bubbles through policies like "lower loan-to-value ratios, stricter mortgage-underwriting standards, limits on second-home financing, higher counter-cyclical capital buffers for mortgage lending, higher permanent capital charges for mortgages, and restrictions on the use of pension funds for down payments on home purchases." However, politics is preventing regulators from being effective. For now, Roubini doesn't see the bubble(s) bursting any time soon. ...the global economy‚Äôs new housing bubbles may not be about to burst just yet, because the forces feeding them ‚Äì especially easy money and the need to hedge against inflation ‚Äì are still fully operative. Moreover, many banking systems have bigger capital buffers than in the past, enabling them to absorb losses from a correction in home prices; and, in most countries, households‚Äô equity in their homes is greater than it was in the US subprime mortgage bubble... Read the whole piece at Project-Syndicate.org.
REUTERS/Gary HershornPerformers in the 87th Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade wait for a subway to take them to the start of the parade in New York November 28, 2013. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Bitcoinís recent meteoric rise in value to over $1,000 has shone the spotlight on alternative currencies, but bitcoin is not the only new digital currency vying for relevancy in 2013. Like bitcoins most of these currencies are mined by computers solving hard mathematical problems. The "coins" do not exist physically, of course, as the currencies are virtual existing only as computer files. As they are based on peer-to-peer protocols, no one computer controls the currencies, but networks keep track of all transactions made using these digital currencies, but they do not know what the coins were actually used for ñ just the ID of the computer "wallet" they move from and to. Here are nine alternatives to think about before putting your time, effort and money into bitcoin. Like bitcoin, litecoin is another crytography-based digital currency, which has also seen a dramatic rise in value in recent months.† Litecoin, a peer-to-peer opensource digital currency, could be described as an offshoot of bitcoin. In fact, it is based on the bitcoin protocol, but instead of requiring extraordinary computing power to mine effectively, can be mined efficiently using standard computers due to its algorithm originally designed by Dr Colin Percival for the Tarsnap secure online backup service for Linux and other opensource operating systems. Also based on bitcoin, namecoin is another opensource offshoot. A cryptocurrency, namecoin also acts as a decentralised DNS ñ the protocol on the internet that turns human-comprehensible website names such as theguardian.com into addresses understandable by machines. By acting as its own DNS, the currency operates outside the regular internet and therefore outside the governance of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann). The currency values and domain names are stored within the blockchain record, which limits the total number of namecoins to 21m, with each coin divisible down to eight decimal places. Another variant of the bitcoin-like peer-to-peer currency principle, peercoin promises increased efficiency of mining, improved security and safeguards to avoid abuse by group mining, which has recently been highlighted as a potential flaw with bitcoin.† Peercoin has the fourth-largest market cap among ìaltcoinsî as these alternative digital currencies are known, according to CoinMarketCap.com, which tracks emerging and traded currencies. A cryptocurrency like bitcoin, primecoin differs at its core because it uses a totally separate mathematical basis for mining. Instead of relying on bitcoinís ìHashcashî algorithm, primecoin finds long Cunningham chains ñ a certain sequence of prime numbers named after the mathematician AJC Cunningham ñ to build value into the currency. Unlike bitcoin, primecoinís mining difficulty increases slightly with each new coin created, scaling more evenly than bitcoinís bigger shift in mining difficulty every 2016 blocks. Based upon litecoin, feathercoin adjusts its mining difficulty more often than litecoin and was announced in April 2013. Unlike some other digital currencies, feathercoin updates regularly to incorporate new features and enhancements, including protections from abuse and forking by group mining. Yet another peer-to-peer digital cryptocurrency, Novacoin differs from most of the other altcoins by integrating protection schemes within the core of the currency, which deters abuse by mining groups. Novacoin also has a technical cap of 2bn coins, a much larger number than most of the other digital currencies which top out in the millions, rather than billions of coins. The cap could also be increased if it was ever reached, giving novacoin a theoretical dynamic inflation. Announced in June 2013, as another litecoin spin-off, infinitecoin differs with more frequent difficulty adjustment rate during mining and the total number of coins that can be created, which is 1142.86 times as many as litecoin. A bitcoin analogue in its infancy, created within the fourth quarter of 2013, megacoin is limited to 42m total coins and is mined like every other crytocurrency. Each coin worth around $0.50, and its main selling point is its overt branding, something quite a few other digital currencies lack. Another altcoin in its infancy, launched in 2013, Quark coin takes the security elements of the cryptocurrency very seriously employing nine separate rounds of encryption using six different algorithms. If those nine bitcoin alternatives werenít enough for you, there are over 60 different altcoin currencies currently being traded at various exchanges like Cryptsy, including AndroidsTokens, AlphaCoin, AmericanCoin, AnonCoin, Argentum, AsicCoin, BBQCoin, BitCar, ByteCoin, BitGem, BottleCaps, CryptoBuck, CryptogenicBullion, CopperLark, Cosmoscoin, CHNCoin, ColossusCoin, CopperBars, CraftCoin, CasinoCoin ... ï In November, £4m in bitcoin was revealed to be lurking on a hard drive buried within the Newport landfill site This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Below is a chart all Americans who are shopping today should appreciate. It shows the year-over-year percentage change in average hourly wages minus the year-over-year change in the CPI. With the line over zero, it means wages are rising faster than the general inflation rate. This was not the case the same time last year, when inflation was still running faster than wages. Kit Juckes at SocGen writes: The best news for US consumers as they digest last night's pumpkin pie and get ready for a hard day's work in the shops (or at the computer), is that wage growth has moved back above inflation and real incomes are rising. Americans are regularly surprised to learn that real wage growth is picking up (albeit modestly). The other side of the same coin, as wages rise relative to PPI, is that the labour share of GDP will rise vs. the profit share, but on a day when the focus will be on how much is spent in the run-up to Christmas, I reckon the US is in much better shape than last year, when real wages were falling. If we get good spending news, the main effect will be felt via more steepening of the US curve, and the currencies which will suffer in the process are likely to be AUD, CAD, perhaps NZD now, and JPY. FRED
New European unemployment data is out today. The headline unemployment rate came in at 12.1% vs 21.2% expected. As usual, the numbers on youth unemployment are totally staggering. Total Eurozone youth unemployment is 24.4%. In Italy it's 41.2%. In Spain it's 57.4%. In Portugal it's 36.5%. And so on and so on. Eurostat
Just a quick reminder, via Macropolis, that the state of the Greek consumer is just awful. Macropolis
Every month, the Philadelphia branch of the Federal Reserve publishes a look at coincident economic indicators by each state to show which states are thriving and which are now. The good news is that over the past quarter, the economic data has shown improvement in 45 states. Only 5 are seeing shrinking right now. (Via Calculated Risk). On the map, the dark green areas are booming, light green represents modest improvement, and red is shrinking. Calculated Risk
bark/FlickrIt's not a holiday anymore, but things remain very quiet. European markets aren't moving dramatically. Asian stocks didn't do too much special. In the US, makrets will be closed early and volume will be extremely light. No economic data is coming out. Meanwhile, Bitcoin is nearly at $1200.
