Reuters/China DailyHSBC China flash PMI climbed to a seven-month high of 50.9 in October. This beat expectations for a rise to 50.4, and was up from September's reading of 50.2. "October‚Äôs HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI rose to a seven-month high of 50.9 on the back of broad- based modest improvements," said Hongbin Qu, chief economist, China at HSBC. "This implies that China‚Äôs growth recovery is becoming consolidated into 4Q following the bottoming out in 3Q. This momentum is likely to continue in the coming months, creating favorable conditions for speeding up structural reforms." Here's a breakdown of the manufacturing PMI report: Markit Economics/HSBC Last month's report showed that "new business from overseas increased for the first time in six months." The increase was marginal and the stronger demand came from Europe and the U.S. This report showed an increase increase in export orders, at a faster rate.¬† Here's a look at the uptick in China's HSBC manufacturing PMI report: Markit Economics/HSBC
REUTERS/Gustau NacarinoAsian markets are mostly lower ahead of the HSBC Flash PMI number for China. Shanghai Composite futures are down. Meanwhile, after the rise in money market rates on Wednesday, Bloomberg cites a trader saying the People's Bank of China would skip open market operations, raising questions about whether money market rates would rise again. Japanese stocks are down led by financial stocks and as global bellweather Caterpillar cut its outlook, sending its Japanese competitors lower. Japan's Nikkei is down 0.9% Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.4% Korea's KOSPI is down 0.1% Global stock markets were reported to have been roiled by two reports out of China. First there was news that China's biggest banks saw a surge in bad loans that had to be written off in the first half of the year. A rise in money market rates was also said to have weighed on markets. But some thought there was more to the market sell-off than the news out of China.
Business Insider / TD SecuritiesOne of the more overlooked stories of the post-financial crisis economy is the drop in health care cost inflation. "Medical care expenditures account for over 20% of personal consumption, and the dramatic secular downtrend in health care costs has been a key driving force behind the moderation in core PCE inflation since 2012 ‚Äì which now hovers well below the Fed‚Äôs 2.0% Y/Y target," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine to Business Insider. Much of this has been attributed to favorable structural changes like improved hospital efficiencies, increased use of generic drugs, and declining hospital readmission rates. However, falling health care inflation may also reflect unfavorable cyclical forces. Maury Harris, UBS's top economist, wrote about this in a recent note to clients (emphasis added): There are at least two implications if the slowdown in medical care inflation mainly reflects cyclically weaker health care spending stemming from relatively high unemployment and lesser or delayed spending by the uninsured. First, for the time being, slower medical care inflation could be signaling the effects of still high unemployment on consumer spending that can be postponed. In other words, slowing health care inflation might be a sign of continued sluggishness in the overall economy. Second, if slower medical care inflation mainly represents postponed health care demand, such inflation should start to re-accelerate as further unemployment reductions enable more venting of delayed (i.e., ‚Äúpent-up‚Äù) healthcare demand. But Harris doesn't dismiss the long-term structural argument either. If slower healthcare inflation instead reflects longer-run and sustained changes in how the healthcare system operates, lesser health care inflation could become a more enduring characteristic of the U.S. economy. Examples of such changes could be Obamacare, improved bargaining power for third-party private and government purchasers vis-a-vis healthcare suppliers and more price comparison shopping by individuals. A long-term cooling of health care costs inflation would be welcome by Americans, and it would also be a gamechanger for policy. "If Obamacare succeeds in lowering healthcare costs further then it will have important implications not only for fiscal policy, but the disinflationary impulse will also continue to provide a favorable backdrop for the Fed to maintain its uÃàber-accommodative policy stance for longer," said Mulraine.
REUTERS/Jim YoungGary Cohn, President and COO of Goldman SachsGary Cohn, the President &amp; COO of Goldman Sachs, was on Bloomberg Television this afternoon speaking with Stephanie Ruhle. Ruhle asked Cohn what he thought about the massive multibillion settlements that banking competitor JP Morgan is currently being forced to pay. "Look, I feel bad for JPMorgan and what they're going through," said Cohn. "We've been there. We've been there ourselves. We know what it feels like. Indeed, Goldman has been no stranger to lawsuits and public outrage in the wake of the financial crisis. "I know that Jamie and his team are doing everything they possibly can to put this behind them," Cohn continued. "They've got a great franchise. They've got a great business. They've got a great management team. They'll get through this and they'll be a very, very strong competitor." Those are some kind words coming from a competitor. Here are some more highlights from the interview, courtesy of Bloomberg Television: Cohn on how the Fed's decision to not taper has affected Goldman Sachs: "For Goldman it meant sort of business as usual. There's not tapering is the world that we've been in for the last year. So what it meant is people continued to migrate to riskier assets. People continued to migrate or migrated back to the equity markets. Some people that had gotten out of the fixed-income markets because they believed that the Fed was going to taper had to rethink about their fixed-income portfolio, and we have seen some more migration into the fixed-income space. So in many respects, it's similar to what we've been doing for the last year." On Larry Fink saying that investors should be 100% in equities and who is now investing in fixed income as a part of the migration into the space: "Well I agree with Larry. Larry and I have been saying for a couple years equities, equities, equities because we believe that the return on equities is going to outstrip the return of the fixed-income asset class. But for those investors that need a long term, long duration, diversified portfolio, they need to have a fixed-income position. Many of them migrated out or rotated out of fixed income when they thought the Fed was going to change monetary policy and go into a more tapering environment. Now that that's up in the air - and I think that's up in the air for a longer period of timeÖThe tapering is up in the air, whether the Fed is going to taper or not or when they're going to taper." On whether the Fed should taper: "If you look at where we are economically versus where we were a year ago, we're virtually in the exact same place. So if quantitative easing made sense a year ago, it probably still makes sense today. The only thing that you might point to that's different is the actual headline unemployment rate has dropped down 7.2 percent, but we could get into why it's dropped. And the participation rate is at basically 35-year lows, so we really haven't created real jobs. So if you look at the economy of the United States and you look at the world economy today and you look at 1.3 percent inflation in the United States and you look at GDP, we basically have the same ingredients that we had a year ago. So if you were a proponent or advocate of quantitative easing a year ago, you probably still are today. So that's why I tend to think that the Fed is in a tough position. They're in a position where they know they can't quantitatively ease forever. They know they're building a bigger and bigger balance sheet, but their number-one objective is to try and grow the US economy. And they're stuck in a dilemma of what to do here. They know the economy's not growing." "So look, I do believe eventually they will taper. Eventually can be a very long time. I don't believe it's soon. And I - and I do believe that when Janet Yellen gets in there she understands that the dilemma that she's in and she's faced with a very tough position." "On your second question, you asked me a question about does it matter. And you said Wall Street's doing well. I think it's hard to differentiate between Wall Street and Main Street. Wall Street and Main Street at the same street. They are the same streetÖOur ultimate client, or the client of our client, is Main Street. You referred to our aims conference in here. We've got 500 CIOs. Many of them run public pensions. Many of them run private pensions. They run union pensions. They run pensions for teachers and firemen and policemen and that's their ultimate client. They're managing stock, they're managing bonds for Main Street to make sure that their pension and their retirement money is intact." On Main Street being the largest shareholders of financial institutions and whether they realize that when banks are punished--like JPM's fine of $13 billion--it will impact them: "I don't know. I don't know. But ultimately - and look, I'm sympathetic to Main Street. I'm very sympathetic to Main Street. One of our big initiatives, as you know, has been 10,000 small businesses. We're trying to help entrepreneurs grow their companies and hire people and grow the economy. So we're very sympathetic to what's going on on Main Street. I don't know if Main Street understands that ultimately their retirement savings and their savings that's being outsourced to be professionally managed is in the financial markets." On whether he's concerned that interest rates are going to rise: "We're not concerned. Our business thrives in growing economies. If interest rates are rising because we've got a growing economy and world GDP increasing, you have to get very excited about our business because the - the thing that's missing the most from our business right now is a lack of economic growth in the world." On emerging markets: "Again, they're called emerging markets. Why are they called emerging markets? Emerging/growing, more volatile, stops and starts. They are called emerging markets because they're more volatile than G-7 markets, than developed markets that are more predicable. We're seeing a natural cycle in the emerging markets. Overall, we still are very bullish on the emerging markets. The emerging markets overall are still outgrowing the G-7 markets. We talk about China and slowing down. A slowdown in China is 7 or 8 percent. We would thrive for that slowdown in the United States of 7 or 8 percent. So it's still an interesting place where we need to be for the long term. We are investing for a long-term cycle. Our clients need to be there for a long-term cycle, and we are excited about the opportunities in emerging markets. If the industry's made a mistake or we at Goldman have made a mistake in emerging markets, it is we've tended to contract our business at the bottom of the cycle when in essence you should be expanding your business because the bottom of the cycle only leads to the top of the cycle and you need to invest at the bottom of the cycle to be ready for the top of the cycle." On Goldman's fixed income business and its tough last quarter: "We're very confident in our fixed-income business. We did have a tough quarter. We acknowledged that we had a tough quarterÖ.We don't know precisely why we had a tough quarter, but the results are in. And I can tell you we had a tough quarter in fixed income. We're very committed. We're going to redouble or triple our efforts in fixed income. We believe ourselves to be a very powerful, a very dominant top-tier fixed-income shop. And we're doing what we need to continue to grow that business." On what doubling or tripling efforts means: "To the extent we can hire good people, we're always hiring people. So yes, we're hiring peopleÖWe're looking for seasoned traders. We're replenishing our trading supply. We're looked for seasoned salespeople, salespeople that have real client relationships and can come in and help us manage our client relationships. Those people are vital to our franchise and you can never have too many great people in any of our businesses." On how much of a growth opportunity is if the back can't take real risk and what the difference is between a Goldman trading effort and a Jeffries trading effort: "I think we can take the risk that's necessary to facilitate our clients. We haven't stopped taking risk clients. We've got balance sheet capital to commit to our business, to facilitate our client business. And we believe by having a bigger footprint, having more salespeople, more distribution and better traders, we'll be able to facilitateÖIt is more overhead, but it's more revenue. We believe with hiring the additional people we will increase the revenue pool and we'll increase the profitability." On what bonuses will look like at Goldman this year: "Well our comp ratio is not down. Our comp ratio, if you look at what we've ended up paying end of last year, we're in line to a little bit higher year-over-year. And bonuses at Wall Street are going to depend on where the fourth quarter comes out. To the extent that firms have decent fourth quarters, I think bonuses will be somewhat in line with last year. And I know at Goldman Sachs if we don't have a fourth quarter bonuses will be down. Because the one thing we have done and we've committed to our shareholders is that our bonus payments will be directly correlated to our revenue." On what kind of fourth quarter Goldman will have: "I'm cautiously optimistic." On whether he likes his job and wants to stay in it: "Of course." On what Mike Evans' departure means for him and how long will it take for him to get the CEO job: "Mike Evans has been a great partner of mine for 20 years. Mike and I have run businesses together. We've co-headed businesses. We've worked together. And for me personally it's a loss to see Mike Evans leave the firm. That said, we still have one of the deepest management teams around. Lloyd and I have been here, as you said, for eight years. We're one of the very few firms that's had stability at the top of a firm through the financial crisis, and we continue to have a really deep bench." On whether someone will get promoted and take Mike's seat: "I don't know if we'll see someone get promoted, but Mike's growth market seat, as we talked about before, is very important to us. Someone coordinating what we're doing in the various growth markets around the world is important, and we will ultimately fill that seat with somebody." On whether he's exhausted by the regulatory environment: "No. Look, the regulatory environment is just part of what we need to deal with and it's part of our business. In a business like ours where we're in so many countries and we've got so many moving parts, you're always dealing with the regulatory community. You're always dealing with legislative community. You're dealing with different people. But the other side of our business is we've got a huge client base and I'm able to interact with our client base on a regular fashion. I see 400 CEOs a year. It's an interesting seat to be able to see 400 CEOs a year." On JPMorgan's $13 billion settlement: "Look, I feel bad for JPMorgan and what they're going through. We've been there. We've been there ourselves. We know what it feels like. I know that Jamie and his team are doing everything they possibly can to put this behind them. They've got a great franchise. They've got a great business. They've got a great management team. They'll get through this and they'll be a very, very strong competitor." On whether he's going to exit the commodities business if there's a massive capital charge: "I'd have to see what the capital charge is. We believe that being in the commodity business is essential for our client base. Our clients hedge interest rates, they hedge currencies, they can hedge credit spreads, and they hedge commodities. If you go through the S&amp;P 500 and see how many of those companies have direct commodity risk, it's a substantial number of companies. They need to hedge that in the same way they need to hedge the other risks in their business. And we believe we need to be here for them to allow them to hedge with a credit-worthy counterparty based in the United States." On whether Goldman will buy JPMorgan's portfolio: "We're not looking at their portfolio. Some of our clients are looking at their portfolio and some of our clients can potentially ask us for help on looking at some of the long-dated derivatives. We're more than happy to help facilitate our clients, but we're not going to buy the business directly from JPMorgan."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Entrepreneurs and start-up companies looking for investors will be able to solicit over the Internet from the general public under a new proposal issued by U.S. regulators on Wednesday. The "crowdfunding" proposal, if adopted by the†Securities and Exchange Commission, would be a major shift in how small U.S. companies can raise money in the private securities market. Private companies are currently allowed to solicit only accredited investors - those with a net worth of at least $1 million, excluding the value of their homes, or annual income of more than $200,000. The crowdfunding rule would let small businesses raise up to $1 million a year by tapping unaccredited investors. It remains to be seen if the plan goes far enough in limiting regulatory costs so that small businesses find crowdfunding desirable. The measure would still impose a number of disclosure rules and other requirements on small companies and crowdfunding intermediaries. Rory Eakin, the chief operating officer and founder of†CircleUp, a brokerage that offers crowdfunding opportunities to high-net-worth "accredited" investors, said he was initially optimistic about the proposal until he read the fine print. "It's hard to imagine attractive companies will take advantage of these proposed rules," he said, citing a raft of concerns including a requirement for companies to file financial statements every year. SEC commissioners said on Wednesday they hope the plan strikes the right balance between facilitating crowdfunding and protecting investors from possible fraud. The public will have 90 days to respond to the proposal, which is hundreds of pages long. "I believe our proposal is generally careful not to add additional, unnecessary frictions into this marketplace," SEC Republican Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said. "That said, the proof is always in the pudding." Alon Hillel-Tuch, a co-founder and chief financial officer at†RocketHub, a crowdfunding platform that is considering registering with the SEC, said that overall he was optimistic about the SEC's plan. At the same time, he is concerned about aspects of the proposal, such as a requirement that a company raising more than $500,000 provide an audited financial statement. Some small companies have no historical financials, making it hard to figure out how they would be audited under U.S. accounting standards, Hillel-Tuch said. JOBS ACT The SEC's crowdfunding plan is a requirement in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, a 2012 law enacted with wide bipartisan support that relaxes federal regulations to help spur small business growth. The rule was supposed to be completed 270 days after the law was enacted, but it has been delayed at the SEC by leadership changes, a heavy workload and the difficulties in crafting a workable crowdfunding proposal. As part of an investor protection measure in the JOBS Act, companies using crowdfunding will still be required to raise the money through regulated broker-dealers, such asCircleUp, or through crowdfunding portals, a new regulatory category at the SEC. The crowdfunding portals will most likely be self-policed by Wall Street's industry-funded watchdog, the†Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which unveiled its own parallel set of proposed rules on Wednesday. How many entities might register as crowdfunding portals or brokers is not known. In an early, tentative estimate, the SEC said anywhere from 50 to 100 brokers and portals could initially seek to enter the space after the rule is adopted. Under the SEC's proposal, crowdfunding portals would be required to provide investors with educational materials and take certain steps to reduce the risk of fraud. Companies using crowdfunding would also have to make some disclosures about their businesses, such as information about officers and directors, how proceeds from the offering will be used, and financial statements. In addition, the proposal limits how much money an unaccredited investor can contribute each year, based on certain income thresholds. The proposal says that investors with a net worth and income of less than $100,000 can contribute only $2,000 or 5 percent of their net worth or income, whichever is greater. Those with a net worth or income of more than $100,000 can contribute more. In an effort to reduce burdens on companies and portals, the SEC's plan would not explicitly force them to take steps to verify the income levels and net worth of investors in crowdfunding. At the same time, the SEC plan would require companies using crowdfunding to release financial statements and other information that could prove costly. Mat Dellorso, the founder and chief executive of†WealthForge, a brokerage involved in crowdfunding, said he saw the SEC's plan as being "middle of the road" with very few surprises, and that he was happy to see the agency making progress. "Experienced entrepreneurs will have no problem navigating the crowdfunding rules, nor will the intermediaries," he said. "It is the first-time entrepreneurs that will need help." (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by†Karey Van Hall, Andre Greno, Tim Dobbyn and Andrew Hay)
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children/Associated Press Avonte Oquendo New Yorkers may be wondering why the city has been blanketed for weeks with posters about a missing 14-year-old boy with autism named Avonte Oquendo. The MTA has even made regular announcements asking passengers to look for the boy, who's unable to use language. I've lived in New York City for more than a decade, and I can't recall a more high-profile search for a missing child. It turns out New York may be putting so many resources into searching for the boy because his disappearance is the city's fault. In a moving column today, The New Yorker's Amy Davidson writes about the "outrageous failure" that led to the disappearance of Oquendo on Oct. 4. The boy walked out of his Queens public school in the middle of the day. A security guard asked him where he was going but failed to stop him when he didn't answer, Davidson writes. (Oquendo couldn't answer because he's severely autistic and can't use language.) The city has pulled out all the stops to look for him. For the first time ever, the MTA has deployed its PACIS system (the tickers that tell you when a train is coming next) to look for a missing child, Davidson notes. The NYPD sent out search helicopters and is interviewing people on the sex offender registry. Multiple agencies of the city have scoured Central Park as well as waterways, train stations, and subway lines, CBS New York reported. Regardless of how the search ends, Davidson notes that it began with the city's failure to protect a child with special needs. His mother, Vanessa Fontaine, notified the city that she plans to sue the city and its Department of Education over the boy's disappearance, the Associated Press reported. Fontaine's lawyer, David Perecman, told the AP that school officials failed to call her until an hour after her son disappeared. City Department of Education Chancellor Dennis Walcott told the AP that the department's thoughts are with Oquendo's family. "Let's try to find the student and then we'll do the investigation on exactly what happened," Walcott told the AP.
Holly Lay via FlickrDuring the past few weeks, investors have seen political noise absolutely dominate the markets. Traders with a short-term focus were risking real money based on the expectation of a political outcome and the market's reaction to that outcome. It is harder to think of a more dangerous way to speculate with your dollars outside of a casino. A far more productive use of time for long-term investors would be to realize that most of the folks on the financial news networks provide far more entertainment that they do real investment knowledge or useful information. The distraction of switching to this or that Capitol Hill session as if it is of immediate importance to investors is at best a distraction and at worst can be extraordinarily expensive. A far better use of time would be to search for the cheapest stocks in the US that have the potential for huge long-term returns regardless of what the politicians and the markets do over the next few months or years. If you look for nonfinancial stocks that have decent liquidity and size some very interesting names pop up that are more than worthy of consideration. One of the very cheapest right now is Harvest Natural Resources (NYSE: HNR [FREE Stock Trend Analysis]) an energy company that has some twists and turns to its situation. The company has assets in Venezuela it is try to monetize through a deal with a local company called Pluspetrol. The Venezuelan political situation of pretty hostile and the company has been told not to take any cash from their operations out of the country making a sale the best course of action. Should they succeed the remaining operations, including exploration projects off of Africa and China will be spun off to shareholders and Harvest Natural will be sold to Pluspetrol. It's a long way for a sure thing, but if successfully concluded, the transaction should be worth $8 to $9 a share for current investor in cash and shares of the new spinoff company. There has been a preliminary discussion to sell its interest in the operations in Gabon, West Africa and would return that cash to stockholders as well if a deal is reached. At 50 percent of tangible book value, there is a lot of shareholder value to be unlocked and management appears to be exploring the best options to achieve that task. It should come as no surprise that the largest US miner of silver makes the list of super cheap stocks as well. Coeur Mining (NYSE: CDE) has operations in Nevada and Alaska as well as Mexico and Bolivia. The company not only has seen its stock price hammered by falling metal prices but they are also a higher cost producer in a bad market for their underlying business. The company also had to close down part of its most productive operations in Mexico as a result of structural problems. Management is taking steps to cut cost by more than $25 million and will be cutting back capital expenditures by more than 15 percent in an effort to ramp up cash flow and profitability. CEO Mitchell Krebs recently told Barron's magazine, ìWe're focused on maximizing our cash flow. By employing a modest amount of capital into our existing mines, we will generate high rates of return." If silver prices stabilize or improve in the next few years, this stock could easily double or more from the current depressed stock price. There will always be noise in the markets. Headlines form market darlings like Google (NASDAQ: GOOG), Netflix (NASDAQ: NFLX) and Tesla (NASDAQ: TSLA) dominate the daily discussions and add very little information that is useful to long term investors. There will always be issues surrounding our domestic fiscal issues or tension and unrest in the Middle East. Commentators will breathlessly tell you how critical these situations are for investors. In truth, unless there is an immediate inventory creation event they are of very little practical use at all. The time as a long-term asset based investor is better spent looking for cheap stocks and special situations like the ones mentioned here. There are more. The investor's job is to find them and own them until they are worth several multiples of the current depressed price. (c) 2013 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.
Screenshot via CNBCFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. MARK SPITZNAGEL: This Market Is Set Up For A Major Crash And The Best Thing To Do Is Sit Earning Zero (CNBC) Mark Spitznagel, founder of Universa Investments founder told CNBC's Maria Bartiromo that today's market is "very distorted" and it's "set up for a major crash, a major sell-off." He called it a "Fed induced distortion."¬† On investing today, Spitznagel said, "the simple answer, the mom and pop answer, I think is to just step aside. This is sort of a mundane response to that but it's impossible to do. Certainly impossible to do from a professional standpoint. The professional investors certainly more than nonprofessionals are forced to sort of make this return every quarter, every year. So they don't have this luxury of being round-about, thinking of the positional advantage we try to gain for later. So, that's a huge advantage that sort of mom and pop has over the professional.¬† "We can step aside they can step aside and wait for the opportunities that are going to come, as long as you just understand the market process that's happening here, understand the distortion. Don't just focus on this next slice of time. understand all the other slices of time to come and prepare for other slices of time to come. The hardest thing to do right now, what makes you look like a fool is sit and earn zero. I would argue it's the best investment to sit earning zero."  Five Reasons Investors Should Keep Their Life Insurance Policy (WealthManagement.com)  There are five reasons to keep a life insurance policy, according to Kevin McKinley at WealthManagement.com. 1. They might still need it, since the death of one member of a couple will see monthly income decline even as the survivor's expenses don't. 2. Relatives of the insured could inherit the tax-free proceeds. "It may even be advantageous to have the younger generations of the family pay any premiums needed to keep the policy in force." 3. The client could always donate the policy to a charity.¬† 4. It could be a good investment. "Some clients with more money than time may even find that they‚Äôre getting a superior return on their investment by paying the premiums necessary to keep policy in force, rather than cashing it in or letting it wither and expire." 5. Clients can keep the policy and borrow against its "accumulated cash value." This loan is usually tax-free and doesn't require approval.  People Need To Start With A Retirement/Future Plan Before They Invest¬†(The Wall Street Journal) People need to start with a retirement plan, before they begin investing, or "if they're young enough a plan for the rest of their life," writes Artie Green of Palo Alto-based Cognizant Wealth Advisors in a new WSJ column. A "piecemeal approach" doesn't factor in people's future, in stead if focuses on what is good for the short-term, when sometimes it isn't good in the long term.¬† There are two retirement/future-planning approaches. There's cash-flow bases analysis, though "this model can be pretty vague," writes Green. Then there's "goal-based planning where clients actually come up with quantitative, prioritized goals." STEVEN ENGLANDER: Here Are Two Charts That Show How The Stock Market Is Running On Fumes (Citigroup) The stock market and emerging market currencies are running on "Fed fumes" according to Steven Englander, currency strategist at Citigroup. "If we look at the last 50 days, we find that the higher equity prices and lower 10-year Treasury yields on a [day-to-day] basis have occurred 16 times. On 14 of these 16 occasions, EM currencies have appreciated."¬† "So basically we have the high-beta currencies and equities going up when yields are going down, which looks like a Fed love-fest: investors either are buying risk on economic weakness or expectations that the Fed will be bountiful." CitiFX, Bloomberg I Can't Find Anyone To Refute My Argument That America Is In A 'QE Trap' (Nomura) Nomura's Richard Koo writes that he can't find anyone to refute his theory that the U.S. is caught in a QE trap. "The QE 'trap' happens when the central bank has purchased long-term government bonds as part of quantitative easing. Initially, long-term interest rates fall much more than they would in a country without such a policy, which means the subsequent economic recovery comes sooner (t1). But as the economy picks up, long-term rates rise sharply as local bond market participants fear the central bank will have to mop up all the excess reserves by unloading its holdings of long-term bonds. "Demand then falls in interest rate sensitive sectors such as automobiles and housing, causing the economy to slow and forcing the central bank to relax its policy stance. The economy heads towards recovery again, but as market participants refocus on the possibility of the central bank absorbing excess reserves, long-term rates surge in a repetitive cycle I have dubbed the QE "trap." Koo says one way the Fed can step out of this trap is by arguing that QE never worked, which would then lower concerns over a Fed taper.
ReutersTesla Motors†(NASDAQ:TSLA) CEO Elon Musk took the stage at one of the companyís new service centers in Munich, Germany, this week and excited German car junkies with news that the country is now Teslaís ìtop focus in the world.î Germany is Teslaís third-largest market, behind the U.S. and China, and according to MarketWatch, the automaker is now planning on boosting its Model Sís performance package in the country so it can better compete with the likes of renowned Germany luxury carmakers. Musk told his receptive audience in Munich about the advantages the new performance package will have on the Model S driving experience. The CEO also highlighted the need for more recharging stations throughout Germany to help Tesla meet that goal. The U.S. automaker now is hoping to have more Supercharger stations in Germany than any other country in Europe by 2014. In addition to Muskís explanation of the new, souped-up Model S performance package,†MarketWatch†also reports that the Tesla CEO went into detail about whatís to come for Teslaís next mass-market vehicle. Consumers are already expecting the Model X SUV due next year, but Musk is also teasing them about the possibility of a so-called Model E that could be ready in as early as 12 to 15 months, or perhaps in 2016. German consumers are reportedly anxious to see what Tesla has to offer next, but before the electric vehicle maker can proceed with its lithium battery production, it may have to receive the all-clear from the U.S. National Traffic Safety Highway Administration. The agency reported Tuesday that it is now studying a Model S fire that took place in Kent, Washington, on October 1, and regulators may decide to open a formal investigation. Reports of the NHTSA probe came three weeks after the fire itself due to the agencyís employees being on furlough from the partial government shutdown, but investors still reacted to the preliminary Model S investigation by sending Tesla shares down 0.61 percent by the close of trading in New York on Tuesday. Musk already published a blog post on the companyís website in the wake of the blaze, meticulously explaining the unusual series of events that led to the fire, but Teslaís current stock price demonstrates continued†investor concern that the flames will cause consumer anxiety over the true safety of lithium ion battery-operated vehicles. Nonetheless, Musk remained jovial at his presentation in Germany this week, and he even referred to hydrogen fuel cells as ìSo bullshi**tî and ìpure rubbish,î according to†MarketWatch.†The CEO expressed his belief that fuel cells are only a marketing ploy, but heíll need the approval of the NHTSA before he can effectively make the argument again that lithium batteries are superior. Donít Miss: 7 Splendid High-End Hybrids.
AppleAs one of the most traded stocks in the world, Apple is a major gear in the global equity markets, and when the company releases new products, markets react. A new study by Kensho Research models the performance of select tech and semiconductor stocks in the three trading days following previous releases of new models of the iPad by Apple. For the iPad Air, that would be equivalent to buying on November 1, 2013, and holding for the following three trading days. Strikingly, Apple supplier Omnivision Technologies (OVTI) rallies an average of 4.37% in the three trading days following previous iPad releases, while Cirrus Logic, another Apple supplier, returns an average of 3.23%. Apple itself has never declined in the three trading days following the last six releases of new models of the iPad, and shares of the tech giant see a cumulative return of 14% when all the three day gains following historical iPad releases are added up. Like so many other Apple customers, I think the gains in the stock from trading the product release on November 1st will easily pay for the new device.
Earlier this year, the markets world was completely fascinated with Bitcoin as it surged from levels around $15 to a high of $266 in just a few short weeks. Since then, interest in the digital currency has died off as the price has stagnated. Now, it's going on another parabolic surge. Right now, it's trading at $224, not far away from that $266 peak made earlier this year. Check out the weekly price chart below. bitcoin.clarkmoody.com
Last night at 9:00 p.m., Bloomberg TV aired a secret charity poker game between six of the biggest hedge fund managers in the game, and one takeaway is ‚Äî everyone's a loser sometimes, even billionaires. Take the clip below, for instance. Legendary short seller Jim Chanos blows his hand while David Einhorn ‚Äî normally an even-tempered kind of guy ‚Äî plays rough with his peers. Another lesson: You never now how people are going to act once they get some cards in their hands. Steve Kuhn (Pine River Investments),¬† John Rogers (Ariel Investments),¬†Mario Gabelli (Gabelli Asset Management), and Bill Perkins (Skylar Capital) also join Chanos and Einhorn at the table. Bloomberg TV's Trish Regan hosts. Check out the clip below: 
REUTERS/Jessica GowTwo girls play among autumn leaves in Stockholm, Oct. 13, 2013.After setting four straight all-time closing highs, stocks pulled back a bit. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:

IMF researchers Vadim Khramov and John Ridings Lee¬†have developed a new macro indicator called the "Economic Performance Index" ‚Äî a measure that combines data on inflation, unemployment, government deficits, and GDP growth. "Though structurally simple, the EPI is a powerful macro indicator that clearly measures the performance of the economy‚Äôs three primary segments: households, firms, and government," write Khramov and Lee in an IMF working paper. "The EPI comprises variables that influence all three sectors simultaneously:¬†the inflation rate as a measure of the economy‚Äôs monetary stance;¬†the unemployment rate as a measure of the economy‚Äôs production stance;¬†the budget deficit as a percentage of total GDP as a measure of the economy‚Äôs fiscal stance; and¬†the change in real GDP as a measure of the aggregate performance of the entire economy." The basic calculation goes something like this: start with a "perfect" score of 100, then subtract the inflation rate, the unemployment rate, the government budget deficit as a percentage of GDP, and add back the real GDP growth rate¬†(it's slightly more complicated than that ‚Äî check out the paper for details). The annotated charts below plot the history of the U.S. EPI since 1790. IMF IMF
BOOM. Activist investor Carl Icahn ó who has been in Apple and urging CEO Tim Cook to return more money to shareholders ó just tweeted the following. Carl Icahn The website, which will go live tomorrow, is here. Here's what's at the site right now. Shareholders Square Table
On Tuesday Apple†unveiled the new iPad Air along with the iPad mini. The new iPad is†the lightest full-size tablet in the world at 1 lb. (The iPad 2 is 1.4 lbs.) Its†A7 processor makes it twice as fast as the iPad 2. Earlier we posted a breakdown of the current mini-tablet market. Here's the tablet market:† REUTERS/C. Inton
"The starting point of any financial analysis must surely be a consideration of the economic cycle: not just where we stand within the current cycle, but more importantly, where that cycle fits within broader economic history," writes Paul Jackson in his final note to clients in his role as an equity strategist at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale. The note ó titled "Swan song: 12 pictures you can't ignore" ó builds on the bank's recent call for clients to rotate out of U.S. stocks and into European stocks. The SocGen asset allocation team predicts the S&amp;P 500 will fall by around 15% when the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative easing program, then go nowhere for years. "For now, equity valuations in Europe are attractive and with a bit of economic growth the next few years could be quite rewarding," says Jackson. "The immediate risks are that growth does not materialise in Europe or that the eurozone project unravels. For the longer term I worry more about latent inflation risks and central banks getting behind the curve. As bond markets react to that policy error, the folly of forcing banks, insurance companies and pension funds to hold so many bonds will become apparent. But that is for another day." Reuters, Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "Inflation may feel low compared to the history through which most of us have lived, but in a broader context it is boringly normal," says Jackson. "Maybe without recent extra-ordinary policy settings, we would now be experiencing deflation, but we will never really know." Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "Not only is the current level of inflation boringly normal, the valuation of the U.S. equity market, though elevated, is hardly exorbitant (to be fair, the only times it has been above the current level was during 1928/29 and over the last 20 years)," says Jackson. "With the sort of inflation regime experienced over the last 15 years, history suggests just about any valuation level is possible." Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "The Shiller P/E may not be at an extreme, but history suggests the current level is associated with low single-digit future returns," says Jackson. Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "We could try to justify stretched valuations by the improved economic outlook and the consequent positive news for profits," says Jackson. "However...[the chart]†shows that profits usually sink over the coming five years when starting from such a strong level. This makes sense given that competitive pressures will rise when profits are strong (new capital is committed) and that labour will claim a bigger share of the pie when the economy is doing well (and unemployment falls)." Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "Europe would appear to be at a disadvantage compared to the U.S. when it comes to profitability," says Jackson. "However, that is only natural given the state of the European economic cycle and a glass-half-full interpretation would look forward to higher profits once the European cycle strengthens." MSCI, Datastream, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "[This chart] suggests European profits may be about to enter a new upswing, as the economy starts to grow again (profits rarely expand without economic growth, but that once output grows there is a geared effect on income)," says Jackson. "The acceleration in U.S. profits that occurred in 2009/10 may be about to occur in Europe (in a muted fashion)." MSCI, Datastream, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "A number of things can be said on the basis of this chart," says Jackson. "First, the correlation between the two data series is pretty good <U+0096>ñ the cyclically-adjusted dividend yield appears to have predictive power when it comes to future returns;†second, the higher the yield the better the future returns and, third, the current yield has historically been associated with future five-year returns of around 12%, which is about twice the norm." MSCI, Datastream, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "It is hard to conclude from the above chart that unconventional central bank policies have caused a bubble in stock markets," says Jackson. "Some indices may be at record highs, but so is my age. It is something that we have to get used to: markets that are nominal in value and that trend up over time will frequently be at record highs; my age hits a record level every day, though with no sign of a healthy correction! It is important to compare equity indices to the underlying profits and dividends that support them and, on that basis, are far from record levels." Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "Where central bank policies have caused a bubble is in bond markets <U+0096>ñ not surprising as those are the instruments that are bought before the funds end up back with the central bank†in the form of excess reserves," says Jackson. "The previous chart shows that bond yields have rarely been this low in the period since 1800. Indeed, the only other time was when the Fed was also manipulating the market during and after WW2." Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "What is really interesting, and little appreciated, is that the decline in the ECB balance sheet started in July 2012, even before Draghi<U+0092>ís 'anything it takes<U+0094>' speech, has now brought the balance sheet back in line with where it would have been had the pre-financial crisis trend continued (see trend line)," says Jackson. Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "[The decline in the ECB balance sheet] is no doubt why the euro has confounded the bears (including us) ñ the chart below suggests the mystery is rather why it is not even stronger," says Jackson. Reuters Ecowin, SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Strategy "How much good has this done? During the 1930s and 1940s, each jump in monetary base growth was followed three to four years later by an uptick in inflation and the upward drift in inflation in the 1960s and 1970s was preceded by acceleration in the monetary base," says Jackson. "This time around, the effect on inflation appears to have been negligible (so far). An alternative interpretation is that without these policy actions deflation would have resulted. If that is the case, the fact that policy has remained so loose could be stoking up inflation risks."
Working with family is hard, especially when you're controlling billions of dollars. So we really can't be judgmental about Bloomberg's report that Carl Icahn and his son Brett are having a disagreement over the sale of half of Icahn Enterprise's sale of its Netflix stake. The sale was announced yesterday, after a down day for the stock, but Icahn started selling off October 10th. Now the hedge fund's stake has been cut to 4.5% from 9.98%. For its part, Icahn Enterprises made $645 million off the sale alone, but apparently Brett, who suggested buying Netflix in the first place, thinks it's still¬†‚Äúsignificantly undervalued" and that if Icahn holds the stock, the fund will make even more cash.  From Bloomberg: In a public statement highlighting their differences, Icahn, 77, laid out his reasons for the sale, while his son Brett and fellow fund co-manager David Schechter argued Netflix still has significant growth potential, rewriting their contract so they can benefit if the stock advances. The billionaire investor said his cost was about $58 a share, suggesting a gain of almost $800 million from the transactions. ‚ÄúAs a hardened veteran of seven bear markets I have learned that when you are lucky and/or smart enough to have made a total return of 457 percent in only 14 months it is time to take some of the chips off the table,‚Äù Icahn said. He didn‚Äôt respond to a call for further comment. This is all doubly interesting because Brett Icahn has something to prove. Last year the Icahns filed a 46-page legal agreement giving 34 year-old Brett and his partner David Schecter up to $3 billion of Icahn Enterprise's $24 billion AUM to invest in companies with stock market value between $750 million and $10 billion. Carl still has final say over a lot of their portfolio (which is internally called the 'Sargon Portfolio') but think of it as a trial period for Brett. And so far, things have gone well for Brett. Even before Netflix, Sargon was killing it. Check out what Bloomberg had to say about that when Brett and Carl signed their agreement in August of 2012: After hiring Brett as an investment analyst a decade ago, Icahn allocated the $300 million to his son and Schechter in April 2010 to invest in loans and securities of companies with less than $2 billion in equity value. Their investments, internally dubbed the Sargon portfolio, generated a gross cumulative gain of 96 percent by the end of June, according to a July 27 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. So maybe Brett thinks its time for Carl to put a little more faith in him. These things happen. And for the record, the most hilarious take on this story comes to us from Josh Brown, of Ritholtz Wealth Management, on his blog's link fest this morning. From The Reformed Broker: The Reformed Boker
REUTERS/Enrique MarcarianArgentina's key resource, its agricultural soils, are being depleted by†lack†of†crop†rotation†as soy farming encroaches on areas once used for corn, wheat and cattle grazing, according to local experts and a government source. The loss†of†fertility is a slow-burning threat to†crop†yields at a time when importers are counting on the world's No. 3 corn and soybean supplier to increase output to help meet the boom in demand expected over the decades ahead. The geopolitical stakes are high after Arab Spring and other uprisings were sparked in part by high food prices brought on by†crop†crises over recent years.†Argentina†is the top exporter†of†livestock feed to†China, where an increasingly demanding middle class has come to expect a high protein diet†of†beef and pork. On the†Pampas†farm belt, the trend toward soy at the expense†of†corn could rob†Argentina†of†its natural advantage as an agricultural powerhouse in the decades ahead. The country's farm sector has long feuded with President†Cristina Fernandez, who was re-elected in 2011 on promises†of†increasing state control†of†Latin America's No. 3 economy. Her government limits corn and wheat exports through quotas that can be raised and lowered through the year, dampening competition among buyers and pushing growers toward soybeans, which are taxed at 35 percent but not subject to export curbs. That's bad for soils in need†of†regular corn planting. The stalks left by corn provide mulch that allows rain to enter the ground. When water can't sink in, the runoff carries away soil nutrients and makes fields more vulnerable to summer dry spells. "Because corn and wheat cultivation is punished by the government, farmers are forced to cut their risks, focus on short-term profits and plant soy," said†Manuel Alvarado Ledesma, an agricultural consultant in†Buenos Aires. "If no incentive is provided to rotate crops,†Argentina†will deplete its soils, with the weakest areas turning†into†a sort†of†sand in a few years," he said. Argentina's soy planting area has zoomed to a projected 20.65 million hectares for the current 2013/14 season from 14.5 million a decade earlier, according to the agriculture ministry. Corn seedings are meanwhile projected at 5.7 million hectares this season, down from 6.1 million in the 2012/13 cycle but well above the 2.99 million hectares seeded ten years ago. Farmers know that six million hectares†of†corn is not enough to balance 20 million hectares†ofsoybeans. "We want to provide as much grain as possible for our domestic market and for the world, and we want to do it in a sustainable way. But unfortunately our government policies do not allow us," said farmer†David Hughes, who manages thousands†of†hectares in the key agricultural province†of†Buenos Aires. Complaints about government intervention are heard from other business sectors as well. Fernandez has nationalized the country's main oil company, cut access to U.S. dollars in a bid to halt capital flight and increased state spending ahead†of†the October 27 mid-term congressional vote. Annual inflation is clocked by private economists at about 25 percent, one†of†the world's highest rates. SOIL GETS "BURNED" Soy takes more out†of†the soil than farmers can afford to put back by way†of†fertilizers. Only 37 percent is restored, meaning that 63 percent†of†each season's loss remains lost, according to government data. "The process†of†land degradation is a fact," said a government source with direct knowledge†ofthe problem but who asked not to be identified. "It is happening†slowly†in areas†of†the country with the best soils and faster in areas with lower soil quality. But it is happening," the source said. "Over the long term, the country is losing yield potential. That's the biggest danger." Corn seeds and fertilizers are about twice as expensive in†Argentina†as those used in soy farming, another factor pushing growers to plant soy on top†of†soy. "The soil is getting burned by the†lack†of†organic material left behind by each corn†crop," the government source said. The area dedicated to†Argentine†wheat, which is also subject to export curbs, has meanwhile shrunk to 3.4 million hectares from 6 million ten years ago. Fernandez caps corn and wheat exports to ensure ample local food supply and control inflation. Food prices in†Argentina†are still up as millers run short†of†grain to make bread and other staples due to a miscalculation in the size†of†the 2012/13 wheat†crop†that allowed for an initial rush†of†exports, leaving domestic stocks painfully thin. Officials have hinted at coming modifications to the export curbs as pressure mounts on the government to come to terms with farmers. The farm sector is a key pillar†of†the economy even though it offers relatively few votes and carries little Congressional clout due to the low population†of†the†Pampas. The government will eventually have to face the fact that lower quality soils will mean lower farm tax revenue. Locked out†of†the international capital markets since its 2002 sovereign default,†Argentinadepends on farm revenue to fund social programs for the poor, particularly in the heavily-populated†Buenos Aires†suburbs. "The†lack†of†crop†rotation†will not cause a disaster over the next five to 10 years, because†Argentine†soils are naturally very rich," the†Argentine†government†source said. "Over the longer term the physical structure†of†the soil is being depleted. The consequences for future generations are unpredictable." (Editing by Andrew Hay)
REUTERS/ Kim Kyung HoonAfter peaking in 2004, global wine production is now at its lowest level in 40 years, according to a new Morgan Stanley report. Much to the chagrin of†connoisseurs and†sommeliers everywhere, "The data suggests there may be insufficient supply to meet demand in coming years, as current vintages are released." While the French remain the largest consumers of wine (c'est la vie), the U.S. and China are creeping up fast. China especially is drinking wine like your freshmen year roommate. Some takeaways from the report: Chinese consumption growth is staggering. Morgan Stanley Like in other countries, rich Chinese people drink more wine. Morgan Stanley And the Chinese are getting richer. Morgan Stanley China will need more imports to keep up. Morgan Stanley In 2012, global wine production reached its lowest level in 40 years. Morgan Stanley
George Frey/Getty ImagesIn the world of Bitcoin, the fastest way to get the electronic currency is still face to face. But such meetings can bring serious risks of their own. My own experience went very well, and I was able to learn about some potential red flags when doing in-person Bitcoin transactions. When I went out to buy Bitcoin in person, I asked my husband to come along for safety. A savvy source urged me to bring pepper spray, too. Others encouraged me not to go at all.† But sitting face to face with Richard Weston, I felt silly about all my precautions. A middle-aged man with a good haircut, a wedding band and a nice watch, his picture could have been next to ìtrustworthyî in the dictionary. We met outside a trendy restaurant in downtown DC like we were preparing to transact the worldís most yuppie drug deal.† There are several other ways to obtain Bitcoin, such trading for it over the Internet through an exchange. But right now, face-to-face Bitcoin transactions are the fastest way to obtain the currency. Thereís no two-week waiting period for your bank account to connect and verify, as there are with Bitcoin exchanges like Coinbase†or†Mt. Gox.† I found Weston on†LocalBitcoins, a Finnish company that connects Bitcoin buyers and sellers around the globe. With buyers in 190 countries and 3,317 cities, it's the widest reaching peer-to-peer Bitcoin exchange. There are 100+ active sellers in Washington, DC alone. Richard had a "reputation score" of a perfect 100, which certainly endeared me to him.† Since it was happy hour at the crowded bar and I wanted to do an interview,†Weston†suggested we move to the nearby hospitalís quiet cafeteria. (The exchange itself, which takes minutes, could have been done anywhere we could get a smartphone signal.) ìThereís plenty of security inside the hospital, and the transit police are patrolling the Metro station outside,î he said.† The secure location is as much for his own safety as for mine. Local Bitcoin transactions often involve large amounts of cash changing hands in public places, and Bitcoin robberies do occur. While I figured I had more to lose being the one with the cash, I was well-aware of the story one Reddit user wrote about being ìrobbed blindî by a buyer.† After we sat down in the well-lit hospital cafeteria,†Weston†told me heíd been conducting Bitcoin transactions in person for over two years with hundreds of people.† ìIíve sold Bitcoin to people of all ages, men and women, people of all races, including Native American,î he said.† Some of those transactions took place online, but many more in person.†Weston†has many regular buyers, some of whom live off the grid and depend on Bitcoin as their only form of currency. ìLibertarians,î he said wryly. For my transaction,†Weston†took out an almost exhausted miniature legal pad, and carefully pens in my first name, the amount of the transaction in dollars ($20), and in Bitcoin (0.11912563).† He obtains the up-to-the-second price of Bitcoin on bitcoin.clarkmoody.com, a tracker that uses data from Mt. Gox.†While thereís controversy around this particular Bitcoin exchange, which has†twice had assets seized by the Feds,†Weston†swears by it. It was the first exchange he ever used, from back when he first discovered Bitcoin through a Washington Post article in May, 2011.† ìIíve always been a fan of cryptography,î†Weston†said. ìI saw this article and said, ëThis is the perfect use of public cryptography.í I spent all weekend studying Bitcoin. That weekend when I tried to buy it, the price was $6. But by the time I got my money into Mt. Gox, it was $15.î Meanwhile, our in-person transaction was concluded in minutes. As he looks up the price, I have to be quiet so he can focus. Bitcoin transactions are irreversible. If he sends me too little, he can just send a second transfer to make it up. But if he sends me too much, he canít just call his credit card company to reverse it. Thereíd be no way to fix that except for me to give him more cash.† The next step is to confirm my Bitcoin wallet address, a 34-digit gibberish password. I set up my wallet with†Blockchain.info†at†Weston's recommendation. After he confirms mine, he logs into his own Blockchain wallet with two-step authentication on his smartphone. Finally,†Weston†inputs the amount of money he wants to send to from his wallet to mine. I pass the money across the table and watch the bitcoins appear in my wallet in the same instant.† Every week,†Weston†trades between $0 and $4,000 in Bitcoin. He makes a slight profit on the fee, but certainly not enough to quit his job. (Disclosure: Since I bought a very small amount of Bitcoin,†Weston†waived his usual fee for me.) Most transactions go smoothly, but not all of them. Weston estimates heís lost $1,000 due to scams. Once a client sent him counterfeit money through the mail. Another time a bank error on the customerís part resulted in the Bitcoin buyer never paying Richard back.† But he takes it in stride. ìAnybody in this exchange business has been scammed once or twice.î However, face-to-face exchanges become riskier the more popular Bitcoin becomes. In the early days, Richard used to invite people to his house to conduct transactions. Today, people are warier, ìthey worry theyíll get mugged when they walk in the door.î So instead he picks neutral, high-traffic spaces like the hospital cafeteria. And as the price as Bitcoin has risen, Weston has stopped trading the actual, physical Bitcoins. They're worth way too much now to be carrying around. Plus, setting up a Bitcoin wallet takes a minimum amount of knowledge about crypto-currency, ensuring customers have done some research on their own first. "I don't want to spoon-feed people," he said.† He also limits seedy transactions by refusing to interact with anyone he suspects of using Bitcoin for illegal activities, like buying drugs on the former black market site Silk Road. ìIf somebody approaches me and says, ëI need $300 for Silk Road,í I tell them, ëSorry, go find somebody else,íî†Weston†said. In one instance, he couldnít prove the buyer was going to buy drugs, but since he gave†Weston†a bad vibe he decided not to do business with him on that feeling alone. If itís not very profitable and itís not always safe, why do it? For†Weston, who is the co-organizer of the†DC Bitcoin Usersí Group, the appeal is in initiating newbies into the world of Bitcoin.†Heís currently seeing a spike in new users post-Silk Road, probably due to Bitcoinís latest publicity spike. Heís certainly seen a lot of new faces at the DC Bitcoin Usersí Group. ìThe membership probably has a mathematical correlation between the number of attendees and the price of Bitcoin,î he said with a laugh.† Weston†deals with a lot of Bitcoin newbies, so he tends to hear the same questions over and over. How do I get Bitcoin? What do I buy with it? Where do I store them? And, from entrepreneurs, How do I use it in my business? Either way, heís used to interviews like mine. Not just from reporters, (heís already spoken to Al Jazeera and NBC local, as well as a handful of DCís omnipresent political bloggers), but from curious new users.† ìSometimes I talk longer to the customer than Iím talking to you,î†Weston†said after an hour. ìI want them to be more comfortable and to understand Bitcoin.î In fact, heís grateful for the opportunity to clear up some common misconceptions. ìPeople donít understand the reason Bitcoin was invented. It was not designed to be anonymous. It was not designed for Silk Road,î he said. ìIt allows two people to transact across a distance relatively free of fraud and censorship without a third party you may or may not trust.î For†Weston† that means donating to causes he cares about, like Wikileaks, without worrying about any entity weighing in on whether he has the right to do so. To him, Bitcoin isnít a wealth scheme, itís a ìrevolutionary new natureî in the way we spend.† ìIs it going to take over cash?î†Weston†asked me. ìNo. Is it going to replace gold? No.†But itís definitely going to find a niche.î
ReutersOvernight, we got two key reports from China that are believed to have roiled markets. The Shanghai Composite fell 1.25%, the Nikkei was down 2%, and US markets opened lower.† First was news that China's biggest banks wrote off bad loans in the amount of 22.1 billion yuan in the first half of the year. That's a jump up from 7.65 billion yuan a year ago. The second was the surge in money market rates, which jumped the most since July.† But the reports aren't as spooky as markets seem to think. Marc Chandler, head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, thinks there's more driving the markets than just news out of China. While there is "some speculation that this is a precursor to a wave of defaults," he thinks writing off bad loans is important for China. "Provisioning for bad loans and then drawing on those provisions part and parcel of a modern banking system," he writes in Marc to Market.† "Ö Indeed, not writing off bad loans, we would argue, was part of the problem.† Writing off bad loans is part of the solution.† For the record, the yuan itself rose to a new 20-year high against the dollar." He doesn't think the rise in money market rates signals a rate hike either, and that the market's moves are less about China and more a "normal technical move."† "The rise in money markets is not a prelude to a rate hike or a snugging of monetary policy. That is in fact, the point, there is no policy implication, except to reinforce the perception of the PBOC's difficulty in managing liquidity. "...†The rise in money market rates may be a key spur to the largest decline of small company share prices in a year and a half.† The ChiNext index of small companies fell 2.9% today, more than twice the decline of Shanghai Composite.† In comparison, Japan's JASDAQ fell 0.8%, while the Nikkei lost almost 2%.† "It strikes us that many observers seized upon the story to explain the price action throughout the capital markets.† We suspect that if the markets were advancing, many would cite Chinese developments too.† Instead, we suggest there have been some large moves in recent days, and the new positions were in weak hands.† That is to say, the dollar and yen's bounce and the pullback in shares is more a function of market positioning than Chinese banks finally writing down bad loans four months ago, for which provisions were already made. "The dollar had fallen to new two year lows against the euro and Swiss franc.† The euro had firmed to four month highs against the yen.† The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 was on its longest winning streak (nine sessions) almost 3.5 years. " So, while the news developing in China is important, it would appear that there's more driving the markets. Read the entire piece at Marc To Market ª
Wikimedia CommonsIn a new note to clients, Societe Generale's Suktae Oh wonders if the Korean won has become the new "safe haven" currency. "We would argue that the Korean won has become a ‚Äòsafe haven‚Äô currency if commodity prices and the USD-KRW exchange rate continue to move in the same direction," writes Oh in a new report. "The resilience of the won since August this year, despite the weakness in many emerging market currencies, is another indication that the won is behaving like a typical safe haven currency." So what would be the implications for the Korean economy? "Of course, it is too early to make a firm conclusion: we should at least wait for a recovery in commodity prices and see whether the won weakens in that case," writes Oh in the note. Oh joins Morgan Stanley analysts, who¬†also identified Korea as a "safe haven," writing recently, "Unlike the rest of the region, Korea is not seeing any risk of a property bubble. It is probably one of the very few economies in AXJ that could even see upside in its property prices in the next three years rather than the possible correction we may expect in other countries."
In a new investigative report, The Guardian's Abigail Haworth takes a dive into the sexual travails of young people in Japan, asking (as the headline suggests), "Why have young people in Japan stopped having sex?" The article itself is a worth a read. It has some interesting anecdotes, but the overarching point ó that Japanese youths simply†"can't be bothered with sex" anymore ó spurred New York Times reporter Hiroko Tabuchi to launch an old-fashioned, chart-based tweet missive. †"C'mon guys, it's simply not true that Japanese aren't having sex. In 2010, ~90% of both <U+2642><U+2640> had sex by early/mid 20s," she tweeted†(the†link to this chart). It's in Japanese, but it's not hard to figure out that the y-column is the percentage of survey respondents who have had sex, and the x column is age. Twitter.com/HirokoTabuchi Another wacky Japan myth: it has more pets than kids. Yes but so does US (164m pet dogs+cats vs 74m &lt;18yos) It's the norm in many countries. "Finally: % of single Japanese women who see benefits of single life <U+2193>since 1987 while % seeing benefits of marriage <U+2191>," she tweeted†along with this: Twitter.com/HirokoTabuchi
The wait is finally over, tonight at 9:00 p.m. Bloomberg TV will air a Wall Street poker face off for the ages, and two of the hedge fund managers involved, David Einhorn and Bill Perkins, have a score to settle from this summer's World Series of Poker. But first, here's how they got back together. This summer Business Insider reported that 6 hedge fund managers were secretly flown to Atlantic City to participate in a $50,000 buy-in poker tournament to raise $300,000 for charity. Now the whole thing is going on TV tonight. The guys around this table are no slouches, either. In the line up you've got ‚Äî David Einhorn (Greenlight Capital), Steve Kuhn (Pine River Investments),¬† John Rogers (Ariel Investments), Jim Chanos (Kynikos Associates),¬† Mario Gabelli (Gabelli Asset Management), and Bill Perkins (Skylar Capital). Bloomberg's Trish Regan hosted. Thing is, the last time Einhorn and Perkins got together, Perkins knocked Einhorn out of the World Series of Poker with gusto. Perkins didn't just have a better hand, he slammed it down on the table shouting "Leeroy Jenkins!!!", a reference to the popular World of Warcraft meme. For the record, Einhorn has won $5,011,730 playing the World Series of Poker. Perkins has won $1,965,163. Bloomberg TV was kind enough to send us some tape from their rematch ahead of time, and in the clip below Einhorn and Perkins discuss their rematch. Perkins says, "David woke up with a hand that he thought that he could win with... I woke up with Aces." Brutal. Watch the video below: 
Reuters/Chip EastSergey Aleynikov departs from federal court in New York February 17, 2010. Ex-Goldman Sachs programmer Sergey Aleynikov was arrested four years ago after the bank told authorities he stole top-secret code before leaving to join a startup. Now, in an ironic twist, a judge has ordered Goldman to pay some of Aleynikov's legal fees since he was technically an employee of the bank when he allegedly stole the code, The New York Times' Peter Lattman reports. The bank's bylaws say it has to pay the lawyer fees of employees charged in connection with their roles as officers at Goldman, and Aleynikov had the title of "vice president." ‚ÄúGoldman may understandably find the result galling; it believes that Aleynikov has stolen its property,‚Äù Judge Kevin McNulty wrote. ‚ÄúIf there is any comfort, it may lie in the fact that Goldman has also indemnified and advanced fees in cases where the conduct was alleged to be unlawful and, in the broader sense, no less harmful to Goldman.‚Äù The case of Sergey Aleynikov is truly bizarre. The father of three was found guilty of stealing computer source code for high-frequency trading in 2010 and sentenced to eight years in federal prison. In 2012 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals overturned that conviction, finding the federal government was wrong to prosecute him under espionage laws. He was arrested again less than six months later after Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance charged him with state crimes related to the very same stolen code. He was freed on bail and is currently fighting the state charges. Michael Lewis laid out the complicated case against Aleynikov in an excellent Vanity Fair article last month. In 2009, while he was working for Goldman, he got an offer to launch a trading platform for a new hedge fund. He jumped on it but agreed to remain at Goldman for six weeks. Four times during that period, he sent himself source code he'd been working on ‚Äî open source code available to the general public mixed in with code that was Goldman's property, according to Lewis. He later told FBI agents that he planned to separate the codes later, and that he needed to keep the open source code so he would know how to replicate it in the future. Aleynikov knew what he was doing wasn't technically allowed, but he told Lewis it felt like "speeding in the car." After serving more than a year in prison for his infraction, Aleynikov has to contend with the Manhattan DA. Usually, you can't be charged with the same crime twice (a practice known as "double jeopardy"), but the DA was able to get around that issue by charging him with state-law violations. Judge McNulty is forcing Goldman to advance him fees necessary to fight the state case, the New York Times reported. That amount is already more than $700,000. In another ironic twist, Goldman has to pay Aleynikov for "reasonable fees" he incurred while fighting the dispute over legal fees ‚Äî that's $1.1 million, an amount that Goldman can dispute. The judge also said there should be further inquiry into whether Goldman has to pay its former programmer back for the $2.3 million he spent fighting the federal case. All told, Goldman could end up paying $4 million to the lawyers who fought the case it asked prosecutors to bring in the first place.
Citi currency guru Steven Englander says the stock market and emerging-market currencies are "increasingly running on Fed fumes" in his latest note to clients, quantifying what he says "looks like a Fed love-fest" in global asset markets. "Both FX and equity investors owe the Fed a lot these days," he writes in the note. "Equities have been going up and EM currencies have been recovering, so risk must be bid." CitiFX, BloombergValues represent how many times over the last 50 days the indicated events have occurred.The chart at right plots the number of days in the last 50 that the S&amp;P 500 index and EM currencies have risen when Treasury yields have fallen. The idea is that as the series rises, investors are increasingly buying these risk assets on days when bond markets are supported by hopes that the Fed will refrain from tapering its quantitative easing stimulus programs.. In other words, bad news regarding economic data ‚Äî the type that supports bonds, because it suggests the Fed will continue buying bonds for longer ‚Äî is increasingly becoming good news for stocks. "The characteristics of risk buying are very different than earlier in the recovery," Englander writes. "If we look at the last 50 days, we find that the higher equity prices and lower 10-year Treasury yields on a [day-to-day] basis have occurred 16 times. On 14 of these 16 occasions, EM currencies have appreciated (Figure 1). "So basically we have the high-beta currencies and equities going up when yields are going down, which looks like a Fed love-fest: investors either are buying risk on economic weakness or expectations that the Fed will be bountiful," says Englander. CitiFX, BloombergNumber of days (out of the last 50) when the S&P has been up and bond yields have been down minus the number of days the S&P has been up when bond yields have been up.The next chart shows that this is an unusual occurrence. "This [chart] answers the question: when the S&amp;P is happy, what is it happy about?" writes Englander. "We find that this is the first episode when the S&amp;P rallies more on news associated with dovishness/weak activity than on news that would reflect any degree of optimism. The same is true for EM currencies. They seem to be rallying largely on liquidity." The bottom line, he says: "We are the last one to argue that the Fed is at the limit of its ability to influence asset markets, but how much more ability they have to affect activity may be more in question."
Wall Street bonus season will be upon us sooner than you think, and since this year's been a bumpy ride for markets, there's no telling what could happen. But of course, everyone has expectations. eFinancialCareers did a fly-around survey to see what bankers around the world expect from this bonus season. The career site talked to 4,642 bankers globally, and 1,427 bankers in the United States between September 10, 2013 and September 29, 2013. Of those, 49% work in the front office, 25% work in the middle office, and 26% in back-office positions. From the looks of it, bankers in the Gulf States are most optimistic, while here in the U.S. bankers are just... meh. Check out the results in the slide below via eFinancialCareers: eFinancial Careers
REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Stephen A. Schwarzman, Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder of the Blackstone Group.A unit of Blackstone Group, the world's largest private equity firm, essentially paid a company to purposely miss a debt payment in order to profit on credit default swaps (CDS), Bloomberg's¬†Stephanie Ruhle, Mary Childs &amp; and Julie Miecamp report. It was a brilliantly canny deal that guaranteed Blackstone would make money. CDSs, a kind of insurance against defaults and missed debt payments, were one of the main culprits in the global financial meltdown. Regulators have tried to make them more transparent, with limited success. Here's how the deal went down, according to Bloomberg: Earlier this year, the Blackstone unit, GSO, bought bonds of and CDSs against a company called Codere, which operates betting parlors and race tracks in Europe and Latin America.¬† Then the Blackstone unit (along with another firm) took over a separate 100 million euro revolving Codere credit facility from several different megabanks. Among the conditions of that deal: if Codere paid an interest payment due Aug. 15 (with a 30-day grace period), it would have to repay the entire loan at once. But that was never going to happen, because the Blackstone unit (along with another firm) then lent Codere $35 million to cover the cost of missing the payment. As agreed, Codere paid the loan two days late, and the CDSs were triggered. The reporters estimate the Blackstone unit netted at least $15.6 million off the deal. And it's totally legal, since both sides agreed to the terms. Codere ends up benefiting too, since more banks will now be interested in lending to it. ¬† Click here to read the full report at Bloomberg ¬ª
REUTERS/Gary CameronJ.P. Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon (front) leaves the U.S. Justice Department after meeting with Attorney General Eric Holder, in Washington, September 26, 2013.A group that includes asset management companies Blackrock and Neuberger Berman is seeking a settlement of at least $5.75 billion from JP Morgan in an attempt to¬†recover losses on mortgage-backed securities sold before the financial crisis, the Wall Street Journal reports.¬†¬† This is separate from the $13 billion fine the bank will be paying for failing to warn investors about risks in mortgage backed securities trades. The same investor group also extracted an $8.5 billion settlement from Bank of America, to compensate investors for mortgage bonds they issued before the collapse of the housing market. That settlement is now before a judge for final approval. J.P. Morgan has been prepared for this payout since the last quarter, as it set aside over $9 billion to cover its legal fees. According to the Wall Street Journal, it has now set aside a $23 billion to cover future legal costs. The bank is also still on the hook for criminal¬†liability related to its mortgage business. The charges bring into question¬†whether JPMorgan misrepresented the quality of the mortgages it securitizing and selling to investors.
The S&amp;P 500 is falling in morning trading after hitting another all-time high yesterday. The index is down 0.6%, trading at 1743. It's closed up for five days in a row, and has risen in 9 of the last 10 trading sessions for a total gain of 5% from its government shutdown low. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at 2.49%, two basis points below Monday's close. The FHFA House Price Index was the only datapoint released in the U.S. this morning, and though price appreciation slowed more than expected, the release didn't move the market. A story about Chinese banks has been cited as a reason for worry among market participants this morning. Brown Brothers Harriman global head of currency strategy Marc Chandler disagrees. In a note on his blog, he writes: After falling sharply in recent days, especially yesterday after the disappointing jobs data, the US dollar is broadly higher today, with the yen the main exception. It has strengthened by almost 1% today. Many are attributing the price action to news that the five largest Chinese banks tripled the bad loans written off in the first half of the year to CNY22.1 bln (~$3.65 bln). Yet, tellingly and importantly, the Chinese banks had already made the provisions and thus did not, reportedly, impact the record profits (~$76 bln) in H1. There is some speculation that this is a precursor to a wave of defaults, but in itself writing off the bad loans is a very important step in its own right. It is a step toward modernization and liberalization. Provisioning for bad loans and then drawing on those provisions is part and parcel of a modern banking system. Precisely why one would sell, say the New Zealand dollar, the weakest major currency today, losing about 1.4% through the European morning, or the Mexican peso, which, with a 0.8% loss is the weakest among the emerging market currencies, in response to Chinese banks writing off bad loans in the first half of the year, is not immediately self-evident. Indeed, not writing off bad loans, we would argue, was part of the problem. Writing off bad loans is part of the solution. For the record, the yuan itself rose to a new 20-year high against the dollar. The chart below shows the drop in S&amp;P 500 futures. Thinkorswim
betawork's John Borthwick will keynote Startup 2013Hot startups like Bustle, Upworthy, General Assemb.ly, betaworks, and Tinder will meet up tomorrow at Business Insider's fifth-annual Startup conference on entrepreneurship in New York City. You should drop everything and reserve a ticket if you want to: Learn how to run seven startups at once like John Borthwick or how to ride your monster growth into an exit like OMGPOP's Dan Porter  Shock your way to success like Lulu, Rap Genius, and Down (formerly Bang With Friends), which are seeing huge results while (from?) shocking the public. Learn what challenges they face, from getting kicked out of the app store to accusations of sexism. Gain inspiration and helpful contacts: We've partnered with General Assemb.ly to run ìStartup University.î Choose three classes from a schedule packed with 15 great choices and you'll soak up business lessons from industry leaders. Nail a live pitch: One entrepreneur will have the chance to pitch his or her business to three venture capitalists onstage. He'll have just 60 seconds to make his best elevator pitch and get feedback in realtime. Pick the right investments: Hear from Bijan Sabat, who was an early investor in Twitter, Tumblr, and OMGPop. Ticket prices are entrepreneur-friendly.†Buy yours now before they sell out!  Follow†@BI_Events†on Twitter for Startup updates.
It seems like a lot of hedge funds are adopting an activist strategy these days, but not everyone is going into the game with decades of success on Wall Street under their belts. However, Jason Ader, of Ader Investment Management, and Andrew Wallach of Cumberland Associates are a special case. The duo have combined their two funds to create a new NYC-based activist hedge fund, SpringOwl Asset Management. Together, they bring to the table $225 million in AUM (about $30 million of it being their own money), and two distinct investment strategies that have served them very well over their careers. Ader Investment Management has returned 40% year to date, and used activism to pull off one of the biggest coups in the industry this year ‚Äî a board shake up at the largest slot machine maker in the world, IGT. Jason Ader also serves as a director of Las Vegas Sands Corp. Cumberland Associates is different ‚Äî it's a deep value fund that has produced a 14.5% annualized return to investors over the last 43 years. Wallach's sector specialties include media, telecom, tech, and natural resources, and, on its own, Cumberland has $105 million assets under management. So why the change? "Generally, companies get complacent, boards get complacent," said Ader. "When you have a board running a business like caretakers, they forget they're supposed to be creating value for shareholders." He added that a lot of companies have stock-piled cash during rough markets. That means, in other words, it's time for a shake up. Ader and Wallach met two years ago through a family office seeding platform that Ader ran out of his hedge fund. Once they got to talking, they saw a bunch of opportunities for activism or constructivism in Wallach's portfolio. "I've been frustrated over the years," said Wallach. "I can't tell you how many companies I've tried to explain to share repurchase to. I'm tired of it." So no more Mr. Nice Guy.
www.antonkusters.comWhen you go after the mafia, you gotta hit 'em where it hurts: their AmEx cards.† Bloomberg's Terje Langeland and Takahiko Hyuga report the U.S. Treasury has since 2011 frozen $55,000 worth of assets in the names of suspected Japanese Yakuza members, including two American Express cards issued by the Japanese branch of the New York-based firm.† Treasury was also able to block an insurance policy issued through a Japanese unit of AIG, and seize $11,276 in shares of Gen-Probe Inc., a San Diego-based medical diagnostics company that was recently spun off from a Japanese pharmaceutical firm. And they've apparently only just begun. ìItís a pin prick in terms of the impact that weíre expecting to deliver,î Adam†Szubin, director of the†U.S. Treasury's†Office of Foreign Assets Control, told Bloomberg. Click here to read the full story ª
Itís certainly conceivable that even a 7% unemployment rate wonít cause the Yellen-led Fed to start tapering. The doves dominate the FOMC, and most of them are on the record as believing that the fall in the unemployment rate is exaggerating the improvement in the labor market. Thatís because lots of people have simply dropped out of the labor market.† Indeed, the jobless rate would be closer to 10% right now if the labor force participation rate were at 65%, as it was during November 2009, rather than Septemberís 63.2%, which was the lowest reading since August 1978. The FOMCís doves also typically observe that the employment-to-population ratio has been stuck near the 2009 low for the past five years.† Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Thinking About A Melt-Up.†(1) Worrying more about less to worry about. (2) Deep in the heart of Texas. (3) Smaller stocks with higher P/Es beating the bigger ones with lower valuations. (4) Three months til Yellen replaces Bernanke. (5) Record liquidity and margin debt. (6) A market for momentum players. (7) An impressionistic picture of stock prices that may continue to go vertical. (8) How will we recognize irrational exuberance? (9) Yellen will have lots to talk about at her first press conference on March 19. (10) Labor force dropouts continue to push jobless rate lower.†(More for subscribers.)
Wikimedia CommonsSociete Generale's Albert Edwards sees asset bubbles inflating around the world. "I keep reading that, despite central banks spewing money into our financial system, there isnít a bubble in asset prices," writes Edwards in his latest note to clients. "And in any case if one appeared central banks, having learnt the lessons of 2008, will head it off with macro-prudent policy measures. Are you kidding me? Exactly the same bozos who missed the last bubble deny there is one now." Two bubbles he thinks are loud and clear are the housing markets in London and China. On London: London house prices just rose 10% - in one month. Everything I read tells me this is unsustainable ñ which is just as well as prices would more than triple in a year. But make no mistake, as a life-long Londoner I have never ever seen anything like the current frenzy. We are in the midst of the mother of all housing bubbles, and although the rest of the country has yet to follow, it inevitably will do so ñ it always does. The London housing bubble is no longer driven by Asian or eurozone buyers looking for safe havens. This bubble, like the one in the mid-noughties, is about excessively loose monetary policy and light touch regulation... On China: Meanwhile in China it looks as if the authorities have also lost control of house price inflation ñ again! Not only is the breadth of the rises quite startling, but the acceleration since March in the first-tier cities prices (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen) to over 15% yoy has been spectacular if not a little disturbing (see chart below). The rapid acceleration in Chinese house prices since March has occurred incredibly quickly in the wake of the governmentís July mini-stimulus. The FT describes the September data as ìstaggeringî. Our own Wei Yao described it as ìhopelessly strongî. Societe Generale "Here we go again... and once again no-one is listening," he writes.
DUBAI/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Etihad Airways is close to placing a order that could kick off a $50 billion jet-buying spree from the Gulf as the region's carriers flex their muscles in an industry hit by weak margins and high fuel prices. Taking advantage of deep pockets and a geographically strategic position between East and West, Gulf airlines are expanding rapidly and diverting long-haul traffic from airlines in Europe, the United States and parts of Asia. Abu Dhabi airline Etihad is expected to buy dozens of Boeing &lt;BA.N&gt; jets, including the revamped 777X mini-jumbo and a repeat order for its 787 Dreamliner, sources familiar with the matter said on Monday. The deal could be worth $18 billion at list prices and comes as Etihad prepares to celebrate the 10th anniversary of its maiden flight on November 12, highlighting the Middle East's emergence as a fast-growing global travel hub. If confirmed, Etihad's order could pre-empt a widely expected blockbuster deal for 100 or more 777X jets from rival Emirates &lt;EMIRA.UL&gt;, which has said it may announce a large order when it hosts the Dubai Airshow next month. The deals are still under negotiation and could change in size and timing, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly. Boeing's European rival Airbus &lt;EAD.PA&gt; is also competing for the business. Together with an order from Germany's Lufthansa &lt;LHAG.DE&gt; in September, the latest business is likely to ramp up competition between planemakers by allowing Boeing formally to launch the new version of its long-range 777X twin-engine jetliner. Airbus has punctured Boeing's traditional dominance of the market for big twin-engine jets with its new A350-1000 and scored a historic breakthrough in Japan this month. Two people familiar with the matter said that Etihad is looking to buy 25 to 30 of the revamped 777X. And in a vote of confidence for Boeing's Dreamliner, which has suffered a series of technical problems, Etihad may also increase its order for the lightweight jet by up to 30 aircraft, one of the sources said. Etihad, which has 41 Dreamliners on order, declined comment. Boeing said interest was "high" for the revamped 406-seat 777X but declined to comment on negotiations and has yet to make a formal decision on whether it will build the new aircraft. Dubai's home carrier Emirates has said it is considering what many in the industry expect to be a huge order for Boeing 777X jets at the November 17-21 Dubai Airshow. Emirates president Tim Clark was quoted last month as saying that much work needed to be done to finalize commercial terms and that it would not go ahead with any deal until it was ready, but industry sources say that speculation is rife that the deal could be worth as much as $52 billion. "The much bigger news would be a non-launch (of the 777X in Dubai), or a launch with tepid numbers," said Richard Aboulafia, analyst at Virginia-based Teal Group, referring to expectations of a formal launch of the 777X at the Dubai show. Since Boeing has been carefully designing the 777X to meet their (Emirates airline) needs, anything less than a 70-100 aircraft firm order would raise questions. And a non-order would be a disaster for Boeing." The nearest competitor to the 406-seat Boeing 777X is the 350-seat Airbus A350-1000, the largest member of the newest family being developed by the European company. Boeing's arch rival was due to provide an update on the carbon-composite jet on Monday. Qatar Airways, another big Boeing customer with an order of 30 Dreamliners, has expressed interest in the 777X but is viewed as the most cautious of the Gulf's big three. In other business, budget carrier flydubai, which is fast expanding its routes, is expected to place a $5 billion order for 50 narrowbody jets at the Dubai show and is looking both at Boeing's 737 MAX and the Airbus A320neo. Saudi Arabian Airways and Kuwait Airways, which put on hold plans to buy 25 new aircraft from Airbus in September, will also look to finalize a deal in Dubai next month. (Additional reporting by Tim Hepher in Paris and Siva Govindasamy in Singapore; Editing by David Goodman)
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozHarvard Professor and Economist Kenneth Rogoff speaks during the Sohn Investment Conference in New York, May 16, 2012.Remember back in April when a UMass graduate student found a major Excel error in the foundational pro-austerity paper of the post-financial crisis era? Well one of the authors of that foundational paper ‚Äì Harvard economist Ken Rogoff ‚Äî is still upset over what he calls a "witch hunt" propelled by "left bloggers." If you recall, after Ph.D candidate Thomas Herndon found the error in the math behind "Growth in the Time of Debt," a paper from which governments have drawn austerity-based policies, Rogoff (and his co-author Carmen Reinhart) kind of pooh-poohed the whole thing.¬† Economists (and bloggers!) like Paul Krugman and Dean Baker piled on, the thought being that Rogoff and Reinhart were at best being nearsighted and at worst actively disingenuous. Plus, the whole thing just festered even more because R&amp;R's central thesis (that high debt to GDP ratios leads to long periods of slow growth) had been co-opted by many austerious governments looking for an economic bitter pill. Here we are months later, and Rogoff has given¬†an interview to the German magazine Capital¬†(picked up by Naked Capitalism). Here are some nuggets from the interview (translated):
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstAugust FHFA house prices are out. The index rose 0.3% in August from a month earlier, below consensus expectations for a 0.8% increase after a 1.0% rise in July. Below is the full text of the release: Washington, D.C. ‚Äì U.S. house price appreciation continued in August 2013, with prices ¬†rising 0.3 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from the previous month, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) monthly House Price Index (HPI). The August HPI change marks the nineteenth consecutive monthly price increase in the purchase-only, seasonally adjusted index. The previously reported 1.0 percent increase in July was revised downward to a 0.8 percent increase. The HPI is calculated using home sales price information from mortgages either sold to or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. From August 2012 to August 2013, house prices were up 8.5 percent. The U.S. index is 9.4 percent below its April 2007 peak and is roughly the same as the April 2005 index level. For the nine census divisions, seasonally adjusted monthly price changes from July to August ranged from -0.5 percent in the South Atlantic division to +1.3 percent in the Mountain division, while the 12-month changes ranged from +4.0 percent in the Middle Atlantic division to +18.2 percent in the Pacific division. Monthly index values and appreciation rate estimates for recent periods are provided in the table and graphs on the following pages. See http://www.fhfa.gov/Default.aspx?Page=87 for complete historical data. For detailed information on the monthly HPI, see HPI Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ). The next HPI release will be Nov. 26, 2013 and will include monthly data for September 2013 and quarterly data for the third quarter of 2013. Release dates for 2013 and 2014 are available at http://www.fhfa.gov/Default.aspx?Page=83. The chart below shows the trend in the index over the past few months. FHFA Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª
The Federal Reserve shocked market participants in September with its decision to refrain from tapering quantitative easing, as many felt that the central bank had signaled the move at its June meeting. Fed chairman Ben Bernanke sparked a sharp rise in long-term interest rates at the June press conference by suggesting that tapering could happen later in the year. The September decision raised questions among observers over whether talking about tapering ended up eventually precluding tapering, because the rise in long-term interest rates sparked by the signal weighed on the economy such that the Fed then felt it couldn't ease up on the bond buying it does under its QE program. NomuraRichard Koo calls it the "QE trap," a concept he explained in a note following the September FOMC decision. Koo has been meeting with clients and officials in the U.S., and he says he hasn't been able to find anyone to refute the theory that the U.S. economy is currently ensnared in the "QE trap." "At the Fed I hoped to hear a refutation of the QE 'trap' argument presented in my last report and which I presented using Figure 1," writes Koo in a note to clients. "However, the official I met with was unable to say anything to ease my concerns." The QE "trap" happens when the central bank has purchased long-term government bonds as part of quantitative easing. Initially, long-term interest rates fall much more than they would in a country without such a policy, which means the subsequent economic†recovery comes sooner (t1). But as the economy picks up, long-term rates rise sharply as local bond market participants fear the central bank will have to mop up all the excess reserves by unloading its holdings of long-term bonds. Demand then falls in interest rate sensitive sectors such as automobiles and housing, causing the economy to slow and forcing the central bank to relax its policy stance. The economy heads towards recovery again, but as market participants refocus on the possibility of the central bank absorbing excess reserves, long-term rates surge in a repetitive cycle I have dubbed the QE "trap." In countries that do not engage in quantitative easing, meanwhile, the decline in long-term rates is more gradual, which delays the start of the recovery (t2). But since there is no need for the central bank to mop up large quantities of funds, everybody is no more relaxed once the recovery starts, and the rise in long-term rates is far more gradual. Once the economy starts to turn around, the pace of recovery is actually faster because interest rates are lower. This is illustrated in Figure 2. NomuraIn essence, Koo says the idea hasn't caught on yet. "I sensed the Fedís full attention is now devoted to the question of whether and when to 'taper' its purchases of longer-term Treasury securities, leaving officials little time to think about long-term costs and scenarios," he writes. "The same could be said for the market participants I met with in New York and Boston, where the typical response was 'we havenít thought that far ahead' or 'itís tomorrowís problem.'" Koo says one way to avoid the "QE trap" is for the Fed to come out and argue that QE never worked to begin with, thereby downplaying concerns over its withdrawal, but it's unclear whether this would be effective, and he admits that it would be "difficult to implement." "Current chairman Ben Bernanke, who unveiled the policy of quantitative easing, appears to want to at least begin dismantling it before his term expires," writes Koo, "but the reluctant QE 'trap' threatens to weigh on the economy for several years via elevated long-term interest rates."
GettyCaterpillar manufactures and sells construction and mining equipment all over the world. As such, it is extremely sensitive to global economic activity, and its management offers unparalleled insight into the health of the world. As we learned earlier today, Q3 earnings fell short of expectations and management also cut its outlook for the full-year. Here are the four paragraphs from the company's earnings announcement that characterize the world in which the company operates. They include quotes from CEO Doug Oberhelman: From an economic standpoint, the company expects better world growth in 2014. However, significant risks and uncertainties remain that could temper global economic growth. The direction of U.S. fiscal and monetary policy remains uncertain; Eurozone economies are far from healthy and China continues to transition to a more consumer-demand led economy. In addition, despite higher mine production around the world, new orders for mining equipment remain very low. As a result, the company is holding its outlook for 2014 sales and revenues flat with 2013 in a plus or minus 5 percent range. The company expects sales growth in Construction Industries, relatively flat sales in Power Systems and a decline in Resource Industriesí sales. ìThere are encouraging signs, but there is also a good deal of uncertainty worldwide as we look ahead to 2014, and our preliminary outlook reflects that uncertainty. Despite prospects for improved economic growth and continued strong mine production around the world, we won't be increasing our expectations for Resource Industries until mining orders improve. We canít change the economy or industry demand, but we've taken many actions to align our costs with the environment weíre in currently. While weíve done much already, we're not finished and expect to take deeper actions to improve our cost structure and balance sheet. We're not seeing bright spots in mining yet, but the turnaround will happen at some point, and when it does, we'll be ready to respond," Oberhelman added. ... World purchasing manager surveys for both manufacturing and services have improved in recent months, signaling the world economy is rebounding from more than two years of slowing growth. Recent economic indicators also suggest that growth in the United States, Europe, Japan and China in 2014 should match or exceed 2013 growth. Better growth in these key economies would improve export opportunities for other countries and increase commodity demand. We expect world economic growth will improve from 2.1 percent in 2013 to about 3 percent in 2014. However, significant risks and uncertainties remain that could temper global economic growth in 2014. The direction of U.S. fiscal and monetary policy action is highly uncertain; Eurozone economies are far from healthy and China continues to transition to a more consumer-demand led economy. In addition, despite higher mine production, new orders for mining equipment remain very low.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeParkinson's patient Jim Coppula works out in the ring with boxing coach Justice Smith (L) during his Rock Steady Boxing session in Costa Mesa, California September 16, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Earnings came in at $1.45 per share, which was much weaker than the $1.67 expected by analysts. Revenue of $13.42 billion was below the $14.47 billion expected. The stock is down 3% in pre-market trading. "This year has proven to be difficult, with expected sales and revenues nearly $11 billion lower than last year," said CEO Doug Oberhelman.¬† "That is a 17 percent decline from 2012, with about 75 percent of the drop from Resource Industries, which is principally mining.¬† We expect Resource Industries to be down close to 40 percent for the full year and Power Systems' and Construction Industries' sales to each be down about 5 percent." "Not only is mining down from 2012, the demand for equipment has been difficult to forecast," said management in the company earnings announcement.¬† "Orders for new mining equipment began to drop significantly in mid-2012 and have continued at very low levels.¬† As a result of weak orders and feedback from end users, the sales and revenues outlook provided in January of 2013 included a decline in mining sales. " Their revised outlook: "We now expect 2013 sales and revenues of about $55 billion and profit per share of about $5.50. The previous outlook for 2013 sales and revenues was a range of $56 to $58 billion with profit per share of about $6.50 at the middle of that range." Caterpillar manufactures construction and mining equipment that get used all over the world. As such, it is a useful indicator of global economic activity. Here's some macro commentary from the earnings announcement: From an economic standpoint, the company expects better world growth in 2014. ¬†However, significant risks and uncertainties remain that could temper global economic growth.¬† The direction of U.S. fiscal and monetary policy remains uncertain; Eurozone economies are far from healthy and China continues to transition to a more consumer-demand led economy.¬† In addition, despite higher mine production around the world, new orders for mining equipment remain very low.¬† As a result, the company is holding its outlook for 2014 sales and revenues flat with 2013 in a plus or minus 5 percent range.¬† The company expects sales growth in Construction Industries, relatively flat sales in Power Systems and a decline in Resource Industries' sales. "We can't change the economy or industry demand, but we've taken many actions to align our costs with the environment we're in currently," said Oberhelman.
A pretty common thing you hear is that Obamacare has been responsible for the death of full-time jobs, as employers switch workers to part-time so that they don't need to be covered under health insurance. It's a pretty nonsense charge, with no data to back it up, as we explained yesterday. But we doubt the meme is going to go anywhere. Over the weekend, CNBC star host Maria Bartiromo was on TV saying that the US is becoming "something of a part-time nation" thanks to the law. That prompted Betsey Stevenson ‚Äî who is on Obama's Council Of Economic Advisors ‚Äî to tweet the following. "I like to think that Joey Ramone would be disappointed to see her get her facts so wrong" Joey Ramone, of course, is the former Ramones punk rocker who had a crush on Bartiromo and wrote a song about her. Stevenson included this chart in her tweet. Betsey Stevenson And here's the Joey Ramone song about Maria. 
DETROIT (Reuters) - In a federal court building in downtown Detroit, beginning on Wednesday morning, the largest municipal bankruptcy filing in U.S. history comes down to a single question: Is Detroit bankrupt? Federal bankruptcy judge Steven Rhodes will begin hearing arguments on the crucial issue of whether Detroit is eligible to restructure its debts and liabilities under Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that applies to municipalities. The hearings will pit retirees, pension funds and unions trying to preserve retirement payments to city workers against Detroit's state-appointed emergency manager, charged with righting the city's finances. Detroit clearly is struggling. More than one-third of its residents live below the government poverty line. There are some 78,000 abandoned structures and just 40 percent of the street lights work. Detroit's population has shrunk to less than 700,000, from a peak of 1.8 million in 1950, and only 53 percent of property owners paid their 2011 property taxes. But such troubles do not necessarily amount to bankruptcy under federal law. And in the multi-day hearing that opens at the Theodore Levin U.S. Courthouse, Detroit's attorneys will need to prove that Detroit meets the legal requirements for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection. City lawyers are expected to tick off arguments meant to meet that standard: Detroit had proper authorization to file the case, it is financially insolvent, it negotiated in good faith with its creditors or had so many creditors that such negotiations were not feasible, and it requires bankruptcy protection in order to deal with $18 billion in debt and other liabilities. Many bankruptcy experts say Rhodes is likely to find Detroit eligible, though his ultimate ruling is hardly a foregone conclusion. "Chapter 9 is never routine," said Juliet M. Moringiello, a law professor at Widener Law School in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, who has followed proceedings in the Detroit case. The city filed the case on July 18, and it said about half of its liabilities stem from retirement benefits, including $5.7 billion for health care and other obligations, and $3.5 billion involving pensions. How the city restructures its debt may set precedents for other struggling municipalities, bankruptcy experts said. "We'll see other Chapter 9s," said Kenneth Klee of Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff &amp; Stern in Los Angeles, who is representing Jefferson County, Alabama in its Chapter 9 case. "The pension problem is one that will require resolution, and with the labor relations being strained in parts of the country and some politicians not able to say no to employees and retirees, I expect there will be other chapter 9s to be filed." On Monday, attorneys wrapped up a three-day hearing on legal authority issues surrounding the bankruptcy as objectors argued that Chapter 9 is unconstitutional and that Michigan's constitution protects pensions from being slashed. "It's one of those moments that I think that we will look back on and say 'This is where Chapter 9 changed,'" attorney Barbette Ceccoti told the court on Monday on behalf of the United Auto Workers union, which represents some city workers. Moringiello said parties tend to object to bankruptcy filings because they think they can do better under state law, and she said if Rhodes does not grant eligibility the creditors likely will try to get a state court to force the city to pay its debts. "Those are not terribly effective remedies," she said. "You don't have the same remedies you have against a private debtor." Detroit's unions, pension funds and retirees have all filed objections to the bankruptcy, and will argue that the city is not eligible for court protection. They have submitted a number of arguments, including that the city did not appropriately negotiate with its creditors because Detroit's emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, only held informational meetings, not formal negotiating sessions, before filing for bankruptcy. Objectors also are expected to contend that Detroit is not insolvent. It has assets like its water and sewer system or the works of the Detroit Institute of Arts that it can monetize. "There are only so many things they can fight about," said John Pottow, a University of Michigan professor who specializes in bankruptcy law. "They can fight about the solvency and they can fight about the negotiating in good faith. It probably won't take too long to have a trial, but it's a big stakes thing." Attorneys on both sides will present evidence and call witnesses before Rhodes. The city plans to call five witnesses, including Orr and Detroit Police Chief James Craig, said Geoffrey Irwin, a lawyer with Jones Day representing the city. The objectors said they have not finalized their witness list. But they have said they could call up to 15 or so witnesses, including Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, who was subpoenaed by the UAW. Rhodes has scheduled 10 days of hearings over the next three weeks for all sides to present their arguments, but attorneys have indicated the arguments could wrap up as early as next week. It is not clear how soon Rhodes could rule on eligibility. Throughout the case, Rhodes has been committed to expediting the process and encouraging the parties to negotiate with one another. Rhodes appointed Chief District Judge Gerald Rosen as chief mediator, and he's leading a team of five additional mediators to help the process along. "He is finding ways to take control of this case to keep it on schedule, in ways people didn't necessarily think were possible in a Chapter 9, in ways that aren't necessarily written into the statute," said Melissa B. Jacoby, a professor and bankruptcy expert at the University of North Carolina School of Law. (Reporting by Joseph Lichterman in Detroit, Tom Hals in Wilmington, Del. and Nick Brown in New York; Editing by David Greising and Tim Dobbyn)
On Tuesday Apple unveiled the new iPad Mini (along with the iPad Air). The new mini-tablet has†a Retina display, just like other iPhones and iPads, as well as the same A7 processor as the iPhone 5S and iPad Air. The iPad Mini's sharp screen comes with a $70 price bump ó†which BI's Jay Yarow describes as a strange, high-risk move from Apple.† With that in mind, here's a breakdown of the current mini-tablet market (while†the tablet market can be found here): C Inton/REUTERS
Goldman Sachs / YouTubeGoldman's Jan Hatzius had this to say regarding yesterday's weaker-than-expected job creation numbers. If we take a slightly longer-term view, the disappointments of recent months now look more significant. The 3-month average gain in nonfarm payrolls is now down to 143,000, the weakest pace since August 2012. Other measures are even softer, with 3-month averages of 82,000 for total household employment growth and 42,000 for "payroll-consistent" household employment growth (that is, job growth estimated from the household survey adjusted to conform to the definitions of nonfarm payroll growth in the establishment survey). Job creation has been pitifully slow throughout the post-crisis period, but now we're seeing a weak spot within a much bigger weak spot. And there were hopes that 2013 would be some kind of a breakout year. Now we can clearly see that even prior to the October shutdown mess we were in a mediocre spot. Expectations that the Fed begins to normalize policy have shifted dramatically, with almost everyone thinking that a taper will come next year some time, rather than this year.
FacebookTAOYUAN, Taiwan (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp has halted at least one of its four main manufacturing lines, accounting for at least a fifth of total capacity, and is outsourcing production as a sales slump puts pressure on its cash flow, according to sources with direct knowledge of the situation. A Reuters reporter who visited an HTC factory at the company's former headquarters in Taoyuan, about an hour's drive from Taipei, saw loading docks shuttered and a sign on a locked lobby door that read: "Lobby is temporarily closed for use. Thank you for your cooperation." HTC launched its latest version of the flagship One series handsets this year but has struggled to gain traction in a market dominated by larger rivals Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. The company, whose woes have been exacerbated by supply chain constraints and internal turmoil, reported its first ever quarterly loss this month and its cash flow from operations dropped to a negative $707.27 million as of the end of June. Despite lackluster sales, HTC devices usually receive rave reviews, and it has in recent months expanded its range to include smaller and larger models of the One phone and hinted at further products, including a tablet and a wearable device. HTC initially denied it was shutting down any production, in Taiwan or elsewhere, and declined to comment on whether it was in discussions to outsource production. "HTC in not shutting down nor has plans to sell any of its factory assets," the company said in an emailed response to queries from Reuters. "HTC has a very strong balance sheet and will provide the latest financials in our upcoming earnings call to investors and the broader community." When asked about what Reuters had seen at the factory in a telephone interview, HTC Chief Marketing Officer Ben Ho declined to give details, but said: "Like any manufacturer, we do volume planning to optimize our lines, our manufacturing and production facilities. "Whether we are operating those facilities depends on market demand and our own expectations. When you have less demand you work with less facilities to optimize your costs. When you have demand, or bigger growth, you definitely have to activate all these facilities." Two of the four sources who spoke to Reuters said HTC had combined production from two lines at Taoyuan into one, which would reduce its potential capacity by about 1 million phones per month, out of a total capacity of around 2.5 million at the site and around 4.5 million including operations elsewhere. Manufacturing has been halted since at least August on the line, housed in a facility called Building H, while production continued at a nearby plant known as TY5. Most of the assembly lines in HTC's Shanghai factory, which can produce 2 million phones a month, were also out of production, one of the sources said, with only a small number of phones being produced for sale inside China. HTC was considering selling the out-of-use production lines in China and Taiwan, two of the sources said. "HTC's cash flow is not doing well. It has to do something soon to generate cash," said one of the sources with direct knowledge of the manufacturing sale plan. HTC Chief Executive Peter Chou, the driving force behind its award-winning handsets, has temporarily handed some of his duties to the company's chairwoman in order to focus on innovation and product development, the Financial Times reported on Monday. Shares of HTC jumped following the report, on hopes that the change of duties among the top management will help it recapture the sparkle that saw it named Device Manufacturer of the Year at the World Mobile Congress in 2011, when its stock was flying high. The company's market value has roughly halved this year. HTC, which positions itself as a premium brand, will contract out some manufacturing to FIH Mobile Ltd International, a subsidiary of Taiwan's Hon Hai Precision Industry, because contract manufacturers have better component supply management and cost control. It is also in talks with Compal Communications and Wistron Corp, according to four sources. FIH and Hon Hai declined to comment. Spokesmen for Compal Communications and Wistron could not be reached for comment. HTC also declined to comment. One of the sources said HTC's top management had agreed to separate the design and manufacturing businesses, which would more closely resemble Apple Inc's model of creating products in-house but then outsourcing to assemblers such as Hon Hai. Samsung Electronics Co Ltd both designs and manufacturers its smartphones. However, sources said even if HTC splits the two operations, it would likely hold onto some of its factory capacity initially as the split-up would be a slow process and HTC might explore the possibility of making phones for others. In a Town Hall meeting with staff on Tuesday, CEO Chou said HTC aimed to double its shares of the high-end smartphone market to 15 percent next year. When asked about separating out the manufacturing business, he said the company did not rule out the possibility. The comments were reported by local media and confirmed by Ho. At the end of June, HTC's cash position decreased to T$48.1 billion from T$55.5 billion a year earlier as cash flow turned negative. Its balance sheet also shows that bill payments increased while less money came in from customers. Receivables increased by T$7.9 billion, but accounts payable dropped T$7.8 billion. HTC's return on assets (ROA) - an indicator of how effectively a company uses its assets to generate earnings - is expected to turn negative this year at -0.69 percent, the first time since 1999, according to SmartEstimates. ROA last year was 8.1 percent. No potential bidders for the manufacturing space have surfaced so far, in part because the global smartphone and tablet PC supply chain is facing overcapacity, the sources said. As a result, HTC is also exploring other options to generate income by using its factories, sources said. Several analyst and media reports said HTC was in talks with Chinese peer Lenovo Group Ltd and U.S. online retailer Amazon.com Inc. There is also speculation that Hon Hai will use HTC's plant for its own production. Hon Hai said there was no plan to use HTC's production lines in Taoyuan now. Lenovo declined to comment and Amazon could not be reached for comment. ($1 = 29.4090 Taiwan dollars) (Additional reporting by Umesh Desai in HONG KONG, Jeremy Wagstaff in SINGAPORE and Patturaja Murugaboopathy in BANGALORE; Editing by Emily Kaiser and Alex Richardson)
Throughout the "recovery" following the financial crisis, one of the big drags on employment growth has been the situation at the state and local level, where there's been virtually unprecedented downsizing thanks to the decline of tax revenues. The good news is that this is finally coming to an end. Yesterday's jobs report was weak, but one bright spot was job creation at the state and local level as this chart from Calculated Risk shows. Calculated Risk
Levo LeagueI liked these thoughts from Warren Buffett on Bloomberg today: WARREN BUFFETT: Well I came up with that a long, long time ago to describe the situation that ‚Äì I was lucky. I was born in the United States. The odds were 30 or 40-to-1 against that. I had some lucky genes. I was born at the right time. If I‚Äôd been born thousands of years ago I‚Äôd be some animal‚Äôs lunch because I can‚Äôt run very fast or climb trees. So there‚Äôs so much chance in how we enter the world. And - LIU: And you were always aware to make sure your children and their grandchildren, and your grandchildren would be grounded. WARREN BUFFETT: Yes. And we‚Äôre not ‚Äì how you came out of the womb has really nothing to do with what kind of person you are. You decide what kind of person you‚Äôre going to be. It does decide whether maybe you never have to do an item of work in your life and maybe determine whether you‚Äôre fighting uphill all of the time, but where in my life, in my eyes is we‚Äôre all created equal, and but we don‚Äôt all have an equal opportunity by a longshot. And my kids really work every day in trying to even up the scorecard. Luck plays a big role in life. ¬†But you also get to choose how you‚Äôre going to use that luck and whether you want to try to make more of your own luck.
Wang Quanchao/Xinhua Press/CorbisIt looks like worrying about China is back. This Bloomberg story is making the rounds today as something causing people to worry. Industrial &amp; Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the worldís most profitable lender, and its four largest rivals expunged in the first six months 22.1 billion yuan ($3.65 billion) of debt that couldnít be collected, up from 7.65 billion yuan a year earlier, filings showed. That didnít pare first-half profits, which climbed to a record $76 billion, as provisions were set aside in earlier periods when the loans began souring. The other China story is a rise in money-market rates, as the PBOC may be taking fresh anti-inflation moves.
REUTERS/Jim NazcaThe economy is still totally miserable in Spain. Unemployment is sky high and so on. But a recovery has to start somewhere, and it looks like Spain has now officially joined the turning-the-corner club. GDP grew a whopping 0.1% Q3, breaking a negative 9 quarter streak. This was in line with economist expectations.
REUTERS/Carlos Barria Here's something we're not used to seeing: red on the screen. Markets are selling off around the world after a particularly nasty session in Asia. Japan's Nikkei fell nearly 2% during trading hours, and futures continue to slide even now. The Shanghai composite lost 1.25%. Korea lost 1%. The big negative headline is that a major Chinese bank is tripling its writeoffs for bad debts, as it anticipates a bigger wave of defaults, something which speaks to unease over Chinese credit quality. Meanwhile, short-term money rates are also tightening, as it appears Chinese regulators are looking to stamp out inflation and speculation again. In addition to the China stuff, Japan's market is not appreciating a big spike in the yen against the dollar, which may have something to do with the perception that that the Fed's "tapering" has now been pushed a long way off, both thanks to the government shutdown and yesterday's mediocre jobs report. US futures are down over 0.5% across the board. In Europe, Italy is down 1.3%. Germany is off 0.5%.
