Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius is out with his top 10 questions for 2014 and his answers to them. Below we quickly summarize them, and provide the answers. Here we go. 1. Will the economy accelerate to above-trend growth? Yes, because the private sector is picking up, and there's going to be very little fiscal drag. 2. Will consumer spending improve? Yes, because real incomes will grow, and the savings rate has room to decline. 3. Will capital expenditures rebound? Yes, because nonresidential fixed investment will catch up to consumer demand. 4. Will housing continue to recover? Yes, the housing market is showing renewed momentum. 5. Will labor force participation rate stabilize? Yes, but at a lower level that previously assumed. 6. Will profit margins contract? No, there's still plenty of slack in the labor market for this to be an issue. 7. Will core inflation stay below the 2% target? Yes. 8. Will QE3 end in 2014? Yes. 9. Will the market point to the first rate hike in 2016? Yes. 10. Will the secular stagnation theme gain more adherents? No. With the deleveraging cycle over, people will believe less in the idea that we're permanently doomed. So basically, every answer has a bullish tilt. The economy will be above trend, margins will stay high, the Fed will stay accommodative, and inflation will remain super-low. Wow.
Paula Bronstein / Getty In October, Jamie‚Äôs Italian, a British restaurant chain owned by celebrity chef Jamie Oliver, pulled shrimp linguine from its menu. In the U.S., Red Lobster scrimped too: Its all-you-can-eat "Endless Shrimp" special lasted just six weeks this year instead of three months. And some items were missing. "Bring back the Parmesan shrimp, please," wrote Carolyn Quivers of Virginia Beach, Va., one of many dismayed diners to post on Red Lobster‚Äôs Facebook page. "My husband says we aren‚Äôt coming to Endless Shrimp again until you do!" Red Lobster declined several requests for comment. But the apparent reason for the missing shrimp: Prices have soared to a 12-year high since a deadly illness called Early Mortality Syndrome (EMS) swept through shrimp farms in Thailand. www.marketplace.org Shrimp has become Exhibit A in how the globalization of the food-supply chain has expanded to include not just commodities like coffee, sugar and beef, but virtually everything on the table. Once a local delicacy prized for freshness, shrimp is now produced at farms in Asia, South America and Mexico, and sucked up by distributors wherever the price is cheapest. Shrimp reproduce quickly, can be frozen easily and have a freezer life of 12 months. That has spawned a multibillion-dollar global shrimp farming business and made the crustacean a popular item on menus at chains like Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Outback Steakhouse and Panda Express. But the shrimp trade also illustrates how volatile that global supply chain can be. A restaurant in Los Angeles can feel the effects of changing weather patterns, natural disasters, or disease on the other side of the world.¬† These days, Santa Monica Seafood, the Southwest‚Äôs largest seafood distributor, says the Asian shortage has sent prices soaring for Mexican shrimp it buys. And, even with an upscale wholesale and restaurant clientele, Santa Monica Seafood isn‚Äôt passing along that extra cost, for now. Other restaurants, like Sizzler, don‚Äôt dare either. "Most restaurants are cautious about menu price increases in this challenging economy," says Don Henry, vice president of purchasing and distribution at Sizzler. "And I know retailers are just as competitive - but seem to have some more flexibility in pricing." In their own intense price competition, shrimp growers may have disregarded health and safety issues to cut costs, according to seafood buyers like Casey Hartnett. "In Asia, the ponds are disgusting," he says. "Of course, if you have tons of shrimp [in a single pond], there‚Äôs going to be disease." Hartnett, 32, is part of the global infrastructure that has emerged to help expand the shrimp trade. His three-person company, Global Seafood Brokers, sources shrimp and snow crab from around the world for U.S. distributors. ¬†He says EMS has roughly doubled Asian shrimp prices in a year. A pound of jumbo white shrimp from Asia cost $8.40 a pound in October, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration‚Äôs weekly report on frozen seafood coming into New York. Prices have subsequently dipped a bit.¬† EMS first appeared in 2009, when an outbreak in China spread to Vietnam, Malaysia, and now Thailand. The bacterial infection produces toxins that slow growth, prevent reproduction, and eventually kill the shrimp. Infected farms have reported losses of up to 70 percent. Many farms have had to shut down, and Thailand's shrimp exports to the U.S. in July declined 58 percent, from a year earlier. In May, researchers at the University of Arizona identified the cause of EMS: bacteria whose growth is fostered by overcrowding in ponds. But because farmers are reluctant to move to lower-density farming, shrimp production isn‚Äôt likely to return to pre-epidemic levels without significant increases in farmed area. Experts estimate it will be several years before Southeast Asia can eradicate the disease. Shortages in Asia sent buyers to Latin America to fill the void. However, Mexico and Ecuador couldn't produce enough to make up for the losses. That has created tension for businesses, such as Sizzler and Santa Monica Seafood, which have shouldered the extra costs. "We [buy] three-quarters of a million pounds of wild Mexican shrimp," says Logan Kock, head of sourcing for Santa Monica Seafood. "EMS, which kills farmed shrimp, has caused this wild shrimp to move up more than 50 percent over the last year." The company continues paying for a product its customers expect it to carry. Shrimp is a big part of the menu at Sizzler, where it accompanies the steakhouse‚Äôs surf and turf entrees. Henry, the vice president of purchasing, says given the increased prices, the chain is buying shrimp from distributors in six-month intervals, instead of the usual year-long contracts. As for Red Lobster, the EMS epidemic that likely prompted the quick end to its "Endless Shrimp" promotion this year compounded other financial woes.¬†Parent company Darden Restaurants said in December it plans to sell the 705-restaurant Red Lobster chain or spin it off into a separate company. Alexandra Barker is a graduate student at USC‚Äôs Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.
In August, when Apple's stock was still in a bit of a malaise, Carl Icahn announced he was buying Apple shares. He also said he had plans for getting Apple's stock cranking again. Unsurprisingly, his plan centered on financial engineering rather than technological engineering.¬† After a lot of jibber jabber, Icahn finally put out a plan. He wanted Apple to do a $50 billion buy back.¬† That plan is up for a vote at Apple's shareholder meeting.¬† Today, Apple released the proxy materials for that meeting. In the proxy materials, Apple told shareholders it thinks Icahn's plan is bad. The full Apple explanation is below. In short, Apple says we are already returning a lot of money to shareholders. We have essentially used all the cash we generate domestically to do so. It says it will continue to look at the best ways to return cash to investors, but it doesn't think it should be bound by Icahn's proposal to return money.¬† Here's the full explanation: The Board recommends a vote AGAINST Proposal No. 10. The Board and management team are thoughtfully considering options for returning additional cash to shareholders and are currently seeking input from shareholders as part of the Company‚Äôs regular review. The Company‚Äôs success stems from the Company‚Äôs unique ability to combine world-class skills in hardware, software and services to deliver innovative products that create new markets and delight hundreds of millions of customers. This success has created tremendous value for the Company‚Äôs shareholders. With breakthrough products and services such as the Mac, iPod, iPhone, iPad and App Store, the Company has created huge market opportunities, and the Board and management team believe the opportunities that lie ahead are just as exciting. Given such large and global markets, the Company competes with large companies around the world, many with their own significant technical capabilities and significant capital. This dynamic competitive landscape and the Company‚Äôs rapid pace of innovation require unprecedented investment, flexibility and access to resources. Successfully innovating and executing against these large opportunities also requires careful stewardship by the Board and management team, and the Company‚Äôs evaluation of capital return is conducted in the context of supporting the Company‚Äôs continued business success and desire to deliver attractive returns to long-term shareholders. The Board and management team have demonstrated a strong commitment to returning capital to shareholders over the past two years. In March 2012, the Company announced a quarterly dividend and share repurchase program totaling $45 billion. In April 2013, the Board authorized a dramatic increase, more than doubling the size of the program to $100 billion, raising the dividend, and increasing the share buyback authorization to $60 billion. As such, the Company is one of the largest dividend payers in the world and has the largest share repurchase authorization in history. The Company has executed aggressively against the capital return program, spending $23 billion of the $60 billion share repurchase authorization in fiscal 2013 alone. These share repurchases have been funded in part by a $17 billion debt offering, the largest ever as of the time of issuance. In the first six quarters of the capital return program, dividend payments and share repurchases totaled over $43 billion. Dividends and share repurchases must be funded by domestic cash, and the Company has returned to shareholders or invested all of the domestic cash generated by its business and raised through the issuance of debt since the beginning of the program. While the Board and management oppose this shareholder proposal, they are fully committed to returning cash to shareholders. The Board and management team believe that capital should be returned to shareholders on an efficient and sustained basis, and that the evaluation of capital return should be performed regularly and carefully with the best long-term interest of the business and shareholders in mind. The Company is updating perspectives on its capital return program for 2014 and beyond. The Company is collecting input from a very broad base of shareholders, believing that the input of all shareholders is important and should be considered holistically. The evaluation of the capital return program continues to be thoughtful, deliberate, and consistent with a conservative financial policy that supports risk-taking and innovation. Consistent with its pattern for the last two years, the Company is on track to complete its regular review and thorough analysis and to announce any changes to the current program by March or April of 2014. The Board believes that the Company‚Äôs management team and Board are in the best position to determine what is in the best long-term interest of the Company‚Äôs business and recommends a vote AGAINST this proposal.
Twitter had a terrible Friday, dropping 13% to about $63.75. Among other things, it got downgraded by Macquarie, which simply said, "too far, too fast." Twitter shares also hold the distinction of having overshot its average analyst price target by more than any other stock in the S&amp;P 500, according to data from Bespoke Investment Group and Bloomberg. Bespoke's numbers were based on prices at around noon. Relative today's closing price, Twitter is 30.55% from its average price target. Bespoke 
Higher sales, mean higher profits, which means higher shareholder wealth. That line of think is intuitive and logical, but it is horribly incomplete. Sales growth won't necessarily translate into earnings growth if profit margins are shrinking. And earnings growth won't translate into earnings per share (EPS) growth if share counts are increasing. Since the the financial crisis, modest sales growth turned into amplified earnings thanks to fattening profit margins as companies squeezed more productivity out of fewer workers. During the last two years, EPS got a further bump from share buybacks. In his 2014 Outlook, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco exhibited this chart breaking down the drivers of earnings per share growth.† As you can see, sales aren't always the big driver of EPS growth. Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/Lucas JacksoFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 New Year's Resolutions That Advisors Should Take On In The New Year (WealthManagement.com)  The end of the year is a time when financial advisors meet with clients to review the past year and put together a plan for the new year writes Ted LeClair, president of Natixis Global Asset Management. Drawing on research findings from a Natixis report he suggests advisors stick to these five resolutions in 2014. 1. "Focus on risk first in you client reviews." Have an honest conversation with your clients and have "risk audits" to keep tabs on whether they have taken on too much or too little. 2. "Engage clients in frank discussions about retirement needs and expectations." Many clients underestimate how much they will need in retirement and future health care costs. 3. "Research and adopt new technologies that can maximize your time." Spend some time to find technologies that will help you manage your administrative tasks so you can focus on helping existing clients and finding new ones. 4. "May auld acquaintances‚Ä¶ become younger." Make an effort to seek out younger investors. 5. "Satisfy your yearning for learning." Make more of an effort to understand complex alternative strategies and issues that matter to your clients.¬†  Why Index Funds Have The Upper Hand When It Comes To Tax Efficiency (Vanguard) Index funds have the upper hand when it comes to tax efficiency, when compared with actively managed funds. This is in part because they change their holding less often than actively managed funds.¬† "Because an active manager makes decisions based on a security's potential to outperform, he or she is more inclined to make specific concentrated purchases in fewer stocks and to liquidate entire holdings more often than a manager of a broad-market index fund would.¬† "In making wholesale liquidations, active managers are much more likely to realize capital gains, since an entire position's gain could be realized at once. The tax efficiency of actively managed funds could therefore be much less stable, and the lack of depth and breadth of share lots within an actively managed fund could bode poorly for its future tax efficiency. An actively managed fund also has the potential for a manager change, resulting in a new manager completely restructuring the portfolio, which would cause realization of gains generated from past investment success." The Two Main Reasons Advisors Seek Out Alternative Investments (The Wall Street Journal) As stocks have enjoyed a good run up since they bottomed out in 2009, many think there are limited opportunities in the area. At this point many are considering alternative investments ‚Äî nontraditional investments like hedge funds for instance. In a new WSJ column, Lee Partridge of Houston-based Salient Partners writes that there are really only two reasons advisors seek out alternative investments. "From the perspective of a fund manager, there are two objectives we're seeking with alternative investments. The first is to add return strains that are diversifying to a portfolio because they are less-than-perfectly correlated with market-based exposures. The second objective is pursuing alpha. Both are legitimate applications of alternative investments." Fiduciary Duty Rule Delayed As Labor Secretary Tom Perez Takes Bipartisan Approach (Investment News) The Labor Department's efforts to push a proposal that seeks to expand the definition of fiduciary to include anyone who offers investment advice about retirement plans, have been delayed until August. The plan was expected to be considered in Spring of 2014. This is because Labor Secretary Tom Perez promised, during his confirmation hearings, that he would take bipartisan concerns into consideration before moving forward with the proposal. The concern is that this would raise regulatory costs for brokers who will be required to take on fiduciary duty and push them away from clients with smaller retirement assets. "In October, the House of Representatives passed a bill written by Rep. Ann Wagner, R-Mo., that would force the DOL to delay its fiduciary regulation until the Securities and Exchange Commission acted on its own fiduciary-duty rule for retail investment advice," reports Mark Schoeff Jr. at Investment News. "Critics said that the bill would effectively kill the DOL rule because the SEC might decide not to proceed. The Obama administration issued a veto threat." Investors Will Have To Be A Lot Smarter About Their Emerging-Market Investments In The Coming Years (Business Insider) When the Fed first mentioned that it would taper its $85 billion asset purchase program earlier this year emerging-markets stocks, bonds, and currencies took a beating. Bloomberg LP's global head of economics, Michael McDonough, said that the evolution of economists' GDP growth forecasts for various regions in the world was the most important chart of the year. "We are on pace to see the long-standing trend of the emerging market growth outpacing developed market growth reverse," he told Business Insider. "Investors are going to have to be a lot smarter about their emerging market investments over the next several years and this chart illustrates that trend." Bloomberg
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozS-e-l-l T-w-i-t-t-e-r.There was no economic data released today. The action in the stock markets was quiet. But interest rates hit a milestone. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
AP Photo/Visar Kryeziu ISTANBUL¬†(Reuters) - Turkish Prime Minister¬†Tayyip Erdogan¬†still enjoys the fierce loyalty of pious voters and wealthy elites, which should be enough to keep him in power in the face of a corruption scandal that has rocked his government and reached his family. But the suggestion by members of his¬†AK party¬†that a general election could be brought forward to next year shows that he is more worried than ever about his grip on a country he has transformed during a decade in office. A less feisty leader might already have been sunk by the corruption scandal involving accusations of wrongdoing at a state-run bank. Two members of the cabinet have resigned after their sons were arrested. Another minister who quit said the prime minister knew what was going on and should resign as well. The affair turned more personal this week when Turkish media published what appeared to be a preliminary summons for¬†Bilal Erdogan, one of the premier's two sons, to testify. The authenticity of the document could not be verified. Investors are nervous and the lira currency has swooned. But the scandal has only brought out the fight in Erdogan, who has consistently said that the entire affair is a foreign-backed plot against him. He has sacked police officers including the¬†Istanbul police¬†chief, exchanged diatribes with a powerful cleric and steadfastly insisted he has done nothing wrong. The document naming his son was just another example of the conspiracy, he said: "If they try to hit¬†Tayyip Erdogan¬†through this, they will go away empty-handed. Because they know this, they're attacking the people around me." So far, opinion pollsters predict that support for¬†Erdogan's AK party, which enjoys wide support in¬†Istanbul¬†and the conservative countryside, has probably fallen by a few percentage points but still remains over 40 percent. That is hardly enough of a slide to force it out of power. The last election saw it win more than two thirds of the seats in parliament with 50 percent of the vote, an unprecedented success. Still, one senior official in¬†Erdogan's AK party¬†predicted the next general election, due in 2015, could be brought forward to early next year "if events take a dramatic turn", a sign that the party is revising its calculations to contain the fallout. PUGNACIOUS Much depends on the resolve of the famously pugnacious three-term premier, 59, who has already transformedTurkey¬†by curbing the powers of the secularist military establishment and presiding over a spectacular economic boom. Defiance worked for Erdogan six months ago, when he was beset by unprecedented anti-government street protests. Accused of being authoritarian, he ordered a police crackdown in which eight people died. Polls found his popularity almost unchanged. To his conservative followers, corruption allegations could prove more damaging than accusations of authoritarianism. "The (summer) protests were viewed as having been taken over by several disparate interest groups, which could explain why it has not had a major impact on his supporters," said¬†Nazli Ilicak, a well-known Turkish columnist who worked for the pro-government daily¬†Sabah¬†until last week. "But within the conservative electorate, the sense of justice - that what rightfully belongs to the people has been usurped - these are not seen as issues to be taken lightly." She said Erdogan, who has hunkered down with a reshuffled cabinet of loyalists, would need to "come clean" and address the corruption allegations head on if he wanted to keep votes. MUNICIPAL VOTE A TEST Erdogan became prime minister in 2002, winning the loyalty of pious Turks who were sick of corrupt politicians. His image sits poorly with TV news pictures of police seizing shoeboxes filled with cash from the houses of corruption suspects. Bekir Agirdir, director of polling firm Konda, which said there could have been a 3-5 percent slide in support forErdogan's AK Party, said how the party manages the crisis will determine if its rating slides further or bounces back. A March municipal vote in¬†Istanbul, which is both¬†Turkey's commercial hub and a longtime pro-Erdogan bastion, will be a bellwether. Trying to unseat the AK mayor is¬†Mustafa Sarigul¬†of the main opposition party CHP. Erdogan faithful sound confident they will hold the city, yet they also fear Sarigul could reap grassroots support from a rival Muslim social network, Hizmet, whose charismatic leader¬†Fethullah Gulen, a U.S.-based preacher, fell out with Erdogan last year and now openly excoriates the premier. Hizmet claims to have at least one million followers worldwide, including in the upper tiers of the¬†Turkish police¬†and judiciary. In private conversations, AK officials say they will work to prevent Hizmet "defaming"¬†Erdogan's government¬†- a possible harbinger of dragnets for suspected Gulenists. "Right now the situation in¬†Istanbul¬†seems to be under control," said one senior party official. But it remains to be seen whether similar operations by Hizmet to rally opposition to Erdogan take place in other cities. Stewardship of the economy has long been Erdogan's most impressive boast, and the impact of the scandal on the business climate could determine whether support holds up. Turkey's currency has hit consecutive new lows against the dollar, though the plunge was slightly softened last week by the central bank's sale of foreign currency. But many investors are likely to keep faith in Erdogan and his economic team for now, having seen them successfully navigate stormy waters in the past. "Erdogan is a political survivor, and a shrewd political operator. I think he can ride through this," said¬†Timothy Ashof Standard Bank. "He has strong underlying support, and as long as he retains the support of the economy team I think markets will give him the benefit of the doubt." (Additional reporting by Seda Sezer and Gulsen Solaker; Writing by Dan Williams; Editing by Peter Graff)
We've been looking around for New Year's Eve specials that will put a twinkle in a Wall Streeter's eye for a few weeks now, and we think we've found a solid winner for the banker/steak lover. The deal had to be at once delicious, and slightly over-the-top. Extra, but not (completely) tacky. And so in that spirit, we feel compelled to highlight BLT Prime's special ó a†$320, 72-ounce Sher Farms Wagyu Tomahawk Chop. Two things about this every banker/steak lover will understand from the jump. Wagyu is the must expensive, decadent steak you can buy. And the Tomahawk Chop ó it's basically the granddaddy of steak cuts. It's for sharing, for eating and then for taking one home. The only steakhouse that has something comparable to this all year 'round is the venerable institution Old Homestead, which will happily serve you a $350 12 oz. Wagyu cut on your private plane, if you so desire.† Now ó an important note to the steak purists: This 'Australian' Wagyu is crossbred with Holstein steers (51% Wagyu, 49% Holstein to be exact). Argue about the merits of that in the comments, send me angry emails if you want to, either way it means you get a massive cut. It should also be noted that BLT Prime's head chef will happily carve your initials into your steak's bone with a Dremel. Eat responsibly.†
Profit margins for S&amp;P 500 companies are near all-time highs.† And experts agree that these margins are likely to pull back a bit, especially if demand shrinks and the economy goes into recession. However, profit margin bulls argue it's a mistake to think that margins will revert to a long-term mean. Rather, they argue that profit margins are in a structural upswing. Much of this is due to increasing exposure overseas, where costs and taxes are lower. Also, these corporations are employing less leverage, which means interest costs are lower. In other words, any argument for complete mean reversion should imply that companies will also scale back their overseas footprint and leverage up their balance sheets. In his 2014 Outlook note, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco included these two slides showing the long-term changes in the S&amp;P 500 and its companies that have caused profit margins to make a structural move higher. Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank
After a great run, Twitter is finally coming back to Earth. The stock fell 13.04% today.¬† There was no real catalyst for the stock's run, so investors may be profit-taking as they say. (Ugh, we know.)¬† This morning Ben Schachter at Macquarie downgraded the stock saying that it had gone on a crazy run while nothing fundamental changed about the business. So, he labeled it "underperform." Maybe that was the wake-up call for investors.¬† Who knows! Its mysterious rise is ending with a slightly less mysterious¬†(but still mysterious) fall.¬†                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Twitter                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						1																								All Comments						17									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Twitter Crashed Hard    Twitter Crashed Hard        After a great run, Twitter is finally coming...
BTXTraderShares in a little-known tech firm are up more than 75% in pre-market trading this morning after it announced it was preparing to launch a beta version of its Bitcoin trading platform.† Pennsylvania-based WPCS says it recently acquired BTXTrader, which is developing what it says is the†first trading platform allowing Bitcoin users to "access market data and execute orders on the five most popular Bitcoin exchanges in a single application."† "Obviously, we are still in development mode, but we're on schedule to release both web and mobile versions of our platform by early 2014," BTX Trader Chief Operating Officer Ilya Subkhankulov said in the release. The firm's shares surged more than 20% to $1.81 on heavy volume in after-hours trading yesterday. We first saw the story on Marketwatch as reported by Wallace Witkowski. Very little has been written about WPCS, which bills itself as a communications infrastructure firm. They IPO'd in 2003 at more than $140 and spent the next 10 years going to practically zero. Yahoo This past January they received a delisting warning from NASDAQ for failing to comply with the minimum $1 per share rule, but ultimately got a reprieve.†Their market cap is a little more than $2 million. This kind of thing is common, as no-name penny stock companies frequently jump on hot trends in hopes of stoking interest. The "tour" of the Bitcoin platform is a series of GIFs.†We've reached out to the firm for comment.

January is famously the month in which more people file for divorce than any other. And if your marriage is at an end, you're a member of the international jet set and earn less than your partner, London seems to be the best place to secure a generous settlement. The most recent divorce case to hit headlines is that of former Miss Malaysia Pauline Chai, whose Malaysian tycoon husband Khoo Kay Peng is chairman of U.K. retailer Laura Ashley. Chai is asking for ¬£500 million, around half her husband's fortune, in London's courts, but Peng wants the case, which is ongoing, to be held in Malaysia. There are plenty of reasons why the less-wealthy party would prefer to be divorced in London, and this has led to a buoyant market for family law firms in the capital. "London's place in the world has meant a lot more work for family lawyers than even 15 years ago, across the income spectrum," William Longrigg, partner at Charles Russell and president-elect of the International Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers, told CNBC. (Read more:¬†How to avoid divorce settlement blunders) The U.K. courts are more likely to divide assets equally, even if one spouse has brought more financially to the marriage and much harsher on spouses who try to hide their assets. In one famous case, the McFarlane divorce, the wife was awarded ¬£250,000 for life after giving up a career as a solicitor to raise the couple's children. And Heather Mills was awarded secured ¬£24.3 million when she split from former Beatle Sir Paul McCartney. (Read more:¬†The most divorced celebrities) The most important factor in London's popularity is the amount of freedom given to its judges to be flexible with maintenance awards, according to a recent study by family law firm Withers. "The judge can take a lot of factors into account and vary them, whereas in other jurisdictions there's more of a formula for what you can award," Suzanne Kingston, partner at Withers, told CNBC. In jurisdictions like France and Germany, as well as some of the U.S. states, there is less chance of being awarded long-term maintenance and judges have less leeway in granting awards. Even when the initial divorce occurs outside London, assets can still be divided in a U.K. court. One of the most high-profile examples of this is the break-up of Russian oil tycoon Alexei Golubovich and his wife Olga Mirimskaya, who divorced in Russia and are currently disputing ownership of a ¬£6.4 million West London property. London itself has become more attractive to the wealthy ‚Äì whether they are French fleeing 75 percent tax or Russians enjoying a more cosmopolitan city than Moscow. This has driven up the cost of prime real estate in the city, but also the number of wealthy people resident in London or with a London home from which to launch proceedings. While behavior during a marriage is not usually a factor in financial settlements in London, British judges do take a dim view of failure to disclose assets. Scot Young, who has been declared bankrupt, found this out to his cost this year, when he went to prison for six months for contempt of court over attempts to hide his fortune. The Young case was notorious for the length of time and money taken to pursue the husband's assets, and concluded in November with a ¬£20 million ($33 million) award to wife Michelle Young ‚Äì although she claims that her husband is worth much more than the ¬£45 million the judge ruled. (Read more:¬†Wife calls $33 million divorce payout 'disgraceful') "There is a saying that "non-disclosers lose" in these cases," Longrigg said. Still, in cases where assets are believed to be hidden, the poorer party often has to concede that they may never trace all of them, and accept a settlement. "Quite often, clients are pragmatic about what they can achieve," Longrigg said. "Pursuing hidden assets is incredibly expensive and, very often, not worth it."
AP ImagesT. Boone Pickens certainly has a way with words and a knack for telling it like it is. ¬† In fact, the 85 year-old energy tycoon/author of ¬†"The First Billion Is The Hardest"¬†has a ton of catchy/easy to remember phrases about life and business. They're affectionately referred to by his family and staff members as "Boone-isms."¬† We've compiled some of his business Boone-isms in the slides that follow from his website¬†boonepickens.com.¬† These and other verbal gems are often posted through his Twitter account @BoonePickens.¬†
A Turkish corruption scandal has lead to the arrests of dozens of high level officials and powerful private citizens, a routing of the Turkish stock market, and calls for Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to step down ‚Äî still, to outsiders, the details of what "corruption" went on have been mostly a mystery. We're catching up to bits and pieces of the scandal, though. Yesterday, Foreign Policy¬†published a story breaking down one fascinating part ‚Äî a "gas for gold" scheme with Iran. Allegedly, officials at the upper-echelons of the Turkish government found a loophole in U.S. sanctions against Iran that allowed them to get what they wanted ‚Äî Iranian oil/gas. The transaction was carried out through Turkish state-owned bank, Halkbank. Last week, the bank's CEO was arrested, and the stock is down 32% for the year (FYI). Here's how it worked, from FP: Research conducted in May 2013 by the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and Roubini Global Economics revealed the bank exploited a "golden loophole" in the U.S.-led financial sanctions regime designed to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions. Here's how it worked: The Turks exported some $13 billion of gold to Tehran directly, or through the UAE, between March 2012 and July 2013. In return, the Turks received Iranian natural gas and oil. But because sanctions prevented Iran from getting paid in dollars or euros, the Turks allowed Tehran to buy gold with their Turkish lira -- and that gold found its way back to Iranian coffers. Easy. Iran got more gold. Turkey could say it was sending cash to private citizens, thus not violating sanctions. It was all good until January 2013, when the Obama administration decided to close this "golden loophole". Instead of immediately charging Halkbank, though, the U.S. government essentially allowed its gold trading activities to continue until July 2013, says FP. There are a couple reasons why the U.S. took this tack ‚Äî Turkey is an important ally when it comes to Syrian policy. Plus, as we know now, the U.S. has been working out a nuclear deal with Iran.¬† Either way, now Turkish protesters are in the streets again. ¬†"Gas for gold" is just one part of this scandal, and unlike last summer though, their government is in no way united ‚Äî notably, there are reports of a schism between Erdogan's supporters and¬†the allies of a powerful exiled cleric, Fetullah Gulen. On top of that, Erdogan will have an extra hard time putting his foot down as his family is getting embroiled in the fiasco. Since he's held power since 2002, there will be some rough internal jockeying to see who takes power in his party, the AKP. And outside it looks like this: ƒ∞stiklal'de eylem ba≈üladƒ±,polis 'Daƒüƒ±lƒ±n' anonsu ardƒ±ndan m√ºdahale etti.TOMA su sƒ±ktƒ±,hen√ºz gaz kullanƒ±lmadƒ± (18:20) pic.twitter.com/ro8xuZP0rf
I used to think Weathermen were the only people that got paid really well for being wrong ‚Äî then I learned how Wall Street predicts quarterly earnings numbers‚Ä¶and how often they come up way short. Part of the problem is a misalignment of incentives, the primary motivation of a sell side analyst is NOT to be accurate. The accuracy of Wall Street earnings expectations are crippled by a ‚Äúdon‚Äôt stray from the herd‚Äù mentality. As long as they keep their estimates in-line with one another, then no one can be singled out for poor performance. Sometimes they all underestimate how much money a company will make. That‚Äôs why we launched Estimize. At Estimize we crowd source data from over 3,300 ¬†buy side and independent analysts, industry experts, students, and non professionals. By tapping into a wider distribution of contributors we have created a bigger data set that is more representative of the market‚Äôs actual expectations and is more accurate than Wall Street 65% of the time. Here are our top 5 examples from the past quarter of how Wall Street sandbagged their numbers and had their earnings expectations crushed. 1. Goldman Sachs Estimize The green line represents profit per share from Goldman Sachs which has outperformed the Wall Street consensus in each quarter over the past 2 years. The blue line representing the Estimize community consensus has been more accurate in forecasting Goldman‚Äôs EPS every time and our contributing analysts are expecting Goldman to outperform Wall Street again in January. ¬† 2. Google ¬†Estimize In October Google stock surged more than $100 per share after beating analyst expectations by reporting $10.74 EPS while Wall Street was only predicting $10.35. The Estimize community had more faith in the search engine and internet services giant, our EPS forecast was $10.45. ¬† 3. Priceline.com Estimize Priceline is another stock that crushed analyst expectations in the past quarter. In November Priceline.com reported $17.30 EPS while Estimize predicted $16.42 and Wall Street was only at $16.20. The stock is up over 15% since the report. Over the past 7 quarters the Estimize consensus has been more accurate in forecasting Priceline‚Äôs profit all 7 times. ¬† 4. Take-Two Interactive Software Estimize The video game development company‚Äôs Grand Theft Auto and Bioshock franchises were both big winners this year. Our analysts expected Take-Two Interactive Software to beat Wall Street by a wide margin, but TTWO went above and beyond all expectations. In October they reported $2.49 EPS while ¬†the consensus from Estimize was calling for $1.87 and Wall Street was lagging behind at $1.65. ¬† 5. REGN ¬†Estimize Regeneron Pharmaceuticals is a biotech company which originally focused on neurotrophic factors and regenerative medicine. Over the past year they have beaten Wall Street each quarter as predicted by our community of buy-side and independent analysts. The algorithms that create the Estimize consensus aren‚Äôt concerned with how or why users arrive at their estimates, we take a philosophically agnostic view to the qualitative reasoning behind estimates due to our ability to measure so well statistically. Whether professional analysts are running a full earnings model, or an average joe has a hunch that the company will report solid numbers, all expectations are valid and belong inside the system. Head over to Estimize now and create your own account for free to see how you stack up to Wall Street and tell us which stocks you think will beat the Street this quarter.
REUTERS/Umit Bektas Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan addresses the media in Ankara September 30, 2013. Turkey is embroiled in a massive¬†corruption scandal¬†that has reached the inner circle of Prime Minister Tayyip Erdoƒüan, whose Justice and¬†Development Party (AKP)¬†took power in 2002, and involves several different international actors. Here's what has happened in the last few days: The scandal is influenced by a power struggle between Erdoƒüan¬†and an influential Islamic network created by Fethullah Gulen, a Pennsylvania-based imam who runs schools and charities across¬†Turkey¬†and abroad. His following of at least a million and includes senior police and judges. Erdoƒüan¬†remains defiant, saying that he would overrule the courts if he could and described the corruption probe as an planted obstruction to his government's vision. ‚ÄúThis is the last resistance of the old Turkey against the new Turkey. They will be not able to stop the building of the new Turkey,‚Äù Erdoƒüan¬†said. The crisis has sent markets tanking and people to the streets.
Ever since the first ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen†opened in Washington D.C. in late 2011, diners have been lining up to dig in at the Asian-style fast-casual restaurant. ShopHouse is an offshoot of Chipotle, the wildly successful Mexican chain started by Steve Ells in 1993, which now has more than 1,500 locations and has built a huge following selling burritos and other items made to order on a production line with fresh, locally sourced ingredients. ShopHouse is built on largely the same model. The idea came to Ells after a trip to Singapore and Thailand, and the menu draws on†Thai, Vietnamese, Malaysian, and Singaporean cuisines for its recipes. So far, ShopHouse is confined to just a handful of locations in Washington D.C. and Los Angeles, and while the company announced several additional restaurants in those markets earlier this year, it warned that it wasn't necessarily looking to further expand the concept. Since there's no ShopHouse in New York, we asked a fan of the chain (full disclosure: my brother) to document his most recent experience eating dinner at the restaurant's DuPont Circle location. The first ShopHouse opened in Dupont Circle in late 2011.†ShopHouse/FacebookIt's located close to one of the city's 300 Capital Bikeshare stations, making it easily accessible to diners, many of whom are regulars. My brother says many of his friends, who are in their mid-twenties and work in government, eat there once a week.† Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffShopHouse looks a lot like a Chipotle restaurant inside. Customers line up at a counter and choose from a variety of options. Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffAll customers start with a bowl, as there's no burrito or wrap option. Base items include brown rice, jasmine rice, chilled rice noodles, and salad.† Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffPrices vary depending by the protein customers select. Again, there are four options: grilled chicken satay, grilled steak laab, pork and chicken meatballs, and tofu. Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffYou can continue to personalize your meal with the addition of vegetables (broccoli, charred corn, eggplant and Thai basil, or green beans); sauces (Tamarind vinaigrette, green curry, spicy red curry); and toppings and garnishes (green papaya slaw, toasted rice, crispy garlic, and more). Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffFood is prepared fresh in an open kitchen, much like at Chipotle. Courtesy of Dennis Zeveloff The decor is simple but has an Asian flair, from the soda machine... Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffTo the bottles of Sriracha sauce lining the walls. Courtesy of Dennis ZeveloffThere's plenty of seating, though customers can also get their meals to go, with a plastic cover that fits over the bowl. Courtesy of Dennis Zeveloff Given the variety of bases, proteins, and toppings, there are thousands of combinations available at ShopHouse (much like at Chipotle). One combo highly recommended by the staff is white rice, pork and chicken meatballs, broccoli, and green-papaya slaw. Here's a look at some of the restaurant's bowls, via its Facebook page: ShopHouse/Facebook ShopHouse/Facebook ShopHouse/Facebook ShopHouse/Facebook For a hungry 23-year-old, it doesn't take long to scarf one down. Courtesy of Dennis Zeveloff "Among my housemates and coworkers, I'd say ShopHouse has all the appeal of a satisfying meal at Chipotle," my brother said. "You can have it multiple times a week when you're too lazy to cook (which is always), and without some the indigestion you get after eating Chipotle."
In 1990, the United Arab Emirates' total GDP stood at $50.7 billion. It was basically a backwater in the desert. Today its GDP is more than $360 billion. Seeing a GDP growth chart would tell that story, but not very interestingly. Reddit user Safwanish has posted an image that captures this insane growth even better.†It shows what the main road in Dubai, the E-11, looked like in 1990, and what it looks like today. Check it out: Safwanish/reddit It appears the "before" photo may be from an outer stretch. Here are three more views of the city from an '80s documentary that show a bit more development, but still pretty dusty: The UAE Man The UAE Man The UAE Man
The easiest way to communicate with another trader on the other side of a noisy trading floor is to use hand signals. Ryan Carlson, who has worked at the Chicago Board of Trade, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and the New York Mercantile Exchange, is responsible for TradingPitHistory.com. The site is an incredible database of hand signals that traders have used to communicate across trading floors all over the world. We recently got our hands on a copy of "Trading Pit Hand Signals," and we were particularly fascinated by the hand signals used to indicate the various brokerage houses. "The ability to recognize all market participants was what made open outcry trading transparent and from this, signals were developed for the larger brokerages and for some large local traders," writes Carlson on his site. "In cases where a more universal signal was never developed, their hand signal in the pit would simply be their three digit firm number." Below are the hand signals used by CME traders to identify some of the big Wall Street firms (some of which are no longer with us). You're probably going to have a hard time forgetting them. TradingPitHistory TradingPitHistory.com TradingPitHistory.com TradingPitHistory.com TradingPitHistory.com Thanks to Ryan Carlson for giving us permission to feature these images.

¬† It's been a good year for the auto industry. McLaren, Ferrari, and Lamborghini duked it out in the million-dollar supercar segment, producing some over-the-top but wonderful creations. The government bailout of General Motors officially ended. BMW jumped into the electric car game. Diesels started to win over Americans. We saw and drove a lot of great vehicles this year, so it took some work to bring the list down to our favorite eight. From McLaren's supercar spectacle, to the rebirth of the Jaguar sports car, to the resurgence of Cadillac, these are the best cars of 2013. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow us on YouTube &gt; 
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke though 3% for the first time in three months today. At one point, it got as high as 3.02%. Bloomberg reports this is the highest level since July 26,2011. The 10-year yield began to rally in May, which was when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke hinted that the Fed could soon begin to taper its large-scale asset purchase program (LSAP). Also known as quantitative easing, the LSAP consisted of the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage securities. Tapering is considered the first step on the long path of unwinding the Fed's ultra-easy monetary policy, a process that would mean higher, more normal interest rates. Earlier this month, the Fed finally announced it was initiating the tapering right away. And today, we are seeing the U.S. government's long-term cost of borrowing rise to the highest level in years. Bloomberg.com
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaConstruction workers attending the inauguration ceremony of the new skyscraper tower in Huaxi back in 2011.The man who founded Huaxi, known as "the richest village in China,"†passed away this year in March. But the sleepy farming community he helped turn into a Communist utopia still claims to be as strong as ever. Much of what we know about the village, founded by the former secretary of Huaxi Village Communist Party Committee Wu†Renbao, is media speculation or the word of Wu Renbao himself. The original "registered residents" are even forbidden to speak with foreigners or the press, according to The China Chronicle. It's believed the descendants of the so-called†model socialist village's†original residents are entitled to extraordinary amenities, including free healthcare, education, luxurious homes, cars, and at least $250,000 in their bank accounts. We also know the village is home to a "World Park" that is filled with replicas of the world's most iconic landmarks, from the Statue of Liberty to the Arc de Triomphe, as well as a new glossy skyscraper that is the 15th tallest building in China. But it's said that life is not as idyllic as Huaxi would like visitors to believe. Residents supposedly work seven days a week, often in Huaxi's industrial plants, and there is a rigid hierarchy between the 2,000 "registered residents" of the village whose families date back to the 1950s and newcomers to Huaxi who are paid standard wages and don't share in the same luxuries like free healthcare, cars, and property. Plus, if original residents leave Huaxi, they lose everything.
The Great American shale boom rolls on. U.S.¬†oil production is now at levels last seen in September of 1988, according to new EIA data. The four-week average climbed to 8,041,000 barrels a day, or about 234,000 barrels¬†a month. That's up from a prior¬†8,020,000 barrels a day four-week average. Chart: EIA
REUTERS/Beawiharta A trader is covered with confetti after the closing of the last trading day of the year at the trade floor of Indonesia Stock Exchange in Jakarta, December 30, 2008. 2013 was a rough year for the emerging markets. When Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke first hinted in May that the Fed would soon begin tapering its stimulative quantitative easing program, many of the emerging markets got slammed with stocks, bonds, and currencies losing value precipitously. However, the turmoil in these financial markets could be far from over. When we asked Michael McDonough, Bloomberg LP's Global Head of Economics, for what he considered to be the most important chart of the year, he sent us the evolution of economists' GDP growth forecasts for various regions around the world. "This chart exposes what the end of QE, and higher rates, could mean for emerging markets," said McDonough. "We are on pace to see the long-standing trend of emerging market growth outpacing developed market growth reverse." Some experts, like market strategist Rich Bernstein, believe this trend is good reason to bet more on the U.S. "Contrary to what many might assert, the emerging markets are not the world‚Äôs best growth story," said Bernstein in November. "As we have pointed out many times, US small cap companies offer superior growth to that offered by the emerging markets. The US is now a better growth story than are the emerging markets!!" 2014 will be riddled with political landmines in the emerging markets as many countries will be holding elections. This promises to bring efforts to advance political interests over economic ones, which means programs to spur growth will likely be put on hold. "Investors are going to have to be a lot smarter about their EM investments over the next several years and this chart illustrates that trend," said McDonough. Business Insider, Michael McDonough
Mary Cybulski/Paramount PicturesThe people who suffered for the crimes of the real-life "Wolf of Wall Street," Jordan Belfort, were not only the clients Belfort bilked. They were also the family members of the firms' employees, who sucked them into their world. For Christina McDowell, the daughter of a former colleague of Belfort's who was also convicted of fraud, the "Wolf of Wall Street's" leading players, director Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio, are guilty of celebrating the behavior that ruined the lives of both.† Writing in LAWeekly, she says her dad helped set up IPOs for shell companies that were then billed as the next-big-thing to investors. Even though the companies went nowhere, Belfort's firm made bank on the commissions.† Eventually they were caught, and her dad was convicted ó at which point,†McDowell says, she discovered the man who'd really been raising her. "I drove a white Range Rover in high school, snorted half of Colombia, and got any guy I ever wanted because my father would take them flying in his King Air.†And then I unraveled the truth. The truth about my father and his behavior: that behind all of it was really just insidious soul-sucking shame masked by addiction, which we love to call ambition, which is really just greed. Greed and the desire for fame (exactly what you've successfully given self-appointed motivational speaker/financial guru Jordan Belfort, whose business opportunities will surely multiply thanks to this film)." †McDowell says she and her sister were subsequently left scrounging to make ends meet.† "After all of that liquidated money was gone from the Wells Fargo bank account, things got pretty bad. My younger sister ran away at seventeen. My older sister struggled to finish school in Texas. I couch surfed for two years, sometimes dressing out of my car and stealing pieces of salami out of my boyfriends' refrigerators in the middle of the night, because I was so hungry and so ashamed that I couldn't feed myself." For celebrating the behavior that put them in this predicament, McDowell says, Scorsese and DiCaprio are guilty by association. "You have successfully aligned yourself with an accomplished criminal,†a guy who still hasn't made full restitution to his victims, exacerbating our national obsession with wealth and status and glorifying greed and psychopathic behavior." Read the full piece here ª
REUTERS/Benjamin BeavanJim O'Neill can't stop thinking about the emerging markets.The biggest global economic story of the last 30 years is arguably the rise of the emerging markets, a transformation that got a big boost when China took steps toward capitalism during the early 1980s. While these economies have stumbled in 2013, they continue to be a crucial source of growth for the world. They also represent crucial sources of economic activity for each other. Earlier this month, we asked economic Jim O'Neill for what he considered to be the most important chart of the year. O'Neill, the retired Goldman Sachs economist who coined the BRICs acronym, not surprisingly offered something on the emergence of the emerging markets. "United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) had a brilliant chart showing the changing patterns of world trade ó contrasting 'North-North' with 'South-South' ó demonstrating that world trade is going through a huge evolution," he told us. South-South Cooperation is a term from the UN that essentially incorporates all of the major emerging economies.† In contrast, North-North consists of developed economies like the U.S., Western Europe, and Japan. "SouthñSouth trade offers developing countries access to affordable capital goods that are often more appropriate to their needs than are capital goods from richer countries and that are therefore more likely to be acquired, adopted and imitated," wrote the UNDP. "Even India has benefited. In 2010, capital goods such as electrical machinery, nuclear reactors and boilers dominated Indiaís imports from China (60%) and cost an estimated 30% less than if they had been sourced from richer countries." The divide between emerging and developed markets continues to close. Business Insider, UNDP
Best WesternNEW YORK¬†(Reuters) - Nightly rates at a no-frills, budget hotel in West Orange,¬†New Jersey, average around $100 for a queen room outfitted with a coffee maker and basic cable television. But for several days in early February, the same Best Western will be charging 10 times that amount, asking guests attending the Super Bowl XLVIII in the nearby town of East Rutherford to shell out $1,000 for a room. "It's a lot of money," hotel manager¬†Brian Cassara¬†concedes, adding that he hopes sports fans "will pay these exorbitant prices to come to the game." The¬†National Football League¬†estimates that about 400,000 people will descend on¬†northern New Jersey¬†for the February 2, 2014, championship game at¬†MetLife Stadium, about 10 miles from¬†New York¬†City. The event is expected to bring in more than a half billion dollars in economic activity to the¬†New York-New Jersey area. That vision has put dollar signs in the eyes of hotel operators, homeowners and apartment dwellers in the region's already pricey real estate market, with some of the advertised lodgings seen as the most expensive ever for a Super Bowl, observers say. To attract high-end guests, some homeowners are throwing in incentives like chauffeurs, stocked bars, and gift certificates for dinner or a massage. "There's a lot of hotels, businesses and commercial real estate owners who are cashing in on this event and taking the opportunity to make a buck. So, why wouldn't Joe Homeowner give it a shot?" said¬†Bill Ryan, managing director of¬†Super-Bowl-Rentalz.com, a site launched last year solely to link Super Bowl attendees with short-term rentals. Historically, hotels in Super Bowl host cities see a significant uptick in prices as well as bookings for the week of the annual sporting event and, anticipating demand, they often raise prices months in advance. During the 2013 Super Bowl in¬†New Orleans, the hotel occupancy rate was above 96 percent and prices at hotels like the Marriott booked for $1,500 on game night, according to TravelClick, which tracks bookings and prices. With the¬†New Jersey¬†game weeks away, some hotels have boosted rates "in anticipation that people will pay whatever they have to pay," to secure lodgings, Cassara said. Hundreds of homeowners and apartment dwellers have listed their abodes on websites such as HomeAway,¬†Airbnb¬†and¬†Craigslist, charging up to $10,000 a night for a sprawling mansion or $750 a night for a tiny studio. The listings include private residences in¬†New York¬†and¬†New Jersey's toniest neighborhoods. "There's a couple of homes in Saddle Brook (New Jersey) that are actually just huge. They are coming in at a price of $35,000 for the week," Ryan said. One of them is a 5,700-square-foot Saddle Brook home on 1.7 acres of land, with four bedrooms, four baths, a two-story foyer, an in-home gym and daily maid service. "Then we have a place in Hoboken (New Jersey) that's getting a lot of attention. And they are asking $10,000 a night," Ryan said. The four-bedroom, three-bath apartment is in one of the most prestigious condominiums, Maxwell Place, with stunning views of the Manhattan skyline across the Hudson River. Garrett Larson, owner of a two-bedroom townhome in¬†Montclair,¬†New Jersey, says renting his residence for several days during Super Bowl will mean "paying bills and paying off debt." His¬†Craigslist¬†posting asks $8,000 for six nights for lodgings "15 minutes to stadium and all the dining and nightlife of¬†northern New Jersey." He hasn't had any takers yet, but remains hopeful. "I'm assuming all the local hotels are more expensive or already gone for the week," Larson said. New York¬†City, with some 90,000 hotel rooms, is also trying to capture its share of Super Bowl guests, boasting the city's tourist attractions and access to public transportation. Kimpton Hotels, which operates four properties in Manhattan, is offering a Super Bowl promotion that includes viewing rooms for fans who are worried that stadium seats might be too cold. The package requires a minimum three-night stay, with King rooms ranging in price from $476 to $789, nightly. The prices are nearly double the regular rates in January. Five-star properties Ritz-Carlton and Sofitel are offering three-night packages, complete with an end-zone ticket, access to a pre-game event and round-trip transport to the stadium. Prices start at $5,635 per person, double occupancy. So far, hotels and homeshare sites all say business has been steady, although not brisk. But they are keeping prices high in anticipation of a surge of bookings after the competing teams are decided and the NFL releases the last major wave of game tickets for sale. "About 80 percent of the people going to the game don't know it yet and won't until mid-January," said NFL spokesman¬†Brian McCarthy. McCarthy said the NFL has lowered the price of the cheapest seats this year to $500, compared with $650 last year. Despite the cost per ticket, McCarthy said this Super Bowl will sell out like all previous events. "The Super Bowl is the most desirable ticket in the world. If we could build a stadium to fit 500,000 people we still could not accommodate all the requests," he said. (Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Gunna Dickson)
Andrew Burns, Getty ImagesShares of Twitter are on a blazing rocketship path, and people are scratching their heads trying to figure out why. The stock is up about 100% since late November, having closed yesterday at $73.31. The surge has now gained mainstream attention ‚Äî yesterday even Matt Drudge was tweeting about it, and about how he thought it was doomed. Ben Schachter at Macquarie has now downgraded the stock, writing: The Bottom Line¬†‚Äì¬†We expect this to be among the shortest downgrade note you‚Äôve ever read, as nothing fundamentally has changed since our Neutral initiation on Dec. 11, except that shares have risen 40%. When we launched on TWTR 15 days ago, we laid out pros and cons and stated that TWTR was worth $46/share. Since that time, on the back of virtually no new news, the stock has risen in value 40% (vs. 2% for the S&amp;P 500). Since the IPO open on 11/7, TWTR shares are up 62% (vs. a 4% gain for the S&amp;P 500). We continue to believe that Twitter as a company has a bright future and many opportunities ahead. However, as a stock, we believe nothing has changed over the last 15 days to justify the rise in valuation. Therefore, we are reducing our rating to Underperform, from Neutral, and maintaining our estimates and $46 target price. Macquarie expects that other analysts will also be downgrading the stock very shortly.
India's biggest Bitcoin trading platform said on its website Friday it had suspended operations after the central bank warned against the risks of using virtual money. BuySellBitCo.in closed its platform, citing an advisory by the Reserve Bank of India issued on Christmas Eve highlighting the risks of trading in digital currencies. "We are suspending buy and sell operations until we can outline a clearer framework with which to work," BuySellBitCo.in said on its website, adding that the move was "to protect the interest of our customers". The central bank's warning comes after Bitcoin, which can be stored either virtually or on a user's hard drive and offers a largely anonymous payment system, had begun gaining popularity in India. The emergence of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies in India has come despite a traditional preference for assets backed by property and other tangible goods. "There is no underlying or backing of any asset for virtual currencies and as such their value seems to be a matter of speculation," the central bank said in its December 24 advisory. The "huge volatility in the value of virtual currencies has been noticed", it added. The central bank stopped shy of issuing a ban or any curbs on Bitcoin or other virtual currencies. However, because the currencies were not authorised by any central bank or monetary authority there was no established recourse for customers in the case of problems, it said. The move comes weeks after the People's Bank of China ordered financial institutions not to provide Bitcoin-related services and products and cautioned against its potential use in money-laundering. Bitcoin was invented in the wake of the global financial crisis by a mysterious computer guru using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamotoby. At the last rate posted by BuySellBitCo.in, which was conducting about 12 million rupees worth of Bitcoin transactions monthly, according to Indian media, one Bitcoin was selling for 48,039 rupees ($776). The dollar worth of a Bitcoin has rocketed from just cents in 2010 to a $1,200 peak in early December, but has since fallen back. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
ZURICH (Reuters) - A host of Swiss banks have signaled their readiness to work with U.S. officials in a crackdown on wealthy Americans evading taxes. Many more are expected to follow in the coming weeks, as¬†Switzerland's cherished bank secrecy slowly gets wound back. The program requires the banks to hand over some previously hidden information and face penalties equivalent to up to 50 percent of the assets they managed on behalf of wealthy Americans. The number that join this scheme is key for larger banks facing criminal investigations, so-called category one banks, in the¬†United States, such as Credit Suisse, Julius Baer and Pictet &amp; Cie. A failure to win broad cooperation in the program could hold up settlements for the bigger banks, which have seen their talks with U.S. justice officials frozen pending a solution for the wider industry. Following is a list of banks which have said they will take part in the government-brokered program by grouping themselves into categories depending on whether they had U.S. clients. Swiss banks in this group have a reason to believe they may have committed tax offenses, and are eligible for a non-prosecution agreement if they come clean and face fines. Banks which have said they will do so include: EFG International Banque Privee Edmond de Rothschild St. Galler Kantonalbank Banque cantonale de Geneve Berner Kantonalbank Banque Cantonale Vaudoise Graubuendner Kantonalbank Banque cantonale du Jura Zuger Kantonalbank Luzerner Kantonalbank Valiant Linth Bank Coop Bank Walliser Kantonalbank Hypothekarbank Lenzburg Unlisted banks in category 2 Union Bancaire Privee (UBP) Rothschild Bank Lombard Odier These Swiss banks have not engaged in criminal conduct or are deemed "compliant" under U.S. tax rules. They would receive a non-target letter and not face fines. Banks which have said they will do so include: Vontobel Bank am Bellevue Basellandschaftliche Kantonalbank Valartis said it will decide at a later time whether to register for Category 3 or not to participate in the program at all. (Reporting By Katharina Bart; Editing by Hugh Lawson and David Goodman)
Equity markets are fairly quiet today, but currency markets are showing life. As we mentioned earlier, the Turkish Lira is getting obliterated. Meanwhile, the euro is on a tear, rising to its highest level against the dollar since late 2011. XE
REUTERS/Stringer Retired female workers dressed as red army soldiers sing revolutionary songs during a performance to mark the 120th birth anniversary of China's late Chairman Mao Zedong in Huaibei, Anhui province, December 26, 2013. China celebrated the 120th birthday of Mao, the founder of modern China, on Thursday, but with scaled-back festivities as President Xi Jinping embarks on broad economic reforms which have unsettled leftists. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
ImgurOne of the big stories on Christmas day was the huge theft of over $6000 worth of Dogecoin. As soon as that news broke, we saw a bunch of people on Twitter asking: "What the hell is Dogecoin?" Basically, it's a digital currency like Bitcoin that also incorporates bizarre "doge" meme, which involves a picture of a dog and some random words on it. Rob Wile wrote about how the currency was invented. Basically it was a joke, but in less than a month, the total value of all the Dogecoins in the world are over $8 million, according to CoinMarketCap.com. There are lots of digital currencies that are based on Bitcoin or competing with it in some way. Some seem more serious than others. All have little tweaks that distinguish it. Often the changes have to do with the mining process. Dogecoin seems like a funny amusement, more than a serious thing, and in a sense that's true. And yet in a way it's a really big deal. Here's something that was started by two guys (one in Portland, and one in Australia) and now Dogecoins are already a huge currency online for "tipping", basically giving away free coins to someone if you like something they do (like for example if they leave a great comment on Reddit). The Dogecoin community on Reddit is already huge, bigger than all other digital currency communities, except the Bitcoin one. What this means is that a community that has a taste for the absurd (people who are into weird internet memes) can have their own currency with real economic value in a short time. It seems like a symbol of things to come. It's easy to imagine any number of communities or affinity groups having their own currency. A band for example could create a currency for fans to purchase merchandise. Who knows if Dogecoin itself will go anywhere. In two weeks, the "doge" meme could be completely forgotten, and then the currency itself will seem like a funny joke from the good old days of 2013. But the ease with which something can establish moneyness and serve a purpose within a community is impressive, and a sign of things to come.
Reuters/Savita KirloskarHike in Indian gold tax to fight trade imbalance squeezes wedding budgets, spurs smuggling MUMBAI, India (AP) ‚Äî With India's wedding season in full swing, the glass sales counters in Mumbai's famed Zhaveri gold bazaars are crowded with customers eyeing elaborate headpieces, nose rings and necklaces. No one does jewelry quite like an Indian bride, who by tradition wears all the gold she can stand up in and her family can afford. These days, though, even the most ambitious bridal budgets don't bring the bling like they used to, thanks to hikes in import duties and a rise in local gold prices that have shoppers like Rajanikant Mehta grumbling. Mehta, who owns a factory outside the capital, had planned to spend about 100,000 rupees ($1,800) on a necklace for the woman marrying his son late this month, but he's unhappy about what he's getting for his money. Gold prices in India, which imports nearly all its gold, have risen 50 percent over the past three years to about 87,000 rupees, or about $1,400, an ounce. Thanks to the new tax and weaker rupee, that's about a 20 percent premium over the world market price, hovering just under $1,200 an ounce. "The price of gold should be lower," Mehta complained. "This is a globalized world. If the prices are similar to the prices elsewhere, then the purchase of gold will increase." More gold-buying, though, is exactly what the Indian government is trying to stop by raising import duties three times this year to 10 percent on gold bullion ‚Äî up from 2 percent in January ‚Äî and 15 percent on gold jewelry. Gold is India's second-biggest import behind oil, and purchases have soared in recent years as rising incomes from a decade of economic growth sent Indian consumers on a buying streak. The problem is that the greater buying of the precious metal has dealt a blow to India's economy by increasing the flow of money out of country compared to inflows. As a result, the current account deficit rose to a historic high of 4.8 percent of India's gross domestic product in the fiscal year that ended in March. That in turn has helped weaken the rupee by about 10 percent this year, making many products more expensive by raising the cost of oil, priced in dollars, and other raw materials. But in trying to discourage gold-buying, India is taking on a passion that dates back thousands of years and is deeply entwined in Indian culture. In some Hindu legends, Brahma, the god who created the universe, was born from a gold egg. The goddess Lakshmi is portrayed with a golden complexion and gold coins flowing from her hands. It's considered good luck to give gold, especially to a bride. Still, the tax measures appear to have worked, with gold imports down 32 percent in the July-September quarter and India on track to lose its status as the world's No. 1 consumer of gold to China this year. The drop has eased pressure on the current account deficit, now on track to reach a more comfortable annual average of 3 percent of GDP. The government hasn't said what it plans to do with the extra revenue, but the country faces a big fiscal deficit, so every bit helps. The official numbers tell only part of the story, though, since the higher import duties have also given birth to increasingly creative smuggling schemes. According to Indian media reports, customs authorities have busted people with gold bars hidden in mobile phone battery compartments, a man with gold necklaces wrapped around his legs and another man who had fashioned 109 solid-gold staples, painted them gray and stapled them to the box of a television he was legally importing. Local media reported the staples weighed a total of 755 grams (26.6 ounces) and were valued at 1.9 million rupees (about $30,500). The seizures are probably only a fraction of the amount of smuggled gold getting through, according to the U.K.-based World Gold Council. "Going by the number of seizures that have been made at airports and elsewhere, there is enough evidence to say that smuggling probably has doubled this year," said Somasundaram, the India director for the World Gold Council. It's impossible to know the exact amount being successfully smuggled in, said Somasundaram, who uses just one name. But the council has noted a 125 percent rise in third-quarter gold sales in Thailand over the same period the previous year, to more than 35 tons. That suggests Indian smugglers may be buying much of their gold there. Despite the steps to limit imports, India's demand for gold remains robust. It's plainly evident during wedding season, which runs from November through January. The custom of adorning brides with gold is both spiritual ‚Äî gold is a powerful symbol of purity ‚Äî and practical. The wife's wedding adornments belong to her as insurance against a bad marriage, even though many men confiscate it. In the southern state of Kerala, the escalation of bridal jewelry extravagance is so dramatic that the local women's commission has even proposed a law limiting how much a bride can wear ‚Äî a measure bound to meet popular opposition. "Everyone likes gold. Marriage happens just once in your life," Abhirami Damodaran said as she shopped for her wedding jewelry. The daughter of a real estate businessman in Kerala, she plans to flaunt a whopping 3.2 kilograms (about 7 pounds) of gold worth about 9.6 million rupees, or $150,000, on her big day. "When we wear gold, it's not only the bride who is happy, but her parents as well," she said. "They are giving gold as part of a future investment." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Stringer He Yide sits in a glider before flying a plane in Guan county, Hebei province, August 31, 2013. He, 5, piloted a plane, accompanied by his coach last Saturday.BEIJING¬†(Reuters) - Ferraris and Rolls-Royces have become common sights in¬†China's cities as a new class of super-rich indulge a growing appetite for luxury, but tight regulation has meant the private¬†jet, the ultimate status symbol of the global elite, remains rare. Recent rules changes, however, indicate that¬†China¬†is preparing to open its skies to private aircraft, in a move that may herald the greatest expansion of business and private aviation in the last 30 years. Last month,¬†China's aviation regulator simplified flight approval procedures for private aircraft and lowered the threshold for obtaining a private pilot license. More importantly, the implementation of little-noticed guidelines issued by¬†China's State Council¬†and the¬†Central Military Commission¬†in 2010 will gradually lift the ceiling for low-flying aircraft by 2020. For companies such as Cessna,¬†Gulfstream, Dassault Aviation SA and Bombardier Inc, which have spent the last decade trying to build their¬†China¬†business, it may present a unique opportunity to expand in the world's fastest-growing aviation market. "This tells everyone publicly that¬†China¬†now endorses the use of business aircraft and general aviation just like any other countries worldwide,"¬†Roger Sperry,¬†Gulfstream's senior vice president of international sales, told Reuters in an interview. "I'm nothing but optimistic." General aviation, which refers to all flights that are not operated by airlines, charter firms or the military, is already a $150 billion business in the¬†United States. In contrast, there are only 1,610 registered general aviation aircraft in¬†China, the latest figures from the¬†China General Aviation Association¬†show. That compares with about 228,000 in the¬†United States, according to Craig Spence, secretary general of the International Council of Aircraft Owner and Pilot Associations. Joseph Tymczyszyn, a former representative of the¬†U.S. Federal Aviation Administration¬†in¬†China, said when he mentioned private aircraft to Chinese industry officials nine years ago he was told commercial aviation was the priority. "When I talked to CAAC about general aviation in 2004, Ma Tao said, 'Don't waste your time and money, nobody is interested in that'," Tymczyszyn, a co-founder and executive director of the U.S.-China¬†Aviation Cooperation Program, told Reuters. Ma, then the deputy director general of the¬†Flight Standards Department of the Civil Aviation Administration of China¬†(CAAC), was among a group of Chinese aviation officials who often visited the¬†United States, where their experience of general aviation began to change attitudes, Tymczyszyn recalled. Still, in a country where the military controls 80 percent of airspace there were formidable obstacles to expanding private air travel. Approval for a three-hour trip on a private plane would take at least two weeks and was never guaranteed. Lack of facilities where¬†small¬†planes can take off, land or refuel, as well as a dearth of low-altitude aviation maps, have meant hopping on a private plane to visit the other side of the country for the weekend remains a dream for even the most well-heeled. "We had a few sales in 2006, 2007 and 2008, but very limited in numbers," recalled¬†Jean Michel Jacob, senior vice president of international sales with¬†France's Dassault¬†Falcon. Sales started to pick up in 2010 and so far the French company has sold 30 jets in¬†China, with 20 scheduled for delivery in 2014-2015. For U.S. rival¬†Gulfstream, owned by General Dynamics Corp, Greater¬†China¬†represents about 6 percent of a worldwide delivery of 2,150 jets, compared with 65 percent to the¬†United States. Business¬†jet¬†sales in¬†China¬†for¬†Canada's Bombardier have topped 100, while Textron Inc's Cessna has sold more than 70 planes. All are gearing up for growth. In November 2012,¬†Gulfstream's¬†Beijing¬†maintenance centre, with an 82,000 sq ft (7,600 sq m) hangar, opened for business. Dassault¬†Falcon, which has maintenance facilities in Hong Kong and¬†Shanghai, is scheduled open a new one in Beijing¬†next year, and plans to recruit more native Chinese speakers to its sales team. Cessna has already started delivery of its Grand Caravan EX made at its¬†China¬†venture with state-owned¬†Aviation Industry Corporation¬†of¬†China¬†(AVIC). Delivery of its Citation XLS+ jets built by a separate venture with AVIC is scheduled to begin in the fourth quarter of 2014, according to William Schultz, senior vice president of Business Development at¬†Cessna Aircraft's¬†China¬†operations. Bombardier forecasts overall business¬†jet¬†deliveries in Greater¬†China¬†at 2,420 in 2013-2032, with 1,000 to be delivered in 2013-2022, rising to 1,420 during 2023-2032. The growth, industry insiders say, would be fuelled in part by demand for smaller jets in a country where large-cabin models, such as Dassault's¬†Falcon¬†7x or¬†Gulfstream's G550 and G650, are among the best sellers. "There is a beautiful potential in this market,"¬†Beijing-based Jacob told Reuters. BEAT THE JAMS Guidance issued by regulators in 2010 aims to open up airspace below 1,000 meters (3,280 ft) by 2015 and expand to airspace below 3,000 meters by 2020. Pilot scheme were started in¬†Changchun¬†in the northeast, and¬†Guangzhou¬†and Hainan Island in the south, where private aircraft owners need only submit flight plans before 3 p.m. the previous day, unless they encroach on militarily sensitive areas. The experiment was expanded to other cities in 2012 and will spread other regions gradually. "It's pretty much like the way¬†China¬†transformed itself from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy in the 1980s," said¬†Ke Yubao, executive secretary general of state-backed¬†Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association of China. "It all started from the¬†Shenzhen¬†special economic zone and then spread to other parts of the country." Besides investing billions in new airport construction, for both commercial and general aviation,¬†China¬†has also been making progress with low-altitude aviation maps, a source told Reuters. And once general aviation spreads its wings, there may be fewer frustrated drivers in¬†China¬†increasingly congested cities, where traffic can move at snail's pace in rush hours and weekends. "I laughed when I saw people in a Ferrari going one mile an hour in a¬†Beijing¬†traffic jam. If you buy a Cirrus or Cessna, you can actually go 150 miles an hour and it's more fun," said Tymczyszyn. (Editing by Alex Richardson)
AP ImagesSHANGHAI¬†(Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt; and its¬†China¬†joint venture partner will recall close to 1.5 million¬†vehicles¬†due to potential safety issues in one of the biggest recalls in the world's biggest autos market. Shanghai General Motors Co Ltd,¬†GM's venture with SAIC Motor Corp &lt;600104.SS&gt;, will recall about 1.46 million Buick¬†and Chevrolet models produced locally due to issues with a bracket that secures the fuel oil pump, the country's quality watchdog said on Friday. Some of the recalled¬†vehicles¬†include the Chevy Sail which is exported to emerging markets, a¬†Shanghai-basedGM¬†official said. Separately, the watchdog said¬†Ford Motor¬†Co's &lt;F.N&gt; joint venture with¬†Chongqing Changan Automobile¬†Co Ltd &lt;000625.SZ&gt; will recall close to 81,000 of its¬†Kuga cars¬†over a steering part. U.S. carmakers in¬†China¬†have outpaced growth in the overall market, boosted by their popular product line-ups and partly as Japanese rivals were hit last year by anti-Japan¬†protests following a territorial dispute between Beijing¬†and¬†Tokyo. GM¬†sold 2.89 million¬†vehicles¬†in¬†China¬†in January-November, up 11.4 percent from a year earlier, while Ford sold 840,975¬†vehicles, up 51 percent. Last month, Volkswagen's &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; Chinese unit recalled 640,309¬†vehicles¬†for¬†checks¬†that they were using mineral oil rather than synthetic oil to avoid gearbox-related electronic flaws. That was part of a broader global recall over a range of issues with several models. It also pulled 207,778¬†Tiguan¬†compact sport-utility vehicles¬†off the road due to a risk of a partial light malfunction. GM¬†makes¬†vehicles¬†in¬†China¬†in partnership with both¬†FAW Group¬†&lt;000800.SZ&gt; and SAIC. Ford has manufacturing and sales ventures in¬†China¬†with Changan Automobile and¬†Jiangling Motors¬†Corp &lt;000550.SZ&gt;. (Reporting by Kazunori Takada; Additional reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu in¬†BEIJING; Editing by Ian Geoghegan)
Here's another sign of economic recovery. This chart shows the year-over-year change in vehicle miles traveled in the US. For October, total vehicle miles traveled were up over 2% from last October, representing the biggest jump since the financial crisis. (Via Calculated Risk) FRED The rise is probably a combination of the economic recovery and the big decline we've seen in gas prices of late. Meanwhile, the big trend in vehicle miles traveled continues to be one of a secular plateau. For year, total car travel only went up, but for the past several years it's moved sideways, probably due to a combination of societal shift, aging, and gas prices. Here's the long-term chart: FRED
The most hated bull market in history is slowly but surely turning into one built on perennial optimism. ¬†If there was one major insight from 2013 it was that the stock market, increasingly, is rallying on true optimism rather than merely overcoming what long looked like negative expectations. ¬†The S&amp;P 500‚Ä≤s meager earnings growth¬†this year combined with strong multiple expansion makes this clear. This week‚Äôs Investor‚Äôs Intelligence survey was another sign of strong optimism as the bulls surged to 59.6%. ¬†This is fast approaching the ‚Äúdanger zone‚Äù according to the survey. ¬†Levels above 60% are extremely rare and were last seen in October 2007 when the market peaked. ¬†Here‚Äôs more from¬†II: ‚ÄúThey show another high for 2013 with the fifth week in danger territory above 55%. We continue to note the most optimism since October 2007 [62.0%] when their count last exceeded 60%. That level is now in sight. The lofty bullishness suggests the majority of investment funds are committed. A more recent peak for the bullish level was 57.3% in April 2011. Markets didn‚Äôt fall immediately from there but were substantially lower by the end of that August. ‚Äú PragCap
Almost everywhere all around the world markets are quiet.¬†There's one exception: Turkey. The Erdogan government is facing a massive corruption crisis, and the Turkish lira is getting crushed. Turkey has a large external debt position and an ugly trade deficit, so its economy and financial markets are highly sensitive to the whims of the global investor community. And the global investor community doesn't like what it's seeing. Here's a look at the dollar vs. the lira over the last week. You can see the big spike today in the dollar relative to the lira, as investors are dumping lira the moment they wake up. XE.com In the world of currencies this is a major collapse. Meanwhile, the stock market is off 4%, and down 11% just over the last few days. As trader and economist Mark Dow points out on Twitter, these kinds of huge dives during thin holiday trading are signature moves for emerging markets. For more thoughts on the situation in Turkey, see Mohamed El-Erian's take here.
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoThe latest batch of Japanese economic data showed signs of an ongoing recovery. Here's a quick look at the data we got out of Japan. While most Bank of Japan policymakers expect the recovery to continue in 2014, voiced concerns. "This may be indicative of a downward shift in growth, instead of merely a temporary slowdown," a Bank of Japan policymaker pointed out in the BoJ's November meeting, the minutes of which were released on Thursday. There is also concern that GDP growth will slow in Q2 2014 when the national sales tax is set to increase. Meanwhile, the Nikkei hit a six-year high but is down 0.5% since.
