The US had a "melt-up" today in the words of Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading. Here's how he described today's events in a note to clients. The US equity market opened with a sense of giddiness and never looked back.¬† The rising tide lifted all boats with all 10 sectors and 24 industry groups rallying.¬† The early rally commenced on the economic news in Asia and then hopes of a peaceful outcome in Syria was a key driver of gains in the afternoon.¬† The Russians seized upon what is being reported as misstep by Secretary of State Kerry by hypothetically stating that Syria should surrender its chemical weapons to International authorities.¬† It is hard to believe that such a resolution is likely because this is hardly a ‚Äútrust but verify‚Äù situation.¬† Regardless, the markets reacted to the latest headlines.¬† The equity market rallied, Crude sold off throughout the afternoon and the Dollar weakened.¬† The one move that did not ratify this line of thinking was the bounce in Treasuries.¬† That being said, bonds are very oversold, and they did settle off their best levels and probably have more room to digest the weaker than expected employment report.¬† As a result of the strong equity rally, the first 5 days of September resulted in a 2.37% gain.¬† In what is already a strong year, it was the best first 5 day performance of the year. Following today's action, Japan is surging. Nikkei.com
AP Photo/Mark LennihanHOUSTON (Reuters) -¬†Kevin¬†Kaiser, a 26-year-old analyst only three years into his first job out of the¬†Ivy League, jolted Wall Street last week with a pithy email taking aim at¬†North America's largest oil and gas pipeline and processing company - Kinder Morgan. The email, sent to clients of independent research firm¬†Hedgeye Risk Management, said Kinder Morgan and its associated companies "is a house of cards, completely misunderstood and mispriced." No specifics were provided, but the missive and his comments on¬†Twitter¬†spooked investors who shaved $4 billion off the company's market capitalization and sentKinder Morgan Inc¬†&lt;KMI.N&gt; shares down 6 percent last Wednesday. Analysts are not certain why¬†Kaiser's comments resonated with so many investors, but they underscore the growing influence of social media like¬†Twitter, which can deliver investment information - accurate or not - to thousands in seconds at the push of a button. Some compared the market to a circus. "Here is your PT Barnum people," one user tweeted as¬†Kaiser¬†caused a firestorm on¬†Twitter¬†and prompted people to question his experience. "It seems a little surprising that enough people would be spooked by unsupported assertions," said¬†Jason Stevens, an analyst at Morningstar. The email titled "New Best Idea: Short Kinder Morgan," was a teaser for a report to be issued on Tuesday. No analysis was provided: only seven bullet points with topics that the report will address, including the valuation of the company's sprawling oil and gas business, which has surged as exploration companies tap into shale deposits driving a U.S. energy boom. Kaiser¬†declined to comment on the email. Kinder Morgan did not comment. But Rich Kinder, the billionaire former¬†Enron¬†executive who is chairman of Kinder Morgan, bought opportunistically on the dip. On Monday, he purchased about $18 million of stock in¬†Kinder Morgan Inc, according to an SEC filing. Kinder Morgan has a complex corporate structure, which includes four publicly traded entities:¬†Kinder Morgan Inc¬†&lt;KMI.N&gt;,¬†Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP&lt;KMP.N&gt;, Kinder Morgan Management LLC &lt;KMR.N&gt; and El Paso Pipeline Partners &lt;EPB.N&gt;. Combined, the companies have a market capitalization of about $90 billion. It is made of master limited partnerships (MLPs), a structure favored by energy companies for tax efficiency and a lower cost of capital. Income is not taxed and paid out to investors, called unitholders, in the form of quarterly distributions. WALL STREET ANALYSTS DEFEND COMPANIES Kaiser¬†studied economics at¬†Princeton University¬†and was a member of the university's hockey team. He wrote an initial report on Kinder Morgan on August 2 that questioned the company's valuation. Wall Street sell-side analysts rushed to the company's defense, issuing notes and articles that took aim at¬†Kaiser's credibility. The steep decline in Kinder Morgan shares is a buying opportunity, they argued. John Edwards, energy analyst at Credit Suisse, in a note to clients on September 5 characterized Kinder Morgan as one of the most undervalued MLPs and said the company has "earned the trust of investors established over a very long period of time." Igor Greenwald, the editor of¬†MLP Profits, wrote a column for his clients on September 5 that characterized the sell-off as "investing at its most pathetic and absurd." He described¬†Kaiser¬†as "a 26-year-old man with a fancy title and very limited work experience." The sell-off may be explained by the fact that in general, MLPs have high ownership by less sophisticated retail investors, Greenwald speculated. "That kind of shareholding class is vulnerable to scare mongering," said Greenwald. Kaiser¬†may also have gained some credibility with investors by writing about accounting issues at Linn Energy LLC &lt;LINE.O&gt; and LinnCo &lt;LNCO.O&gt;. Linn Energy said on July 2 that the¬†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission¬†had launched an informal inquiry into accounting issues and its proposed purchase ofBerry Petroleum Co &lt;BRY.N&gt;. "Perhaps because he tilted his lance at Linn, with some results, you've got people who are in the stock and want to get out," Morningstar analyst Stevens said. (Reporting by Anna Driver; Editing by Terry Wade and Richard Chang)
"THE Las Vegas of the Far East" is how Sheldon Adelson, an American gambling magnate and boss of the Las Vegas Sands Corporation, has long described Macau. A decade ago, when Sin City was king and the tiny Chinese territory was still a backwater, such a claim would have been laughably implausible. Today, it is an insult to Macau. Its casinos‚Äô turnover last year, of $38 billion, was more than six times the Las Vegas strip‚Äôs takings. With vast numbers of Chinese consumers now finding they have the money to indulge their passion for gambling, Macau‚Äôs baccarat tables are busier than ever. EconomistThough gambling has been legal for a century and a half in this former Portuguese territory, its casinos were typically small and seedy. Many moons ago our correspondent remarked to Stanley Ho, a tycoon who held a monopoly on gambling in Macau till 2002, on the large number of prostitutes in his casino. He replied dryly that he was shocked, shocked to hear of their presence. The times are changing, and Macau is starting to clean up its act. The arrival in force of American casino operators, who must answer for their behaviour overseas to regulators back home, helps. The liberalisation of local licensing laws has brought a number of mega-casinos to Macau, including a supersized clone of Mr Adelson‚Äôs Venetian casino in Las Vegas. The opening of glitzy new venues has fuelled explosive growth. Between 2008 and 2012 Macau‚Äôs gambling revenues grew by 29% a year on average. Now, no other casino venue comes close (see chart 1). The Economist Macau‚Äôs rise to the top of the gambling league is part of a broader shift in this $160 billion a year global industry. As recently as 2010 the United States made up nearly half of the global gambling market by revenue, while the Asia-Pacific region made up only about 30%. PwC, a consultancy, reckons that by 2015 the latter will be the biggest market. Macau‚Äôs rise owes much to a collision of geography, history and Communist dogma. Chinese love to gamble, but the government has long forbidden casinos on the mainland. It did, however, le t them continue to operate in Macau after the Portuguese handed over sovereignty in 1999. Macau, like its close neighbour Hong Kong, has a degree of legal autonomy and is also just a few hours‚Äô flying time or less from a billion potential punters. Even so, Macau‚Äôs spectacular growth was due not to mass tourism, as in Las Vegas, but to its success in attracting "high-rollers". Mainland businessmen and Communist Party officials, organised by intrepid junket operators, have poured in. This is in large part because, unlike heavily regulated casinos in America, casino firms here do not ask too many questions about who these big spenders are or where they get their money. They outsource such tasks to the junketeers, who typically find the fat cats and fly them to Macau, extend them credit to get around China‚Äôs tight currency controls and manage the VIP gambling rooms. In effect, they run autonomous casinos within casinos, shielding the licence-holder from the seedier aspects of the trade. For example, the collection of gambling debt is not permitted through the court system in China, so the junket operators quietly use whatever other means are necessary back home to collect. Macau may have bested faraway Vegas, but its dominance is now being challenged by rivals in its own backyard. Singapore‚Äôs two newish casinos have, in just a few years, become among the most successful in the world, in part by poaching some of Macau‚Äôs best customers. More troubling for the Macanese operators, as the next article explains, ambitious new casino projects are now popping up everywhere in the region, from Japan to the Philippines and Australia to the Russian far east. The billionaire developers and politicians behind these ventures all believe they can lure Chinese high-rollers away from the territory. A Chinese businessman who has often entertained wealthy clients in Macau‚Äôs casinos adds that the new Chinese leadership‚Äôs crackdown on official corruption and flaunting of wealth are leading clients to consider new venues far from its reach: "Beijing has too many cameras watching us in Macau." Michael French, chief operating officer of the Solaire, the first of four casinos to open in Manila‚Äôs new Entertainment City, recently claimed that "If we can get 7% of Macau business to come here, then we all achieve our goals for the market." Frigid Vladivostok may seem an unlikely threat, but its aspiring casino-builders (a group that includes Mr Ho‚Äôs son) point out that it requires less time for a high-roller in Beijing to fly there than to steamy Macau. Big betters from the mainland have clearly played an important role in fuelling Macau‚Äôs past growth. Even today they make up 60-65% of the revenues of its large casinos. So could the poaching of high-rollers take the wind out of Macau‚Äôs sails? In fact there are several reasons to think that Macau‚Äôs brightest days may still lie ahead. The most important is that unlike rival destinations, which must typically be reached by air from China, Macau‚Äôs physical attachment to the mainland (it is composed of a peninsula and islands) means it can easily and cheaply be reached by land. So it has an alternative to the high-flyers: the mass market. Low-rollers from neighbouring Guangdong province have long come to Macau, usually on day trips. Indeed, the average visitor to the territory still stays less than two days, whereas in Las Vegas the norm is closer to a week. The great unwashed may seem an unattractive market compared with the monied elite, but here is the surprise: low-rollers bring in more profits. That is because enticing high-rollers involves enormous subsidies, ranging from fancy suites and champagne to less savoury perks, whereas ordinary punters get none. So even though VIPs still make up most of the revenue of Macau‚Äôs big casinos, it is the mass market that delivers the majority of the profits (see chart 2). What is more, the number of ordinary visitors is about to take off, as links to the mainland improve. Chinese officials are expanding capacity at the border-control post between the mainland and Macau, which is typically clogged with thousands of impatient gamblers. They will experiment with an electronic visa scheme and dedicated entry lanes later this year, hoping to reduce waiting times to a few minutes. China recently completed several high-speed rail links in the south of the country. In the past, perhaps 100m people could get to Macau in a few hours by rail; now several times as many will be able to. Another hindrance to mass tourism has been the territory‚Äôs small airport, which has little capacity to expand and few cheap flights. An ambitious series of bridges is being built that will connect Macau with Hong Kong‚Äôs huge international airport. The airport link in particular will help Macau realise a grander mass-market dream: going beyond gambling to family tourism. Hong Kong has non-stop flights, including low-cost ones, from many places. In a few years gamblers, conventioneers and all sorts of tourist will be able to take a taxi or bus from Hong Kong airport straight to Macau. It is possible to make that journey by hour-long ferry today, but that nuisance puts off many. One big obstacle remains, however: at under 30 square kilometres, Macau seems too minuscule to support mass tourism. Because land is so scarce, property prices are sky-high, hotel rooms are costly and family-friendly amusements are hard to find. A casino executive puts it bluntly: "There‚Äôs just not much to do here." Ah, but Macau has an ace in the hole. Floating not far off Macau‚Äôs Cotai casino strip, and connected by the Lotus bridge, is Hengqin. This thinly populated island, three times the size of Macau, belongs to Guangdong. But mainland officials have designated it a special economic zone, complete with tax breaks and subsidies. They are keen to develop it in ways that support Macau‚Äôs aspirations for mass-market tourism. Cheap land and labour are already luring developers to build facilities on Hengqin, such as cheap hotel rooms, that will boost Macau‚Äôs gambling business. Galaxy Entertainment, a local casino firm, is looking into buying a tract there. Chimelong Group, a Chinese firm that runs the country‚Äôs largest amusement park, is spending $2 billion on an ocean theme park, to open later this year. This is the first of ten such parks planned in an effort to turn the isle into "the Orlando of China". "Hengqin is the game changer for Macau," insists Edward Tracy, the head of Sands China. His group‚Äôs casinos in the territory have long focused on the mass market, and been rewarded for their prescience. In its latest quarter, profits more than trebled compared with a year earlier, to $488m. Mr Tracy says the margins on his mass-market business top 40%. Non-gambling activities such as entertainment and conferences are a big, and growing, share of Sands‚Äôs business. The shops inside its Macau casinos will have takings of $2 billion this year, for example, of which $250m-300m will be profit. Mr Tracy is bringing in shows ranging from boxing matches to Bollywood awards ceremonies. He recently agreed on a collaboration with DreamWorks, the Hollywood studio behind the "Shrek" and "Transformers" films. "Mass entertainment is the key to the mass market," he says. The heavy investment in attractions for mass-market tourists is one of the main reasons why Macau is likely to thrive despite the growing competition from new gambling venues across the Asia-Pacific region. Another is that Macau‚Äôs casinos are not resting on their laurels but spending heavily on becoming ever bigger and more glamorous. Galaxy claims that when its $7.7 billion expansion is finished its already huge Galaxy Macau casino will be bigger even than the Pentagon. One of the Ho family‚Äôs companies, SJM, said in August that its huge new resort on the Cotai strip would include a hotel designed by Versace, an Italian luxury fashion house. Another lingering edge that Macau can rely on is a friendly government--and policy matters more in gambling than in most other industries. Praveen Choudhary of Morgan Stanley, an investment bank, says Macau‚Äôs new casinos gained an edge because operators were allowed to build at world-beating scale; in contrast, Singapore limits the size of its casinos and discourages locals from visiting them. A regional money-laundering expert says the requirements to "know your customer" and report suspicious transactions are far less burdensome in Macau than in America. If, as some hope, Macau‚Äôs government lifts its arbitrary limit on the number of gambling tables, investors will pour in even more money. Robert Goldstein, president of global gambling operations at the Las Vegas Sands Corporation, makes this bold prediction about Macau: "It‚Äôs going to be the world‚Äôs first $100 billion market." If China were to suffer a significant economic slowdown, that would only postpone the day that this level of turnover is reached. Macau is in prime position to reel in the surging numbers of new consumers from China and across the region. All its new rivals can hope is that there will be enough business left over for them. There probably will. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Every three months, the analysts at Societe Generale update their chart of "black swan" risks in their quarterly "Global Economic Outlook" report. These risks are the unlikely events that could rock the economy and financial markets. To no one's surprise, the risk of an emerging market crisis is moving further away from the tail, which means it is becoming more likely. "Risks have become more balanced for the advanced economies, but shifted to the downside for emerging economies," they write. "As the Fed prepares to taper, the focus is on US Treasury yields. It would take a substantial upward leap in US Treasuries to make the Fed reverse its strategy. Our central scenario assumes the US 10-year yield at 3.75% by this time next year." "In emerging economies, risks have clearly shifted to the downside and notably for the BIITS (Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey and South Africa)," they continued. "Geopolitical tensions, moreover, add to these downside risks via the oil price channel. SGís oil specialist, Mike Wittner, sees only a temporary spike from Syria, assuming there is no significant contagion. In China, the risks centre on the credit channels and taming of the shadow banking sector. A hard landing for China would see a hard landing for the global economy too." Societe Generale
REUTERSThe year 2020 will be a seminal one for Japan, with the country's capital home to the 31st Summer Olympiad and adult diapers†set to outsell their baby counterparts. The world is getting older, developed countries especially. Even in emerging markets like Brazil, the total fertility rate has dropped from†6.2 live births per women to 1.8, below the so-called "replacement rate." Deutsche Bank global strategist†Sanjeev Sanyal recently forecasted that world population†will peak around the year 2055†at 8.7 billion before declining to eight billion by 2100. Now, thanks to coder†Martin De Wulf†and U.N. data, we can really visualize these startling changes. De Wulf arranged population figures to make a set of familiar aging visualizations called†population pyramids. We chose 15 countries and show you the transition from 2000 to 2100 in 10-year intervals. France's population will double between 1950 and 2100:  Brazil's†population will peak in 2040, at 224 million: Population Pyramid Over two-thirds of Burkina Faso's†population was younger than 30 in 2010. By 2100, it will be 45%: Population Pyramid China's†population will fall below the one-billion mark around 2090: Population Pyramid India's†population will peak in 2060 at 1.7 billion: Population Pyramid Germany's†population of over 80 million is already on the decline, and will hit 70.3 million in 2100: Population Pyramid The U.S. will have a population of 478 million in 2100: Population Pyramid In 2020, 20% of Japan†will be 70 or older: Population Pyramid Kenya's†population will only continue to grow, reaching 168 million by 2100. It was 30 million in 2000: Population Pyramid Argentina's†population will peak in 2065 at 51.3 million: Population Pyramid Egypt†has a huge youth population right now: Population Pyramid Qatar's†population is currently skewed to the male gender, making this pyramid the strangest looking: Population Pyramid South Africa†will reach its population peak in 2065 at 57.1 million: Population Pyramid Russia's†population will slowly decline and hit 111 million in 2100: Population Pyramid The U.K.'s population will grow to 75 million by 2100: Population Pyramid
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. It's Baloney To Think That Buy-And-Hold Is Dead (Morningstar)  The notion that buy-and-hold investing is dead is plain crazy, according to John Rekenthaler at Morningstar. "There never was any logic behind the 'buy-and-hold is dead' argument. Might it have lucked into being useful? Not a chance. Coming off the 2008 downturn, the U.S. stock market has roared to perhaps its best four and a half years in history. It has shone in absolute terms, posting a cumulative gain of 125% since spring 2009. It has been fabulous in real terms, with inflation being almost nonexistent during that time period. It's been terrific in relative terms, crushing bonds, cash, alternatives, and commodities, and by a more modest amount, beating most international-stock markets as well. This is The Golden Age. We have lived The Golden Age, all the while thinking it was lead.... "Critics will respond that mine is a bull-market argument. That's backward. "Buy-and-hold is dead" is the strategy that owes its existence to market results. It only appears after huge bear markets, and it only looks good after such markets. It is the oddity, while buy-and-hold is the norm." BlackRock Thinks Emerging Market Bond Outflows Will Continue (Investment News) Investors have pulled $22.1 billion from emerging market bond funds since April, according to EPFR Global. Wall Street thinks emerging market bond losses are set to get worse. "We're not yet convinced that we've seen the worst in terms of flows out of emerging markets," Jeffrey Rosenberg of BlackRock told Investment News. "We see a lot of valuation change but we see the potential for even more valuation change." How The Current Bond Fund Liquidation Compares To The Last Three (Deutsche Bank) "Despite large bond outflows of -$140b since May, as a proportion of AUM they amount to only 2.9%," according to Binky Chadha, Deutsche Bank chief strategist. "This compares to 14% in 1994-1995, 8% in 1999-2000 and 5% in 2003-2004. Also, recent outflows have only dented the substantial build up in bonds since 2009 with cumulative flows still almost a trillion dollars above trend levels." But Chadha doesn't think its time to load up on bonds just yet. Deutsche Bank 5 Ways Advisors Can Make The Most Of Social Media Marketing (Nerd's Eye View) It is important for financial advisors to realize that social media is another tool, not an alternative to, networking and referral marketing, writes Michael Kitces of Nerd's Eye View. To make the most of social media marketing Kitces has five simple suggestions.¬† 1. "Start Simple. Don't look at social media as something you have to do with a giant splash all at once. It is something you can tiptoe into over time." 2. "Listen Before You Leap. If you want some perspective on what social media is all about, and what works, start by just showing up (virtually) and listening in on the conversation." 3. "Share what you read already." 4. "Communicate in a¬† manner [that's] comfortable for you." 5. "Schedule Yourself. If your plan is to do a little social media here and there whenever you get around to it, and you have a normal, busy financial planning practice, you're never going to get around to it." Hedge Funds Are Being Forced To Lower Their Fees (The Wall Street Journal)  Hedge funds have had to cut their fees as investors have been increasingly disappointed with hedge fund returns, reports The Wall Street Journal. Hedge funds are being forced to make changes to their 2% of assets under management (AUM) and 20% of investment profits model. The WSJ writes that the average hedge fund now charges 1.6% of AUM and 18% of investment gains.
Stock Market Crash American economist Irving Fisher confidently predicted that "stocks have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau" in 1929. Unfortunately he made this statement just three days before the Stock Market Crash of the same year. Even as the Crash took hold followed by the Great Depression, Fisher continued to reassure investors that recovery was just around the corner. iPhone Mere months before the first iPhone was released in 2007 Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft, said, "There's no chance that the iPhone is going to get any significant market share. No chance." Apple has sold more than 116 million iPhones this year alone. Ballmer has soldiered on at Microsoft but it was announced last month that he is to retire within the year Y2K bug For years before the stroke of midnight heralded in the new millennium, analysts were convinced it would cause destruction. The American deputy Secretary of Defence John Hamre said it would be the "electronic equivalent of the El Nino." The mass hysteria stemmed from the fact that computer systems were built to record dates using only the last two digits of each year so they could recognise '77' as '1977' but '00' would set them into a tailspin. Hundreds of billions of pounds were spent on making software 'Y2K compliant' but all fears were unfounded with very few recorded malfunctions. The Beatles In 1962 the Beatles auditioned for Decca Records and were rejected. An executive told the band's manager Brian Epstein, "the Beatles have no future in Showbusiness." He went on to explain, "Groups are out; four-piece groups with guitars, particularly, are finished." Decca records selected the local band Brian Poole and the Tremeloes for their label instead and the Beatles became one of the greatest bands of all time Internet shopping In 1966 Time Magazine imagined what the world might look like in the year 2000. Among other prediction it said: ‚ÄúRemote shopping, while entirely feasible, will flop ‚Äì because women like to get out of the house, like to handle merchandise." Online shopping has not turned out to be a flop- men and women flock to it. Currently UK online retail sales stand at approximately ¬£586.6m per week Sinking of the Titanic Phillip Franklin, vice president of the White Star Line which produced the RMS Titanic predicted that it would never sink. He said: "There is no danger that Titanic will sink. The boat is unsinkable and nothing but inconvenience will be suffered by the passengers." On hearing of the Titanic's demise he simply said: "I do not understand it". Franklin was among many, including the ship's captain, who made the same prediction. The Great Storm The prediction that made Michael Fish famous was also the one that made him infamous, because it was wrong. In 1987 He cheerfully told BBC viewers that they had nothing to be concerned about after a woman had phoned to ask about whether a hurricane was on its way. He said: "Earlier on today, a woman rang the BBC and said she'd heard that there was a hurricane on the way. Well if you're watching, don't worry ‚Äì there isn't.". Mere hours later gale force winds of up to 122mph battered Britain, caused ¬£1.8 billion of damage and killed 19 people. Fish has been dogged by questions about the Great Storm incident to this day but insists no one was to blame. 
REUTERS/Eric ThayerA model makes a face while being made up before the Herve Leger by Max Azria Spring/Summer 2014 collection show during New York Fashion Week, September 7, 2013.Markets had a huge day on little news out of the U.S. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
stuartpilbrow / FlickrBusiness Insider is looking for a junior math and data junkie who wants to tell great stories using numbers and visualizations. Business Insider is launching a new endeavor called BI: Quant to do more math and data-based storytelling. Examples of what we've done include breaking down IMDB scores of television shows over time, to help demonstrate when shows peaked, running polls about the American experience and teaching our readers how to use math concepts to dominate at the board game Monopoly. The ideal candidate for this position is relentlessly curious, knows how to take find interesting data sets, manipulate them using math, and then create clear and digestible presentations that anyone can understand. Someone successful in this position will want to combine their love of math and data with our big areas of news coverage, including politics, the law, sports, the economy, and entertainment. Excel literacy is a must, as well as some experience creating graphics and charts. STATA and R familiarity is cool too, but not necessarily required. GIS and map making experience is also nice. Experience in media is not a necessity. The position will work alongside our reporter Walter Hickey as well as our Executive Editor Joe Weisenthal. Please email a letter and resum√© to our managing editor Jessica Liebman (jliebman@businessinsider.com). Feel free to include recent work in your response. ¬†As part of your application, please describe the "Birthday Paradox" as you would to a normal person with no advanced knowledge of statistics.¬†
Bank of America is expected to cut 2,100 jobs because demand for mortgage loans has declined as interest rates have climbed, Bloomberg News Hugh Son reports citing two unnamed sources familiar.¬† As part of this round of cuts, the bank is expected to close down 16¬†mortgage offices, the report said.¬† Bank of America isn't the first to shed mortgage jobs in recent weeks. ¬† Wells Fargo also¬†said it would cut 2,300 jobs.¬†
michael_swan via Compfight ccJuly consumer credit data are out. Total credit rose a seasonally-adjusted $10.437 billion in July (4.4% year over year) to $2.852 trillion, below estimates for a larger $12.700 billion expansion. June's credit expansion was revised down to $11.925 billion (a 5.1% year-over-year rise) from the initially-reported $13.818 billion figure. Revolving credit ‚Äì credit cards and the like ‚Äì fell $1.8 billion, or 2.6% year over year, to $849.8 billion. Non-revolving credit ‚Äì student loans, auto loans, et al. ‚Äì rose $12.3 billion, or 7.4% year over year, to $2.002 trillion. Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª
Google FinanceThe stock market rally is accelerating. Currently the Dow is up 153 points, which represents a 1.0% gain. The S&amp;P 500 is up 0.9%. Overnight, we learned that Chinese exports and Japanese GDP were much stronger than expected. This may be reinforcing confidence that the global economy is in better shape than many think. There isn't much on the U.S. economic data front today. At 3:00 p.m. ET, we'll get the July consumer credit balance report. Economists expect to see a $12.7 billion month-over-month gain.
Bloomberg TVJoe Granville, the technical analyst famous for his 1981 "sell everything" call that caused a 2.4% one-day drop in the Dow, has died at the age of 90. Granville had published the "Granville Market Letter" since 1963, successfully picking market drops in 1977 and 1978, according to a Bloomberg obituary. Sprinkled with a few bad calls, the bearish Granville nailed some of the biggest market moves in recent memory. From a 2012 Bloomberg article: He correctly forecast the bear market of 1977-78 and the burst of the Internet bubble that began in 2000. In March 2008, Granville said the Dow would end the year near 9,000, more than 27 percent below its level of 12,392.66 at the time. The gauge finished the year at 8,776.39. Granville, whose father lost his entire fortune in the 1929 crash, developed a stock market momentum indicator called on-balance volume (OBV). He later wrote that the idea occurred to him in 1961 while on the toilet, according to Bloomberg. Read the full obituary at Bloomberg&gt;
APBuying up European stocks has become the hottest trade in the world in recent weeks, as investors have poured billions of dollars into the asset class. The plunge into European markets has been accompanied by a surprise improvement in economic data across the region, which for years has been showing the effects of a prolonged recession brought about by the euro crisis. By early August, strategists like Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus were saying things like this (emphasis added): "Stateside investors are beginning to consider investments in Europe and elsewhere ex-U.S. for diversification once again as multiples expand stateside†and hints that conditions are beginning to improve outside of the U.S.,†particularly in the developed European markets, emanate. It appears to us that investing in Europe today might be parallel to investing stateside just a few years ago ahead of the big run-up." By mid-August, weekly fund flow data made it clear that investors were pulling money out of U.S.-oriented equity funds and putting it into European funds. "Largest weekly inflows to†European equity funds†in more than 2 years ($2.3bn) confirms Europe back in fashion," said BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett at the time. Shortly thereafter, the SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale global asset allocation team, led by strategist†Alain Bokobza,†made a bold call:†"European equities should enjoy net inflows of $100bn soon." Since then, we've seen continued outflows from the U.S. ñ and equity funds around the globe ñ while the one region consistently receiving inflows, week in and week out, has been Europe. So, is all of this newfound optimism toward Europe on Wall Street a cause for concern? JPMorgan equity strategist†Mislav Matejka clearly thinks not, judging by a note sent to clients today (emphasis added): Clearly the constructive view on Europe is these days an extremely crowded call. Is it a worry that almost every single sellside research department has in the past few weeks moved Europe to [overweight]? We donít think that one should be a contrarian here. We believe that the consensus nature of this call might actually increase the chances of it working. The region did poorly for so long, leaving many burned, that one needs a decisive shift in sentiment to challenge the entrenched bearish positions. That kind of language may set off alarm bells for the more contrarian-minded thinkers out there. To be sure, the "buy side" ñ hedge funds, money managers, and the like ñ aren't sold on the Europe story yet, according to Matejka: We donít find buyside to be as enthusiastic with respect to Europe. Importantly, investors are concerned by the lack of any stabilization in EPS revisions. We think this is crucial. A bottoming out in EPS revisions could turn the remaining scepticism toward the region. So, when should investors expect revisions to bottom out? "We believe that current levels of PMIs are already enough for positive EPS growth," says Matejka. "For the revisions themselves to turn outright positive historically we needed higher PMIs, in the 54-55 range. We are not far from these levels any more, and the forward looking PMI components look encouraging."
ScreenshotSince fall is here and that back-to-school feeling is in the air, it's time for a wardrobe revamp. And that doesn't just mean getting items that will keep your style fresh, that means getting rid of items that make your style crusty and tired. Not sure what those items are, guys? We're happy to help. This is a list of items that no man should wear anymore. They have no place in your closet and in fact shouldn't even be brought out for Halloween. Unless you're dressing like Kenny Powers, in which case live the night and then put it away. Forever.
Hereís something that Iíve been noticing lately: After 3 oíclock rolls around over here on the east coast, US Stocks have been losing steam into the close. Sometimes we see a market rally throughout the day that fizzles into the close. And other times, an already weak session finishes up even worse. Iíve picked up on this new trend but hadnít seen it plotted on a chart like this until this weekend. The good folks over at†Bespoke Investment Group†absolutely nailed it with this one. Well done. The chart represents the rolling 30-day average of the last hourís performance for the S&amp;P500. Look whatís been happening most recently:  From Bespoke: ìA positive last hour of the trading day for the market is a sign that traders are comfortable holding stocks overnight and into the next day, while a negative last hour means they arenít. †Last-hour performance is also a good gauge of how traders feel about foreign markets and geo-politics in general since Asian and European markets open for trading while weíre all sleeping here in the U.SÖ. Ö.Over the last month (22 trading days), the market has declined in the last hour of trading 18 times (82%) for an average change of -0.14%. †More recently, the index has now declined in the last hour 8 of the last 9 trading days, and even this week when the market rose, it sold off in the final hour 3 out of 4 times! †Traders are just doing whatever they can to get stocks off their hands by the time the 4 oíclock close rolls aroundî I thought this was really interesting. I had noticed this new theme developing, but this chart is right on the money and tells the story well. † Source: Last Hour Selloffs Becoming The Norm (Bespoke) Tags:†$SPY†$SPX†$ES_F † Full Disclosure: Nothing on this site should ever be considered to be advice, research or an invitation to buy or sell any securities, please see my Terms &amp; Conditions page for a full disclaimer.
Getty ImagesDaily Intelligencer's Kevin Roose reports that Goldman Sachs is kicking all past and current employees who have less than $1 million in assets out of its private bank. ¬† According to Roose, Goldmanites were allowed to keep their money in the bank's asset management division no matter how wealthy they were.¬† That perk is going away for all of those who have less than seven-figures in their account. ¬† From DI:¬† According to several ex-employees, Goldman began the transition earlier this year, by requiring employees with less than $1 million in assets at the firm to pay a $3,000 annual fee to keep their Goldman accounts open. Later, it sent a letter informing account holders under the limit that they would be forced to move their accounts by the end of 2014. Now callers to the firm's 800 number for employee financial services are greeted with a message: "Please press 1 if your call is regarding the Fidelity migration." Read the full report at the Daily Intelligencer &gt;
Since May, we've been bombarded by headlines of investors liquidating bond funds, which has sent interest rates higher. Just last week, we saw the 10-year U.S. Treasury Note yield hit 3.0% for the first time since July 2011. The scale of bond fund outflows has been large, but relative to assets under management they are basically in line with historical patterns. "Despite large bond outflows of -$140b since May, as a proportion of AUM they amount to only 2.9%," wrote Deutsche Bank chief strategist Binky Chadha in his latest Asset Allocation Strategy note. "This compares to 14% in 1994-1995, 8% in 1999-2000 and 5% in 2003-2004. Also, recent outflows have only dented the substantial build up in bonds since 2009 with cumulative flows still almost a trillion dollars above trend levels." Having said all that, Chadha doesn't think its time to buy bonds yet. Outlook and strategy: another catalyst-laden fall highlighted by the FOMC, Syria and US debt ceiling will likely sustain heightened levels of volatility. But the expected turn up in the data keeps us constructive on growth assets and the USD against a backdrop of rising rates. Our positioning has worked well through this tumultuous normalization in rates. Therefore, we maintain our asset allocation: we stay underweight bonds as risk/reward remains tilted to the downside; long equities, overweight the US; overweight credit, short duration; long the USD and underweight commodities. Deutsche Bank
They're still counting votes on the Hill to approve a strike on Syria.¬† But PIMCO's Bill Gross says investors need to prepare now for one. See his Tweet below. In forecasting a "steeper curve," he is saying he expects the difference between long-term interest rates and short-term interest rates to widen. Gross: American citizens seem to want war no more. Do their opinions matter? Doubt it. Structure portfolios for a strike. Steeper curve.
Is a 42-year-old serial entrepreneur already the greatest tech god since Steve Jobs? Or maybe ever? Thousands of Quora up-voters think so. And we wonít disagree. Extreme entrepreneurialism†is what the digital age enables -- and no one does it better than Elon. Disrupting the money world with PayPal. Launching SpaceX, already NASAís go-to rocket provider. Building Solar City, the biggest US solar-power installer. Electrifying Tesla Motors --†zero to $20B market cap, already the most transformative car maker since Henry Ford rolled out his Model T. Oh, and almost forgot: in his spare time, re-imagining LA-SF as a half-hour trip by†hyperloop. All that and more is why Elon will be headlining†IGNITION: Future of Digital, BI's flagship event November†11-13†at New Yorkís Time Warner Center. For a full hour heíll be talking with BI Editor-in-Chief Henry Blodget, as well as taking questions from the audience. Theyíll also talk money. Theyíll talk talent, design, and management. Theyíll talk about how ever-smarter software pushing ever more powerful hardware will continue rocking the planet (and maybe a few others topics). And we'll have test drives of the Tesla Model S -- hands-down winner as both the best and most transformative car in the world. For a preview of what you can expect in November, check out the†latest IGNITION 2013 line-up. And†reserve your spot†now before early-bird rates expire!  P.S. If you're interested in sponsorship opportunities at IGNITION, contact†events@businessinsider.com. Follow†@BI_Events†on Twitter for IGNITION updates.
China data dump continues on Tuesday as it reports August IP and retail sales. On Monday, China reported August CPI, which came in as expected at 2.6% y/y. Over the next week, China will report new yuan loans and aggregate financing, with whisper numbers suggesting an upside surprise could be in the cards. We expect the economy to continue stabilizing in the months ahead, though the recovery is unlikely to be very robust. Indeed, a senior government economist said it may cut the 2014 target to 7% while adding actual growth would likely be higher than that. For now, we see USD/CNY trading sideways in the 6.10-6.15 range. South Africa reports Q2 current account data Tuesday and is seen at -6.2% of GDP vs. -5.8% in Q1. The trade deficit narrowed in Q2, and so we think there is some scope for a better than expected print. However, it is unlikely to significantly alter the current bearish fundamental mix of high external financing needs, high inflation, and slow growth. USD/ZAR is attempting to finally break out of the 10.0-10.5 range that held since mid-August. Clean break of 10 would target 9.70 and 9.60. Resistance seen near 10.35 and then 10.50. Bank of Korea meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 2.5%. Price pressures remain low even as the economy is still slowing and so we think easing may be seen ahead, especially if the won continues to firm. Indeed, it‚Äôs worth noting that yen weakness and won firmness has seen the pair drop below 11 today to the lowest level since May. A strong won may eventually push BOK into cutting rates Q4. For USD/KRW, support seen near 1080 and then 1060, resistance near 1100 and then 1120. Bank Indonesia meets Thursday and consensus is for steady rates at 7.0%. However, some are calling for a 25 bp or 50 bp hike. We think ongoing rupiah weakness could push BI into delivering a 50 bp hawkish surprise to 7.5%. Recent precedence shows that the BI has relied on interest rates more than other EM central banks to fight currency weakness. In any case, it remains to be seen whether the rupiah can hang onto its recent gains. For USD/IDR, resistance seen near 11750, after which the next targets are the March 2009 high near 12015 an then the November 2008 high near 13000. Support seen near 11000 and then 10500. Philippines central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 3.5%. Mix of slowing economy and low inflation is likely keeping a dovish bias for the central bank, but for now it remains on hold. USD/PHP is trading at its highest levels since September 2010. Resistance seen near 45.00 and then 45.60, support seen near 44.0 and then 43.0. India reports August CPI and July IP on Thursday. Data is expected to show a continued combination of slow growth and high inflation. It remains to be seen whether new RBI Governor Rajan will have a lasting positive impact on market sentiment. The rupee has also been helped by the generalized improvement in EM sentiment, and that too may be temporary. For USD/INR, support seen near 65 and then 64, resistance seen near 66 and then 68. Indian markets were closed Monday. Chile central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 5.0%. Its quarterly inflation report last week affirmed its easing bias even as it cut its growth and inflation forecasts. The central bank also noted that policy is likely to unfold close to market expectations, which we note is pricing in 50 bp of easing by year-end. We agree, and see easing commencing in Q4. Inflation of 2.2% y/y is at the bottom of its 2-4% target range. For USD/CLP, support seen near 505 and then 500, resistance seen near 510 and then 520. Peru central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 4.25%. Here too, the economy is slowing but inflation has been above the 1-3% target range for two straight months, standing at 3.3% y/y in August. We think easing is likely ahead, but not until inflation falls below 3% and back towards 2%. For USD/PEN, support seen near 2.80, resistance seen near the 2.8260-70 highs from August.
HBO screencapIf you're an aspiring journalist interested in Lifestyle, Advertising, Entertainment, Personal Finance, Lists, or Social Media, Business Insider has the perfect internship for you! We are still on the hunt for a few star interns to join our growing team this fall. The internship is a four-month paid position that requires you work in our Manhattan office at least three full days a week, preferably five. As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features. Other perks? We have free snacks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and basic Photoshop experience (think cropping). Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. Please send your resume and three journalism clips to jliebman@businessinsider.com. Please briefly describe which BI section interests you most and why. And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. The internship term runs four months. Interested in a journalism internship but have never heard of Business Insider? Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed.
The billionaire hunters at Bloomberg have found another one ‚Äî a billionaire born out of the bottom of a glass. Jim Koch, the founder of Boston Beer Co., brewer of Sam Adams, rode the craft beer wave to wealth with a family recipe. When he started, though, the United States was basically a "beer wasteland." He told Bloomberg, "nobody wanted my beer." So Koch, a Harvard graduate and sixth generation brewer, knocked on doors at bars across the country to get them to carry his beer. He first paid himself $60,000 and hoped to sell $1 million worth of beer in five years ‚Äî likely a step down from his first job at Boston Consulting Group in 1979. At the time there were only about a dozen craft brewers in the country going up against the big beer companies. It was at that point that Koch's family realized he was not kidding about making his brewery happen, so they brought out the big guns (from Bloomberg): When his father realized Koch was serious about starting a brewery, they went into the attic and dug out the recipe developed in the 1860s by his great-great grandfather Louis Koch. That became the basis for Boston Lager. Within a year, his marketing scored two boosts: taking the brand name from Samuel Adams, a Revolutionary War Patriot he found had a brewing connection, and getting the beer named the country‚Äôs best at a national brewing festival. By 1990, Koch had exceeded his business plan multiple times, selling $21.2 million in beer that year. Four years later, revenue topped $128 million. Boston Beer Co. IPO'd in 1995 and now sells 2.7 million barrels of beer a day. Very serious stuff.
Web Services via Flickr On Thursday Bloomberg Businessweek will premier a documentary on former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson called ‚ÄúHank: Five Years From the Brink,‚Äù says the New York Times.  The anguish and stress of Paulson's role in the financial crisis aside, this documentary is interesting for two reasons. First, there's the fact that it will be distributed through Netflix ‚Äî a deal Bloomberg Businessweek editor¬†Josh Tyrangiel said probably isn't indicative of a whole new line of Businessweek documentaries (though... that would probably be cool, just sayin'). Then there's the fact that Michael Bloomberg himself will be sitting on a panel with Paulson at the movie's premier on Thursday. It's the first time the soon-to-be former Mayor has ever made an appearance for Bloomberg Businessweek since his media empire purchased the magazine in 2009. So there's that.
Over the weekend we got Chinese trade data that showed the economy is stabilizing. But we also noted a modest improvement in exports to the U.S. which were up 6.1% on the year, compared with 5.3% in July. Societe Generale's Wei Yao pointed out that a look at Chinese imports from the U.S., compared with Chinese exports to the U.S., suggests that China is missing out on the U.S. recovery.¬† She explains why this is happening. "One interesting trend we have noticed is the enormous underperformance of China‚Äôs exports to the states versus China‚Äôs imports from the states. The former has been growing faster than the latter for 15 months ‚Äì the longest streak since China entered the WTO in 2002, and the difference between the two growth rates has averaged around 13ppt so far this year. It looks as if China missed out on the US recovery. "Several dynamics may be at play, including the relocation of low-end manufacturing from China to neighbouring emerging countries as well as the regained competitiveness of the US itself. China will still benefit, if the US economy continues to improve. However, it may not be a factor strong enough to support a sustained growth recovery of the Chinese economy anymore." Societe Generale
Not only was the 152,000 level of private sector job creation below estimates and ìwhisper numbers,î but the U.S. once again relied on low-wage jobs (generally 1/3rd of total jobs in the economy) for 57% of total job creation.†  These jobs pay about $15.80/hour, whereas the other 2/3rds of jobs in the economy pay over $27.00/hour.†  The economy is not creating jobs that enable workers to hold their own relative to the cost of living.† The detail is to the right (click to enlarge).
Markets are off to a good start this week, with stocks, bonds, and orange juice all headed higher in Monday morning trading. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is up 0.5%, trading at 1663. Earlier, it made a high of 1666. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, at 2.89%, is 4 basis points lower from Friday's close, and 10-year Treasury futures are up 0.4%. Gold is up 0.3% on the day, trading at $1390 an ounce after falling as low as $1382 earlier this morning. And orange juice futures are up 3.4%, headed for their biggest daily gain since May. Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson previews the week ahead in a note to clients this morning: As far as the U.S. is concerned there is little on the horizon for Monday to create enthusiasm other than a late-in-the-day review of consumer credit data for July. Tuesday delivers wholesale inventories followed by import price data due midweek. Price data rolls in on Thursday while investors will have to await the juiciest news of the week until Friday when the impact of back-to-school shopping will be under the microscope in the August retail sales report. At the same time we‚Äôll learn the latest gauge of consumer confidence courtesy of pollsters at the University of Michigan. Risk assets in general are finding support today. "Faster export growth out of China over the weekend coupled with¬†added vigor¬†from a revised view of Japanese GDP have created grounds for a much needed rally for emerging markets¬†after a prolonged drubbing," says Wilkinson. "The tone to US trading is bullish beneath the surface and despite a sloppy start to European activity where the rally only drew sellers out of the woodwork." In Europe, the London FTSE 100, the French CAC 40, and the Spanish IBEX 35 are all 0.3% lower. The German DAX, however, is up 0.1%, and the Italian FTSE MIB is up 1.0%. Overnight, the Japanese Nikkei advanced 2.5%, while the Hong Kong Hang Seng rose 0.6% and the Australian ASX 200 gained 0.7%.
YouTube/Brad DeLongFor all of our benefit, economist Brad DeLong has come up with his personal list of books written since 1930 "that have shifted the ground on which I think." These foundational works surely helped DeLong become a top Treasury official and one of the country's foremost voices in macroeconomic thinking. Here's the list: There you have it. Read up.
On Saturday evening I was looking for an interesting Midtown Manhattan restaurant to get dinner. ¬†I¬†decided to try an Italian place on 56th Street called Il Tinello. It's a really charming spot. ¬†The service was impeccable and the food and wine was fantastic. ¬† It turns out that billionaire investor Carl Icahn is a regular customer there, too. ¬†He even has his own¬†special dish on the menu called "Pasta Alla Icahn." ¬†It's farfalle with tomatoes, onions and pancetta and it costs $23.50. I didn't try Icahn's favorite. ¬†I also didn't see a "Penne Alla Ackman" on the menu. Check it out:¬† Julia La Roche for Business Insider
WolframAlpha ‚Äî quite possibly the nerdiest site on the Internet ‚Äî is an outstanding resource when it comes to calculation and data analytics. While any math geek is aware of the site's computational prowess, you might not know what an awesome resource it can be when analyzing companies and stocks.¬† WolframAlpha draws from a vast realm of data to provide an incredible snapshot of a company in a single page. It's never been easier ‚Äî especially for amateur investors ‚Äî to research financial statistics.¬† Produced by Daniel Goodman
REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A Hindu devotee washes herself and offers prayers after performing rituals on the banks of Bagmati River, while celebrating Kuse Aunse (Father's Day) at Gokarna Temple in Kathmandu, September 5, 2013.Deutsche Bank global strategist†Sanjeev Sanyal wrote a thought-provoking note today about the future of global population. "The world is approaching a major turning point in its demographic trajectory and we think that the shift is likely to be sooner and sharper than mainstream projections suggest," Sanyal writes.  In case you've missed it, the global fertility rate has been steadily dropping since 1950.  Sanyal points clients to the Total Fertility Rate (TFR), the average number of live births per women over her lifetime. For most developed countries, the TFR is well below the so-called "replacement rate" of 2.1-2.3. Even in emerging markets like Brazil, the TFR has dropped from 6.2 in the early 1950s to below replacement at 1.8, Sanyal notes. And in China, the world's most populous country, the TFR is overstated due to a "skewed gender ratio." As Sanyal concludes, "In our view, global fertility will fall to the replacement rate in less than fifteen years." We feel that the worldís overall fertility rate will fall to replacement rate by 2025. In other words, reproductively speaking, our species will no longer be expanding ñ a major turning point in history. Of course,†overall world population will still expand for a couple more decades due to momentum in the age structure and rising longevity, but this lagged effect will ultimately ease off unless we discover the elixir of immortality. Thus, we forecast that world population will peak around 2055 at 8.7bn and will then decline to 8.0bn by 2100. In other words, our forecasts suggest that world population will peak at least half a century sooner than the UN expects and that by 2100, and that level will be 2.8bn below the UNís prediction. This is obviously a radically different view of the world.† "We want merely want to alert readers to the strong likelihood that the future trajectory of world population could be an order of magnitude below what conventional projections suggest," Sanyal tells clients.
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnBillionaire activist investor Carl Icahn has given up on his efforts to take Dell private, according to a new SEC filing.¬† In the letter to Dell shareholders, Icahn asks people to follow him on Twitter at @Carl_C_Icahn. Here's the full letter:¬†(emphasis ours)
ShutterstockDo you check your phone for market updates before getting out of bed? Are you parked in front of a Bloomberg terminal before your morning coffee?¬† If you nodded "yes" to either of the above questions, we'd like to hear from you.¬† Individual Investors:¬† We'd like to learn more about your investment decisions and strategies. How often do you rebalance your portfolio? How do you go about formulating your investment strategies? Are you exposed to index funds, the housing market, or commodities?¬† Financial Advisors:¬† Tell us about how you manage assets and advise clients. What are the top challenges your clients face? Are you an independent advisor or do you work for a wire house? Would you recommend your clients buy stock in an IPO? Help us find out about the state of investing in 2013. Click here to take the survey. Thanks in advance for your candid answers.
Former federal prosecutor Neil Barofsky, who is also the former Special Inspector General for TARP and the author of "Bailout," is joining a big white collar law firm, Jenner &amp; Block.† In his new job, Barofsky will be a partner in the New York office and he'll be representing financial firms in the hedge fund and private equity space.† "Neil is a great fit for Jenner &amp; Block.† His background as a senior federal prosecutor in Manhattan and the TARPís inspector general has given him an unparalleled grasp of the most complex financial transactions of the last decade.† He will undoubtedly enhance the firmís capabilities in securities and other litigation matters on behalf of hedge funds, private equity firms and other entities litigating over complex financial instruments,î†Susan Levy, managing partner of Jenner &amp; Block, said in a statement.† "I look forward to using my experiences as a prosecutor, as a financial regulator and as a trial lawyer to assist and defend clients who find themselves the subject of criminal and regulatory enforcement matters and also to representing clients in civil litigation, including those seeking redress for harm suffered in complex financial transactions," Barofsky said in a statement. Jenner &amp; Block's chairman Anton Valukas†served as the examiner in the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. The law firm produced a huge cache of Lehman bankruptcy documents that included a bunch of embarrassing emails.† Here's the full press release on Barofsky's hire:† Jenner &amp; Block LLP is pleased to announce that†Neil Barofsky, a former federal prosecutor who served as the chief watchdog of the historic $700 billion federal bailout adopted in response to the 2008 financial crisis, has joined its New York office as a partner in the firmís Litigation Department.† He will be a member of the firm's practice groups in White Collar Defense and Investigations; Securities Litigation and Enforcement; and Government Controversies and Public Policy Litigation. Mr. Barofsky is an acclaimed trial lawyer who burnished a national reputation as a staunch advocate for accountability in our financial system.† Confirmed by the Senate as the first Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) in late 2008, he oversaw the creation and expansion of a law enforcement agency within the U.S. Treasury Department, which was charged by Congress to conduct criminal and civil investigations of fraud and abuse linked to the bailouts.† Since leaving that post in 2011, Mr. Barofsky has been a noted commentator on a variety of issues at the intersection of economics, law, business and politics for Bloomberg TV and other media outlets.† He documented his experiences in overseeing the TARP Program in his best-selling book, Bailout. Mr. Barofsky spent more than eight years as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York (SDNY), where he investigated and tried some of the most significant cases in the United States, including the successful investigation, trial and conviction of former Refco, Inc. officers of a $2.4 billion securities and accounting fraud, for which he received the Department of Justiceís highest award for excellence in legal performance.† He rose to be a Senior Trial Counsel and headed the Mortgage Fraud Group, a prosecutorial team that investigated and prosecuted all aspects of mortgage fraud, including those concerning the most complex financial instruments at the heart of the financial crisis. ìNeil is a great fit for Jenner &amp; Block.† His background as a senior federal prosecutor in Manhattan and the TARPís inspector general has given him an unparalleled grasp of the most complex financial transactions of the last decade.† He will undoubtedly enhance the firmís capabilities in securities and other litigation matters on behalf of hedge funds, private equity firms and other entities litigating over complex financial instruments,î said Susan C. Levy, Managing Partner of Jenner &amp; Block. Jenner &amp; Blockís Chairman and the Examiner in the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, Anton R. Valukas, said, ìNeilís experience is simply unmatched.† He offers our clients the judgment and credibility they require when dealing with the Justice Department, the Treasury Department, Congress, the SEC and other financial regulators.† Iím delighted to welcome Neil to the firm.î As the first Special Inspector General for TARP, Mr. Barofsky established an investigative office of more than 130 employees.† Under his leadership, the officeís investigations led to the recovery or avoided losses of more than $700 million, and to date have led to more than 100 fraud convictions.† He implemented the officeís audit division, whose acclaimed reports helped protect vital taxpayer interests.† He has testified before Congress more than two dozen times.† ìJenner &amp; Block is an ideal platform where my practice can flourish because of its renowned litigation reputation, the iconic role it has played in issues surrounding the financial crisis and the firmís regular role in matters involving complex financial instruments.† Most importantly, I wanted to work at a firm that shares my commitment to zealous advocacy of its clients and, as demonstrated in the Lehman examinership, a willingness to embrace the most challenging matters against the most difficult adversaries in the most demanding circumstances.† I look forward to using my experiences as a prosecutor, as a financial regulator and as a trial lawyer to assist and defend clients who find themselves the subject of criminal and regulatory enforcement matters and also to representing clients in civil litigation, including those seeking redress for harm suffered in complex financial transactions,î said Mr. Barofsky, currently a Senior Fellow for the Center on the Administration of Criminal Law at the New York University Law School.† ìI am also looking forward to following in the firmís tradition of service through examinerships and monitorships, as well as its demonstrated commitment to pro bono and community service.† Jenner &amp; Block is a perfect fit for me.î Peter B. Pope, co-chair of the firmís White Collar Defense and Investigations Practice, said, ìWith a focus on white collar defense and civil litigation ñ particularly involving complex financial instruments ñ Neil is a strong addition to our unique offering of a top-flight white collar practice with a compelling track record in complex civil litigation involving financial matters.î Mr. Barofsky is a 1995†magna cum laude†graduate of the New York University School of Law and a 1992†magna cum laude†graduate of the University of Pennsylvania where he received undergraduate degrees from the Wharton School of Business and the College of Arts and Sciences. In the firmís New York Office, Mr. Barofsky will be joining leading white collar defense practitioners Peter Pope, former head of the New York State Attorney Generalís Criminal Division; Katya Jestin, former Assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn; and Tony Barkow, former Assistant United States Attorney in Manhattan and Washington, D.C.† In the arena of civil litigation involving complex financial instruments, he joins Richard Ziegler, the Officeís Managing Partner, and Stephen Ascher, a co-chair of the firmís Securities Litigation Practice.† In May 2013, Messrs. Ziegler and Ascher won a civil trial against Bank of New York Mellon Trust, permitting firm client Chesapeake Energy Corp. to redeem $1.3 billion in high-yield bonds six years early, over the indenture trusteeís objection, and last month resolved four years of litigation for firm client Brookfield Asset Management against AIG Financial Products over whether AIGís 2008 financial crisis terminated a $1.5 billion interest rate swap.
REUTERS/Nour FouratA Free Syrian Army fighter stands in a shooting position in Raqqa province, eastern Syria September 8, 2013. Oil prices have climbed about 3.6% since the mere prospect of a Syria attack was raised at the end of August. But in a new note, SocGen's Mike Wittner and former OPEC President Sadek Boussena say that while there would almost certainly be another jump should a strike occur, it probably won't be very great, and it probably can't last. Indeed, it may even fall below current levels. Here's Wittner: If and when there is a limited US-led strike on Syria, Brent prices can go to $120-125 for a brief period ‚Äì so there is another $5-10 of upside. However, in our base case, which has an 80% probability, there is no spillover that results in a real physical supply disruption in the MENA region. So within two weeks of the beginning of the military action, Brent will be back down where it was before this all started, at $110. It could even overshoot, and temporarily go lower, say to $105. But then the ongoing disruption in Libya would put a floor under prices and bring us back to $110 pretty quickly. The reason is that fundamentals are not supportive of further advances. Indeed, prior to the chemical attack being reported, the put/call ratio on the price of Brent was skewed ¬†to the bearish side. Here's Boussena: When we look at the fundamentals, we have the growing prospect of US shale, we have significant risks to EM growth (currency depreciation), the possible financial impact of Fed tapering ‚Äì all this quite bearish.¬† Boussena does lay out the following spillover scenario that could push prices higher: There is a larger risk with Syria even though it is not that important with respect to oil. 1) obviously if this spills into Iraq we could lose 2 mb/d; 2) bear in mind that the Gulf countries are participating by funding the rebels and perhaps in the future may themselves be at risk of retaliation via terrorism actions; and 3) most significantly, in Egypt there could be more tension, even though they have a strong army, and even though Egypt, Iraq and Saudi Arabia may not be directly impacted by a strike in Syria on the next day, week or even month, we could have much larger problems in these countries. In other words, we could see a knock-on impact in the following weeks or months. But scenario will remain remote, Boussena says, as long as the strike is strategic and of limited duration.¬†
APIt's easy to blame Congress for the federal government's paralysis on job creation. But here are five job-creating options that lie squarely within President Obama's power, if only he is willing to pursue them. Yesterday, I looked at how last month's jobs report was disappointing and why we can't necessarily expect the numbers to get better anytime soon. But if Obama takes the five steps above, things should start looking a bit better.
U.S. GovernmentSamantha Power.The U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, gave a speech last week¬†that lays out what is perhaps the most persuasive case calling for U.S. strikes on Syria. The gist of Power's argument is this: The world has agreed that it will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons. The U.N. Security Council, which has not even agreed to verbally condemn the use of these weapons in Syria, is a corrupt body in which member states do not act on behalf of the world but simply look out for their own national interests. If the United States does not enforce a rule that the world has already agreed to, then no one ever will. Here's Ambassador Power: Good afternoon. I‚Äôm very glad to be back in Washington this afternoon, and among so many friends here at the Center for American Progress. As you know, my topic today is Syria, which presents one of the most critical foreign policy challenges we face. Syria is important because it lies at the heart of a region critical to U.S. security, a region that is home to friends and partners and one of our closest allies. It is important because the Syrian regime possesses stores of chemical weapons that they have recently used on a large scale and that we cannot allow to fall into terrorists‚Äô hands. It is important because the Syrian regime is collaborating with Iran, and works in lockstep with thousands of extremist fighters from Hezbollah. And Syria is important because its people ‚Äì in seeking freedom and dignity -- have suffered unimaginable horror these last two and a half years. But I also recognize how ambivalent Americans are about the situation there. On the one hand, we Americans share a desire, after two wars, which have taken 6,700 American lives and cost over $1 trillion dollars, to invest taxpayer dollars in American schools and infrastructure. Yet on the other hand, Americans have heard the President‚Äôs commitment that this will not be Iraq, this will not be Afghanistan, this will not be Libya. Any use of force will be limited and tailored narrowly to the chemical weapons threat. On the one hand, we share an abhorrence for the brutal, murderous tactics of Bashar al-Assad. Yet on the other hand, we are worried about the violent extremists who, while opposed to Assad, have themselves carried out atrocities. On the one hand, we share the deep conviction that chemical weapons are barbaric, that we should never again see children killed in their beds, lost to a world that they never had a chance to try to change. Yet on the other hand, some are wondering why ‚Äì given the flagrant violation of an international norm ‚Äì it is incumbent on the United States to lead, since we cannot and should not be the world‚Äôs policeman. Notwithstanding these complexities ‚Äì notwithstanding the various concerns that we all share ‚Äì I am here today to explain why the costs of not taking targeted, limited military action are far greater than the risks of going forward in the manner that President Obama has outlined. Every decision to use military force is an excruciatingly difficult one. It is especially difficult when one filters the Syria crisis through the prism of the past decade. But let me take a minute to discuss the uniquely monstrous crime that has brought us to this crossroads. What comes to mind for me is one father in al-Ghouta saying goodbye to his two young daughters. His girls had not yet been shrouded, they were still dressed in the pink shorts and leggings of little girls. The father lifted their lifeless bodies, cradled them, and cried out ‚ÄúWake up...What would I do without you?... How do I stand this pain?‚Äù As a parent, I cannot begin to answer his questions. I cannot begin to imagine what it would be like to feel such searing agony. In arguing for limited military action in the wake of this mass casualty chemical weapons atrocity, we are not arguing that Syrian lives are worth protecting only when they are threatened with poison gas. Rather, we are reaffirming what the world has already made plain in laying down its collective judgment on chemical weapons: there is something different about chemical warfare that raises the stakes for the United States and raises the stakes for the world. There are many reasons that governments representing 98% of the world‚Äôs population ‚Äì including all 15 members of the UN Security Council ‚Äì agreed to ban chemical weapons. These weapons kill in the most gruesome possible way. They kill indiscriminately ‚Äì they are incapable of distinguishing between a child and a rebel. And they have the potential to kill massively. We believe that this one attack in Damascus claimed more than 1,400 lives, far more than even the worst attacks by conventional means in Syria. And we assess that, although Assad used more chemical weapons on August 21 than he had before, he has barely put a dent in his enormous stockpile, and the international community has clearly not yet put a dent in his willingness to use them. President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and many members of Congress have spelled out the consequences of failing to meet this threat. If there are more chemical attacks, we will see an inevitable spike in the flow of refugees, on top of the already two million in the region, possibly pushing Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey or Iraq past their breaking points. The fourth largest city in Jordan right now is already the Zaatari refugee camp. Half of Syria‚Äôs refugees are children, and we know what can happen to children who grow to adulthood without hope or opportunity in refugee camps; the camps become fertile recruiting grounds for violent extremists. And beyond Syria, if the violation of a universal agreement to ban chemical weapons is not met with a meaningful response, other regimes will seek to acquire or use them to protect or extend their power, increasing risks to American troops in the future. We cannot afford to signal to North Korea and Iran that the international community is unwilling to act to prevent proliferation or willing to tolerate the use of weapons of mass destruction. If there are no consequences now for breaking the prohibition on chemical weapons, it will be harder to muster an international consensus to ensure that Hizballah and other terrorist groups are prevented from acquiring or using these weapons themselves. People will draw lessons if the world proves unwilling to enforce the norms against chemical weapons use that we have worked so diligently to construct. And Israel‚Äôs security is threatened by instability in the region and its security is enhanced when those who would do it harm know that the United States stands behind its word. That‚Äôs why we‚Äôve seen Israel‚Äôs supporters in the United States come out in support of the President‚Äôs proposed course of action. These are just some of the risks of inaction. But many Americans and some Members in Congress have legitimately focused as well on the risks of action. They have posed a series of important questions, and I would like to use the remainder of my remarks to address a few of them. Some have asked, given our collective war-weariness, why we cannot use non-military tools to achieve the same end. My answer to this question is: we have exhausted the alternatives. For more than a year, we have pursued countless policy tools short of military force to try to dissuade Assad from using chemical weapons. We have engaged the Syrians directly and, at our request, the Russians, the UN, and the Iranians sent similar messages. But when SCUDS and other horrific weapons didn‚Äôt quell the Syrian rebellion, Assad began using chemical weapons on a small-scale multiple times, as the United States concluded in June. Faced with this growing evidence of several small-scale subsequent attacks, we redoubled our efforts. We backed the UN diplomatic process and tried to get the parties back to the negotiating table, recognizing that a political solution is the best way to reduce all forms of threat. We provided more humanitarian assistance. And on chemical weapons specifically, we assembled and went public with compelling and frightening evidence of the regime‚Äôs use. We worked with the UN to create a group of inspectors and then worked for more than six months to get them access to the country, on the logic that perhaps the presence of an investigative team in the country might deter future attacks. Or if not, at a minimum, we thought perhaps a shared evidentiary base could convince Russia or Iran ‚Äì itself a victim of Saddam Hussein‚Äôs monstrous chemical weapons attacks in 1987-1988 ‚Äì to cast loose a regime that was gassing its people. We expanded and accelerated our assistance to the Syrian opposition. We supported the UN Commission of Inquiry. Russia, often backed by China, has blocked every relevant action in the Security Council, even mild condemnations of the use of chemical weapons that did not ascribe blame to any particular party. In Assad‚Äôs cost-benefit calculus, he must have weighed the military benefits of using this hideous weapon against the recognition that he could get away with it because Russia would have Syria‚Äôs back in the Security Council. And on August 21 he staged the largest chemical weapons attack in a quarter century while UN inspectors were sitting on the other side of town. It is only after the United States pursued these non-military options without achieving the desired result of deterring chemical weapons use, that the President concluded that a limited military strike is the only way to prevent Assad from employing chemical weapons as if they are a conventional weapon of war. I am here today because I believe ‚Äì and President Obama believes ‚Äì that those of us who are arguing for the limited use of force must justify our position, accepting responsibility for the risks and potential consequences of action. When one considers pursuing non-military measures, we must similarly address the risks inherent in those approaches. At this stage, the diplomatic process is stalled because one side has just been gassed on a massive scale and the other side so far feels it has gotten away with it. What would words ‚Äì in the form of belated diplomatic condemnation ‚Äì achieve? What could the International Criminal Court really do, even if Russia or China were to allow a referral? Would a drawn out legal process really affect the immediate calculus of Assad and those who ordered chemical weapons attacks? We could try again to pursue economic sanctions, but ‚Äì even if Russia budged ‚Äì would more asset freezes, travel bans, and banking restrictions convince Assad not to use chemical weapons again when he has a pipeline to the resources of Hezbollah and Iran? Does anybody really believe that deploying the same approaches we have tried for the last year will suddenly be effective? Of course, this isn‚Äôt the only legitimate question being raised. People are asking, shouldn‚Äôt the United States work through the Security Council on an issue that so clearly implicates international peace and security? The answer is, of course, yes. We would if we could, but we can‚Äôt. Every day for the two and a half years of the Syrian conflict, we have shown how seriously we take the UN Security Council and our obligations to enforce international peace and security. Since 2011, Russia and China have vetoed three separate Security Council resolutions condemning the Syrian regime‚Äôs violence or promoting a political solution to the conflict. This year alone, Russia has blocked at least three statements expressing humanitarian concern and calling for humanitarian access to besieged cities in Syria. And in the past two months, Russia has blocked two resolutions condemning the generic use of chemical weapons and two press statements expressing concern about their use. We believe that more than 1,400 people were killed in Damascus on August 21, and the Security Council could not even agree to put out a press statement expressing its disapproval. The international system that was founded in 1945 ‚Äîa system we designed specifically to respond to the kinds of horrors we saw play out in World War II‚Äîhas not lived up to its promise or its responsibilities in the case of Syria. And it is naive to think that Russia is on the verge of changing its position and allowing the UN Security Council to assume its rightful role as the enforcer of international peace and security. In short, the Security Council the world needs to deal with this urgent crisis is not the Security Council we have. Many Americans recognize that, while we were right to seek to work through the Security Council, it is clear that Syria is one of those occasions ‚Äì like Kosovo ‚Äì when the Council is so paralyzed that countries have to act outside it if they are to prevent the flouting of international laws and norms. But these same people still reasonably ask: Beyond the Security Council, what support does the United States have in holding Assad accountable? While the United States possesses unique capabilities to carry out a swift, limited, and proportionate strike so as to prevent and deter future use of chemical weapons, countries around the world have joined us in supporting decisive action. The Arab League has urged international action against Syria in response to what it called the ‚Äúugly crime‚Äù of using chemical weapons. The NATO Secretary General has said that the Syrian regime ‚Äúis responsible‚Äù and that ‚Äúwe need a firm international response to avoid that chemical attacks take place in the future.‚Äù The Organization of Islamic Cooperation blamed the Syrian government for the chemical attacks and called for ‚Äúdecisive action.‚Äù And eleven countries at the G-20 Summit today called for a ‚Äústrong international response‚Äù and noted their ‚Äúsupport for efforts undertaken by the United States and other countries to reinforce the prohibition on the use of chemical weapons.‚Äù As I have found over the last week at the UN, the more that countries around the world are confronted with the hard facts of what occurred on August 21, the more they recognize that the steep price of impunity for Assad could extend well beyond Syria. The President's decision to seek congressional support has also given the United States time to mobilize additional international support, and there is no question that authorization by our Congress will help strengthen our case. One of the most common concerns we have heard centers less on the how or when of intervention, but on the what. Some Americans are asking, how can we be sure that the United States will avoid a slippery slope that would lead to full-scale war with Syria? On the other hand, others are asking, if the U.S. action is limited, how will that have the desired effect on Assad? These are good and important questions. The United States cannot police every crisis any more than we can shelter every refugee. The President has made it clear: he is responding militarily to a mass casualty chemical weapons incident; any military action will be a meaningful, time-limited response to deter the regime from using chemical weapons again ‚Äì and to degrade its ability to do so. From the start of the Syrian conflict, the President has consistently demonstrated that he will not put American boots on the ground to fight another war in the Middle East. The draft resolution before Congress makes this clear. President Obama is seeking your support to employ limited military means to achieve very specific ends ‚Äì to degrade Assad‚Äôs capacity to use these weapons again, and deter others in the world who might follow suit ‚Äì and the United States has the discipline as a country to maintain these limits. Limited military action will not be designed to solve the entire Syria problem -- not even the most ardent proponents of military intervention in Syria believe that peace can be achieved through military means. But this action should have the effect of reinforcing our larger strategy for addressing the crisis in Syria. By degrading Assad's capacity to deliver chemical weapons, we will also degrade his ability to strike at civilian populations by conventional means. In addition this operation, combined with ongoing efforts to upgrade the military capabilities of the moderate opposition, should reduce the regime‚Äôs faith that they can kill their way to victory. In this instance, the use of limited military force can strengthen our diplomacy ‚Äì and energize the efforts by the UN and others to achieve a negotiated settlement to the underlying conflict. Let me add a few thoughts in closing. I know I have not addressed every doubt that exists in this room, in this town, in this country, or in the broader international community. This is the right debate for us to have. We should be asking the hard questions and making deliberate choices before embarking upon action. There is no risk-free door #2 that we can choose in this case. Public skepticism of foreign interventions is an extremely healthy phenomenon in our democracy, a check against the excessive use of military power. The American people elect leaders to exercise judgment, and there have been times in our history when presidents have taken hard decisions to use force that were not initially popular, because they believed our interests demanded it. From 1992, when the Bosnian genocide started, till 1995, when President Clinton launched the air strikes that stopped the war, public opinion consistently opposed military action there. Even after we succeeded in ending the war and negotiating a peace settlement, the House of Representatives, reflecting public opinion, voted against deploying American troops to a NATO peacekeeping mission. There is no question that this deployment of American power saved lives and returned stability to a critical region of the world and a critical region for the United States. We all have a choice to make. Whether we are Republicans or Democrats, whether we have supported past military interventions or opposed them, whether we have argued for or against such action in Syria prior to this point, we should agree that there are lines in this world that cannot be crossed, and limits on murderous behavior, especially with weapons of mass destruction, that must be enforced. If we cannot summon the courage to act when the evidence is clear, and when the action being contemplated is limited, then our ability to lead in the world is compromised. The alternative is to give a green light to outrages that will threaten our security and haunt our conscience, outrages that will eventually compel us to use force anyway down the line, at far greater risk and cost to our own citizens. If the last century teaches us anything, it is this. Thank you so much. ###
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith We've had a great deal of movement in the NAR US Housing Affordability Index recently. The index is meant to measure homebuyers' ability to finance house purchases (discussed here back in 2011) and given some recent events, it's worth taking a look at what the index is telling now. First of all, there has been a great deal of criticism of this index (for example here). The index clearly doesn't take into account factors such as credit conditions, while making some (over)simplifying assumptions (see description). It is certainly a blunt tool that uses the median house price, median household income and the latest mortgage rates. But its simplicity makes it relatively easy to get a picture of "affordability" over time (the absolute level of the index is not very meaningful - just the relative moves). More importantly it's quite easy to stress-test. The Affordability index had peaked in early 2012 and has been declining rather sharply since, as home prices began to recover. Along the way however the declines were offset by falling mortgage rates - until recently. The latest value available from NAR is as of July of this year, when the average mortgage rate used in the calculation was 4.13%. Things have changed since then (see chart). Based on the analysis performed by Deutsche Bank, the chart below shows where the index would be if: Sober Look Scenario #3 shows how sensitive affordability is to these adjustments. It takes use below the pre-recession affordability average - a shock that would be quite difficult to for the current economy to absorb. Some would say this scenario is unrealistic. Perhaps. But mortgage rates are up some 1.5% from the lows in just a few months and house prices (based on the S&amp;P Case-Shiller Index) are up 12% from a year ago. Was such a scenario realistic last year? The conclusion we can draw from this exercise is that with household income growth remaining weak (see post), there is a natural cap on this combination of rates and house prices. Another 1% jump in rates and a 10% increase in home prices and a significant portion of the US population gets priced out of the housing market, forcing prices to stall or even correct.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFormer Director of the National Economic Council Lawrence Summers (L) talks with U.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke.Ever since people started talking about Ben Bernanke retiring from his post as Chairman of the Federal Reserve, current Vice Chair Janet Yellen has been considered the clear favorite to fill the vacated seat. But more recently, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers has emerged as a frontrunner. Deutsche Bank's chief economist Peter Hooper believes he has now moved into the front. From his note to clients on Friday: Bernanke‚Äôs successor: Summers now the favorite. Over the past month, the momentum for succeeding Bernanke as the next Fed chair has swung in favor of Larry Summers. While both Summers and Yellen are, in our view, more than capable to lead the Fed, Summers has appeared to benefit from his familiarity with the Obama administration. Lending further support to Summers being the likely successor is the fact that Yellen has indicated that she believes she is unlikely to be nominated. In terms of other candidates, Geithner, Kohn, and Ferguson are all still possibilities, and the nomination could well fall to one of these other candidates if the administration encounters significant difficulties in the confirmation process for Summers. A Summers appointment could mean a slightly faster taper and potentially a somewhat more aggressive pace of rate hikes down the road than under a Bernanke or Yellen Fed. But the differences would be modest because the next Fed chair will be constrained by the data, market reactions, and FOMC dynamics. It's worth reiterating that Summers is by no means the consensus favorite. James Pethokoukis cites a new note from Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere who says a Summers pick is in doubt: @jimpethokoukis
REUTERS/John NazcaSpanish bullfighter Morante de la Puebla (top) walks with his assistants as they make the paseillo (ceremonial parade) before a "Corrida Goyesca" bullfight in Ronda, near Malaga, southern Spain, September 7, 2013.This week, the focus will shift to the health of the U.S. consumer. The major releases this week include reports on consumer credit, retail sales, and consumer sentiment. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary September has historically been the worst month for stocks. But this month, JP Morgan's Tom Lee thinks hedge funds will be the marginal buyer. "After reaching 0.223 on 8/23/13, hedge fund beta has since been decreasing and is now at 0.159, highlighting hedge funds reduced exposure to equities," wrote Lee. "At its current position, one could look at this bullishly as it suggests that hedge funds will need to add Beta if the market begins to rally."
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gestures as he speaks during Tokyo 2020 kick off rally in Tokyo August 23.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFPFishmongers inspect bluefin tuna at Tokyo's Tsukiji fish market on January 5, 2013Earlier we mentioned how all Asian markets had a big Monday session. Via Nomura real quick, here's the strong data that boosted the shares. Japan: The second preliminary estimate of real Q2 GDP growth was upwardly revised to an annualised 3.8% q-o-q from the previous estimate of 2.6% (Consensus: 3.9%).† China: Export growth rebounded further to 7.2% y-o-y in August from 5.1% in July (Consensus: 5.5%; Nomura: 7.0%). Import growth slowed to 7.0% y-o-y in August from 10.9% previously (Consensus: 11.3%), leading to a wider trade surplus of USD28.5bn.† China: CPI inflation eased slightly to 2.6% y-o-y in August from 2.7% in July, in line with expectations.† China: PPI inflation improved to -1.6% y-o-y in August from -2.3% previously (Consensus: -1.7%). The other two events that mattered regionally: Tokyo won the 2020 Olympics, and in Australia, the conservative party swept into office with a mandate to kill the country's carbon tax.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke takes his seat to testify before a Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee hearing on "The Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress" on Capitol Hill in Washington July 18, 2013.Friday's jobs report came in weak, but the epxectations is that the Fed will still "taper" that is slow down the pace of asset purchases, toward a windup of QE. Mark Dow has the best explanation for why the Fed will still taper, though it basically boils down to concern over the size of the balance sheet, skepticism over its continued value, and a desire to maintain credibility. But there has been a slight shift in consensus. Now more economists are calling for a "dovish taper" or "taper light" meaning that the pace of asset purchases will be reduced, but maybe not as by much as previously expected. UBS expects a "token taper" We continue to expect a token taper of $10 billion to be announced at the September meeting. We would expect a reduction in both Treasury debt and mortgage-backed securities although we cannot rule out a taper focused solely on reduced US Treasury buying. We continue to argue that the FOMC (and the economy) would benefit from less transparency in the announcement process (i.e. announcing the size of the reduction but not the composition). The tapering of asset purchases should last about nine months (through June 2014). And here's Goldman's Jan Hatzius: One risk to our forecast that growth will accelerate from late 2013 is the tightening of our Goldman Sachs Financial Conditions Index (GSFCI) over the past few months, as investors have started to worry about a more rapid exit from the Federal Reserveís accommodative policy stance. Partly for this reason, we expect only a ìdovish taperî from the September 17-18 FOMC meeting, with a reinforcement of the forward guidance for the funds rate."† Others have said the same. Look for the Fed to slow the pace of asset purchases, but in the most minimal way possible.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonAt 122 billionaires, China has the second-largest concentration of billionaires in the world, according to Forbes. Yet 13% of China's population lives on less than $1.25 a day.† China has a high Gini coefficient, a measure of income inequality. In fact, during his outgoing speech at the 2012 National People's Congress, then president Hu Jintao said China should try and double its 2010 per capita income for urban and rural residents by 2020. The Communist Party is wary of the growing wealth gap because of the risk it poses in the form of social unrest. To show just how disparate the lifestyle of wealthy Chinese is from China's poor, we drew on 22 images from Reuters photographer Kim Kyung-Hoon.
Looking to play the Tokyo Olympics? Just keep this table from Nomura handy. Nomura
REUTERS/Pablo SanchezPeople run away from huge waves crashing onto San Sebastian's seafront in Spain.There's been a massive upward swing in Eurozone investors sentiment. The Sentix index just went positive for the first time in over 2 years, handily beating expectations. The composite (overall) index for Euroland rises in September by 11.3 to now +6.5 points. This is the second-strongest rise of the indicator since its inception in 2003. The index also manages to reach positive territory for the first time since July 2011. Both the assessment of the current situation as well as the 6-month expectations improve strongly. For Germany, the composite index jumps upward, too. It now reaches its highest reading since April 2011 and signals a clearly strengthening economy. The other countries and regions prove stable in September. For the emerging markets regions there is a tendency for improvement, again. The index for the global aggregate rises to its highest value since March of this year.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonFrom Dan Greenhaus at BTIG (@danBTIG), here's a quick summary of what's coming up this week: As is usually the case following the nonfarm payrolls and various central bank meetings, the coming week should be a bit less exciting even as it represents a homecoming of sorts for many who have not been fully in the office in several weeks. On the economic side of things, the only ìAî release is Fridayís retail sales report, a report that takes on a bit more importance following Fridayís jobs report. On the earnings front, housing will be front and center thanks to reports from PIR, RH, HDS and HOV, the latter of which will hopefully shed light on the demand environment.† And of course thereís buy rated AAPLís special event on Tuesday. Of course, that's just the pure econ and market stuff. If you add in Congress returning and Syria stuff (Obama interviews, a speech, and Assad interview, and possible votes, then things get far harier)
CapitalThe publisher of well-known political news outlet Politico just made a big move that will make existing New York media players uncomfortable... It is buying the website Capital New York for an undisclosed sum, per Politico's own report. Capital New York focuses on the politics, media, and culture of New York City, and its new owner plans to make a substantial investment to expand the site. It was founded by two former New York Observer editors, and it retains some of that paper's insidery sensibility. From Politico (note that Robert Albritton is Politico's publisher): The acquisition is Allbritton's first since he¬†reached an agreement¬†to sell his television holdings in July. His goal: to apply the POLITICO business model to New York City and "focus laser-like on New York and its power centers, including the media, city and state politics, culture and business." "I have very big ambitions for this publication: to do in New York what we did in Washington with POLITICO," he wrote in a memo to POLITICO staff late Sunday night. "We are making a substantial investment to sharpen the focus of Capital and vastly expand its reportorial presence." To that end, Allbritton is planning to hire more than two dozen people in the coming weeks -- Capital currently has eight employees, including a managing editor and four full-time reporters --¬†and to relaunch the website in the fall. Capital editors Josh Benson and Tom McGeveran have published their own note to readers: Right out of the gate, on the business and operational side, Jim VandeHei will serve as President, while continuing his primary role at POLITICO. And we're pleased to welcome two more POLITICO veterans into the fold. Katherine Lehr will move to New York to join the company as our Vice President of Operations, and Cally Stolbach will come on board as Director of Business Development. There will be lots more to tell you in the coming weeks and months as Capital enters this next stage. First and most important, though: thank you. We're more grateful than we're comfortable trying to express here for your attention and feedback and support, without which we'd never have made it to this point. With Politico's experience in building a powerhouse, and its deep pocketbook, Capital becomes a much more competitive player in the New York media landscape.
Flickr/facelegMarkets aren't really doing much of anything in Europe. But it was a huge session in Asia. Check out some of these numbers showing how strong Asian markets did: China may have been a main driver of the action, with news over the weekend that its trade numbers were better than expected. Astoundingly, while the world was obsessing over a Chinese "hard landing" it increasingly looks like China was the one big emerging market to recover from its woes rather quickly.
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannLarry Summers in 2010.President Obama still¬†looks set¬†on nominating Larry Summers to chair the Federal Reserve. But burgeoning resistance among Democratic senators and the complication of the Syria attack make it look less clear that he can be confirmed. Here are three key problems for a Summers nomination: 1. The Senate Banking Committee must approve the Summers nomination before it goes to the full Senate, and Democrats there are resistant. According to the Wall Street Journal, congressional aides expect three Democrats on that committee to oppose summers: Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Sherrod Brown (Ohio), and Jeff Merkley (Ore.) If three Democrats vote 'no' on Summers, he won't be able to get out of committee without Republican support. Other Democrats on the committee are not exactly clamoring for Summers either, though the Journal reports that Chairman Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) is expected to be supportive. I reached out to the offices of the remaining Democrats on the committee to ask if they are open to voting for Summers. Only one responded favorably; the rest were noncommittal: Spokespeople for Kay Hagan (N.C.) and Jon Tester (Mont.) did not respond to requests for comment. 2. President Obama is already asking liberals for a big favor by seeking their support for an authorization to attack Syria. Many Democrats in Congress are instinctively opposed to military action. They also remember the price Hillary Clinton paid for voting for a war that voters came to regret. If Obama nominates Summers, he'll be coming back to those same liberals just weeks later and asking them to defy their base again. Nineteen Senate Democrats and independent Angus King (Maine) have reportedly signed a letter urging Obama to nominate Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, the implication being that he should not nominate Summers. Liberals have a variety of concerns about Summers, relating to monetary policy, bank regulation, his views on women, and his temperament. (Some conservatives share some of these concerns, too.) Whether or not the Syria resolution passes, it uses up some of the political capital Obama was supposed to be saving to buy support for Summers from the left. 3. If the Syria resolution fails, the President will be unable to afford another defeat in Congress. There's no way for him to avoid bitter fights over raising the debt ceiling and passing a funding bill to keep the government open for another year. Picking a fight over Summers is optional. My guess: If the Syria resolution gets approved, Obama will go for Summers. If it's defeated, Obama will punt where he can by picking an uncontroversial Fed nominee. The key question is whether that means Yellen or someone else who might not be as committed to accommodative monetary policy.
REUTERS/Ian WaltonPrime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan (3rd R) celebrates with members of the Tokyo bid committee as Jacques Rogge President of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) announces Tokyo as the city to host the 2020 Summer Olympic Game during a ceremony in Buenos Aires, September 7, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economy expanded much faster than initially expected in the second quarter, adding to growing signs of a solid recovery taking hold and fortifying the case for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to proceed with a planned sales tax hike next year. The upbeat data came hours after Tokyo won its bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics, which policymakers hailed as another tailwind propelling the world's third-largest economy out of years of grinding deflation. A marked improvement in capital expenditure led to an upward revision in April-June gross domestic product (GDP) to an annualized 3.8 percent expansion from a preliminary 2.6 percent, data from the Cabinet Office showed on Monday. The third straight quarter of increase, which roughly matched the median market forecast, underscored the strength of Japan's recovery and boosted the chance the government will proceed with a two-staged hike in the sales tax. "Companies are replacing old equipment, which led to the large upward revision to GDP," said Hiroaki Muto, senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. "This means the government can raise the sales tax as scheduled." Bank lending rose 2 percent in the year to August with lending by major banks marking the fastest increase in more than four years, separate data showed, suggesting that the improving outlook is spurring more borrowing for fresh investment. DEFLATION WORRIES PERSIST Japan emerged from recession in 2012 and data for much of this year has shown the benefits of Abe's reflationary policies and the Bank of Japan's aggressive monetary stimulus. The second-quarter GDP follows an annualized 4.1 percent expansion in the first three months of this year, driven in large part by strong consumer spending. Corporate capital spending, which had been seen as soft in an otherwise robust economy, was revised up to a 1.3 percent rise from the preliminary 0.1 percent decline, marking the first increase in six quarters. The government has cited revised GDP as among key factors in deciding whether to go ahead with lifting the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent next April, and to 10 percent in 2015 -- a step seen as crucial in fixing Japan's tattered finances. The latest reading gives the government more ammunition to counter critics of the plan, who have called for a delay or watering down of the tax increase on the view Japan's economy is still too weak to take the pain. As positive data piles up, key ministers in the cabinet such as Economics Minister Akira Amari and Finance Minister Taro Aso have signaled the government's readiness to raise the tax. "We've seen more positive signs" supporting the case for raising the sales tax, Amari told reporters, referring to the GDP data and Tokyo's successful bid to host the Olympics games. Tokyo's Nikkei stock average hit a five-week high on euphoria over Japan hosting the Olympics games, which was estimated to have an economic impact of more than 3 trillion yen and create 15,000 jobs. But Abe, who has the final say on whether to proceed, is considered to be more cautious about raising the tax for fear of derailing a budding economic recovery and hurting the chance of beating deflation -- which is among his top policy priorities. Etsuro Honda, an adviser to Abe and a vocal opponent of the tax hike plan, warned that raising the sales tax now could destroy a golden opportunity to end years of price declines. "Japan is in the process of exiting deflation but is not out of it yet. The economy isn't back in an autonomous recovery phase," he told Reuters on Monday. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, among Abe's closest associates, said hosting the Olympics will be positive for Japan's economy, but offered no sign on whether Abe will indeed proceed with the tax hike. "Beating deflation is our top priority but we must also pursue fiscal reform. The premier will decide from that perspective," Suga told a news conference. Abe is expected to make a decision early next month, taking into account the BOJ's closely-watched "tankan" quarterly business sentiment survey due on October 1. (Additional reporting by Stanley White and Yoshifumi Takemoto; Editing by Eric Meijer)
Even considering Friday's weak August jobs report, economists across Wall Street expect the Federal Reserve to announce later this month that it is tapering its monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury bonds and $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds. But this consensus is based largely on economic analysis. Of course, there is always the possibility that some "black swan" event or an escalation of geopolitical tension causes uncertainty to spike ultimately affecting economic forecasts. One such risk: Syria. From Credit Suisse's latest "Global Economics Weekly Calendar" (emphasis added): "In our view, absent missile strikes on Syria the very days the FOMC meets, there is little to keep the Fed from modestly reducing its particularly accommodative $85bn/month easing program. We still look for a $20bn taper, evenly distributed between MBS and Treasuries. This would reduce monthly MBS purchases to $30bn and Treasury purchases to $35bn. Our second favorite option is a $15bn taper ($5bn MBS, $10bn Treasuries), bringing monthly purchases of each to $35bn." The Federal Reserve's next two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting ends on September 18.
