Reuters/Osman OrslaThis week marks the start of† annual plenary session of the National People's Congress (NPC) in China. This is the meeting that will see Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang appointed to the position of president and premier respectively. For the most part, this is a meeting with few specifics. But the NPC is expected to vote on two key measures, according to Societe Generale's Wei Yao. What else should we expect? Policymakers are expected to stick to goals they have already iterated. The Government Work Report, which is typically delivered by the premier and is considered the Chinese equivalent of the State of the Union speech, is expected to be along the lines of the "make progress while maintaining stability" theme of the Central Economic Work Conference in December, according to Yao.† She also expects officials to stick to the 7.5 percent GDP target, and 4 percent CPI target. While the media has been suggest a fiscal budget deficit of 1.2 trillion yuan (that's 200 billion yuan more than last year), Yao warns that† people shouldn't "interpret this as a green light for aggressive fiscal stimulus". However, the Chinese central bank has been draining interbank liquidity, and Yao expects that money growth could be lowered to 13 - 13.5 percent, from 14 percent. From Yao: "Such a combination, if confirmed, will lend support to our projection of more preemptive monetary policies and thus less upside to the economic recovery than currently expected by the market. Chinese policymakers may strike sooner, in† anticipation of rising inflation and systemic risk. Normalization of credit conditions seem to have begun in earnest, with the PBoC draining liquidity with open market operations. The State† Council has outlined a five-point plan to tame renewed housing inflation, and concrete measures are expected to take shape in the coming months." The NPC session will take place over roughly two weeks between March 5 - 17. The Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) meeting began today. The CPPCC is considered the nation's top advisory board. Together the meetings are referred to as "liang hui" or two meetings. 
Chinese property stocks are getting massacred tonight, with stocks falling over 8 percent on a plan to impose new taxes on home-sellers. Anyway, the fallout is being felt elsewhere. The Aussie dollar is a big loser. And the Australian equity market ‚Äî which includes a lot of the commodity companies whose wares go into building Chinese infrastructure and buildings ‚Äî are falling as well. The stock market in Australia is down 1.1 percent. SMH.com.au
Update: SHPROP now down 9 percent (11:50 p.m. ET) The Shanghai Composite is off 2 percent and is being dragged down by property stocks. The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index (SHPROP) has tumbled 8.7 percent. (via @Bill Bishop). China Vanke, a property giant, and Poly Real Estate Group are both down nearly 10 percent. This comes after the government published an online notice stating that homeowners who sell their homes will be taxed 20 percent on the profit they make, according to Xinhua. The notice also allowed banks to charge higher interest rates on mortgages. Remember, officials have been trying to maintain a firm grip on the real estate market, and the Chinese central bank has been draining liquidity from the interbank market. Some said this was to curb speculation, while others have argued that it was to offset the record injection for the Chinese New Year holiday. Here's a chart from Bloomberg that shows how the SHPROP is doing: Bloomberg Market update at 9:50 p.m. ET.
We have written about China's ghost towns ó neighborhoods with massive new buildings not inhabited by any people.† Many see this as the clear evidence of overbuilding and a housing bubble. Yale's Stephen Roach has said, however, that China's modernization is "the greatest urbanization story the world has ever seen," and that these ghost cities will soon become "thriving metropolitan areas." But analysts say most Chinese people can't afford the types of homes being built in the ghost cities. China has been trying to get a grip on its property market for some time now and some say officials are in control and have been deflating the housing bubble. However, the risks of the housing bubble evolving into a financial crisis appear to be high. There is a new report from "60 Minutes" titled "China's real estate bubble." We've seen photos of China's ghost towns, but they are nothing compared to new video footage from "60 Minutes." Here are some screenshots of Zhengzhou from the segment. Screenshot Via 60 Minutes Screenshot Via 60 Minutes Screenshot Via 60 Minutes Screenshot Via 60 Minutes Wang Shi, CEO of Vanke told "60 Minutes" that developers are deep in debt. Many have abandoned projects midway through because the money dried up. He warned that if the bubble really did burst, China could see its version of the Arab Spring. 60 Minutes Watch the "60 Minutes" video on China's ghost cities: 
Those who watch central banks and pay attention to monetary policy instantly know the significance of the phrase "whatever it takes." Mario Draghi famously uttered the phrase last July 26, saying he would do "whatever it takes" to save the Eurozone. That comment almost exactly marked the peak of Italian borrowing costs last year, and not long afterward, Draghi introduced the program whereby the ECB would backstop national sovereign debt in exchange for reform. Bloomberg Anyway, now the big central bank that everyone is watching is the Bank of Japan, which is attempting to engineer an exit from the deflationary slump that's plagued the Japanese economy for decades. Last week, new Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe nominated Haruhiko Kuroda to be the next chief of the Bank of Japan. Kuroda is making some comments tonight regarding his inflationary ambitions. Bloomberg's Michael McDonough passes on the headlines. *KURODA SAYS BOJ TO PURSUE MONETARY POLICY TO CONQUER DEFLATION -Bloomberg more: *KURODA SAYS HE WILL DO WHATEVER IT TAKES TO END DEFLATION -Bloomberg This is setting expectations very high for the Bank of Japan April 4 decision.(Kuroda's first at the helm) Japan should hope he's as successful as Draghi was.
The week begins, and of course Japanese stocks are rallying. Here's the Nikkei so far. Nikkei.com As for the milestone. NEWS ADVISORY: Nikkei briefly hits highest level since Sept. 2008
This tweet from Stephanie Kelton, an economics professor at the University of Missouri‚ÄìKansas City, is almost too perfect. 3 people at the table next 2 me r talking #sequestration. All of them saying its "no big deal" because their condo prices are recovering. First, there's the fact that nobody in the real world seems to think that sequestration is a big deal. Beyond that, the idea of austerity vs. housing is great frame by which to debate the economy. For the moment, it seems like the tailwind from real estate (both in terms of construction jobs and the rising wealth effect) is solid enough such that the modest austerity from the sequestration won't put the US into recession. As for where the housing market is at right now, see this great update from Calculated Risk &gt;
Jamie McDonald/Getty ImagesPerri Shakes Drayton of Great BritainSo is the†EU cap on banker bonusesgoing to devastate London's financial sector? Almost certainly not. Investment bankers will just react to this the way they react to every rule imposed upon them: They'll innovate right around the rule. The proposed rule would cap bonuses at twice a banker's salary. Since salaries are often a fraction of bonuses, this rule would seem to be set to slash banker compensation. Of course, if the rule did work, there would be an enormous flight of talent out of European banks.†JP Morgan Chase,†Goldman Sachs†and†Citigroup†would just poach all the top performers.† But it won't work because it's too easy to avoid. The Financial Times' Lex commentary service†explained one way Thursday morning: Your fixed, cash salary will be increased from Ä500,000 to Ä10m per year, roughly in line with your average total compensation for the past five years, to be paid monthly into an escrow account. By signing your contract you agree that from this escrow account a monthly net payment equivalent to Ä500k per year will be paid into your personal bank account. At year-end, you are entitled to the balance of your cash salary in the escrow account subject to strict clawback provisions detailed in this contract. For example, if 100 per cent of your various targets are achieved you will receive Ä9.5m, on a sliding scale to zero based on the formula enclosed and consistent with Article 88 of European rules implementing Basel III. Whatever money remains in escrow at year end will transfer to the bank's general account. In other words, you just increase the salary to the anticipated bonus, hold it in escrow until year's end, and then subject it to a clawback for underperformance. Alternatively, you form a special purpose vehicle to which you sell the rights to half of the future profits from a trading desk. The traders on the desk earn shares in the vehicle as part of their regular salary. At the end of the year, the SPV dividends out its profits to the traders. As an added bonus, this might make the dividends subject to capital gains rather than income taxes. Also, doing this would allow a bank to reduce its publicly disclosed compensation expenses and appear to comply with the law.† The ways around the cap are probably infinite. This is a rule with no teeth.
One version of the financial sustainability question is ‚ÄúHow much can you responsibly spend from investments or endowments each year, without running out?‚Äù There‚Äôs a lot packed into that single question, and the answers are not as esoteric as they may first appear to the average person. Retirees living off accumulated savings, and people saving with the hope of one day living off accumulated savings, grapple with this question all the time. ¬†Charitable foundations and institutions dependent on endowments also care deeply about this financial sustainability question, if they plan to exist in perpetuity. But what about the rest of us, just struggling to put aside enough for whatever future expenses we anticipate ‚Äì like college education for our kids, or a regular nest-egg for retirement?¬† Why should we care? We should care because I suspect that the assumptions that fiduciaries[1]¬†have made about financial sustainability in the previous generation no longer apply in the current market environment.¬† We have not, however, started adjusting to the new reality.¬† We‚Äôre not doing anything differently despite the new normal. What does that mean?¬† It means that your favorite hospital or school or charitable foundation probably spends too much of its endowment every year to be sustainable.¬† It means your teachers and fireman and policemen ‚Äì who depend on a pool of money set aside for their pensions ‚Äì won‚Äôt have enough in the pool when it comes time to be paid.[2] So, thinking about financial sustainability, I don‚Äôt think these are just the esoteric musings of a recovering banker with too much time on his hands, and too much sympathy for trust-fund folks and foundations. The nub of the problem comes down to three facts: 1. Traditional charitable foundation/endowment spending policies[3]¬†call for annual spending of 5% of assets,[4]¬†as a ‚Äòfinancially sustainable‚Äô rate. 2. Traditional personal financial planning calls for annual spending of 4% of assets as a ‚Äòfinancially sustainable‚Äô rate. 3. But ‚Äî riskless investments offer between 0.5 % and 2% returns.[5] If you want complete safety with your assets, you can earn about a 1% return, which typically lags the inflation rate and puts you on a completely unsustainable path, if you have the policy of a 5% spending rate referenced in fact # 1 above. Conversely, and axiomatically, the only way to have a fighting chance at ‚Äòfinancial sustainability ‚Äô with a 5% spending rate is to rely heavily on more risky investments, to boost the riskless 1% return to, at the very least, your 5% spending rate plus the rate of inflation. So, a prudent fiduciary of her own money, or an institution‚Äôs money, can make the choice of taking no risk and guarantee diminishing the pool of money over time, or take a risk on more volatile markets and hope that things work out.¬† Which is pretty much where every fiduciary struggles right now. I want to be very careful and point out a few ways in which what I am saying differs from the usual way we discuss this problem. First, at the risk of breaking a cardinal rule of financial punditry, I am saying ‚Äúit‚Äôs different this time.‚Äù¬† And by ‚Äúthis time‚Äù I mean ‚Äúthe investing life of almost everyone alive right now.‚Äù With US Treasury Bond rates at the lowest level of most anyone‚Äôs investing life, as seen¬†in the picture of 1953 to 2012 rates,¬†we‚Äôre in uncharted territory for riskless returns. Whereas previous generations of fiduciaries could choose a portfolio anchored with a large plurality of risk-free assets and cover most of their 5% spending rate, plus inflation, no fiduciary can afford risk-free assets any more.¬† That anchor of 1% risk-free return sinks your ship over time with a 5% spending rate. Second, I am consciously avoiding making an argument about future return expectations.¬† I have no idea what future returns on risky assets will be, and I don‚Äôt intend to speculate. It‚Äôs traditional for pension managers or endowment managers or even retirees to make assumptions about the future returns on their portfolio, to justify whatever asset allocation they do or do not wish to make.¬† Again, I‚Äôm not able to speculate.[6] All I do know is that if you have to earn 6 or 7 times the annual return of riskless assets in order to cover your spending rate and inflation, then you need to fill your portfolio with almost entirely risky assets, just to break even with financial sustainability. The only other solution, of course, is to lower your spending rate to something much closer to expected risk-less returns.¬† But nobody wants to take less than half the income they‚Äôre used to taking.¬† Or even anything less than the income they‚Äôre used to taking, for that matter. Now it‚Äôs fair to say a version of this problem has always existed for people who manage a big pile of money for annual income but who seek financial sustainability. What‚Äôs different now is that when 10 year Treasury bonds offered safe returns above 6% ‚Äì like they did in the good ol‚Äô days of 2000 for example ‚Äì the financial sustainability choice was not so stark, or so risky.¬† You could count on earning most of what you needed to earn in largely risk-free assets. Fiduciaries for educational institutions for example, face this quandary right now, all the time.¬† The ‚Äòendowment norms‚Äô from the 1960s give us cover for the idea that a 5% spending rate is prudent. ¬†Fiduciaries know from surveys of similar institutions that they‚Äôre right in the middle of the pack, with plenty of comfortable company.¬† And they absolutely need that income to run the institution. But if the norms made sense in an earlier generation of lower risk with higher return rates ‚Äì - they make much less sense in the past decade ‚Äì particularly in the last year with less than 2% returns for US Treasury 10-year bonds. I don‚Äôt know what everyone should do about it.¬† I have no solutions. My soon-to-retire parents hope that the previously-endorsed 4% spending rate for individuals works out.¬† I hope so too.¬† Fiduciaries for public and private pension funds hope their spending rates, return rates, and actuarial assumptions turn out to be right.¬† I hope so too. My fear, however, is that from the 20/20 hindsight of our future selves, a 5% spending rate and a 1% riskless return rate look like an impossible mathematical equation that we all should have seen as unsolvable. [1]¬†My wife made me define this.¬† ‚Äúfiduciary‚Äù = ‚Äúperson with financial responsibility for something‚Äù [2]¬†Which, in turn, means either: 1. Taxpayers make up the difference,¬†¬† 2. Retired public pensioners receive less than they were promised, or¬† 3. Heavy inflation ‚Äòsolves‚Äô the problem by lowering the real value of pension payouts. [3]¬†Based on 1960s theory about financial sustainability for charitable endowments. [4]¬†Charitable foundations are required to spend 5% of their corpus every year to retain their tax-exempt status.¬† This requirement to spend 5% of assets is probably related to where the foundation prudent practice of spending 5% came about.¬† But I‚Äôm guessing here. [5]¬†With 10yr US Treasury notes below the 2% range for the past year, the lowest in anyone‚Äôs lifetime.¬† Incidentally, of course some smart readers will point out that there‚Äôs a longer conversation to be had about whether US Treasury 10 year notes are truly ‚Äòriskless,‚Äô because if interest rates rise the bonds may decline in value before they mature, if you need to sell them rather than wait for the return of principal.¬† Yes, you‚Äôre right.¬† Other smart readers will point out that a downgraded United States no longer represents a ‚Äòriskless‚Äô investment.¬† Yes, you‚Äôre right too, up to a point.¬† But to the extent the US owes money on its bonds denominated in US currency, bond principal repayment is not at risk, only its purchasing power upon maturity.¬† All the returns I‚Äôm referring to are nominal. [6]¬†Fine, I‚Äôll speculate a little bit, the following way.¬† If mega-bank X, which currently has the ability to borrow $ billions of dollars at 2%, had¬†any¬†comfort at all with a safe way to earn, say, 7% in risky assets, then mega-bank X would be doing that trade for a 5% positive carry (the difference between borrowing costs and earned return)¬†all day long.¬† The fact that 7% in risky assets seems, well, risky, tells you a little something about return expectations from the smartest minds in the business. Post read (501) times.
With the economy seemingly improving, there's been a lot of talk this year about "Fexit" ó when the Fed will begin to exit some of the aggressive stimulative actions that it's undertaken in the wake of the financial crisis. Currently the Fed is engaged in two big actions designed to ease monetary conditions. One is QE-unlimited, a promise to buy assets every month until conditions improve. The other big idea is an exercise in expectations management, which stipulates that rates will remain at least until unemployment falls to 6.5 percent, and then probably even a bit beyond that. It's likely that QE will be undone first, and some expect that QE might be withdrawn sometime this year. On Friday night after the market closed, Ben Bernanke gave a great speech on long-term interest rates that got at this question. We already discussed the first half of the speech, wherein Bernanke gives an economics lesson explaining why long-term interest rates in the U.S. are so low. In terms of actual market moving stuff, the second half where Bernanke discusses his interest rate outlook, and his stance on policy, is probably more important. At the end, he drops a fat hint about how he sees the economy right now, and what the Fed should do. In light of the moderate pace of the recovery and the continued high level of economic slack, dialing back accommodation with the goal of deterring excessive risk-taking in some areas poses its own risks to growth, price stability, and, ultimately, financial stability. Indeed, as I noted, a premature removal of accommodation could, by slowing the economy, perversely serve to extend the period of low long-term rates. In a note titled "Bernanke Stays Long," BofA's Michael Hanson sees this as a clear indication that the gas pedal will remain pressed down for a while. In our view, his speech re-affirms that the Fed leadership and the majority of FOMC voters will continue with QE3 purchases well into next year. Punchbowl: Maintained. For more on the speech, see here &gt;
ReutersBen Bernanke gave a great speech last week called "Long Term Interest Rates" but hardly anyone paid attention to it, because he gave the speech on Friday night and everyone missed it. It's worth going over, because he spends a lot of time riffing on a big question: What's the real reason that long-term interest rates are so low? You often hear for example, that U.S. debt benefits from some kind of "cleanest dirty shirt" phenomenon, whereby it just looks good compared to everything else. Or you hear that low rates are because the Fed is just buying up all the debt. But Bernanke's speech shows why the common misperceptions are incorrect. Bernanke's speech is accompanied by several charts, but there are really two that are very powerful. The first shows the global rate progression for the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Germany, and Japan going back to 2000. With the exception of Japan, you'll note, pretty much all of these countries have seen an identical rate path, which establishes that low rates a global phenomenon, beyond just the scope of the Fed, or the economic situation in the U.S. Ben Bernanke The next critical chart is where he decomposes the rate on the 10-Year Treasury bond into three sub-rates: expectations about future inflation rates, expectations about short-term interest rates (what the Fed will do with short rates), and the term premium (the amount that Treasury holders demand to be compensated for going further out on the curve). Federal Reserve As you can see, inflation expectations have remained very stable, and generally trended downward, which Bernanke attributes, in part, to Central Bank credibility in promising to fight future inflation. Some have argued that central bankers attack inflation expectations to a fault (i.e., spooking the markets into thinking that they will tighten prematurely) but there's no question around the world, central banks have been very consistent in saying they will prevent runaway inflation. As for the black line, short-term interest rate expectations have remained virtually at zero, because of the Fed's going to zero, and promising to hold them there for a long time. And the decline in the green line, the term premium -- the amount that investors in Treasuries demand to be compensated for buying long-dated ones -- is both a result of the promise to keep rates low, and the appeal of Treasuries as an asset to hedge riskier assets. He concluded this section of the speech thusly: Let's recap. Long-term interest rates are the sum of expected inflation, expected real short-term interest rates, and a term premium. Expected inflation has been low and stable, reflecting central bank mandates and credibility as well as considerable resource slack in the major industrial economies. Real interest rates are expected to remain low, reflecting the weakness of the recovery in advanced economies (and possibly some downgrading of longer-term growth prospects as well). This weakness, all else being equal, dictates that monetary policy must remain accommodative if it is to support the recovery and reduce disinflationary risks. Put another way, at the present time the major industrial economies apparently cannot sustain significantly higher real rates of return; in that respect, central banks--so long as they are meeting their price stability mandates--have little choice but to take actions that keep nominal long-term rates relatively low, as suggested by the similarity in the levels of the rates shown in chart 1. Finally, term premiums are low or negative, reflecting a host of factors, including central bank actions in support of economic recovery. Thus, while the current constellation of long-term rates across many advanced countries has few precedents, it is not puzzling: It follows naturally from the economic circumstances of these countries and the implications of these circumstances for the policies of their central banks. Read Bernanke's full speech here &gt;
AP ImagesMiss New Mexico Teen USA 2007 Liz Kranz made the top 15 at the Miss Teen USA pageant.Hedge fund manager Rishi Bajaj, who runs $620 million Altai Capital, has filed a lawsuit against his former beauty queen ex-girlfriend for allegedly spending tens of thousands of dollars on his credit card after they broke up last year, the New York Post reported. Bajaj alleges that Miss New Mexico Teen USA 2007, Elizabeth "Liz" Kranz, spent $58,860 at furniture stores and high-end clothing stores such as¬†Bergdorf Goodman, Barney's, Saks, Nordstrom, and Helmut Lang, the Post reported citing court papers. The pair dated for "several months" beginning in July 2012, the report said. They traveled together, he gave her a $20,000 loan to help a relative go to rehab, and bought a 2012¬†BMW¬†for them to share (she returned the car), the report said citing the court documents. Kranz placed in the top 15 at the Miss Teen USA pageant in 2007. She was selected for Miss Congeniality (that's an award voted on by the pageant participants) two years running at her state pageant. You can see a pageant swimsuit photo of her here &gt; Before Bajaj started his hedge fund, he worked at Silver Point Capital in Greenwich. Prior to that, he worked at boutique investment bank Gleacher Partners in M&amp;A.¬† He graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School with a degree in economics. ¬† He's also on the executive committee of the Eric Trump Foundation. Donald Trump is the owner of the Miss USA pageant.¬†
Google It's hard to tell which Google project the world is more excited about--Google Glass(es) or Google's self-driving cars--but this frequent car-driver, anyway, can't wait for the latter. (The Glasses sound cool, too, don't get me wrong.) Google is making great progress with these cars: The cars have now been driven more than 500,000 miles, and there have been no accidents with a car under the computer's control. (There was a widely publicized fender-bender in 2011, when one of the Google cars crunched into the car ahead of it, but the human driver was driving.) One of the insights that people often quickly have when they ride in these cars, according to people who have ridden in them, is that it's obvious the computer can be a vastly better driver than a human ever could be. With lasers and radar for eyes, the computer can monitor an extraordinary number of inputs and react much more quickly to surprises than a human ever could. I have always assumed that there would be much excitement around the self-driving cars right up until the time that one killed someone. At that point, I assumed, the years of litigation and liability arguments would make the technology so expensive as to be impractical for normal use. One hypothesis that was mentioned to me recently by a person who has ridden in Google's cars, however, was the idea that, in a decade or two, your insurance premium will cost more if you don't have self-driving technology than if you do. Why? Because the computers will quickly reveal themselves to be far superior drivers than humans, especially given that humans often drive while distracted (texting, kids) or impaired (booze, drugs, drowsiness). In any event... Google is facing a couple of interesting challenges with the cars right now, one of which I heard about from someone close to the company. (The Google self-driving car team mentioned some of these in passing in a blog post.) The first challenge is driving in snow. When snow is on the road, the cars often have a tough time "seeing" the lane markers and other cues that they use to stay correctly positioned on the road. It will be interesting to see how the Google team sorts that one out. A second challenge, apparently, is when the car encounters a change in a road that is not yet reflected in its onboard "map." In those situations, the car gets lost, and it alerts the human driver and turns over control. (One very cool side note is that, because Google self-driving cars communicate with each other, these "blind spots" soon get mapped, and all the cars in the neighborhood benefit.) A third challenge is driving through construction zones, accident zones, or other situations in which a human is directing traffic with hand signals. The cars are excellent at observing stop signs, traffic lights, speed limits, the behavior of other cars, and other common cues that human drivers use to figure out how fast to go and where and when to turn. But when a human is directing traffic with hand signals--and especially when these hand signals conflict with a traffic light or stop sign--the cars get confused. (Imagine pulling up to an intersection in which a police officer is temporarily directing traffic and overriding a traffic light. What should the car pay attention to? How should the car be "taught" to give the police officer's hand signals more weight than the traffic light? How should the car interpret the hand signals, which are often different from person to person? And what if the cop is just pointing at you and yelling, which happens frequently in intersections in New York?) According to an engineer (not a Googler) who was involved in the conversation I had about this latter challenge, none of these problems are insurmountable. But they're certainly interesting. The engineer's view, for what it's worth, is that self-driving technology will enter cars gradually, first for use in certain special and limited situations--highway driving, for example, in a form of augmented cruise control.¬† Then, eventually, after these baby steps have been mastered, the technology will progress toward the fully-automated electronic chauffeur that Google is working on. Regardless, it can't get here soon enough. SEE ALSO: Apple's Stock Just Crashed To A New Low
Giampaolo Macorig / FlickrCastel Sant'AngeloItaly‚Äôs president Giorgio Napolitano is exploring the creation of a second technocrat government to break the political log-jam and calm markets after key parties failed to reach an accord, risking a serious popular backlash. Italian officials say the Bank of Italy‚Äôs governor Ignazio Visco is front-runner to take over as premier despite warnings that this will be seen as an elitist ploy. It is far from clear whether the Democrats (Pd) in charge of the lower house will back the idea. The plans amount to a near replica of the outgoing team of Mario Monti, though one greatly weakened by the earthquake upset in the elections a week ago . Almost 57pc of the vote went to groups that vowed to tear up the EU-imposed austerity agenda. Stefano Fassina, the Pd economics chief, said his party is vehemently opposed to ‚Äúany form of technocrat government, new or old‚Äù, insisting that the election result must be respected. Mr Fassina said 90pc of the country had rejected the Monti agenda and warned that it would be a grave error to try to force through the same reviled plans a second time. Comedian Beppe Grillo repeated his vow to ‚Äúbring down the old system‚Äù and dismissed the latest talks as cattle market trading by a depraved political class trying to circumvent the will of the people. ‚ÄúI repeat for the umpteenth time, the Five Star Movement will not back any government. It will vote law by law in keeping with its platform,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre not a political party, we‚Äôre a civic revolution. This country is in ruins with two trillion in debts and we have to rebuild it from scratch,‚Äù he told a scrum of journalists. In a rhetorical play on the slogans of 1789 and 1917 he exhorted ‚Äúall citizens‚Äù to descend on parliament. Mr Grillo repeated his call for an ‚Äúonline referendum‚Äù on the euro and vowed to buy back ‚Ç¨600bn of Italian bonds held by foreigners if his movement gains power, a de facto default and withdrawal from the EMU system. He has in the past called for Argentine-style ‚Äúhaircuts‚Äù for bondholders. ‚ÄúWithin a year we won‚Äôt have enough money left to pay the pensions and public sector wages,‚Äù he told told Bild am Sonntag. His newly-elected army of senators and deputies - fresh-faced idealists in their 20s or early-30s with no experience in public life - met for a ‚Äúconclave‚Äù to thrash out the party line. Most of the 163 ‚Äúgrillini‚Äù have never met their leader, or each other. They crowded into a room at the Hotel Saint John, many sitting on the floor with their napsacks as if it was opening day at university. Their first action was to create a ‚ÄúGoogle group‚Äù to handle logistics. ‚ÄúNothing like this has ever happened before in the history of the Italian Republic. We are seeing a true crisis of the regime,‚Äù said Professor Luca Ricolfi from Turin University. Investors have discounted Mr Grillo‚Äôs wild rhetoric as comic chatter, but his relish for shattering taboos in putting unthinkable ideas into play. ‚ÄúPeople in Brussels can handle old-style politicians like Silvio Berlusconi but Grillo really worries them because this is a protest against the entire system, and they are afraid it is spreading to other countries,‚Äù said Giles Merritt from Friends of Europe. The EU policy elites are increasingly alert to the danger of losing popular consent for the EU Project. European Central Bank governor Benoit Coeure said Europe must pay more attention to the ‚Äúsocial contract‚Äù if it is to avoid feeding ‚Äúnationalist temptations‚Äù. Mr Coeure warned that record unemployment across much of Europe - reaching 59pc for Greek youth -- was eroding the job skills of a generation and doing lasting damage to future growth, While the tone is changing, there is no sign yet of a retreat from fiscal belt-tightening. ‚ÄúGiven that average debt exceeds 90pc of GDP in the EU, I don‚Äôt think there‚Äôs any room for manoeuvre to leave the path of budgetary consolidation,‚Äù said EU economics chief Olli Rehn. ‚ÄúWe won‚Äôt solve our growth problems by piling new debt on top of our old debt,‚Äù he said. Defying his critics, Mr Rehn said John Maynard Keynes himself would not be a Keynesian today‚Äôs circumstances. Yet Mr Rehn also warned Germany politicians that it would be courting fate to push Cyprus into default and exit from the eurozone in the belief that the island is too small to pose a contagion risk. ‚ÄúEven if you come from a big EU country, you should be aware that every member of the euro zone is systemically relevant,‚Äù he told Der Spiegel. Separately, it emerged that the eurozone bail-out fund (ESM) may not be used after all to recapitalise banks, even once the banking super-regulator is in place. Klaus Regling, the fund's chief, said opposition from the creditor states may kill the idea altogether. If so, this will breaches a summit accord in June by EU leaders to deploy the ESM directly to break the ‚Äúvicious circle‚Äù between banks and sovereign states. Failure to implement the deal would be a blow for Ireland and Italy, leaving them shouldering the full burden left from a bank crisis that was partly caused by northern creditors. The International Monetary Fund said it is imperative that the EU upholds the specific pledge made to Ireland in the summit text. Germany, Austria, Finland, and Holland have all all said they would not let the ESM cover "legacy assets" left from the bubble. They now seem to be resiling from the accord altogether. 
Even as the gargantuan $1+ trillion student debt load has been the bubbly elephant in the room that few are still willing to talk about (as the ease of obtaining very fungible loans, with ultra-low interest rates, have become the primary source of lifestyle funding for a wide swath of Americans who are rotating out of high yielding credit cards into this latest Uncle Sam subsidy, and is thus just one more aspect of the status quo perpetuation), there have been until now zero opportunities for a the proverbial highly convex "ABX" short in the student debt space. This of course is the trade that was put on by those who sensed the subprime bubble is about to pop in early/mid 2007 and made billions as the yield chasers were summarily punished one by one as first New Century blew up, and then everyone else. Yet while one was able to buy synthetic "hedge" exposure with limited downside and unlimited upside (by shorting synthetic index spreads) in subprime, so far the only way to be bearish on student debt has been to short the equity of various private sector lenders - a trade with very limited upside and unlimited downside, and which in the current idiotic New Normal is more likely to leave one insolvent and crushed in a smoldering heap of margin calls following yet another epic short squeeze as GETCO's stop hunting algo run amok. This may be about to change. As¬†WSJ reports, SecondMarket Holdings, the private-market securities trading firm best known for allowing numerous overzealous fans to buy FaceBook at moronic valuations, on Monday "will roll out a platform allowing lenders to issue securities backed by student loans directly to investors." Why is SecondMarket doing this? The same reason Lloyd Blankfein was selling Abacus (and all those other synthetic MBS CDOs) to clueless yield chasers all across Europe and Asia: yield chasing and career risk. The justification is also the same:¬†making a market. The move is driven mainly by investors' growing appetite for student loans, said Barry Silbert, founder and chief executive of SecondMarket. "The catalyst for this new suite of services is investor demand,"¬†said Mr. Silbert. "At the end of the day, investors are yield searching." And just as Paulson was able to coordinate with other sellers of synthetic exposure and have a bearish bet already set in the primary market following collusion with Goldman even before breaking for trading, so we are confident that enterprising packagers of securities will be just as capable in tranching various student loan packets into securitized layers with the assistance of SecondMarket, and offload those with highest risk to those with the most aggressive career risk-for-yield chasing fulcrum points. Investors registered through SecondMarket already can trade student-loan securities they hold in their portfolios, said Mr. Silbert. Since 2008, about $6 billion worth has traded on the exchange, he said. The new platform will allow lenders to issue securities directly to SecondMarket's base of more than 100,000 investors, including institutions and affluent individuals who qualify as so-called accredited investors by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Issuers will be able to sell securities backed by private student loans, which aren't guaranteed by the federal government, as well as older federally backed student loans known as Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) loans. They also will be able to distribute servicing reports through the new platform, said Mr. Silbert. Educational Funding of the South Inc., or EdSouth, and another lender have signed up to use the platform, according to SecondMarket. Edsouth, which typically buys student loans from other lenders, has used SecondMarket to trade student-loan backed securities in the past, said President and Chief Executive John Arnold. The ability to issue securities piqued his interest, he said: "Any opportunity for capital, you'd have to be looking at." And while some will be furious at what SecondMarket is doing, we applaud it as for the first time there will be a real chance for price discovery¬†and¬†crossing bids and asks in this latest debt bubble. After all, they are merely doing what Goldman Sachs called "making markets" which in retrospect merely allowed the subprime bubble to pop faster than it would have otherwise. Which in this day and age of one-way bets in everything is to be applauded. Of course, all that betting against the student debt bubble - which is merely one more way of "fighting the Fed" - will do is crash it promptly, only to see it reincarnated in the form of the latest Ben Bernanke monetization program (QEternity+2.718) which will be launched after this one fails to take the DJIA to 32,000. The key, as always, will be about timing. Those who get in just right, will be able to retire promptly. Everyone else will be sweeping their local McDonald's.

BofA Merrill Lynch technical strategist MacNeil Curry is out with a pretty pessimistic note to begin the week. Curry's message to the bank's clients is that a coming bounce in the stock market following the first real sell-off of the year will probably prove to be only temporary. He notes that other risky assets, like European stocks and peripheral government debt, have already taken a turn down. Below are the key paragraphs from Curry's note: While the evidence warns of the potential for new cycle highs in US risk, donít lose sight of the bigger picture. While US equities could see a push to new cycle highs on the back a renewed resurgence in risk, the larger body of evidence says that this is a VERY late stage advance for ESH3/S&amp;P500. Gasoline prices and sentiment are particularly worthy of note as both are at levels that have repeatedly coincided with medium term highs. Historically, RBOB moves above $3.50 have resulted in S&amp;P500 tops, while sentiment (using DSI as a proxy) has reached relative extremes from which the market has often turned lower. Commodities &amp; European risk markets have already turned trend. Stay bearish. Bunds to benefit. Waiting for USDSEK While US equities could see new highs, they are the exception, not the rule in the risk world. Indeed, both commodity markets (specifically Oil and Copper) and European risk markets (peripheral debt and Euro Stoxx) have already turned medium term bearish. Going forward, bounces in these assets should be seen as selling opportunities. Meanwhile Bunds will continue to outperform as yields remain on track to test and likely break their 2012 lows of 1.256%/1.123%. Finally, we continue to watch $/SEK as a rebound in risk sentiment should take the pair down into the 6.4086/6.3558 support zone. This would be our opportunity to go long for 6.8156 and potentially beyond. We've noted since early January that market sentiment is at extreme levels. Below is an updated chart via Curry (click to enlarge): BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG Below is a chart showing the other dynamic Curry notes ñ gas prices versus stock prices: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG Last week, when we asked strategists, economists, and traders across Wall Street which charts worry them most right now, several of them sent us similar indicators.
NBC"Meet the Press" host David Gregory challenged House Speaker John Boehner over one of Boehner's major talking points on the sequester ó that President Barack Obama does not have a plan to replace the forced spending cuts that began kicking in Friday. Boehner made the claim and Gregory immediately pushed back, noting that Obama has put forward a plan that is on the White House's website. Here's the exchange: BOEHNER: Now listen, we've known about this for 16 months. And yet even today, there's no plan from Senate Democrats or the White House to replace the sequester. And over the last 10 months, House Republicans have acted twice to replace the sequester. There are smarter ways to cut spending than these automatic across the board...DAVID GREGORY:GREGORY: But Mr. Speaker, that's just not true. They've made it very clear, as the President just did, that he has a plan that he's put forward that involves entitlement cuts, that involves spending cuts, that you've made a choice as have Republicans to leave tax loopholes in place. And you'd rather have those and live with all these arbitrary cuts...BOEHNER: Well, David that's just nonsense. If he had a plan, why wouldn't Senate Democrats go ahead and pass it? The House has acted twice over the last ten months to replace the sequester. If weíre going to ó the president got his tax hikes on January the first. If we're going to get rid of loopholes, let's lower rates and make the tax code fair for all Americans. The Senate failed to pass both Republican and Democratic-led bills that would have replaced the sequester's $85 billion worth of cuts this year. The two bills the House passed to avoid the cuts are now defunct, because they expired with the end of the last Congress. Watch the clip below, courtesy of NBC:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
NBCHouse Speaker John Boehner suggested on "Meet the Press" Sunday a theme of uncertainty surrounding the forced spending cuts known as the sequester, which began kicking in on Friday. "Listen," he told NBCís David Gregory. "I don't know whether it's going to hurt the economy or not. I don't think anyone quite understands how the sequester is really going to work." And he also suggested that he's not sure where the debate goes from here. "I don't think anyone quite understands how it gets resolved," he said. Boehner's talking point was clear ó he painted President Barack Obama as the person who thought up the idea of the sequester and blamed him for not budging on his insistence to include new revenue-boosting measures as part of a deal to avert the cuts. He backed up his theme of uncertainty by citing a now-debunked claim from Education Secretary Arne Duncan, who said that teachers would be laid off en masse in Virginia.† Boehner said that the onus is now on the Senate to act to replace the sequester, since the House has passed two bills. Those bills are now defunct, however, as they expired with the end of the last Congress.†Two Republican and Democratic-led bills failed to pass because of a 60-vote threshold. Gregory asked Boehner whether he still had control of his caucus despite some conservative members being upset with his inclusion of revenues in the deal to avert the fiscal cliff. "Listen, I'm here to lead the fight against out-of-control spending. And I'm going to lead that fight as Speaker of the House," Boehner said. Here's a clip of Boehner on "Meet the Press," courtesy of NBC:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Getty Images/ Scott HalleranWall Street is a super competitive place. So it should come as no surprise that some hot-shot athletes end up working there.¬† We've included a round up of some of the best athletes on the Street. ¬†Our list includes Olympic swimmers and rowers as well as former professional football players and a race car driver. ¬† These athletes work in positions from sales trader and broker to managing director and hedge fund manager. ¬†¬† Some of the athletes are still working on The Street, while others have retired. ¬†We even found some who haven't stopped competing since taking up finance and one who left to pursue a career as a professional athlete. ¬† If you feel like someone should be included on this list, feel free to send us as email at jlaroche@businessinsider.com.¬†
Mike Hewitt/Getty ImagesAccording to recent exit polls, Switzerland may have just voted in some of the toughest executive pay rules in the entire world. The new rules voted on today would allow shareholders at Swiss-listed companies a binding vote each year on the total compensation of boards of directors and senior management, as well as a total ban on "golden parachutes" and executives being paid compensation in advance. Managers who flout the rules will face prison. Switzerland employs a type of direct democracy in its government, which allows for votes like the referendum today. According to the BBC, the first official results from Geneva show 67.7% in favor of the new rules, while a Swiss TV station is projecting 70% in favor nationally. While Switzerland is a relatively wealthy country with strong ties to the banking industry, there has been something of an egalitarian revolt in recent years. One controversial recent case was that of Daniel Vasella, a departing chairman at Swiss drug company Novartis, who was forced out of his $78 million "golden handcuff" arrangement after a huge public outcry. Critics of the new plan have claimed that it will leave Swiss-listed companies unable to compete for top talent with the rest of the world, or even non-Swiss listed companies within Switzerland. However, those behind the plan clearly see it as the beginning of something global. ‚ÄúThis is not a Swiss issue,‚Äù Thomas Minder, the businessman and politician behind the vote told the Local. ‚ÄúAll over the world there‚Äôs the same discussion.‚Äù The Financial Times notes that if voters reject the new rules, an alternative plan from the government will go ahead instead. The government plan would allow consultative votes on executive pay, and gives shareholders the opportunity to claim back unmerited pay.
Niccolo Caranti Beppe Grillo, the leader of Italy's nascent Five-Star Movement catapulted into power by last week's Italian elections, is causing a bit of a stir this weekend. Saturday, Grillo told German weekly news magazine Focus that given the dire straits Italy's economy is in, if things didn't change, Italians would want to leave the euro. Then, in an interview Sunday with Bild ‚Äî Germany's biggest newspaper ‚Äî Grillo said he supports a referendum on euro membership. Referenda on euro membership in the euro area periphery, which is suffering the pain of record levels of youth unemployment and, in Italy's case, a deepening recession, tend to spook investors. Reuters correspondent Steve Scherer has the details: "I am a strong advocate of Europe. I am in favor of an online referendum on the euro," Beppe Grillo told Bild am Sonntag. Such a vote would not be legally binding in¬†Italy, where referendums can only be used to repeal laws or parts of laws, but would carry political weight. Grillo has said in the past that membership of the euro should be up to the Italian people. Italian financial journalist Fabrizio Goria just tweeted a great chart from a December Morgan Stanley report showing how Italians feel about staying in the euro: Twitter / @fgoria Not exactly reassuring. In a recent note, referring to Grillo's party's rise to power, Citi political analyst Tina Fordham wrote, "The outcome [of the elections] also reflects the collision between two macro trends we have long warned of: the rise of anti-establishment sentiment and the increased skepticism towards European obligations in the midst of a slow-growth or no-growth economic situation." Grillo's comments Sunday introduce the sort of headline risk that the Italian elections have returned to the forefront of the euro crisis storyline. The Five-Star leader has pledged not to form a coalition with Pier Luigi Bersani's center-left party, which means now Bersani has to forge a coalition with Silvio Berlusconi's center-right party in order for Italy to form a government. The problem with that is that Berlusconi and Bersani don't really agree on much and neither is really incentivized to compromise with the other. However, Wall Street Journal reporter Christopher Emsden notes that there may be a loophole allowing Bersani to duck the problem if Grillo so chooses: [Grillo's] insistence that he won't form a coalition doesn't mean Mr. Bersani won't be able to form a government with Mr. Grillo's indirect support, however. Analysts noted that an obscure Senate rule would allow the Five-Star Movement lawmakers to stay out of the room during a confidence vote allowing a government to be installed. Mr. Grillo has said he is interested in supporting legislative proposals on a case-by-case basis, so there would be room for convergence on some points. In other words, if Grillo chooses to abstain from actively obfuscating the process, there may be a workaround. BofA Merrill Lynch economists Raffaella Tenconi and Laurence Boone have pointed out that the two parties (Grillo's and Bersani's) could actually agree on a lot of things. Here are a few items they highlight in a recent note to clients: In any event, Grillo's words Sunday indicate that he's clearly intent on one thing: further agitating. Deutsche Bank fixed income strategists Francis Yared and Dominic Konstam write in their latest weekly outlook that "the outcome of the Italian election poses the first real test to our strategic view for higher core rates and a positive environment for risky assets in general." Whatever outcome results from the negotiations set to take place in the coming weeks as Italy tries to form a government, the process is sure to be dramatic.
The sequester kicked in on March 1.† This is the $85 billion worth of Federal budget cuts that will ripple through the economy. The folks at Saturday Night Live tackled this issue in its cold open.† Check it out: 
The debate rages on about what's really driving the stock market.¬† Is it the fundamentals (e.g. earnings and economic growth) or is it the Fed's ultra-easy monetary policy? This week, BTIG's Dan Greenhaus noted that the S&amp;P 500 climbed 128 percent during a period when earnings grew by 129 percent. Yet, the pundits pointing to easy monetary continue to be just as loud as ever. It's worth noting, however, that the markets have a history of extending rallies even when the Fed begins to tighten monetary policy. Economist David Rosenberg wrote about it in his Friday "Breakfast With Dave" note: "The number of times we actually had a bear market on our hands with the Fed easing and the economy expanding by any around is around zero. This is actually the most bullish quadrant. Even when the Fed is tightening policy, so long as the economy is not contracting (this is generally before the yield curve inverts), the natural tendency of the market is to grind higher. You heard that correctly, though the uptrend line is less notable than when the Fed is easing and the economy advancing. The worst times are the recessions, pure and simple, especially in those periods when the Fed is still draining liquidity with the pace of economic activity contracting. "For the time being, it looks the green light is still on provided that Quadrant one still holds." Here's the historical data: Gluskin Sheff In a recent note to clients, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco outlined what happened the last 15 times the Fed tightened monetary policy. "Don't fear interest rate normalization," wrote the stock market bull.
Today is the start of about two weeks of the "Two Meetings". The Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) opens this morning, the National People's Congress (NPC) starts Tuesday. During these couple of weeks do not expect much official news out of China that is not about these two meetings. Nor should we expect to see delegates with lots of bling, unlike in years past. Between the Internet and the anti-corruption and frugality campaigns wearing and carrying expensive name brands to these meetings may be an invitation to a scandal. The "Two Meetings" is usually a big gift giving event but not this year. Luxury firms should not expect a good first quarter in China, or a good second quarter the way things are going. A friend who does a lot of "facilitating" expects the gifts to eventually be given, but very carefully and only once the campaigns slow down. Today's Links: THE ESSENTIAL EIGHT 2nd Plenum of 18th CPC Central Committee ends - Xinhua | English.news.cn†- The committee approved a list of candidates for Chinaís next administration. The list will be presented to the National Peopleís Congress session which begins next week. It also approved a list of candidates for the leadership of the Chinese Peopleís Political Consultative Conference National Committee. The committee stressed the importance of institutional restructuring as well as reform to improve peopleís livelihood. It also stressed the need to reduce emissions and promote sustainable development.// full Chinese announcement Cnooc Said to Cede Control of Nexenís U.S. Gulf Assets - Bloomberg - Cnooc Ltd. (883), Chinaís largest offshore oil and natural gas producer, was barred from controlling Gulf of Mexico oilfields under U.S. terms for its $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen Inc. (NXY), people familiar with the matter said. In its purchase of Calgary-based Nexen, Cnooc acquired about 200 deep-water leases in the Gulf with reserves equivalent to about 205 million barrels of oil, one of the largest holdings in the Gulf, according to Nexenís website. The state-owned Chinese oil explorer surrendered operating control of those assets to quell U.S. national security concerns, said two people familiar with the agreement who asked not to be named because the terms arenít public. Is Americaís Door Really Open to Chinaís Investment? | ChinaFile - At this early stage of Chinaís global arrival as investor, CFIUS has blocked a tiny number of Chinese overtures, and required preconditions to approval of others. A few high profile deals have also been scuttled by Congressional or other political objections before they could even go to CFIUS, for example CNOOCís attempted takeover of Unocal in 2005. That has left an impression in China and elsewhere that the U.S. is not as open to Chinese direct investment as it says. While understandable, thatís unfortunate, because the truth is that the vast majority of Chinese deals have gone through, and that CFIUS has found ways to work with companies to mitigate existing risks. At the Rhodium Group, our China Investment Monitor database currently tracks 620 deals done since 2000óand the annual figures are at an all-time high, not on the wane. Spill in China Lays Bare Environmental Concerns - NYTimes.com The conflict over the Changzhi spill (Slide Show) has drawn attention to the growing problems with water use and pollution in northern China. The region, which has suffered from a drought for decades, is grappling with how industrial companies should operate along rivers. Local officials are shielding polluting companies and covering up environmental degradation, say environmentalists. <U+4EBA><U+6C11><U+65E5><U+62A5>-<U+5728><U+4E2D><U+592E><U+515A><U+6821><U+5EFA><U+6821>80<U+5468><U+5E74><U+5E86><U+795D><U+5927><U+4F1A><U+66A8> 2013<U+5E74><U+6625><U+5B63><U+5B66><U+671F><U+5F00><U+5B66><U+5178><U+793C><U+4E0A><U+7684><U+8BB2><U+8BDD> (2013<U+5E74>3<U+6708>1<U+65E5>†- Xi Jinping speech at Central Communist Party School welcoming new class, commemorating 80th anniversary of school founding. Huawei Executive Explains Plan To Overtake Apple And Samsung In Mobile - Business Insider - Technology giant Huawei is plotting to overtake Apple and Samsung in the mobile phone market. Matt Warman spoke to the firmís director of innovation about China, expansion and making great kit. An Illicit Trail of African Ivory to China - NYTimes.com†- ìWe call them bloody teeth,î said Xing, a furniture maker and ivory trafficker who is part of a shadowy trade that has revived calls for a total international ban on ivory sales. To the outrage of conservation groups trying to stop the slaughter of African elephants and the embarrassment of Chinese law enforcement agencies, Xingís thriving ivory business is just one drop in a trail of blood that stretches from Africa, by air, sea and highway, to Chinese showrooms and private collections. Here ComeÖChinaís Drones--The Diplomat- China has rightly identified a gap in the market, with relatively few countries having inducted UAVs so far, and few capable of building drones themselves, the low cost of Chinese systems will certainly be an advantage. A U.S. Predator costs around $4.5 million, while a Reaper is closer to $10 million for countries that manage to obtain clearance to buy them. Chinese sources have claimed that their equivalent UAVs cost less than $1 million, making them a highly affordable capability for a host of international customers, especially those unable or unwilling to source U.S. and Israeli technology. So if there is an alarm bell worth ringing about the emergence of Chinese UAVs, it is probably not the threat they will pose to the U.S. or Japan in the Asia-Pacific ñ it is the proliferation to the developing world of armed, unmanned systems that Chinaís low prices, and even lower export barriers, may soon begin to drive.
Italy plunged deeper into political chaos this weekend after Beppe Grillo, the quixotic former comedian who holds the balance of power in parliament, suggested that the country may have to abandon the euro and return to the lire. The rebel comic's warning came amid a growing rebellion among grass-roots supporters of his Five Star Movement, with 150,000 signing a petition calling for him to open up dialogue with the centre-Left Democratic Party, the biggest force in parliament. With the country in political paralysis, there were also questions over his eccentric behaviour, after the surreal public appearance of a man, either Mr Grillo or one of his supporters, with his face obscured by a zipped up puffer jacket and a pair of ski goggles. The bizarre figure, resembling a human fly, waved at photographers from the deck of Mr Grillo's beach house at Marina di Bibbona on the coast of Tuscany. In an interview with a German magazine, Mr Grillo warned that "if conditions do not change" Italy "will want" to leave the euro and return to the lire. The 64-year-old comic-turned-political activist also said Italy needs to renegotiate its ‚Ç¨2 trillion debt. Niccolo Caranti At 127 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), it is the highest in the euro zone after Greece. "Right now we are being crushed, not by the euro, but by our debt," he told Focus, a weekly news magazine. "When the interest payments reach ‚Ç¨100 billion a year, we're dead. There's no alternative." He said Italy was in such dire economic straits that "in six months, we will no longer be able to pay pensions and the wages of public employees". The comments will further hamper efforts to resolve the crisis caused by Italy's general election last week, in which Mr Grillo's web-based, anti-establishment movement won more than a quarter of the vote . He is refusing to contemplate any sort of power-sharing deal with the centre-Left Democratic Party, which has shaky control of the upper and lower houses of parliament but lacks a big enough majority to form a government. In the Focus interview, he said that an accord with the big parties would in theory be possible if they acceded to key parts of his movement's agenda, including limiting MPs' parliamentary service to two terms, an overhaul of the election system and the slashing of the lavish perks enjoyed by politicians. "But they will never do that," he said. "They are trying to make us believe that they will, just to gain time." Mr Grillo, renowned for his blistering attacks on Italy's established political caste, last week called Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the Democratic Party "a dead man talking". In the interview published yesterday he predicted the annihilation of both the centre-Left and the centre-Right coalition led by Silvio Berlusconi, the 76-year-old playboy who has been prime minister three times. They would be around for another "six months" but then they would be "finished", he said. He also insisted that his party would not take part in any "horse-trading", describing the overtures from the Left as "the usual whorish way of doing politics." But he faces a growing clamour among his grass-roots supporters, however, to open up dialogue with the Democratic Party in order to break the log jam and form some sort of credible government. An online petition begun on Wednesday by Viola Tesi, a 24-year-old member of the Five Star Movement from Florence, had by yesterday gathered nearly 150,000 signatures. Miss Tesi wrote an open letter to Mr Grillo on the website, www.change.org, appealing to him not to "waste" her vote but to give a confidence vote to the Democratic Party so that a reforming government can be formed. Grillo supporters should harness their unexpected triumph at the polls to compel the centre-Left to adopt the policies that would make Italy a better country, she said. "We should embrace the challenge and start changing Italy straight away, for the benefit of all," she wrote in the letter. But with Mr Grillo apparently ignoring those appeals, the three-way deadlock has raised fears about Italy's ability to maintain desperately needed economic reforms initiated by Mario Monti, the former technocrat prime minister. The comedian has said that his movement will remain outside any government, voting on individual bills in parliament on a case-by-case basis. Adding to the uncertainty is the fact that Mr Grillo refuses to talk to Italian journalists or to appear on current affairs television talk shows. Italian reporters who have telephoned him and asked to speak to the general secretary of the party claim he has told them: "Hang on, I'll just pass you to my 12 year old son." The new parliament has to meet by March 15 at the latest, after which formal talks with Giorgio Napolitano, the octogenarian Italian president, are scheduled to begin on the formation of a new government. In the space of just three years, Mr Grillo's movement has come from nowhere to place him in the role of kingmaker. During the election campaign he travelled Italy in a camper van in what he dubbed his "Tsunami Tour", filling piazzas with cheering supporters as he railed against entrenched political and business interests. AP One prominent supporter is Dario Fo, the 86-year-old playwright and satirist, whose best known works include Accidental Death of an Anarchist and We Can't Pay, We Won't Pay ‚Äì an apposite title given Mr Grillo's threats regarding Italy's debt. Mr Fo said yesterday: "Satire can uncover big ideas and bring about huge upheavals. Beppe Grillo is a man of satire, that's where he came from, and that is his strength." Mr Grillo's success means his party is poised to send more than 160 members into parliament's two chambers. Many are in their twenties and thirties and very few have any political experience, raising fears of legislative chaos if a government is eventually formed. The "Grillini", as they are known, include nurses, teachers, students, lawyers, engineers, molecular biologists, bank clerks, and architects. Some are unemployed. All are under 50 ‚Äì a novelty in a country in which many politicians are well into their seventies. Critics say they will be clueless in parliament and that their reliance on internet-based democracy to determine policies will be a recipe for disaster. Mr Grillo says their lack of political experience means they are untainted by corruption and cynicism. One new MP, Ivan Catalano, 26, who works at a metal machining factory north of Milan, told The Sunday Telegraph: "I am a normal citizen like any, who thanks to this new way of doing politics, will enter into parliament. "The message is that change is possible. We don't have to put up with the same old methods, and the same old people." He acknowledged there were differences of opinion within the movement but denied it was an open schism. "It is a healthy dialogue," he said. The movement's policies include tax cuts, a big increase in health spending and investment in the "green economy", but it has struggled to explain how this will be paid given Italy's mountain of debt. Mr Grillo also wants deep cuts in defence spending and the scrapping of a high-speed rail link to France beneath the Alps. The movement's newly-elected MPs and senators will meet one other for the first time in Rome on Monday to discuss whether to ignore their leader and support some sort of coalition. Italians are divided as to whether the movement promises fresh blood for an anaemic, corrupt system, or political and economic disaster for a country already mired in recession. "Beppe Grillo is a pistol pointed against Italy's head," was the front cover headline in last week's edition of Panorama, a conservative news magazine. Another news weekly, Oggi, ran a photograph of Mr Grillo with the words "Now what?" 
Ford.comFebruary¬†auto sales numbers were just released Friday, and every major manufacturer gave us the scoop on just how many of each vehicle they sold last month. Ford leads the list with five models in the top 19, while GM ‚Äì with four models on the list ‚Äì comes in close second. Toyota and Honda each contributed 3 models to the top 19 best-sellers. Hyundai, Nissan, and Dodge models round it out.
