Decide.com announced on Friday that it was being acqu-hired by eBay and would shutter its service at the end of the month. The entire team of 26 people will now go work for eBay. Decide.com predicts the prices on electronics and helps people pay less for them. It's not surprising eBay would want to buy this company. Decide.com had been using eBay's data to help with its predictions, CEO†Mike Fridgen said in a blog post. But one of the most remarkable things about this deal is that it marks the sixth-in-a-row successful exit for cofounder and CTO Oren Etzioni. Etzioni helped invent the concept of big data back when the Web was young, way before the term "big data." We're talking even before Google. Etzioni is a computer science professor at the University of Washington (and these days, also a partner at Seattle's Madrona Venture Group). In between teaching and publishing hundreds of technical papers, he keeps creating valuable tech. In 1994, four years before Google was born, he created one of the web's first search engines MetaCrawler, bought by Infospace (and still running today). In 1995, he cofounded the first shopping comparison engine, NetBot, bought by Excite. Then he created ClearForest, which summarizes text documents, bought by Reuters. In 2003, after he learned that he paid more for an airline ticket than the guy sitting next to him, he created a program that scraped travel sites to predict airfare prices. That became FareCast. It sold to Microsoft in 2008 for $110 million and is now a part of Bing.  In 2011, he took what he learned at FareCast and launched Decide.com to predict electronics prices. It was backed by Madrona (naturally) but also early Google early investor†Ram Shriram and†Rich Barton (cofounder of Zillow, Expedia, Glassdoor). Now, two years later eBay bought Decide.com. Terms weren't disclosed, but we know that it raised about $17 million including a recent $8 million round in March that included Microsoft cofounder Paul Allen's VC firm Vulcan Capital. Given Etzioni's history we're willing to make our own prediction. He'll be back with another successful startup and soon.
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 Things Financial Advisors Need To Do To Make Their Website More Credible (Nerd's Eye View) It's becoming increasingly important for advisors to have an online presence to add to their legitimacy. In a guest post for Nerd's Eye View, Maria Marsala a strategist for financial advisors, identifies 14 things advisors need to do, to make their websites more credible. We highlighted five key suggestions.¬† 1. "Purchase an appropriate domain name." 2. "Make it quick. ‚Ä¶Most visitors will not have the patience to stick around much longer than that and will simply move on." 3. "Secure purchases and interactions. The best sites provide the most secure access available to sensitive client information." 4. "Don‚Äôt clutter the site. Use lots of white space to ‚Äúbreak up‚Äù the text. It‚Äôs easier on the eyes that way. The only place to NOT use lots of white space is at the top of your pages." 5. "Include a personal touch. Studies have shown that after viewing a home page, the next page people read ‚Äî and spend a lot of time on ‚Äî is your ‚ÄúAbout‚Äù page."  A Newly Rich Rancher Is Shown The Importance Of Diversity (The Wall Street Journal) A rancher became incredibly wealthy three years ago, after oil and natural gas were found below his property. But he pumped his money intro annuities after he was sold the mantra of "safety above all else," according to¬† Ed Hart of Texas-based Sendero Wealth Management. But Hart told the Wall Street Journal that it was important for his client to diversify.¬† "He [Hart] also walked the client through the annuity fees, including stiff withdrawal penalties that started at 7% in the first year," Austin Kilham of the WSJ reports. "Seeing the full scope of those fees made an impression on the flinty rancher, who was used to keeping a tight rein on his expenses." HOWARD MARKS: There Is One Thing I Want To Know When I Look At An Investment (Bloomberg TV)  Investors closely follow Howard Marks, money manager at Oaktree Capital, the world's largest distressed debt investor, for investment advice. In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Marks said there is one thing in investment that he'd like to know about. "It does all come down to confidence and optimism. If I could know one thing in looking at investment, I'd like to know how much confidence is in the price. I want to buy when confidence is low that's when price is low relative to value, when confidence and optimist high, price is high relative to value and that's a dangerous time." The World's 50 Largest Asset Managers Account For Over $38 Trillion In Assets Under Management (Think Advisor) The world's 50 largest asset managers accounted for over $38 trillion in assets under management (AUM) at the end of 2012, according to Cerulli Associates. That's $4 trillion more than the end of 2011. Eleven have assets over $1 trillion, compared with nine in 2011, and four have over $2 trillion, compared with two the previous year. The asset management industry has seen consolidation for some time but "there has definitely been a quickening of pace since the financial crisis," Shiv Taneja of Cerulli told Think Advisor. BlackRock is still the only money manager with over $3 trillion in assets.¬†
It‚Äôs not that the players are different. India is once again grabbing the lion‚Äôs share of nervous headlines today due the fast-falling rupee, its large budget and current account deficits, high inflation and relatively anemic growth. And Brazil, Mexico, Indonesia and Thailand are all experiencing currency pressure that does seem shockingly familiar. But that‚Äôs where the similarities end. One big difference: most of the larger emerging market economics have made significant structural adjustments that leave them much better able to deal with today‚Äôs capital outflows than they were in previous crises. ‚ÄúThe circumstances are very different,‚Äù Parker said. ‚ÄúThe key question is, ‚ÄòAre we going to have, as we had in the 1990s, a range of sovereign debt defaults?‚Äô And the answer to that is, no.‚Äù Last time around, Parker explained, many of the affected countries shared three characteristics: large current account deficits, large amounts of debt denominated in foreign currency and fixed exchange rates. The combination proved to be fatal, as currencies pegged to the dollar became artificially expensive, making it difficult to meet exchange requests, which in turn hastened the depletion of foreign exchange reserves. Large current account deficits and external debt denominated in foreign currencies exacerbated things by forcing even more money out of those countries to purchase goods and make loan payments. The current crisis began in May, when the Federal Reserve first said it could begin slowing down the asset purchases it had been using to pump money into the U.S. economy and keep interest rates low. Investors who had plowed money into bonds, equities and other investments in Asia and South America in search of higher returns began withdrawing their capital as a result. Here‚Äôs what‚Äôs different this time around: For one, in contrast to the slow, decade-long wave of troubles 20 years ago, the current crisis is hitting economies all over the world at about the same time.¬† Two, most economies that had fixed-exchange rates in the 90s and early 2000s have since allowed their currencies to float freely, with the notable exceptions of Venezuela and China. In the Asian financial crisis, the appreciation of the dollar made Asian currencies pegged to it less competitive.¬† Now, Parker noted, emerging market currencies have simply become less valuable¬†‚Äì an opportunity for exporters. ‚ÄúOne pressure valve which has been obviously pushed very hard indeed in recent months has been the devaluation of currencies ‚Äì and frankly, those devaluations have been very positive,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAlthough particularly for commodity importers like India, weaker currencies are going to result in higher inflation, the fact of the matter is, these countries now have very competitive currencies.‚Äù Many emerging market economies have also built up much larger stockpiles of foreign exchange reserves than previously. As Parker put it, ‚ÄúEven poor old India‚Äôs got more than $250 billion.‚Äù India‚Äôs Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has been stressing to the press over the last week that India‚Äôs reserves of $280 billion could cover seven months of imports this time around, as opposed to three weeks at the low point of the 1991 crisis. China, of course, has about $3.4 trillion dollars in reserves, while Russia, which defaulted on its debt and devalued the ruble in 1998, has around $600 billion. ‚ÄúTheir firepower to defend their economies and restructure their economies is totally different from the¬†90s,‚Äù Parker said. The Financialist Asian national banks were¬†borrowing¬†large sums in order to finance public-private infrastructure investments at home. With the notable exceptions of Turkey, South Africa and India, the last of which has a current account deficit equivalent to nearly 5 percent of GDP, many emerging market countries ‚Äúare either in surplus, like in Russia or China, or the current account deficits are very small, as in Brazil and most of Asia,‚Äù Parker said. Similarly, he added, the risk of a sovereign debt crisis is nowhere near as prevalent now as it was then, since many emerging market governments carry most of their debt in domestic currency, rather than in foreign currency. Finally, Parker said, investors simply aren‚Äôt speculating in the emerging markets to the extent they were in the 1990s and early 2000s. ‚ÄúWhereas investors back in the 90s had very heavy exposures, many of which were short-term speculative exposures, to emerging markets, today that certainly is not the case,‚Äù Parker said. ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt have that speculative overhang.‚Äù¬† So, what‚Äôs going to happen next? Several countries such as Brazil and Indonesia have already raised interest rates in a bid to defend their currencies, and more central banks are likely to introduce small interest rate hikes. And at some point ‚Äì perhaps as soon as late October ‚Äì investors are going to start realizing that there are some great buying opportunities in those economies out of which they only recently bailed. ‚ÄúI think investors will realize that we‚Äôre not in a situation like the 90s, and we could see a number of policy actions to encourage foreign investment in certain countries,‚Äù Parker said. ‚ÄúSo, we could get into a situation where investors move back into emerging markets in October and pick up very cheap valuations.‚Äù Parker said Credit Suisse itself will likely remain cautious in September, a month laced with tripwires for financial markets. The ongoing crisis in Syria, the likely beginning of a fight in the U.S. Congress over raising the federal debt limit and the Sept. 22 German elections are all major events that the markets are watching nervously. Perhaps the biggest September event is the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on September 17-18, which will be closely watched for an asset-purchase tapering announcement. But Parker said that the fact that market alreadyknows¬†the central bank will begin tapering at some point means that the tea leaf readers are only seeking an answer to a less profound first-order derivative question‚Äîwhich is what the actual rate of tapering will be. Come October, Parker said, he would anticipate that Credit Suisse might begin looking at opportunities in healthier emerging market economies, including China, South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. Some of the biggest emerging market worry zones are in India, Indonesia, Turkey and South Africa, Parker said. Indonesia and India both suffer from high inflation, loose monetary policy and low interest rates, Credit Suisse‚Äôs currency strategists have noted, though Indonesia did raise interest rates last week. Turkey‚Äôs central bank, on the other hand, has ruled out rate hikes to try to defend the lira, which has lost 10 percent of its value since May. Credit Suisse‚Äôs currency strategists see the resistance to rate hikes as a reluctance to slow down growth, especially before elections next year. But the strategists also cautioned that Turkey only has $40 billion in net foreign exchange reserves, enough to cover just two months of imports and perhaps not enough to adequately defend the currency. South Africa, meanwhile, a country dominated by the mining industry, is experiencing labor unrest, high inflation and unemployment of 26 percent. The Financialist In the end, much has changed since the 1990s ‚Äì and mostly for the better. Many emerging market economies are much better prepared for external shocks than they were then, and only a few remain extremely vulnerable. As fall approaches, the key for investors is to know one from the other and avoid thinking of all fast-growing economies as either good bets or bad ones. The devil lies not in a country‚Äôs emerging market status, but in the details of its individual economy.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVYesterday, NYU professor Aswath Damodaran published his valuation of Tesla.  The valuation expert, even though he doesn't like the title, thinks Tesla is worth $67.12 today. That's significantly below its current price of $169.93 (closing price on Thursday). Damodaran received a fair amount of feedback and vitriol from Tesla bulls. "My post on Tesla must have touched some nerves because I got more than my usual share of backlash from Tesla bulls," he said. "While some of it was just vitriol, many contained interesting counter arguments to mine." In a follow-up post he does identify three justifications. But Damodaran stands by his assessment and thinks the reaction from some bulls just shows they they aren't secure in their bullishness.† "I stand behind my judgment of value for Tesla in the my last post, but all I would take out of that valuation is that I would not buy Tesla at todayís price. Given my fear of getting whipsawed in the momentum game, I would not sell short either. It was not meant to be investment advice. I am a firm believer that investors have to take responsibility for the own choices and I will respect yours. Thus, if you are a long-term investor in Tesla, because you believe that there are viable pathways to a value higher than the price, I understand your motives. If you are a trader who is playing the pricing game with the stock, I can tell you that I wish I could play that game as well as you do, but I stink at it. So, I won't even try. In closing, though, if you are a Tesla bull and you feel threatened by a blog post from me, I think you may be a lot less secure in your bullishness than you think." And the three justifications for bullishness: Read the entire piece here ª
Wet Napkin on flickrToday's August jobs report was weaker than expected. U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by just 169,000, which was a bit lower than the 180,000 expected by market economists. Even worse, July's number was revised down to 104,000 from 162,000, and June's number was revised down to 172,000 from 188,000. The big question on everyone's minds: Will this dissuade the Federal Reserve from tapering its quantitative easing program later this month? Some think so and they attribute today's stock market strength to that possibility. However, JP Morgan's Michael Feroli disagrees. While he acknowledges that today's report wasn't great news, he argues that it is far from a gamechanger when it comes to monetary policy decisions. From his note to clients today (emphasis added): Regarding the Fed, we think today's number leaves them on track for a $15 billion taper at the September meeting, with a risk of a smaller, $10 billion move. One argument we have heard against tapering is the softness evident in the July jobs number, and to a lesser extent in August. It is statistical insanity to think that in any twelve-month period with job growth averaging 184,000 that each month's outcome should be less than 80,000 away from that average, and even crazier to call 169,000 a disappointment relative to that average. As far as the unemployment rate, we are now within shelling distance of the 7% "vicinity" figure that the Chairman has referenced -- analogous to baseball's vicinity rule -- as consistent with the end of asset purchases. It is true that today's move in the rate appears driven by declining participation, but Committee members may gradually be making their peace with a falling participation rate (cf Williams' comments earlier this week). Moreover, to the extent the doves have highlighted that the unemployment rate understates the degree of labor market slack, they usually do so with reference to the 6.5% threshold policy, not the 7% vicinity rule. To get even close to that plan, the Fed will need to begin tapering soon. The Fed will hold its next Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on September 17 and 18. Economists expect to hear about the taper at the conclusion.
REUTERS/Frank PolichStocks surged, then tanked, then erased those losses to basically break even for the day. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
YouTube/WSJDigitalNetworkThis morning's job's report, the last job's report before the FOMC meeting, has complicated the question of whether the Fed will taper later this month. The taper refers to the Fed slowing down its $85 billion asset purchase program that is intended to lower long-term interest rates. Now, Jon Hilsenrath, whom Stephen Roach joked was the real Fed chairman, writes that today's jobs report, concerns around Syria, and the Washington debt debate are also likely to complicate the decision. In his latest piece, Hilsenrath writes that consensus is building around the idea that the Fed will lower its bond buying program by $10 billion to $85 billion a month. "One option that has gained support among some Fed officials in recent weeks: Reduce their monthly bond purchases by a small amount, say $10 billion to $75 billion, and signal as loudly as possible the next step will depend on more evidence the job market is continuing to improve and inflation is moving back toward 2% from its current low levels." Hilsenrath also reiterates that the commitment that is most important to the Fed, is their promise to keep short-term interest rates low until the jobless rate falls to 6.5%: "Most troubling to top Fed officials is the risk that investors will see a cut in bond purchases as a sign they‚Äôll start raising short-term interest rates, which have been pinned near zero since late 2008. The Fed has said short-term rates will stay low at least until the jobless rate falls to 6.5% and possibly much longer. "Fed officials see that commitment as a more powerful tool than the bond-buying program in their efforts to hold down long-term interest rates to encourage borrowing, spending, investing and growth and they want to reinforce it. "The Fed‚Äôs post-meeting policy statement and Mr. Bernanke, in his following press conference, are likely to emphasize that short-term interest rates will remain near zero until the jobless rate falls much further and that more reductions in bond purchases aren‚Äôt set in stone." The Fed's job just got a little more complicated. Read the entire piece here ¬ª
Melodie Jeng/Details We sent our resident street style photographer, Melodie Jeng (you know her from†The NYC Streets) to snap the men on the streets of Florence, Milan, and Paris during the recent Fall 2013 shows.†She came back with hundreds of great images of stylish men. Here, we've rounded up seven pervasive trends: statement scarves, camo print, burgundy, black leather, plaid, cuffed pants, and backpacks. ï ï ï More from Details: Fall Fashion Preview: A Look At The Season's Must-Have Styles 5 Must-Have Waterproof Devices The Virility Diet: What To Eat For Better Sex 5 Foods That Make You Look Younger Are You A Narcissist? The Worst Celebrity Eyebrows Of All Time
It's been five years since Wall Street melted down, helping plunge the U.S. economy into recession. To mark the occasion, the Wall Street Journal has digitized its front pages from September 2008 (which they're calling "Black September"). Here's one week's worth, charting the vaporization of Lehman Brothers and AIG: Wall Street JournalWall Street JournalWall Street JournalWall Street JournalWall Street Journal See the full month on WSJ.com ¬ª
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVInvestors closely follow Howard Marks, money manager at Oaktree Capital the world's largest distressed debt investor, for investment advice. In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Marks said there is one thing in investment that he'd like to know about. "It does all come down to confidence and optimism. If I could know one thing in looking at investment, I'd like to know how much confidence is in the price. I want to buy when confidence is low that's when price is low relative to value, when confidence and optimist high, price is high relative to value and that's a dangerous time." Marks went on to say that today's financial conditions are summed up by something he wrote in 2007: "Today's financial market conditions are easily summed up: there's a global glut of liquidity, minimal interest in traditional investments, that's stock and bonds, little apparent concern about risk and skimpy prospective returns everywhere. "Now I wrote that in February of 2007. I feel like we're going in that direction. In the last segment you used the expression the race to the bottom, I think it's on. I don't think we're there yet or that it was the last go around, but I think we have to be careful and when people are excited, when they're confident, when they're chasing return, moving out the risk curve to chase the return they want, and they forget to be careful, and my thing for today is to keep that in mind." Check out the whole interview at Bloomberg.com.
GettySasha Grey, shown here receiving an AVN award for Female Performer of the Year in 2012, is not unemployed.This month's non-farm payrolls report came in a little weaker than expected, and Jim Tankersley has an explanation for why: The film industry lost a whopping 22,000 jobs, more than the amount by which the total jobs report missed estimates. He attributes this to a temporary shutdown of the adult film industry last month due to an HIV scare. It's a provocative theory. But it's wrong. I spoke with John Mullins, an economist in the Current Employment Statistics division at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. He explained to me that the August jobs report counts you as "employed" if you were on the payroll for any part of the pay period including August 12. The porn industry shutdown ran from August 21 to 27. So, while the shutdown put a substantial number of people out of work for a week, their job losses would not have shown up in the BLS report. So, why did film production have such a weak month? Mullins isn't sure, but he did note that the industry has highly volatile employment in general. There is also the issue of sampling error: Employment data are noisy month-to-month, and the longer term trend in film production employment has been pretty flat. In other words, this month's bad number might be just a blip in the statistics. In researching this piece, I initially suspected another reason that porn wouldn't matter for non-farm payrolls: Porn performers are typically independent contractors. If you're not a payroll employee, you never show up in the non-farm payrolls survey, so the numbers aren't affected if you get put out of work. But Joanne Cachapero, spokeswoman for the Free Speech Coalition, an adult-industry trade association, told me that's only true of on-camera workers: Everyone behind the scenes is an employee and therefore paying payroll taxes and with a W2. This can range from a very small shoot with 4-5 people behind the scenes, to a huge feature production which might have 20 or more behind the scenes. Directors, editors, camera, people, lighting, grips, production assistants, make up and wardrobe, catering, drivers, graphic artists, publicistsóall are affected. In other words, a longer porn shutdown that covered an entire pay period could cause a significant dip in reported film production employment. That's just not what happened this month.
It's no secret that governments around the world are cracking down on tax evasion, and their number one target is the Swiss banking system. They want the industry open up the kimono on who has money stashed in the country. This demand for transparency, says Bloomberg, is resulting in some awkward situations for Germans that keep their money in Swiss bank accounts. Germans are the largest group of foreign tourists in Switzerland, so they often set up bank accounts there. Now those account holders want to get their money out before the hammer truly hits, but they still don't want to declare the money in Germany. So they smuggle it home however/wherever they can (from Bloomberg): ‚ÄúWe had a 72-year-old man wearing a woman‚Äôs corset with 150,000 euros stuffed inside,‚Äù said Markus Ueckert, a spokesman for the German customs district of Loerrach, one of the three that border Switzerland. ‚ÄúIn another instance, a man had on two incontinence diapers with nearly 140,000 euros in between...‚Äù ‚ÄúA pair of pensioners had money in their shoes, and we had a case of money hidden by the car battery,‚Äù said Harald Gabele, a spokesman for Germany‚Äôs Singen district. ‚ÄúYou regularly have instances of people wearing a secret money belt or concealing it in their underwear.‚Äù Apparently this has become fun for German customs officers. One told Bloomberg catching evaders gave him a "good feeling." We can't imagine. For the full article, head to Bloomberg&gt; ¬†
via Corcoran A Goldman Sachs executive has bought the only freestanding mansion in Manhattan, The Real Deal's Katherine Clarke reports citing city records.¬† Mark Schwartz, a vice chairman of Goldman and chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia Pacific, purchased the Schinasi House at 351 Riverside Drive in the Upper West Side for $14 million, the report said.¬† It's definitely a dream home and we're going to take a tour.¬†
CNNMoneyJim O'NeillJim O'Neill†ó the economist who coined the term "BRICs" for the world's big emerging economies†ó told CNN that emerging market leaders need to stop "bitching and moaning"†over tightening developed market policies. Easy monetary policy in the wake of the financial crisis spurred massive inflows to emerging markets.  Now, with developed nations like the U.S. on the brink of slowing down stimulus programs, emerging markets have been getting clobbered. "I don't think it's really right for [EM leaders] to just constantly blame the Fed," O'Neill told CNN. "It's up to them to grow the role of their own currencies, and to take more responsibility within the G20 rather than just bitching and moaning about the Fed all the time." The former Goldman Sachs economist became famous in 2001 when he predicted that Brazil, Russia, India, and China would be major growth drivers in the coming decade. Watch the full video:
ReutersThe main premise of our coal-is-the-energy-of-the-future argument is that China will never wean itself off the mother of all fossil fuels.¬† A new report from Citi's Anthony Yuen and Ed Morse challenges that view. "Citi expects [a] combination of factors to slow the power sector's use of coal, pointing to a possible flattening or peaking before 2020," they wrote. Whoa.¬† The firm says the four main drivers of the phenomenon will be: Here's the scenario outlook breakdown: Citi But let's quantify each of the four bullets. China is ready to get serious about wrangling the world's worst air quality problems, Citi says, and the Party's "12th Five-Year Plan For Air Pollution Prevention And Control In Key Areas" calls for speeding up the mothballing of inefficient power plants including coal generators. The Ministry of Environmental Protection also recently suspended all environmental impact assessments. Citi has imagined a scenario where GDP slows to 5.5% in 2020 from 7.4% in 2013, the result of a whole slew of factors including peak population growth, the dismantling of the state-sponsored economy, and a more credible exchange rate. That of course will lead to natural lower energy demand, which will filter through to coal.  But power demand growth already trails GDP by 200 bps and is likely to fall farther behind.¬†"While recent data are not sufficient to definitively declare a trend, there are strong¬† reasons to believe it could be the beginning of one. It is China‚Äôs explicit policy to both rebalance growth towards less energy intensive sectors such as consumption and promote energy efficiency throughout the economy." China has set a goal of 100 gigawatts of natural gas capacity by 2020 (U.S. stands at about 105 gw). That's incredibly ambitious ‚Äî China faces huge hurdles to accessing its shale, as the Wall Street Journal reported today, but that doesn't mean they'll be left with an empty plate. Citi says pricing reforms could spur development: The expansion of retail price reform that started in the two southern provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi in tying gas prices to Shanghai fuel oil and LPG prices will raise the price that producers receive for natural gas."¬†China also already has 1 billion cubic feet of "small-scale" liquefied natural gas capacity (mostly in places with poor pipeline access). Meanwhile, China scaled back its nuclear capacity after Fukushima to 58 gigawatts, but the country is already more than three-quarters of the way there (U.S. nuke capacity=101 gw). Finally, China wants 103 gigawatts-worth of solar by 2020. And thanks to bureaucratic reforms, China has managed to cut the time it took subsidy payments to reach recipients to three months from more than two years. So it's not an unreasonable goal. "Clean coal" may be an oxymoron at heart, but the concept is not completely groundless, and Citi says China's newest coal plants operate at 45% efficiency, compared with an EU average of 38%.¬† And as more plants are retired, efficiency will only increase. Here's the chart: Citi As you can see, China will still have a ton of coal plants into 2014. But at least there'll be more efficient ones in place. To prove they're not the only ones thinking China coal use will peak, Citi also posts the following chart from the U.S. Department of Energy's Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory that says efficiency gains will be so aggressive that coal use will peak after 2020 no matter how fast China is growing: DOE/Citi ¬† Finally, here's the chart we really care about: the impact on China's carbon emissions.¬† Citi Citi writes: ...an economic transition in China that brings 2020 GDP growth to 5.5% in 2020, for an average 2013-2020 GDP growth of 6.6%, could drive carbon emissions down to 3.82-billion tons ‚Äì lower than the 2013 average and more than 1.1-billion tons/year lower than IEA‚Äôs ‚ÄúCurrent Policy,‚Äù ie,¬†business-as-usual (BAU) projection.¬† There's a chance that recent drops in coal prices could dent some of this, but Citi says it's unlikely. "Ultimately what drives prices lower in both cases is lower than-expected demand, whether it be cheap US shale gas reducing US coal demand, or much lower Chinese coal demand growth and imports." This is a future we can live with.
AP ImagesAside from being the Masters of the Universe making the big bucks, some Wall Streeters have managed to become romantically involved with some really famous people.¬† We've compiled a list supermodels, movie stars and socialites who have or have had a thing for Wall Streeters. ¬†¬† Some of the relationships have flourished, while others have ended.
This morning's August jobs report brought us news that, once again, labor force participation dropped. The rate fell to¬†63.2% from 63.4% the month before. That's the lowest since August 1978. So as the unemployment rate steadily drops, it's important to keep labor force participation¬†‚Äî arguably a better indicator of real employment¬†‚Äî in mind. What good is a decreasing unemployment rate (now at 7.3% from 7.4% last month) if it's a result of a mass exodus from the labor force? Here's the chart. FRED
Everyone knows Microsoft Excel is fantastic for crunching numbers, but did you also know it's outstandingly useful when it comes to presenting them clearly? When you've got a huge collection of hideous raw data, a Pivot Table is an outstanding way to make sense of it to get the information you really need to know.¬† Here's how to make one: Produced by Daniel Goodman
The economy continues to heal, but is doing so at a frustratingly tepid rate. Consider three important data points from the BLS: What are the most overlooked indicators in todayís report? The report underscores concerns about income and wealth inequalities. For example: Long-term unemployment is stuck at the alarmingly high level of 4.3 million, or 38% of the unemployed. This matters a great deal because the more time spent out of a job, the harder it is to subsequently get a well-paying job. The education-related gap is big and getting bigger. The unemployment rate for those with a college degree fell to 3.5% (from 3.8% the previous month) while that for those without a high school diploma increased to 11.3% (from 11.0%). Fortunately, the youth joblessness rate fell from 23.7% to 22.7%. Though still too high overall, this decline is particularly encouraging as persistently unemployed young people can risk becoming unemployable. Will todayís report help reduce Congressional gridlock on economic policies? No. Already, both parties have issued statements that reinforce rather than reduce the disparity in views about the past, present and future. Moreover, Congress is very busy with Syria. Lawmakers also have to deal with two budgetary issues: how to avoid a government budgetary shutdown and also sidestep a repeat of the 2011 debt ceiling debacle. How will it impact the Federal Reserveís experimental support for the economy and markets? Todayís jobs report is neither strong enough nor weak enough to change our expectations that the Federal Reserve will likely announce the following on September 18th: (i) a small reduction in its exceptional purchases of securities ñ call it ìtaper light;î (ii) focus this reduction on U.S. Treasuries rather than mortgage-backed securities; (iii) re-assure markets that the Fed stands ready to reverse its policy change should the economy weaken markedly; (iv) keep policy interest rates floored essentially at zero; and (v) re-iterate, and maybe even evolve, its forward policy guidance.
ScreenshotMicrosoft†is an unwieldy business and should be broken up, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Friday, and the tech giant needs a savior like†Ford's†Alan Mulally†to drive a corporate "miracle" and get the company back on track. Although Cramer dismissed the rumor that Mulally would jump to Microsoftóbecause his job isn't yet complete at FordóCramer said that in theory, Mulally would be a good thing for the company. "I still think Alan wants to get to $3 to $4 earnings power for Ford before he's done," Cramer explained on†"Squawk on the Street"†Friday. "He's worked miracles atBoeing, he's worked miracles at Fordóhe could work miracles at Microsoft." (Related:†Ford CEO plays down reports of an early exit) Cramer said that Mulally's strategy would be to find the right people who are "charged up" to bolster Microsoft's business and would simultaneously avoid troubled, high-cost acquisitions like those that have plagued the company in the past. Cramer predicted that Microsoft would eventually be broken into three pieces, adding that "it is too big, too unwieldy and it's not getting anywhere. It's time to break up Microsoft." Microsoft has to do "something wild," Cramer explained, like spinning off the Xbox business that is "buried within" the company, or turning Nokia back into a pure cellphone company and using the proceeds to buy a company like Sprint. "You could go buy Netflix with Xbox," he said, and run the Windows business like a utility company with reliable cash flows.† (Related:†Microsoft: Xbox One pre-order supply nearly sold out) Cramer listed the big components as the Windows operating system business, an entertainment businessóincluding Xboxóand the "other" business with the Nokia cellphone division as a cornerstone. Jim Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Ford Motor. Follow him on Twitter @ToscanoPaul†and get the latest stories from "Squawk on the Street." Disclaimer
U.S. crude got two jolts this morning to go as high as $110.33. The first was the weak jobs report, which signaled more sluggishness in the economy but also, at least according to some pundits, a possible extension of the Fed's bond-buying program. Then Russian President Vladimir Putin said he was ready to help Syria's Bashar Al-Assad defend against any U.S. attack. So we got this chart: Investing.com¬†Brent's also up 0.63% to $116.00.
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthSunlight is reflected from the Walkie Talkie tower in central London September 3, 2013. The developers of a London skyscraper that reflects sunlight at such intense levels that it warped panels and melted mirrors on a parked car will not need to break the bank to fix the problem, a project source told Reuters. Rafael ViÒoly, the architect who designed the †skyscraper currently frying eggs and melting cars on a London street, says the building's glitch is not his fault. Architecture magazine BDOnline's Andrea Klettner reports that ViÒoly is instead blaming an army of consultants that he says have invaded the architecture profession, needlessly complicating the design process: One of the problems that happens in this town [London] is the superabundance of consultants and sub consultants that dilute the responsibility of the designers until you donít know where you are. ... Architects arenít architects anymore...You need consultants for everything. In this country thereís a specialist to tell you if something reflects. Itís the fault of the architectural discipline which has cast itself into a completely secondary thing. He also said the design flaw had in fact been spotted, by that the extent of the effect was underestimated: ...the calculations said it was only going to be 36 degrees, but in fact itís 72î. It's not clear whether ViÒoly addressed the fact that he already designed a fryscraper in Las Vegas four years ago. In the meantime, the London structure's developers say they are erecting temporary scaffolding to shield pedestrians from the glare.†
REUTERS/Brian SnyderGraduating student Jennifer Lim sits in the shade before the start of the 361st Commencement Exercises at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts May 24, 2012.A longstanding platitude still bellows from the family rooms of America's starry-eyed high school seniors: Go to college, get a job. The unemployment rate for those with a college diploma is significantly lower than for those without one. The two rates have also fluctuated similarly for a long time. This much we know. But we also know that the labor force participation rate has been steadily dropping for some time. In August, the rate fell¬†to 63.2%, the¬†lowest figure since August 1978. When workers exit the labor force en masse, the unemployment rate drops (since the calculation is based on people actively looking for work). That looks nice, but you wouldn't exactly call the situation "better." So it follows, one might think, that the rate of participation is dropping¬†more for those without a college degree because they just have fewer skills than their educated contemporaries. But that's wrong. Take a look at these oft-cited charts. First, here is labor force participation for those with a bachelor's degree or higher. FRED It's been falling for some time. So what gives?¬†As Goldman Sachs economist¬†Jan Hatzius wrote to clients in May, "The growth in the absolute number of employed college graduates has been nowhere near enough to offset the increase in the size of the college-educated population." Put differently, American universities are churning out so many new college graduates that even as more drop out of the labor force, the unemployment rate has stayed pretty much in line with the unemployment rate for those with less education. You'd have to look beyond the unemployment rate and to the labor force participation rate to see how "go to college, get a job" misses the full picture. The participation rate¬†for those with less education tells a different story (though it too has suffered since the crisis). FRED More people going to college is not necessarily a good thing, especially considering America's youth have fallen out of the labor force and into a student loan securities bubble. As a backdrop, there is over $1 trillion in outstanding student loans in America.¬†As CNBC's John Carney reported, banks backing out of the student loan business are beginning to use language "eerily reminiscent"¬†to what we heard as firms closed subprime units in the runup to the financial crisis.
AT&TThe August jobs report revealed that, once again, labor force participation fell. The rate dropped to 63.2% from 63.4% in July, the lowest figure since August 1978. This chart via Bloomberg's Michael McDonough breaks out labor force participation by age since 1990. Youth employment (ages 16-19) has seen the steepest decline, followed by ages 20-24. Last month, the labor participation rate for those aged 16-19 fell to 34.0% from 34.9% in July. Kids are likely staying in school for longer (or avoiding work altogether) thanks to a tough labor market.¬†On the other hand, the 65-and-over crowd has seen the sharpest uptick in participation. The financial crisis bled retirement savings, forcing older Americans to stay on the job for longer. Twitter/Michael McDonough
Flickr/JhayneAs a¬†financial planner, I am all about sharing your financial success. However, if one more person walks into my office asking to buy¬†stockbecause his best friend told him the¬†stock¬†is going to increase and he is going to receive a huge¬†dividend¬†payout, I might just scream and slam my office door in his face.¬† I recently had a client come into my office and hand me a $10,000 check to invest into our precious-metals¬†mutual fund. This client only had a bank account and a¬†credit card¬†with my bank. This was his first¬†investment. When I asked him why he wanted to invest $10,000 in only one mutual fund, he told me that his friend suggested that buying gold was a good investment, so he wanted to invest everything he had. I had to refuse the transaction because my client obviously didn‚Äôt understand the risks involved.¬† I have to admit that my client is a very trusting person because he was willing to invest his entire life¬†savings¬†based on a hot tip from his friend.¬† Do you think that his friend¬†will¬†refund¬†the losses when the¬†market¬†crashes? I don‚Äôt think so. But my client is hardly the only person to get bad advice from friends.¬† Here are three things that you may hear from friends. Their intentions might be good, but please, please don‚Äôt take these bits of investment wisdom to heart... 1. "The market is going to collapse/come back very soon."There is absolutely no way to know whether the market is going to crash or recover. If there was, I am sure that¬†Wall Street¬†analysts¬†would have done their best to prevent the market crash of 2008 and the instability that has followed. ¬† Trying to time the market is a very risky and unreasonable investment strategy. The best way to invest in the market and stay invested during market fluctuations is to have a well-balanced portfolio and stay focused on the long¬†term.¬† But where do you start? My colleague Elliott Gue recently spent six months and $1.3 million looking for the absolute best¬†stocks¬†on the market. The goal -- to find stocks good enough to buy, forget about and hold forever.¬†To learn more about the "Forever" stocks that they uncovered -- including some names and¬†ticker symbols¬†--¬†click here. 2. "Invest your¬†money¬†in different banks."When people tell you not to¬†put¬†all of your eggs in one basket, they are referring to the types of¬†investments¬†that you purchase -- not to the place where your money is invested.¬† If you are¬†investing¬†in insured¬†deposits, you will have to start investing with a new bank once you have reached the¬†FDIC¬†coverage with your primary institution. However, when you are investing in mutual funds and other securities, it‚Äôs actually a good idea to have them all in one place because it‚Äôs easier to manage -- one online login, one quarterly statement and one customer-service number to¬†call.¬† 3. "You are guaranteed to make a¬†profit."This one might be the worst of them all. Just like we can‚Äôt time the market to know when it is going togain¬†or lose, we also cannot¬†guarantee¬†a profit on market-based investments. Unless you are buying a fixed-term¬†deposit, your investment profit can never be guaranteed. ¬† If your friend suggests that you buy a stock because it recently increased 20% in one day, keep in mind that it can also decrease the same amount -- or more -- just as fast.¬†Facebook (Nasdaq:FB), anyone?¬† The Investing Answer:¬†The next time your friend gives you a hot tip about the market, listen to the advice, politely smile and then move on to the next conversation. Your investment portfolio, its investment options and the¬†rates of return¬†are your personal business and no one else‚Äôs.¬† The next time your quarterly investment statement arrives in the mail, look at how your investments performed over the past three months. If you are not happy with the performance and want to take more or less risk with your investments, call your¬†investment advisor¬†to make some changes in your¬†asset allocation.¬† Before you buy or sell any investments, check out their history and objectives by using¬†StreetAuthority, Yahoo Finance, Bloomberg or other financial websites. You can also research the company to see whether it has been in the news.¬†
ShutterstockThis post is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds. Given today's fast-changing financial landscape, it isn't always easy to know if you're making the smartest investments or saving enough for the future.¬† It's not enough to invest your money and forget about it. How¬†do you make your money last through retirement? How do you find growth in unexpected markets? What topics should you discuss with your¬†financial advisor?  To answer those questions, you need an expert. With that in mind, we're collaborating with OppenheimerFunds¬†on a new video Q&amp;A series, Ask A Financial Expert. If you have a question about managing your portfolio, saving for your investment goals, or how market forces might have an affect on your investing strategy, submit it to us, and an¬†OppenheimerFunds financial expert may address it in one of three upcoming videos. Submit your question in the comments, email it to us at expert@businessinsider.com, or tweet it to us with the hashtag .¬†You can also vote for¬†one of the four questions below.¬† You have until Sept. 12 to submit your question for consideration. By sending us a question, you're giving us permission to edit it. In case we pick yours, let us know how you‚Äôd like to be identified in the video. And be sure to come back and watch our first video in the series on Oct. 14. ‚Ä®Please note that the information that will be provided by OppenheimerFunds is for educational and informational purposes only, without any express or implied warranty of any kind. Consult with your financial advisor before you invest.¬† Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
The stock market is making some wild swings today. After jumping 48 points at the open of trading, the Dow fell losing as much as 122 points. All of the major indices fell into the red. And now the markets are erasing those losses. The S&amp;P 500 justturned green. The initial sell-off may have been related to comments from Russia's Vladmir Putin on Syria. "Will we help Syria?" Putin asked rhetorically during the G20 summit. "Yes, we will. We're doing it right now, we're supplying arms." Stock market futures were surging for most of the morning, even through the disappointing August jobs report. U.S. companies added just 169,000 jobs in August, which was lower than the 180,000 expected by economists. July's number was revised down to 104,000 from 162,000, and June's number was revised down to 172,000 from 188,000. As Americans dropped out of the workforce, the labor force participation rate fell from 63.4% to 63.2% in July. This helped the unemployment rate to fall to 7.3% from 7.4% a month ago. Google Finance
A world traveler who speaks ten languages, British linguist Richard Lewis decided he was qualified to plot the world's cultures on a chart. He did so while acknowledging the dangers of stereotypes. "Determining national characteristics is treading a minefield of inaccurate assessment and surprising exception," Lewis wrote. "There is, however, such a thing as a national norm." Many people think he nailed it, as his book "When Cultures Collide," now in its third edition, has sold more than one million copies since it was first published in 1996 and was called "an authoritative roadmap to navigating the world's economy," by the Wall Street Journal. Lewis plots countries in relation to three categories: Linear-actives ‚Äî those who plan, schedule, organize, pursue action chains, do one thing at a time. Germans and Swiss are in this group. Multi-actives ‚Äî those lively, loquacious peoples who do many things at once, planning their priorities not according to a time schedule, but according to the relative thrill or importance that each appointment brings with it. Italians, Latin Americans and Arabs are members of this group. Reactives ‚Äî those cultures that prioritize courtesy and respect, listening quietly and calmly to their interlocutors and reacting carefully to the other side's proposals. Chinese, Japanese and Finns are in this group. He says that this categorization of national norms does not change significantly over time: The behavior of people of different cultures is not something willy-nilly. There exist clear trends, sequences and traditions. Reactions of Americans, Europeans, and Asians alike can be forecasted, usually justified and in the majority of cases managed. Even in countries where political and economic change is currently rapid or sweeping (Russia, China, Hungary, Poland, Korea, Malaysia, etc.) deeply rooted attitudes and beliefs will resist a sudden transformation of values when pressured by reformists, governments or multinational conglomerates.¬† Here's the chart that explains the world: www.crossculture.com Some more details on the categories: www.crossculture.com The point of all of this analysis is to understand how to interact with people from different cultures, a subject in which Richard Lewis Communications provides coaching and consultation. "By focusing on the cultural roots of national behavior, both in society and business, we can foresee and calculate with a surprising degree of accuracy how others will react to our plans for them, and we can make certain assumptions as to how they will approach us," Lewis writes.¬†
Wikimedia/Dan SmithThe jobs report stunk. Some folks have it in there heads that the weak report could cause the Fed to postpone tapering its massive bond purchasing program.† Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth disagrees. In a note just out, he says there were still enough positive nuggets, especially in hourly earnings, to support tapering now: Our best guess is that the cumulative evidence of improvement over the past year will convince a majority of officials that the tapering should begin at the next FOMC meeting in another couple of weeks' time, but we're not going to pretend this is a certainty. But he goes on to say the odds still favor the taper. Overall, with other indicators like initial jobless claims pointing to a strengthening labour market and the activity surveys indicating a pick-up in economic growth, we still expect the Fed to go ahead with the taper later this month. TD Securities Eric Green agrees: The August jobs report will not change our view on tapering this month. This was a weak report, but it does not change the tapering call because it was not weak enough and there is a lack of corroborating evidence across the broader economic landscape to suggest a new lower jobs trend has emerged. The Fed does not need strong growth to justify tapering, they need the absence of weak growth. And so does Deustche Bank's Joe LaVorgna: Don't fear the #taper because it's still coming later this month and will be skewed toward treasuries (-$10B) rather than MBS (-$5B). The next FOMC meeting starts Sept. 17.
The August jobs report is out and it's a miss. Bonds are rallying, causing interest rates to fall. The 10-year yield is now at 2.89% Interestingly, stock market futures are also up. Futures had been climbing for the last two hours and they accelerated just before the 8:30 a.m. release. Here's the chart via FinViz. FinViz
The U.S. economy added just 169,000 jobs in August, which was lower than 180,000 expected. Furthermore, the July number was revised down to 104,000 from an earlier estimate of 162,000. And on top of that, the labor force participation rate fell, causing the unemployment rate to drop to 7.3% from 7.4% in July. All of this reminds us that the jobs market remains weak four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
REUTERS/ James Fassinger The August nonfarm payroll report is out, and it missed analyst expectations. According to the BLS household survey, part-time jobs fell 234,000 to 27,999,000 in August. Full-time workers climbed by 118,000. That's different from what we've been seeing so far in 2013, where part-time jobs have been the major contributor to overall job growth. Workers are generally considered "full time" if they work 30 hours a week or more. Some economists have signaled the Affordable Care Act's employer mandate as the reason for the trend. Under the new law, the government will require firms with over 50 employees to offer health insurance. Firms looking to cut costs have scaled back worker hours as a result, according to that line of thinking. The White House announced earlier this summer that it will not enforce the mandate until 2015. The pattern might also be seasonal and expected, not to mention just one tiny data point in a comprehensive report on the state of the American labor force. Update: The initial headline said that most of the new jobs were part-time, not full time.
REUTERSThe August nonfarm payrolls report was just released, missing economist expectations. The labor force participation rate fell to 63.2% from 63.4% the month before. The American economy added 169,000 nonfarm payrolls in August. Economists were expecting 180,000 new payrolls in this report. The unemployment rate dropped to 7.3% from 7.4%, largely thanks to those leaving the workforce. The unemployment rate has been steadily dropping for some time now. Labor force participation, which has also steadily dropping, is part of that story.
REUTERS/Chris WattieThe August jobs report is out, and the U.S. posted average hourly earnings growth of 0.2% month of month and 2.2% year over year. Economists were expecting that 0.2% month over month figure and¬†2.1% year over year. As we've¬†pointed out¬†before, average hourly wage has been moving in the right direction for the first time since the end of the financial crisis. Though last month, the figure disappointed.
The jobs number is out, and it disappointed. The economy added 169,000 non-farm payrolls in August, missing expectations of 180,000.¬† As a result, gold was up as much as 1.43%, after being down more than -0.40% prior to the print.¬† Investing.com It's come back down a bit now. Oil is up 0.88% to $109.33.
DeGolyer Library, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TexasThe jobs number number is out and it is weak. There were just 169K new jobs created in August. Private payrolls came in at 152,000 new jobs vs. expectations of 180,000. What's worse. Last month was revised SHARPLY down from 162 to 104K. That is quite ominous. The unemployment rate did, however, drop to 7.3%, but that's basically just due to continued exodus from the workforce. The participation rate fell from 63.4% from 63.2%. Snap reaction: this could delay the Fed's drive to reduce the pace of bond buying. The consensus had been that starting in September, the Fed would begin the so-called "taper" but right now the market is calling that bluff. Gold is surging, the dollar is tumbling, the US 10-year is seeing yields go down. And stocks are actually rising. You can read the full report from the BLS here. Watch below: These Maps Prove That Americans Speak Totally Different Languages
REUTERS/Jason Alden/POOLFormer U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. "Larry" Summers speaks during a financial and economic event at the London School of Economics (LSE) in London March 25, 2013.Several weeks ago, the NYT editorial board wrote a scathing piece on Larry Summers, arguing he was not fit to be the Fed Chair. This was weird, since one doesn't typically expect to see campaign-like endorsements for this kind of position. Bbut then this year's Fed jockeying has been unusual on multiple levels. Anyway, the NYT is back at it, with a new, tough piece saying Summers is the wrong man, and that to thwart him, Senators ought to come out and say now they won't support him. It concludes: Mr. Summers has also shown an indifference to the effects of economic decisions on ordinary people ‚Äî the opposite of what is needed in a Fed leader at a time of high unemployment. He advised the president to support a stimulus that other economists correctly warned was too small. He resisted bankruptcy relief for underwater homeowners that would have forced banks into mortgage modifications ‚Äî even as the administration spared no expense to bail out the banks. Senators who have endorsed Ms. Yellen would do well to let Mr. Obama know, either publicly or through back channels, that their endorsement translates into a no vote for Mr. Summers. Read the whole thing ¬ª
REUTERS/Khalil Ashawi Free Syrian Army fighters chat as one of them is seen through a hole in a wall in Deir al-Zor September 5, 2013. Picture taken September 5, 2013. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange May 7, 2012.Good morning! Via Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus, here's a 10-second guide to what traders are chatting about on this lovely Jobs Day morning: Morning!¬† US futures are up small, and the 10YY retreating after breaching the 3% barrier overnight, but all bets are off until we get the NFP number at 8:30 ‚Äì Most houses on the street expecting a number of 200k+.¬† Seems consensus is the Taper argument looses steam below 150k, but above 250k the street has to reset expectations above a initial tapering of $10-$12B.¬†¬† Volume is mixed overseas, and most EU markets are trending flat.¬† Keep an eye on the Italian market into their equity close, as chatter continues that Berlusconi will take down the government over the weekend.¬†¬† In Asia, Rupee bounces again as shorts cover on new RBI Governor ‚Äì Sensex has biggest weekly advance in 2 months ‚Äì but Nikkei lost 1.5% as the Yen strengthened and Investors took profits after a strong week in Japan.¬† Asian PC makers Lenovo and Acer fell as DRAM prices continue to trend higher, speculation Hynix‚Äôs plant out longer than a few weeks has concerns of Margin Pressure abounding.¬† The 10YY rests at 2.96%, and seeing Gold bouncing sharply as Syria dominates the headlines ‚Äì 1st Russia is getting more antagonistic in tone towards strikes ‚Äì and heavy speculation abounds that Congress is no where near the votes to approve Obama‚Äôs strikes.¬†¬† The DXY rests flat, but we have a bid in Oil - Brent crude headed for a fourth weekly gain, the longest rising streak since February ‚Äì as Libyan exports remain shut, and Syria strokes concerns of a wider conflict.¬†¬† Copper is having a nice upward move, continued momentum from the accelerating Economic data we are seeing in most Developed markets. POLITICO:¬† President Obama could lose big on Syria in House - Senior aides say they expect, at most, between 50 and 60 Republicans to vote with Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.), who support the president‚Äôs plan -¬† That would mean the vast majority of the 200 House Democrats will need to vote with Obama for the resolution to pass. But Democrats privately say that Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.)¬†and Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) can only round up between 115 and 130 ‚Äúyes‚Äù votes.
The official expectation for today's jobs report is 180K, but there are some signs that suggest it could be huge. Here are three. The employment sub-index of the ISM Services report turned in a monster reading. And this sub-index often correlated with NFP well. In this chart, the red line is the ISM services sub-index, which as you can see has exploded lately. It makes sense that this would have some decent predictive value, since services are such a huge part of the U.S. economy. FRED Meanwhile, U.S. auto sales (which have a decent track record of being correlated with employment) had their best month since the crisis. Calculated Risk And finally, initial jobless claims have fallen to their lowest level since the crisis. FRED
via U.S. Marine CorpsThis is it. At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the August jobs U.S. report. The expectations: "August employment takes on more significance than usual because it is the last employment report that Fed policymakers will have before they sit down for a two-day FOMC meeting later this month (September 17-18)," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna in a note to clients today. Since May 22, the Federal Reserve has been warning the markets that it may soon begin to taper its monthly $85 billion worth of purchases of mortgage and Treasury bonds. Currently, most market economists expect the tapering to be announced when the Fed concludes its FOMC meeting on the 18th. Of course, all of that is contingent upon the health of the labor market and the direction of inflation. Depending on who you ask, a major downside surprise in the jobs report could delay the taper while an upside surprise may further unify the consensus for a September taper. A Last Minute Curve Ball Market economists publish their forecasts for the jobs report days and weeks ahead of the release of the jobs report. But yesterday's unusually bullish August ISM services report had economists scrambling to tweak their forecasts. Here's JPMorgan's Michael Feroli: The August ISM nonmanufacturing index defied expectations for a modest decline and instead surged another 2.6 points to 58.6, the highest level since late 2005. The strong headline number was matched by solid details in most of the sub-indices: business activity climbed almost two points to 62.2, new orders were up almost three points to 60.5, and the employment index jumped almost four points to 57.0. While the employment data earlier in the morning were mixed, this report suggests a bit of upside risk to tomorrow's BLS report. Over the last two months the headline index has risen 5.8 points, the most in any two-month period in the history of the series, which begins in 1997. The exceptional strength in this series is a bit of a head-scratcher, as the hard spending data recently have been just okay, but perhaps firms are seeing some signs of firming demand heading into the fall. Feroli expects to see 175,000 new jobs added in August. Here are some other economists who updated their forecasts on Thursday: We'll cover the report live on BusinessInsider.com.
QUANTITATIVE EASING (QE)----Ever since the beginning of QE1, the market has expanded when QE was in force and corrected when it ended.¬† Each time, the market ended its correction only when it became apparent that there would be additional QE.¬† During periods when QE was on, the S&amp;P 500 rose a total of 127%.¬† When QE was off, the market fell by a total of about 27%.¬† Now the Fed has given strong indications that they would begin tapering QE over the next few months, and a survey of investment managers and economists show that 65% think the tapering will start with the September FOMC meeting.¬† In response, the 10-year note yield has soared from 1.6% to near 3% in a short period of time, and stocks have come down from their peak.¬† We think that with a finite end to QE now in view, the pressure on the market will be to the downside. LACK OF DEMAND IN THE ECONOMY----The economy has been unable to break out of its annualized 2% growth trend despite QE, and now seems to be weakening further.¬† Although recent economic data releases have been mixed, consumer spending, which accounts for about 70% of GDP, remains constrained by debt-heavy household balance sheets, a tepid jobs market, barely rising disposable income, lack of wage growth, and a low savings rate.¬† Real disposable income in July was down from two months earlier and up a meager 0.8% from a year earlier. ¬†Real median household income is at its lowest level since 1995.¬† That is why real consumer spending has increased only 1.7% year-over-year. In addition the labor market is weaker than it appears.¬† Jobs paying wages in the lowest quintile accounted for 30% of new jobs since the end of the recession and workers in this group work less hours.¬† A high proportion of new jobs involve part-time workers who would rather work full-time, while large part of the drop in the unemployment rate has resulted from workers leaving the labor force.¬† Furthermore, core capital expenditures declined 4% in July, while the sharp rise in mortgage rates has resulted in recent signs of weakness in housing starts, new home sales and pending sales.¬† Estimates for 3rd quarter GDP growth have slipped to about 1.5%, barely at ‚Äúescape velocity‚Äù. CORPORATE EARNINGS----Corporate earnings growth, a powerful factor in the stock market rise along with QE, has decelerated with 2nd quarter S&amp;P 500 earnings growth coming in at about 3.7% over a year earlier.¬† Even this amount was mostly accounted for by a 27% increase in financial earnings as profits declined in industrials, telecom, technology, materials and energy. Earnings estimates for the second half seem far too high, and are likely to be slashed in coming months. VALUATION----The market is now significantly overvalued.¬† Based on today‚Äôs close, the S&amp;P 500 is selling at about 19 times trailing 12-month reported (GAAP) earnings, the high end of the range established before the serial bubbles of the last 14 years.¬† The long-term average multiple is about 15, with major lows at 10 or below.¬† Normalized for cyclicality, the P/E ratio is 20 times. THE COMING SHOWDOWN IN WASHINGTON----The next couple of months will feature a showdown between the White House and Congress over budgeting authorization and the debt limit, reminiscent of the turmoil in 2011.¬† Both sides seem adamant in their positions, and are not likely to settle until the last minute, if then.¬† In the meantime the headlines will look pretty scary.¬† TECHNICAL---The breakout of the S&amp;P 500 above the 1687 level reached on May 22nd petered out at 1709 on August 2nd and quickly fell back below the May high. , The NYSE averaged about 800 new daily highs around the May top and only 400 at the August, indicating a significant divergence.¬† In our view this is pointing to a major change in market trend in response to the reversal of bullish support from infinite QE and soaring corporate earnings as well as the likelihood that the economy will not soon transition into the long-awaited self-sustaining recovery.  All in all, we believe that the market is in the process of topping out and entering a major downturn.
For those not familiar, the chart below presents the correlation reversal that took place between equities and 10 year yields after the 1998 sovereign debt/LTCM crisis. In essence, stocks went from being anchored by an inverse correlation with yields to a positive correlation. For some, this time period also represents the first salvo in a secular shift in the equity markets from long-term bull to bear. Extending further out on the theoretical continuum, one can interpret the chart below as not only having a polarity shift, but also an offset mirrored distribution of the negative correlation cycle prior to the summer of 1998. Market Anthropology What? Market AnthropologyThink Pangaea - just with a fold along the July 1998 divide. The interesting thing from this perspective is that the current run-up in yields would be the cycle equivalent of the blowoff in 87' where yields spiked then recoiled after the equity markets crashed.¬†¬†Although we have been quite impressed with the stock market's resilience to date in the face of rising yields, the apple cart might have some trouble handling another rapid move. Judging by the now coiled symmetry of momentum typically representative of a blowoff - that just may be in the cards coming through the fall. Market Anthropology While we're not calling for another 1987 style crash - the continued rise in yields is the 800-pound gorilla waltzing in the room that everyone continues to stare at. So far she dances pretty well with the music.
 REUTERS/Enrique Marcarian The latest Beige Book info†shows the economy is still growing at a moderate pace. But at least three areas of the economy are seeing record growth. Literally. Eastern seaboard tourism (though some parts hit by Sandy remain slow), via the Philly Fed: After a slow start to the summer, traffic counts, bookings, and boardwalk sales at shore destinations in Delaware and southern New Jersey picked up to a modest pace. A Delaware hotel group reported that its properties matched or exceeded last year's record; another hotel reported that July was its best month ever.†&gt;However, those parts of central New Jersey hardest hit by Hurricane Sandy continued to struggle, with low numbers of returning summer residents and tourists. Farming, via the KC Fed: Demand for farm operating loans strengthened with high input costs and reduced farm income. Despite weaker farm income prospects, farmland values continued to set records, with demand for farmland driven in part by high levels of wealth in the farm sector. And finally, health care and engineering, via the Dallas Fed: Staffing firms' reports were mixed, with one contact reporting near-record levels of direct hiring, especially in engineering and health care, and other contacts reporting declines in hiring in manufacturing and logistics. Outlooks were also mixed. If you're looking for growth opportunities, here they are.
The world is waiting anxiously for the August U.S. jobs report. According to Bloomberg, we should expect 180,000 nonfarm payrolls and an unemployment rate of 7.4%. Today, we've already heard from Deutsche Bank (+190k),†Goldman Sachs (+200), and UBS (+210,). But the most bullish economist on the street is Societe Generale's Brian Jones who is look for the payrolls number to eclipse the average of the past three months. Here's his commentary: Our analysis suggests that non-agricultural concerns added an estimated 220,000 net new workers in August, eclipsing the average 175,000-job gain posted over the May-July span and marking the strongest hiring since February. Several factors support our expectation for a well-above-consensus print in the BLSí report (see table below left). Pointing to a further reduction in pink-slipping during the past month, the average number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits dropped by 12,865 to 333,510 over the five weeks leading up to the August survey ñ the lowest tally since November 2007. Consistent with a solid pick-up in hiring, the number of persons on all state and federal benefits rolls probably contracted by 120,000 between reference periods ñ the largest decline in six months. Real business conditions improved between the July and August establishment surveys, with the Aruoba-Diebold-Scotti (ADS) Business Conditions Index climbing to its highest level since March. We expect weather conditions to have little, if any, impact on the upcoming report. Temperatures were typical in August, with population-weighted cooling and heating degree days little different from long-term seasonal norms. As a result, we expect the number of persons unable to work because of bad weather to be in line with the 24,000 average posted over the past five years. The report comes out at 8:30 a.m. ET Friday morning. We'll cover it live at BusinessInsider.com.
asfal.TO / FlickrMarkets are basically going nowhere ahead ot the U.S. monthly jobs report. Britain's FTSE, France's CAC 40, Germany's Dax and Italy's fTSE are flat. U.S. futures are also flat. At 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the August jobs U.S. report. The expectations: Nonfarm payrolls: +180k¬†¬† (July +162k) Private payrolls: +180k (July +161k) Unemployment rate: 7.4% (July 7.4%) We'll cover the report live at BusinessInsider.com.
