REUTERS/Steve MarcusSteven CohenMay 25 (Reuters) - Billionaire hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen is losing the financial support of Blackstone Group Inc , the largest outside investor in his embattled SAC Capital Advisors, which is yanking much of its client money, according to a letter reviewed by Reuters. A pension consultant, in a May 21 letter to clients, said Blackstone has notified Cohen that it intends to "fully redeem" a significant portion of the roughly $550 million the investment firm has invested with the $15 billion hedge fund. The letter from pension consulting firm Russell Investments said Blackstone submitted its redemption notice to SAC Capital sometime before May 15 because of ongoing concerns about the insider trading investigation that continues to engulf Cohen's fund. Blackstone's investment with SAC Capital is through several investment funds known as hedge fund of funds and also through separately managed accounts it maintains for clients. The decision to redeem from SAC Capital impacts only client money invested in its hedge fund of funds, according to the letter. It's not clear how much of the $550 million is in those hedge fund of funds and it is not clear what Blackstone is advising clients who have money in separately managed accounts that is invested with SAC Capital. Russell did say in the address to its pension clients that Blackstone "expects to receive 100 percent of investors' capital by year-end." Russell, which manages $173 billion in assets and oversees a number of index funds, also provides advice to pensions and institutional investors on where to invest their dollars in hedge funds. The timing of Blackstone's request to withdraw money from SAC Capital is critical because it came before the hedge fund told investors on May 17 that its cooperation with federal authorities was no longer unconditional. Soon after, news broke that federal prosecutors had issued grand jury subpoenas earlier this month to Cohen and several of his top executives, seeking their testimony about insider trading at the hedge fund. The decision by Blackstone, which has invested with SAC Capital for at least a decade, is a big blow to the 56-year-old fund manager, who is widely regarded as one of the most successful traders of his generation. Blackstone - which manages about $46 billion in hedge fund investments for public pensions, foundations, corporations and wealthy individuals - is seen as something of a bellwether for other investors in the $2.2 trillion hedge fund industry because of its stature. Representatives for Blackstone did not immediately respond when asked for comment on Saturday. An SAC Capital spokesman declined to comment. The letter from Russell Investments, which was reviewed by Reuters, made no mention of the subpoenas on Cohen and his executives and was sent after a Russell representative talked to a Blackstone executive about the redemption decision. The letter said Blackstone decided to submit a redemption notice to SAC Capital after reviewing the terms of a $616 million deal SAC Capital reached in March with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to settle allegations that the hedge fund's employees had engaged in insider trading in four stocks. Blackstone, according to the letter, said the settlement with the SEC "did not give additional comfort that the issues at-hand were resolved." A representative for Russell Investments did not respond to a request for comment about the letter from its Russell Research division. Outside investors in SAC Capital like Blackstone, who account for roughly $6.75 billion of the $15 billion managed by Cohen, have until June 3 to decide whether to submit redemption notices for the second quarter. In the first quarter, outside investors notified Cohen they intend to withdraw about $1.7 billion of that $6.75 billion by year's end. People close to SAC Capital said Cohen, who has roughly $8 billion of his money invested in SAC Capital, is bracing for another large round of redemption requests. The speculation is growing in the hedge fund world that if Cohen gets another large round of redemption requests, he may opt to return all the outside money and convert SAC Capital into a family office - an unregistered firm that manages money just for himself and his friends and family. SAC Capital is one of the world's larger hedge funds with 1,000 employees. Blackstone's hedge fund of funds invests client money with more than four dozen hedge funds, including SAC Capital, Pershing Square Capital Management, Elliott Management and DE Shaw &amp; Co, according to people familiar with the private equity firm's asset management business. The decision by Blackstone to redeem comes after the private equity and investment firm has stuck with Cohen throughout the course of the long-running investigation that has so far resulted in nine one-time employees of the firm being charged or implicated in insider trading schemes. Cohen himself has not been charged with wrongdoing, but the investigation is seen as increasingly focusing on him and his firm. In late April, lawyers for Cohen and his firm met with federal prosecutors in Manhattan to make their best case argument about why the hedge fund billionaire and his SAC Capital Advisors should not be charged with criminal wrongdoing. But people familiar with that meeting said the lengthy presentation did not impress federal prosecutors, who are now considering whether to use a racketeering law aimed at prosecuting the Mafia and drug gangs to pursue a criminal case against Cohen's hedge fund. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The Great Graphic here is from Goldman Sachs research that was posted on the internet by¬†Finansakrobat. ¬†It draws from the industry reports of the flow into US equity funds. ¬† After a period of selling that predates the chart, money has flowed into equity funds since the start of the year, with that one exception last month. ¬†The buying has tapered off in recent weeks after a strong Jan-Feb period. This next chart comes from Doug Short's post picked up by Business Insider. ¬† It shows the margin debt at the NYSE (red line) and the S&amp;P 500 ¬†(blue line). ¬†The April margin debt was published recently. ¬†Low interest rates and a rising stock market has encouraged¬†tempted speculators to buy shares on margin. Margin debt levels are approaching historic highs. The Federal Reserve can influence this, if it wanted. ¬†It sets the margin requirement. ¬†It has been at 50% since before the crisis. ¬†It means that one can buy common stock by putting up only half the money of the purchase price. Doug Short Equity ownership, as we have shown previously is declining. ¬†Most Americans who own stock do not borrow money to buy shares. ¬†The managers of our pensions and 401k, as a rule do not use leverage. ¬†Speculators, individually and collectively do. ¬†Raising the margin requirement could reduce the speculative element in the market at the risk of triggering a broader sell-off.¬† There is another category of buyers of US shares that swamps the margin buyers and the households buying equity funds: Companies. Ironically, traditionally we think of businesses as the supplier of equities, but their most important role now is in buying back their own shares. According to Birinyi Associates, corporate boards have authorized the $286 bln in share buy backs so far this year. ¬†This is almost 90% more than the year ago period. ¬† Some analysts estimate that share buy backs have boosted the stock market by 40% more than it would have otherwise risen. ¬†Others say that the share buy backs have boosted earnings per share by 40%. JP Morgan via Marc ChandlerShare buy backs support prices as any buying would, but in addition, they reduce the supply of stock. ¬†This third chart is from JP Morgan. ¬† It charts the number of shares outstanding. ¬†It is calculated essentially by dividing the market value by the price. Share buy backs and mergers/acquisitions reduce the supply of shares. ¬†Since the end of Q3 2011, there has been a 2% decline in the divisor. ¬†They estimate that roughly $100 bln a quarter is being withdrawn. ¬†This means that about 2.5% of the US $15 trillion non-financial equities is being withdrawn a year. There is another dimension of the share buy backs we will consider here, namely, corporations are borrowing to finance their stock buy back program. ¬† US companies, according to JP Morgan research, account for 80% of the global share buy back programs. ¬†By borrowing the funds to do so, this has bolstered US credit expansion. ¬†If it were not for this activity, US credit expansion would be as miserly as Europe and Japan. ¬†¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
APSEATTLE (AP) ‚Äî Thousands of bridges around the U.S. may be one freak accident or mistake away from collapse, even if the spans are deemed structurally sound. The crossings are kept standing by engineering design, not supported with brute strength or redundant protections like their more modern counterparts. Bridge regulators call the more risky spans "fracture critical," meaning that if a single, vital component of the bridge is compromised, it can crumple. Those vulnerable crossing carry millions of drivers every day. In Boston, a six-lane highway 1A near Logan airport includes a "fracture critical" bridge over Bennington Street. In northern Chicago, an I-90 pass that goes over Ashland Avenue is in the same category. An I-880 bridge over 5th Avenue in Oakland, Calif., is also on the list. Also in that category is the Interstate 5 bridge over the Skagit River north of Seattle, which collapsed into the water days ago after officials say an oversized truck load clipped the steel truss. Public officials have focused in recent years on the desperate need for money to repair thousands of bridges deemed structurally deficient, which typically means a major portion of the bridge is in poor condition or worse. But the bridge that collapsed Thursday is not in that deficient category, highlighting another major problem with the nation's infrastructure: Although it's rare, some bridges deemed to be fine structurally can still be crippled if they are struck hard enough in the wrong spot. "It probably is a bit of a fluke in that sense," said Charles Roeder, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Washington. While the I-5 truck's cargo suffered only minimal damage, it left chaos in its wake, with two vehicles catapulting off the edge of the broken bridge into the river below. Three people involved escaped with non-life threatening injuries. The most famous failure of a fracture critical bridge was the collapse of the I-35W bridge in Minneapolis during rush hour on Aug. 1, 2007, killing 13 people and injuring more than 100 others. The National Transportation Safety Board concluded that the cause of the collapse was an error by the bridge's designers ‚Äî a gusset plate, a key component of the bridge, was too thin. The plate was only half of the required one-inch thickness. Because the bridge's key structures lacked redundancy, where if one piece fails, there is another piece to prevent the bridge from falling, when the gusset plate broke, much of the bridge collapsed. Mark Rosenker, who was chairman of the NTSB during the I-35W bridge investigation, said the board looked into whether other fracture critical bridges were collapsing. They found a few cases, but not many, he said. "Today, they're still building fracture critical bridges with the belief that they're not going break," Rosenker said. Fracture critical bridges, like the I-5 span in Washington, are the result of Congress trying to cut corners to save money rather than a lack of engineering know-how, said Barry B. LePatner, a New York real estate attorney and author of "Too Big to Fall: America's Failing Infrastructure and the Way Forward." About 18,000 fracture critical bridges were built from the mid-1950s through the late 1970s in an effort to complete the nation's interstate highway system, which was launched under President Dwight Eisenhower, LePatner said in an interview. The fracture critical bridge designs were cheaper than bridges designed with redundancy, he said. Thousands of those bridges remain in use, according to an AP analysis. "They have been left hanging with little maintenance for four decades now," he said. "There is little political will and less political leadership to commit the tens of billions of dollars needed" to fix them. There has been little focus or urgency in specifically replacing the older "fracture critical" crossings, in part because there is a massive backlog of bridge repair work for thousands of bridges deemed to be structurally problematic. Washington state Rep. Judy Clibborn, a Democrat who leads the House transportation committee, has been trying to build support for a tax package to pay for major transportation projects in the state. But her plan wouldn't have done anything to revamp the bridge that collapsed. National bridge records say the I-5 crossing over the Skagit River had a sufficiency rating of 57.4 out of 100 ‚Äî a score designed to gauge the ability of the bridge to remain in service. To qualify for federal replacement funds, a bridge must have a rating of 50 or below. A bridge must have a sufficiency rating of 80 or below to qualify for federal rehabilitation funding. Hundreds of bridges in Washington state have worse ratings than the one that collapsed, and many around the country have single-digit ratings. Clibborn said the Skagit River crossing wasn't even on the radar of lawmakers because state officials have to prioritize by focusing on bridges with serious structural problems that are at higher risk of imminent danger. Along with being at risk of a fatal impact, the I-5 bridge was deemed to be "functionally obsolete," which essentially means it wasn't built to today's standards. Its shoulders were narrow, and it had low clearance. There are 66,749 structurally deficient bridges and 84,748 functionally obsolete bridges in the U.S., including Puerto Rico, according to the Federal Highway Administration. That's about a quarter of the 607,000 total bridges nationally. States and cities have been whittling down that backlog, but slowly. In 2002, about 30 percent of bridges fell into one of those two categories. Spending by states and local government on bridge construction adjusted for inflation has more than doubled since 1998, from $12.3 billion to $28.5 billion last year, according to the American Road and Transportation Builders Association. That's an all-time high. "The needs are so great that even with the growth we've had in the investment level, it's barely moving the needle in terms of moving bridges off these lists," said Alison Premo Black, the association's chief economist. There is wide recognition at all levels of government that the failure to address aging infrastructure will likely undermine safety and hinder economic growth. But there is no consensus on how to pay for improvements. The federal Highway Trust Fund, which provides construction aid to states, is forecast to go broke next year. The fund gets its revenue primarily from federal gas and diesel taxes. But revenues aren't keeping up because people are driving less and there are more fuel-efficient cars on the road. Neither Congress nor the White House has shown any willingness to raise federal gas taxes, which haven't been increased since 1993. Many transportation thinkers believe a shift to taxes based on miles traveled by a vehicle is inevitable, but there are privacy concerns and other difficulties that would preclude widespread use of such a system for at least a decade. Transportation spending got a temporary boost with the economic stimulus funds approved by Congress after President Barack Obama was elected. Of the $27 billion designated for highway projects under the stimulus program, about $3 billion went to bridge projects, Black said. States are looking for other means to raise money for highway and bridge improvements, including more road tolls, dedicating a portion of sales taxes to transportation and raising state gas taxes. Clibborn, the Washington state lawmaker, has proposed a 10-cent gas hike to help pay for projects, though the effort has been held up by a dispute over how to rebuild the Columbia River bridge connecting Vancouver, Wash., and Portland, Ore. "We can't possibly do it all in the next 10 years," Clibborn said. "But we're going to do the first bite of the apple." ___ Lowy reported from Washington, D.C. AP Writers Manuel Valdes and Gene Johnson contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
One of the big themes of the year has been the sell off in commodities. Gold, of course, has had a rough year. But so too have industrial commodities like copper. Whereas past commodity downturns have been closely associated with declines in risk assets, there's a sense this time of the "supercycle" coming to an end. And indeed while U.S. equities remain within a hair of all-time highs, and inflows into stocks spike, there's been a big decrease in money going into commodity funds. This chart from Jefferies tells the story: Commodity funds continued to experience significant net outflow. The latest amount of net outflow stood at a net US$2.1bn. Recent 15 consecutive weekly outflows totalled a net US$23bn. YTD net withdrawals cumulated to U$24bn. Commodity funds saw net inflows of US$17bn for the full year in 2012. This is the fourth yearly inflow while the total amount of injections in 2012 topped the four-year period. Jefferies
Bank of America economist Michelle Mayer has put out a long, new note on one of the more controversial subjects in economics these days: the Labor Force Participation Rate. The Unemployment Rate has been grinding down, but everyone has noticed that Labor Force Participation has dropped as well, and it's been argued that the exodus of people from the workforce (who no longer count as unemployed when they're not working) undermine the idea of workforce improvement. Mayer's note comes down firmly on the side of saying that the decline in Labor Force Participation is largely secular, and not primarily about the economic malaise. She writes: We can isolate the effect of demographics on the LFPR by looking at the participation rates by age cohort. The aggregate LFPR is equal to the summation of each individual age cohort's LFPR weighted by its share of the population. As a result, we can determine the impact of the change in population share by fixing the LFPR for each age cohort at pre-recession levels. This suggests that half of the 2.7pp decline in the LFPR since the onset of the recession can be explained simply from the aging population. In other words, holding all else equal ñ meaning no business cycle dynamics ñ the LFPR would be at 64.6% today compared to the actual rate of 63.3%. The remaining 1.4pp drop is due to some combination of secular and short-term cyclical factors. Here's a chart showing actual Labor Force Participation Rate vs. the projected rate merely based on demographic changes. BaML The remaining gap is partly due to the weak economy (people giving up) and partly due to other secular factors, such as young people being more inclined to be in school and not work. Long-term, here's what BofAML expects based on demographics. BAML
Walter HickeyPolitics Reporter Walter Hickey on graduation day at the College of William & Mary. It's graduation time, and everyone is sharing their best advice for graduates. So we decided to ask our editorial and senior staff here at Business Insider, "What do you wish someone had told you at graduation?" Our colleagues had a lot to say, from how important it is to take care of your finances to not worrying about the first five years after graduation (you read that correctly: the first five years aren't all that important, according to SAI Senior Editor Jay Yarow).¬† But advice is all relative. As Politics Reporter Walter Hickey says, "Ignore all the advice. Statistics insist."
APValue investing has faced a crisis of confidence after five tough years. Here‚Äôs why we think the behavioral investing principles that underpin the discipline are more relevant than ever. It‚Äôs been nearly 80 years since the tenets of behavioral investing were first described by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, the forefathers of value investing. And over the last four decades, value investing has been highly successful. But perhaps, argue critics, after five years of subpar returns, the fundamental drivers of value stock performance may no longer work. We think the opposite is true. Traditionally, value opportunities are created when a company faces a controversy that triggers a decline in profits and its share price. Value investors use research to determine whether the market reaction has been exaggerated, meaning the stock is likely to rebound in time, or whether the company‚Äôs troubles are likely to continue to push the stock down further into a value trap. Behaviors that create opportunity include: Investor loss aversion was heightened by the severe crash of 2008 and the ensuing volatility. An abundance of bad economic and corporate news has made erroneous trend extrapolation even more ubiquitous. And as markets have lurched from crisis to crisis, with recurrent spikes in volatility, investors‚Äô time horizons have become extremely short. In other words, markets are saturated by behavioral biases that are likely to eventually correct themselves and reward investors who have stuck to their knitting and dared to defy the crowd. Many things have changed in the markets in recent years. Trading costs have fallen and technology has made it easier than ever to buy and sell stocks quickly. Instant information on economic developments and companies flows around the world, often adding unreliable noise to markets. Since these changes promote emotional reactions by investors, we think that traditional research-driven behavioral investing makes more sense than ever in the 21st century. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. Kevin Simms is Chief Investment Officer‚ÄîInternational Value Equities and Joseph G. Paul is Chief Investment Officer‚ÄîUS Value Equities, both at AllianceBernstein.
The move coincided with a backing up in JGB yields, with the 10-year approaching the 1.0% threshold, a nearly three-fold increase since the BOJ announced its more aggressive monetary stance in early April.¬† The Nikkei took it on the chin, falling 12.5% between Thursday's high near 16k and Friday's low just below 14k.¬† Many of the foreign investors who have poured almost $80 bln into Japanese equities this year have hedged the currency risk, by selling the yen.¬† However, given the slide in Japanese share prices, the may be over-hedged.¬† To reduce the hedge yen needs to be bought. At the same time, Japanese investors are not exporting their savings.¬† Instead they appear to be taking profits on some of the foreign assets they had previous acquired.¬† This is more consistent with the behavior on investors who do not expect the recent yen weakness to be sustained or substantially extended. A band of support for the dollar extends from JPY100.60 to JPY100.00.¬† The top of the band corresponds to a 61.8% retracement of the rally that began on May 9 near JPY98.65.¬† The lower end of the band is the top of the month-long consolidation triangle pattern (early April through early May).¬† The RSI,¬† MACDs and Stochastics have turned lower.¬†¬† It probably takes a break of¬† JPY99.60 to start talk in earnest that a top of some significance is in place.¬† It would likely coincide with weaker Japanese shares. ¬†¬† The euro was confined to the previous week's trading range and chopped around a roughly $1.2820-$1.3000 trading range.¬† The technical indicators we look at favor an initial upside break of this range.¬† Additional resistance is seen in the $1.3020-40 area., which corresponds to retracement objectives and the 20- and 200-day moving averages. ¬†If this is overcome, there is potential toward $1.3200.¬† The euro has held support near JPY130. ¬†The measuring objective of the triangle pattern carved out mid-April through mid-May ¬†is near JPY135 and provided the JPY130 area hold, that remains a reasonable target. ¬†On the other hand, a break of JPY130 could be part of a large short squeeze on the yen another 1-2% decline for the euro. The upticks may have to be fought for as many anticipate a refi rate cut next month and there is speculation that a negative deposit rate may be introduced then. ¬†With EONIA trading around 5 bp, another 25 bp rate cut remains more in the symbolic world than substantive. ¬†We continue to believe that the ECB will be persuaded that the cost (somewhat unknown) is greater than the benefits (elusive) of a negative deposit rate. Soft inflation figures and a horrific April retail sales report (-1.4% vs 0.1% consensus) pushed sterling toward $1.50, which has acted as support since mid-March. ¬†Off a two-day base there, sterling tested resistance in the $1.5140 area. ¬†A move above $1.52 could see a push toward $1.53, which as it approaches may offer a new lower risk short. Against sterling, the euro has been in a clear range for a little more than two months. ¬†It is GBP0.8400 on the downside and GBP0.8600 on the upside. ¬†The euro tested the upper end of the range twice in the second half of last week. ¬† ¬†That the resistance held would favor a test on the lower end of the range. The euro rose to 2-year highs against the Swiss franc following news that the IMF endorsed the idea of Switzerland adopting a negative deposit rate if the franc's strength was renewed. In addition, some of the broad forces that were weighing on the yen, such as perception of a diminished need for safe havens, may have also weighed on the franc. ¬† The recovery of the yen coincided with the recovery of the franc in the second half of last week. ¬†The franc was the second strongest of the major currencies (+1.2% against the dollar), behind the Japanese yen. The Canadian and Australian dollars were the worst performing of the major currencies over the past week, losing 0.4% and 0.8% respectively. ¬†Since around the middle of the month, the US dollar has gained almost 4% against the Canadian dollar and nearly 7% against the Australian dollar. ¬† The technical indicators we look at still have scope for additional near-term losses for both currencies. ¬†We note the Australian dollar is approaching the lower end of a two-year-old range against the Canadian dollar, near CAD0.9900. The Mexican peso lost about 1.5% against the US dollar last week. ¬†As we noted, macro-economic fundamentals remain supportive, but the technical condition had worsened. ¬†The dollar cut through resistance in the MN12.40 area and the weekly close was the strongest for the greenback since mid-March. ¬†The MXN12.60 area offers initial resistance, given the extent of market positioning, we continue to see potential toward MXN12.80. Observations from the latest CFTC report on CME currency futures: ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
NOTE: This post was originally published on Friday, May 24. This may be an unpopular suggestion, but those with a contrarian view of the world will surely appreciate the logic here. The chart below from Goldman shows the consensus economic forecast for 2013 GDP growth of the large Eurozone nations. Again, this is not the actual GDP, but a forecast over time. It shows that the "herd" of forecasters following each other in the realization of how dire the recession has been across the area. But keep in mind that these are some of the same forecasters that 18 months ago were calling for a "shallow" downturn in these nations (see discussion). Many weren't even talking about a possible recession. And now they are continually downgrading their predictions - after the fact? Sober Look Today we got the latest PMI numbers from the Eurozone. France is clearly struggling and Germany's growth has been slower than many had hoped - due primarily to global economic weakness. But take a look at the rest of the Eurozone. While still in contraction mode, it shows an improving trend. Sober Look Spain printed a trade surplus last month (surprising some commentators), which may be a signal to rethink how valid some of these forecasts really are. Nobody is suggesting we will see Spain or Portugal all of a sudden begin to grow at 5%. But given the extremely pessimistic sentiment of many economists (a contrarian indicator), it is highly possible we are at or near the bottom of the cycle. People should not be surprised if we start seeing some positive growth indicators - especially in the periphery nations - in the next few quarters.
The good news from this week‚Äôs rail traffic report is that we‚Äôre not sliding into consistently negative readings that might lead us to a far less constructive position on the economy. The bad news is that the 12 week moving average has slid down to 2.4% and is consistent with an economy that remains sluggish. Here are the details on this week‚Äôs data from AAR: ‚ÄúThe Association of American Railroads (AAR) reported an increase in traffic for the week ending May 18, 2013, with total U.S. weekly carloads of 285,679 carloads, up 1.9 percent compared with the same week last year. Intermodal volume for the week totaled 250,156 units, up 3.5 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. traffic for the week was 535,835 carloads and intermodal units, up 2.6 percent compared with the same week last year. Five of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, led by petroleum and petroleum products, up 38 percent. Commodities showing a decrease compared with the same week last year included grain, down 28.3 percent, and metallic ores and metals, down 7.1 percent. For the first 20 weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 5,530,177 carloads, down 1.7 percent from the same point last year, and 4,791,035 intermodal units, up 4.3 percent from last year. Total U.S. traffic for the first 20 weeks of 2013 was 10,321,212 carloads and intermodal units, up 1 percent from last year.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Investment Research: Pragmatic Capitalism

We have been on the low-inflation side of that debate for years. We have supported the argument that there is a huge overhang of surplus capacity in the global labor force and that inflation is not a problem when labor income is flat, falling, or not rising robustly. This coincides with a wounded credit multiplier and a damaged financial credit system, conditions that have existed for the last five years. They are gradually improving, but only gradually. They are conditions that cause deflationary pressures. Will we have deflation? We are not certain. The forces at work globally that could bring on deflation are being blunted by the huge quantitative easing (QE) being undertaken by most major central banks. Let's take a quick look at the US. All important measures of inflation in the US are on downward trends. Many thanks to Credit Suisse's Neal Soss and Jay Feldman for a recap of the data in their research note of May 17. They report Core CPI, Cleveland Fed Median CPI, Cleveland Fed Trimmed Mean CPI, Core PCE, and Dallas Fed Trimmed Mean PCE. All are trending downward, as measured on a year-over-year basis, and those trends are accelerating. Commodities are also on downward price trends. So are the more esoteric inflation measures like market-based indices and chained indices. In the case of the Core PCE, which is believed to be the Federal Reserve's preferred measure, the rate of inflation measured year-over-year is approaching one percent. Remember that the Fed's threshold for any change in monetary policy is two percent. And Fed communications have suggested that a rate of 2.5 percent would be the threshold for any action taken to alter QE for the purpose of improving the employment statistics. So we are a full point and half away from that threshold, and the trend is in the opposite direction. The Fed's stated unemployment threshold is 6.5 percent on the traditional headline unemployment rate (U-3). The Fed has also talked about other elements in the employment statistics, suggesting that the U-3 unemployment rate is not the only target measure for restoring the US to a more robust recovery. The charts and graphs that we have posted on our website and released in speeches present the employment statistics in a variety of ways that may be useful. Other measures, such as the U-6 broad-based unemployment rate, Beveridge Curve analysis, and the disaggregation of employment data, all point to a very large underutilized labor force in the US. The same seems to be true for most of the rest of the world. Our conclusion is that inflation is not a problem now and is not likely to become a problem soon. In fact, if certain indicators of inflation continue to head downward, they could trigger a reaction by the Fed because the risk of deflation will be perceived to be rising. Is deflation a threat today? The answer seems to be no. More likely, we are in a period in which the rate of inflation will be too low to be a problem and will gradually turn higher over several years as additional stimulative policies unfold worldwide. Meanwhile, low inflation is a very healthy environment for the stock market. It means that inflation distortions in reports of earnings are nearly nonexistent. That implies that the quality of earnings reports is very high, since they do not contain the distortions that occur in accounting systems when inflation is high. Higher-quality earnings justify higher price/earnings multiples and higher stock prices. There is a consistent linkage between very low inflation and very strong asset pricing. This is particularly so when interest rates are very low and likely to stay low for a very long time. We remain bullish. Inflation statistics support that outlook. They also support a gradual change in the outlook for bonds. Eventually, bond yields will be higher, maybe much higher, but the process is a gradual one. That means some tactical hedging in bond portfolios is appropriate. Panic selling of bonds is not.
Note from dshort: One of my economic correspondents, James Ross, called my attention to the fact that the NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through April. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the new numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms ‚Äî adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its real all-time high. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July, 2007, three months before the market peak. ¬† ¬† The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market. ¬† ¬† After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed has periodically increased the easing. Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is a few weeks old when it is published. In nominal terms, margin debt at the end of April 2013, the latest available data, has sharply increased since the middle of last year and is now approaching levels associated with market peaks. Lance Roberts, General Partner &amp; CEO of Streettalk Advisors, analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation. ¬† ¬† As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't be immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance trough as a definitive warning for U.S. equities. But we'll want to keep an eye on this metric over the next few months.
ReutersChina is the world's largest producer and consumer of coal. Coal has contributed to China's pollution problem, and the coal mines are said to be the deadliest in the world, killing thousands of miners a year. To combat the recent slump in coal prices, the coal industry is said to have asked the government to restrict coal imports to China through quality control. Some argue that the slump is being driven not by oversupply, but because of a lack of demand. But with China continuing to industrialize at a rapid pace, the importance of coal is unlikely to diminish in the coming years.
