The official median consensus from Wall Street analysts for tomorrow's September jobs report is 180K new jobs. But if you're on Twitter, you should tweet out your own guess using the hashtag #NFPGuesses. The site Financemonk.com is aggregating all of the tweets with that handle to create a live Twitter prediction using the wisdom of crowds. So far Twitter is slightly bullish, with the median forecast coming in at 187K. Financemonk.com So tweet out your guess, and put in the hashtag #NFPGuesses, and you'll help come up with a smooth crowd-based prediction.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. If You're Avoiding This Bull Market, You Probably Aren't A Very Good Dater (Josh Brown) There have been plenty of opportunities to doubt the current bull market over the past few years. And if you had acted upon those doubts, Josh Brown argues, you would have been wrong. The current moment is no different: "...you could have said 'Sentiment is frothy' in the spring of last year after the market had run up 12% into April. And you could have said 'This will end badly' on the heels of QE2 being announced in the summer of 2010. We're up 100 percent since then and its been more than three years - are we giving that all back? Is that what you meant by 'end badly'? Doesn't every bull market eventually end badly? Can you think one that ended congenially? Is that a reason not to participate in investing for the future? Did you avoid dating because of the risk of heartbreak or a thrown shoe?" Is The Efficient Market Hypothesis Just Another Name For Circular Logic? (Philosophical Economics) Eugene Fama's efficient market hypothesis, which dictates that all known information is priced into stocks and which just earned Fama a Nobel, continues to be questioned. In the latest critique, Philosophical Economics believes its entire premise is basically a form of circular logic: "The EMH says that the market accurately prices securities based on all publicly available information. †But market prices themselves are the arbiter of what is an ìaccurateî price. †Thus, the EMH becomes a circle: 'the market sets prices at the prices that it sets them at.'If market prices are the arbiter of what prices are ìaccurateî, then there is nothing useful in saying that the market accurately prices securities based on the information available to it. †The statement is true† by definitionsince the market is always the ex-post judge of accuracy." New Poll Shows Money Managers Are Bullish But Not That Bullish (Barron's) Barron's polled 135 money managers on different aspects of the market. Here are 5 takeaways: 1) 65% said they were "bullish," 24% "neutral," only 8% "bearish" and only 3% "very bullish." 2) S&amp;P500 profits are expected to rise 6.6% YOY. 3) Favorite stocks for the next six to 12 months include Apple, Google, Microsoft, Kinder Morgan, and EMC 4) Tesla, Facebook, Netflix, and LinkedIn, among others all received more "thumbs down" votes than "thumbs up" votes. 5) Yet, among sectors, tech received most votes for "best" performer in the next six to 12 months, at 32%.† Norway's Sovereign Wealth Fund Releases 28-Page Critique Of High-Frequency Trading (Norges Bank) Norway does not like high-frequency trading. In a new report, the world's largest sovereign wealth fund says much more research is needed to determine whether they are a net benefit to markets: "The jury is still out. Given the significant changes in market microstructure in recent years, more empirical and theoretical work on effective measures10 of market quality is needed. There is little consensus yet on what constitutes an appropriate framework for assessing market quality and on a precise definition of HFTs by type of activity. This in our view has led to differing conclusions from the empirical and theoretical work on the impact that HFTs have had on market quality." Earnings Beats Are Leveling Off (Bespoke) It's still somewhat early in Q3 2013, but the latest figures from Bespoke show 60% of the 190 companies that have reported earnings ó about where we've been since Q4 2010: Bespoke
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonStand by for history. Tomorrow is 'Jobs Tuesday' a rare event where the big Non-Farm Payrolls report comes out on a Tuesday, rather than the typical first Friday of the month. That's because the government shutdown threw everything for a loop, and the regular schedule of economic data got put into disarray. Some might be inclined to discount any number that we get tomorrow because of the nonsense that transpired in October, but it'd be a mistake to be too hasty. Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading explains that we should get some important insight on the economy from the report: Tomorrow the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the belated Nonfarm Payrolls report for September.† Unless this report results in a major outlier print in one direction or the other, the events of the last 3 weeks leave a great deal of room for interpretation.† The landscape is as follows.† The August Employment Situation report was disappointing.† Although payrolls added only fell slightly short of the consensus estimate, July and June experienced a downward revision of 74,000 jobs.† In additional, the improvement in the Unemployment Rate was entirely due to labor force contraction even though the Household survey reported a loss of 115,000 jobs.†††† The† questions surrounding tomorrowís report is whether or not the next round of revisions will recover the lost ground in the August report and whether the July-August deceleration is a new trend. So obviously watch the number, but really watch the revisions and see if a new, slower economic regimen had already taken hold prior to the shutdown. Anyway, official expectations are for 180k tomorrow. Check out a full jobs report preview here.
The S&amp;P 500 squeaked out a 0.1 point gain today, putting it at yet another all-time closing high. Quartz reporter Matthew Phillips tweeted a 20-year long chart of the S&amp;P 500 while exclaiming, "How about this market?!?" This ignited a lively exchange among finance's twitteratti about the state of the markets. As always, when you consider the level of the stock market, you should take in relation to another metric. So here's what we should note about the all-time-high markets: First, here's a chart from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus of trailing 12-month earnings ‚Äî the mother's milk of stocks. They are at much higher levels today than during previous peaks. Business Insider This second chart comes from JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly. The annotations show that forward earnings, dividend yields and equity risk premiums are also much higher today than they were during previous peaks. All of these factors effectively make stocks cheaper today. JP Morgan Funds So, while it is impressive that the S&amp;P 500 is breaking through to new all-time highs, the fundamentals supporting the market are much more robust today.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonIt's been four years since the Great Recession ended, but America's jobs¬†reports¬†continue to disappoint.  A group of economists, including Marcus Hagedorn from the¬†Institute for Advanced Studies in¬†Austria, Iourii Manovskii,¬†a¬†professor at UPenn, Kurt Mitman,¬†a PhD student, and Fatih Karahan from¬†the New York Fed¬†believe the increase in unemployment benefits during the recession is actually contributing to unemployment.  From their NBER paper entitled "Unemployment Benefits And Unemployment In The Great Recession: The Role of Macro Effects": "The logic of the model is simple. Everything else equal, extending unemployment benefits exerts an upward pressure on the equilibrium wage. This lowers the profits employers receive from filled jobs, leading to a decline in vacancy creation. Lower vacancies imply a lower job finding rate for workers, which leads to an increase in unemployment." Their argument may not be new, but their research methodology is. The paper compares counties that neighbor each other but are in different states. The argument behind this method is that these areas are "expected to have similar labor markets due to the same geography, climate, access to transportation, agglomeration benefits, access to specialized labor and supplies, etc." The only difference between them being the difference in unemployment policies across their two states.¬† They found that states that extended unemployment benefits experienced a drop in employment. Quantifiably, this means that a¬†1% rise in benefit duration for one quarter increases the¬†unemployment rate exponentially, by e0.06, or 1.06%. Over the long run, this effect strengthens. If benefits are extended from 26 to 99 weeks, the long run average unemployment rate rises from¬†5% to 10.5%. From the paper: "Our estimates imply that most of the persistent increase in unemployment during the Great Recession can be accounted for by the unprecedented extensions of unemployment benefit eligibility. In contrast to the existing recent literature that mainly focused on estimating the effects of benefit duration on job search and acceptance strategies of the unemployed ‚Äî the micro effect ‚Äî we focus on measuring the general equilibrium macro effect that operates primarily through the response of job creation to unemployment benefit extensions. We find that it is the latter effect that is very important quantitatively."
ADP Employer Services, Department of Labor, Institute for Supply Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration SG Cross Asset Research, EconomicsSociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Brian Jones predicts the U.S. economy added 240,000 nonfarm payrolls in September, making his forecast for tomorrow's jobs report the most optimistic on Wall Street. "We expect the Bureau of Labor Statistics' long-awaited update on the employment situation in September to reveal the strongest payroll gain since February and the lowest joblessness since November 2008," writes Jones in a note to clients. "The SG forecast is above consensus and a positive intraday impact for risky assets is expected if the SG forecast materialises. We expect [the S&amp;P 500] to move up by 0.4% and the [10-year] USD swap rate to move up by 3 [basis points] in the first half hour after the release." Jones expands on his call in the note: We expect the Bureau of Labor Statisticsí long-awaited update on the employment situation in September to reveal the strongest payroll gain since February and the lowest joblessness since November 2008. Nonfarm establishment probably added 240,000 net new workers last†month, well above the 148,000 average posted over the June-August span. Several factors†support our call for a marked pickup in hiring during the reference period (see table below left). Even after adjusting for the impact of data backlogs triggered by the introductions of new computer systems in California and Nevada, the average number of persons filing initial claims for jobless benefits fell by an estimated 12,000 to 322,000 over the four weeks heading into the September establishment period ñ the lowest level since October 2007. Meanwhile, the number of persons on regular state benefits rolls contracted by 173,000 between canvasses, while total benefit recipients under all programs contracted by 202,000. Weather conditions may also provide a lift to payroll additions in the upcoming report. The Atlantic hurricane season was the least active in 30 years with not a single tempest falling on US soil. Given its potential impact on future monetary policy decisions, the civilian unemployment rate may prove to be as important as the nonfarm job count in Tuesdayís report. Reflecting the aforementioned reduction between household surveys in total persons receiving state and federal unemployment insurance benefits, our augmented insured unemployment measure dropped from 3.52% in August to 3.36% in September. A similar decline in the civilian jobless rate would place that key metric at 7.1% (7.112% unrounded) ñ the lowest reading since November 2008. The report is released tomorrow at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for a complete preview ª
The hottest home markets in the country are usually leading indicators for the rest of the country: whatever they're doing, it usually means Middle America won't be far behind.¬† So if trending data out of San Diego is any indication, the rest of the country, which had been seeing steady growth, could soon be hitting the breaks.¬† In his latest blog post, Jim "The Realtor" Klinge points us to a clear trend emerging out of his home base, San Diego, which is usually at the forefront of the housing market: prices are plateauing. RedFin Klinge writes: "Back in the 2003-2004¬†frenzy that lasted about 18 months (sound familiar?), the prices leveled off for the next couple of years ‚Äì until the easy money could support it no more. "With mortgage rates and buyer enthusiasm both helping to temper the frenzy now, we will probably see a similar pricing plateau take place ‚Äì and it‚Äôs already underway." Indeed, according to Zillow, the national plateauing has already begun... Zillow
REUTERS/Baz RatnerActing Bank of Israel Governor Karnit Flug.In September, former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers was perceived to be President Obama's top choice to replace Ben Bernanke as the chairman of the Federal Reserve in January. By September 15, however, he had withdrawn his name from the running. "I have reluctantly concluded that any possible confirmation process for me would be acrimonious and would not serve the interest of the Federal Reserve, the Administration or, ultimately, the interests of the nation's ongoing economic recovery," said Summers in a letter to Obama. Instead, Federal Reserve vice chairwoman Janet Yellen, who was widely seen in Congress and the media as the most qualified choice for the job, got the nomination. According to reports, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also tried to get Summers for the top job at the Bank of Israel, but Summers turned him down, too. "Former U.S. Treasury Secretary¬†Lawrence Summers¬†rejected an approach about taking charge of Israel‚Äôs central bank after missing out on the¬†Federal Reserve‚Äôs top job, according to a person with knowledge of the appointment process," reports Bloomberg News correspondent Alisa Odenheimer. "Prime Minister¬†Benjamin Netanyahu¬†asked Summers to take the Bank of Israel job during his visit to the U.S. starting in late September, the person said, declining to be identified because of the issue‚Äôs sensitivity." Yesterday, Netanyahu nominated Karnit Flug as the first woman to become Governor of the Bank of Israel. She has led the central bank on an interim basis since July when former BoI chief Stanley Fischer stepped down. Flug was hand-picked by Fischer himself, but according to Odenheimer, Netanyahu has come under fire for not nominating her sooner (perhaps because he was holding out for Summers): Fischer had chosen Flug as his deputy, and backed her as his successor. Netanyahu and his finance minister, Yair Lapid, have been criticized by Israeli lawmakers for repeatedly looking elsewhere before eventually giving Flug the job. Shelly Yachimovich, leader of the opposition Labor Party, told Haaretz newspaper before the appointment that Netanyahu and Lapid "should go to the home of Dr. Karnit Flug to apologize and beg her to take the job." "We were impressed with Dr. Flug‚Äôs performance as head of the Bank of Israel in the past few months, and we are sure she will continue to help us lead the Israeli economy to new achievements amid the global economic turmoil," said Netanyahu in a statement.
Here are the full set of numbers. Highlights from the Q&amp;A are below. Here are the results: Revenue: $1.11 billion, up 22%, a narrow beat on the topline. EPS: 52 cents, a big beat on the bottom line. Subscriber adds: 1.29 million in the U.S., up 11%; 1.44 million foreign. That's a massive beat in new customers. It's basically a huge validation of CEO Reed Hastings' business model. The shows ó House Of Cards and Orange Is The New Black ó are top-notch. Games won an Emmy. He's got more subscribers than HBO. The company is a real threat to the cable model. And now these numbers indicate Netflix is growing even faster than Wall Street thought it was. Q4 guidance: 47-73 cents. Subscribers: 2.05 million net adds in the U.S.;† 1.3 million net additions foreign. Here's the new guidance in a chart: NetflixHere's what analysts had been expecting: The movie-streaming company appears to be gearing up to position itself as yet another "channel" on your cable TV box. Netflix previously reported it has 30 million paying subscribers, according to Bloomberg, more than HBO. And it's been added to Virgin Media subscribers' boxes in the U.K. Q3 was also the first full quarter in which its new series, "Orange is the New Black," became available. That show ó about a female prison ó was a hit with viewers. NetflixHighlights from the Q&amp;A with Hastings and his team:
REUTERS/Andrew WinningGallery workers sit next to "Teoria" by Eduardo Basualdo at the Frame Gallery's stand at the Frieze Art Fair in central London, October 16, 2013.The markets didn't do too much today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
The news of the day on Wall Street is the record-setting $13 billion settlement JP Morgan is reportedly working out with the U.S. government in order to settle a civil investigation into mortgage-backed securities created before the housing market collapse in 2008. It's a staggering number. In fact, it sets the record for the largest civil fine ever levied against a bank. It's half of what JPM earned in 2012. It's also no sweat for JP Morgan. You may notice that the bank's stock seems totally un-phased by the news of a $13 billion pay-out (it's down only 0.1% today). Its market cap is only down $10 billion from its 52-week high of $214 billion.¬† In other words, this is nothing for its investors. That's because legal costs, even ones as huge as this one, have already been priced in ‚Äî JPM CEO Jamie Dimon prepared us for this news almost two weeks ago, when the bank reported its first quarterly net loss under his reign. In bank's third quarter earnings announcement, management said the bank dug into its coffers and found $23 billion to put aside to deal with the over a dozen probes into its activities being conducted by regulators around the world. On the earnings call, CFO Marianne Lake said the bank was in a "highly charged and very volatile" legal environment, "far beyond what we reasonably expected... even a few weeks ago." And it's not over. This massive settlement does nothing to stop the government from continuing its criminal investigation into JP Morgan's mortgage business. And while some of the mortgages backed securities in question in this civil probe were legacies from Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns ‚Äî two banks JPM picked up during the financial crisis ‚Äî the MBS in the criminal probe were originated at JPM, according to Bloomberg's Dawn Kopecki. So Lake was being as precise as she could be when she said on the call that the deployment of JPM's legal funds will be "lumpy." We don't know when the next fine will be handed down to JPM, and we don't know where it will come from. But as of right now, we do know that the bank still has $10 billion to deal with legal issues. As that number dwindles, maybe investors will start to react. Until then, JP Morgan isn't shocking anyone, least of all itself.
It's always interesting to see what's going on in fund flows.¬† Among the big fund flow stories of the year have been the flow of funds from bonds to stocks and the outflow of funds from the Emerging Markets. Morgan Stanley's Hans Redekar points to another fund flow phenomenon in his FX Morning notes; Flows, flows, flows. It is the combination of the Fed printing money and slowing domestic US growth which is likely to lead US funds to be sent abroad while foreign interest in USD-denominated assets falls. Foreign demand for US stocks and sovereign bonds collapsed earlier this year, and Wednesday‚Äôs release of the TIC August report will be important. Should long-term TIC flows drop below the July level, the USD would come under additional selling pressure. Check out the chart: Morgan Stanley
Andrew Redington/Getty ImagesMajor U.S. corporations including McDonald's and Starbucks are reinvesting in private jets after several years of delaying upgrades to their aircraft, Bloomberg's Thomas Black reports.† McDonald's purchased a Bombardier Challenger 605 ó which carries up to 13 passengers ó to replace an existing jet in February, and Starbucks Corp. bought a Gulfstream G550 in June, according to the report. Johnson &amp; Johnson bought the same Gulfstream model, which seats up to 18 passengers, in August. The purchases signify a bright spot in an otherwise bleak outlook for private jet sales, which have remained stagnant throughout the economic downturn after a period of growth in the early 2000s. "The ultra-rich and the bigger corporations came through the downturn of 2008/2009 fine and can still afford expensive biz jets,"†George Ferguson, a senior analyst at Bloomberg Industries told Black.††"The aspirational buyers had incomes change the most due to the downturn and they havenít returned to the market."
Tom McShane via Flickr Estate planning certainly isn't one of the sexiest ways to spend your day. The idea of deciding how you'd like to die and who you'll leave your assets to can be overwhelming.¬† That's why we like the idea of approaching estate planning like you would building a new home. Start with a solid foundation early enough in life, and then build it up one piece at a time. Once the roof is up and you've passed inspection, it's just a matter of trimming the hedges, changing a few light bulbs and renovating every once in a while.¬† "There is no perfect estate plan," says¬†CFP Nancy Anderson. ¬†"We can‚Äôt plan for every contingency, but if we take some time to think about the major things, plan for them and double check that the right people are on the right documents, it can go a very long way in the end."¬† Here are a few common estate planning mistakes to avoid:¬† Thinking you're too young to make one.¬†So, you're 33, fit as a fiddle and far too busy at your 9-to-5 to worry about something as dry as your estate plan ‚Äî right? Don't kid yourself. You may not have many physical assets to your name yet, but a lot goes into estate planning besides deciding which of your siblings get first dibs on your vintage record collection. If you wind up in the hospital with no way to communicate, you'll wish you had designated a Power of Attorney to decide on treatment or at least jotted down how you'd prefer to be cared for at the end of your life. Keeping your will a secret.¬†Your life is not a Hollywood film. The idea that your family will pile into your attorney's office an hour after your funeral for the dramatic unveiling of your will is far from normal ‚Äî or wise. In most cases, estate planners recommend telling your family exactly what they can expect before you pass away. Even if that means playing referee while your kids squabble over who gets your antique china set, it's worth dealing with the disagreements before it's too late for you to have a say.¬†"It's a double-edged sword; people don't want to communicate what property is going to be given because it could cause animosity,"¬†attorney Senen Garcia, founder of SG Law Group in Coconut Grove, Fla. told Bankrate.com. "It may cause animosity now, but you can deal with it. Later on, you have no control of it because you are gone." Leaving too much cash to the wrong people.¬†We'd all love to dump a pile of cash on our loved ones' laps after we pass away, but in some cases that's the worst possible way to leave a legacy. The key is to dole out money in a way that will improve their lives for the long-run. Using a trust fund can be a smart way to leave money to relatives, since it is administered by a trustee who must dole out the cash exactly how and when you tell them to.¬† Forgetting about the blow from taxes.¬†If you have considerable assets to leave behind, you'll need to carefully consider the estate taxes that will be levied against them. One way experts recommend getting around hefty estate taxes is to carefully plan ahead which assets you'll leave to certain family members and friends. You can "gift" them assets up to $13,000 per year while you're still alive under IRS guidelines before gift taxes kick in.¬† Not editing your plan along the way.¬†Life is far from predictable, which means your estate plan, like any financial plan, should be updated as your financial and personal circumstances change. Changes such as a birth, marriage, divorce, job loss, health condition, etc. all warrant factoring in to your estate plan. And beyond that, you'll have to seriously keep an eye on the ever-changing laws in both the state where your estate plan was drawn up and the country as a whole.¬† What are you waiting for? We recommend seeking a professional to help draft and review your estate plan. But don't just rely on one ‚Äî both your financial advisor and your attorney (sometimes even in collaboration with each other) should be able to cover all the issues involved, making sure you've remembered to cross your T's and dot your I's.
The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Census Bureau have both¬†just released updated schedules of the economic data reports that were postponed by the government shutdown that spanned the first two weeks of October. Below are the economic reports to be released by the BEA: Next is the complete agenda for Census-released data: Housing Vacancies and HomeownershipOctober [originally scheduled for 10/29/13] 11/05/13 Advance Monthly Retail Trade Survey (MARTS)*September [originally scheduled for 10/11/13] 10/29/13October [originally scheduled for 11/14/13] 11/20/13November [originally scheduled for 12/12/13] No Change Manufacturing and Trade Inventories and Sales (MTIS)*August [originally scheduled for 10/11/13] 10/29/13September [originally scheduled for 11/14/13] 11/20/13October [originally scheduled for 12/12/13] No Change Monthly Wholesale Trade Survey (MWTS)*August [originally scheduled for 10/9/13] 10/25/13September [originally scheduled for 11/8/13] 11/15/13October [originally scheduled for 12/10/13] No Change Quarterly Services Survey3rd Quarter 2013 [originally scheduled for 12/4/13] 12/12/13 FT900 International Trade Release (Indicator)August [originally scheduled for 10/8/13] 10/24/13September [originally scheduled for 11/5/13] 11/14/13October [originally scheduled for 12/4/13] No Change Quarterly Financial Report Manufacturing, Mining, Wholesale Trade &amp; Service Sectors3rd Quarter 2013 [originally scheduled for 12/9/13] No Change Quarterly Financial Report Retail Trade3rd Quarter 2013 [originally scheduled for 12/16/13] No Change New Residential ConstructionSeptember [originally scheduled for 10/17/13] 11/26/13October [originally scheduled for 11/19/13] 11/26/13November [originally scheduled for 12/18/13] No Change New Residential SalesSeptember [originally scheduled for 10/24/13] 12/4/13October [originally scheduled for 11/27/13] 12/4/13November [originally scheduled for 12/24/13] No Change Construction Spending (VIP)August [originally scheduled for 10/1/13] 10/22/13September [originally scheduled for 11/1/13] 12/2/13October [originally scheduled for 12/2/13] No Change Manufacturers' Shipments, Inventories and Orders Full ReportAugust [originally scheduled for 10/3/13] 11/4/13 [with Sept report]September [originally scheduled for 11/4/13] No ChangeOctober [originally scheduled for 12/5/13] No Change Manufacturers' Shipments, Inventories and Orders Advance ReportSeptember [originally scheduled for 10/25/13] No ChangeOctober [originally scheduled for 11/27/13] No ChangeNovember [originally scheduled for 12/24/13] No Change
REUTERS/Alessandro GarofaloA man looks at an electronic board displaying stock index outside a bank in downtown Milan June 13, 2013. BlackRock has $3.8 trillion of assets under management. So, it's worth keeping an eye on how it advises its clients to invest. With the S&amp;P 500 trading right near its all-time high today, BlackRock's Chief Investment Strategist Russ Koesterich thinks investors should look for opportunities elsewhere. From Koesterich's weekly commentary: U.S. Stocks Fully Valued; Consider International We expect that continued Fed accommodation will help support stocks. However, last week's rally seemed aggressive for a few reasons: all Congress could fashion was a temporary solution, economic growth remains soft, and the Fed will start to taper at some point in the next six months or so. Despite all of this, valuations have continued to climb. U.S. stocks are now trading at roughly 2.5x book value, a 15% increase from the end of 2012. In other words, the majority of this year's gains have come through higher multiples, not a boom in corporate earnings. And while U.S. stocks still look reasonable compared to history, they are looking fully valued relative to an environment of 2% growth. This does not mean the market is due for a correction, but simply that going forward, gains need to be more driven by earnings growth; otherwise, U.S. stocks will start to climb into overvalued territory. In the meantime, we continue to see good bargains outside the United States. Within the U.S., the energy and technology sectors appear to be more reasonably priced. Koesterich describes the latest fiscal fiasco as a "near-death experience" which "likely slows the economy."
LavoThere is a fierce brunch war going on in New York City, and it's not about which restaurant makes the most delicious hollandaise sauce. It's about who can throw the wildest, most out of control party you can attend on a weekend afternoon. And on Saturday, Business Insider visited Midtown hotspot, Lavo to see how they're doing it. You're going to love this. But first, a little background on the battle over brunch. It all started a few years back when NYC restaurants like Beaumarchais and Bagatelle decided to bring a taste of the South of France's insane day parties to NYC. That means parties that are exclusive, expensive, and epic. During the summer, this battle moves to the Hamptons. You wear bikinis while you dance on tables. In the fall, it's time for a revamp ó and that means a brunch arms race where the only real winners are the people guzzling champagne and breaking it down at 4:00 pm. And those people come from everywhere. Andrew Goldberg, a partner at Strategic Hospitality Group, which owns Lavo, told Business Insider that the party prides itself on its international appeal. You'll meet revelers from all over the globe. You might see some more familiar faces in the sea of bottles and models as well. Once Jamie Foxx stopped the party in full swing by performing a 45 minute set. "The party stopped and we lost money but it was totally okay," said Goldberg. "We always want to talk about a 'wow factor'." That 'wow factor' is what gets guests e-mailing their praises to Lavo the next day, telling their friends that they absolutely must have their birthdays there, and spending thousands of dollars on their next Lavo fix.
Last week, ahead of a deal in Congress to temporarily raise the nation's debt limit, investors pulled $70 billion from money market funds¬†while pouring $10.6 billion into U.S. equity funds. In a note to clients ‚Äî titled "Rolling Default Diversions, 3Q Surprises¬†&amp; US Equity Parabolic Blow Off" ‚Äî Jefferies chief global equity strategist Sean Darby highlights an obscure contrarian indicator that points to "extremely bullish" investor sentiment. "A contrarian market indicator is the amount of assets held in the Rydex Money Market funds," says Darby. "Investors who deposit money with Rydex use the Government money market fund when uninvested in other asset classes. Hence, historically low levels of money in the fund are associated with investors being fully invested elsewhere and extremes in bullish sentiment. The latest data shows that investors are extremely bullish." Bloomberg, Jefferies
Getty Images/ Andrew WalkerGoldman exec J. Michael Evans, a vice chairman and head of global growth markets,¬†is retiring at the end of this year, the bank said in a statement.¬† Also,¬†Evans was¬†a member of the Canadian men's eights team that won the gold medal¬†at the 1984 Summer Olympics in¬†Los Angeles. Here's the full release:¬† NEW YORK, October 21, 2013 -- The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS) announced today that J. Michael Evans, a vice chairman of Goldman Sachs and global head of Growth Markets, has decided to retire at the end of the year after more than 20 years at the firm.¬† He will become a senior director upon his retirement. ‚ÄúMichael‚Äôs deep commitment to the firm, his unrelenting focus on our clients and his broad global market knowledge have left an extraordinary mark at Goldman Sachs,‚Äù said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and CEO.¬† ‚ÄúWe particularly appreciate the role he played developing our client franchise across Asia, and his work co-chairing the Business Standards Committee, which was an unparalleled effort to review our business standards and practices.¬† We are pleased that we will continue to benefit from his advice and counsel as a senior director.‚Äù Evans joined Goldman Sachs in 1993 in the Investment Banking Division in London and was named a partner in 1994.¬† As global head of Equity Capital Markets, Evans was at the center of many privatizations in Europe and Asia Pacific in the 1990‚Äôs and went on to play an integral role in the success of the firm‚Äôs initial public offering in May 1999.¬† In 2001, he became co-head of the Equities Division, working in both New York and London.¬† Two years later, Evans became global co-head of the Securities Division, where he helped cement our position as a leading market maker and underwriter to investors and companies globally. In 2004, he relocated to Hong Kong as Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia Pacific, a position he held for seven years.¬† There, Evans helped shape our strategy and footprint, deepen our leadership bench and develop important client relationships.¬† Over the last three years, Evans was co-chair of the firm‚Äôs Business Standards Committee, where he helped oversee the most extensive review of the firm‚Äôs business standards and practices in its 144 year history.¬† The Committee‚Äôs work resulted in significant changes in how the firm addresses important issues related to clients, reputational risk and accountability.¬† Evans was named a vice chairman of Goldman Sachs in 2008.¬† In 2011, he was named global head of Growth Markets, responsible for driving our strategy, resource allocation and many client relationships across the firm in these important markets. ¬†
Flickr/fortysevenYears after the housing bubble sapped home prices, investors are taking advantage of the new rental economy. As a refresher, here's how hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC (reportedly) made money during the financial crisis: 1) Create collateralized debt obligations, which group mortgage bonds, and dice them into securities with varying degrees of risk that helped engender a housing bubble, and then 2) bet against some of those CDOs as part of an investment strategy that would pay handsomely if the system crashed. Fast forward a few years later, and Magnetar has a new genius investment strategy for today's housing market. Simply go into the communities hit hardest by the crash, buy up all that cheap juicy real estate, and rent it out to the common folk who, you know, can't afford to own anymore. Bloomberg's¬†Heather Perlberg¬†(no relation) and¬†John Gittelsohn have a deep dive into Magnetar's scheme in Huber Heights, Ohio, where the hedge fund is now the largest landlord in the small Dayton suburb. From Bloomberg: Private-equity firms and hedge funds have bought as many as 200,000 homes across the U.S., typically in areas hardest hit by the housing crash, to profit from soaring demand for rentals. What makes Magnetar‚Äôs investment unique so far is its focus, buying one in 11 homes in the Ohio suburb, magnifying its influence over the residents and the town‚Äôs finances. The best part? Magnetar's management company "applied for the largest cut to property tax assessments in the county‚Äôs history." If approved, the appeal would reduce tax collection by $1.39 million, $800,000 of which would come out of Huber Heights City Schools, the county auditor told Bloomberg. Read the full report at Bloomberg¬†¬ª
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldAnalysts at BofA Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley are telling clients that gold is set to rally as Indian festival season gets underway. In a note to clients today, BAML analysts led by Michael Jalonen write: Gold markets - Poised for a November rally? Last week, the gold price rose 3.5% ending Friday at $1,316/oz. This belied considerable intra-week volatility as bullion fell to an intra week low of $1,255/oz before rallying sharply (some $60/oz) due to the end of US Government shutdown and an expansion of the debt ceiling. Interestingly the gold holding of SPDR Gold Shares (the world‚Äôs largest gold ETF) declined by 1% (8.8 tonnes) to 882.2 tonnes, the lowest level since February 9th 2009. Year-to-date 2013, the gold holding of SPDR has declined by 438 tonnes (-34.6%), a major reason why bullion has declined by 21% ytd 2013. Looking ahead, history would indicate that November is usually a strong month (with an average monthly gain of 3.8% in November) for gold prices thanks to the wedding and festival season in India. Thus we believe that bullion could mount a modest rally to the $1,350-$1,400/oz range over the next month or so. Morgan Stanley analyst Paretosh Misra agrees. "Indian festival season could provide a lift to gold," writes Misra in a note.¬†"Traditionally, the Diwali festival (specifically, Dhanteras, the two days before Diwali) is the biggest gold buying period of the year in India. In the last 10 years, gold has risen an average 2.5% in the one month around Diwali. While government‚Äôs new import restrictions and INR depreciation could adversely affect gold imports, buying should be supported by ~20% YoY decline in gold in Rupee terms." Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale analysts Jesper Dannesboe and Robin Bhar, however, believe any such rally would be very limited. In a note to clients Friday, Dannesboe and Bhar wrote: Short-term speculators appear to have accumulated substantial short positions over recent weeks but they were squeezed by a seasonal pick-up in Asian physical demand. Physical premiums in Hong Kong and India have risen recently and the gold forward curve this week moved into slight backwardation at the very front end of the curve. This tightness in the physical gold market is likely to be short-lived as the pick-up in Asian physical buying is partly seasonal and partly opportunistic (on big price drops) while ETF selling continues on a trend basis and we expect no significantly mine supply cuts until the gold price gets down to below $1,000/oz.  It is difficult to say exactly how much further the gold price can rally on the ongoing short- covering but we would be surprised to see the gold price much above the $1,350 level. The medium-term drivers of the gold price are, in our view, still firmly bearish. The US economy is in recovery mode, US real interest rates have risen and are likely to trend higher as the recovery gains strength, inflation is very subdued, Fed tapering, while perhaps somewhat delayed, should be completed next year. Goldman Sachs head of commodities research Jeffrey Currie is also bearish on gold in his latest note to clients, but warns that it's not time to short it quite yet. "We continue to argue that the key to the gold outlook is data that shows a strong US recovery and gives the market confidence that tapering will begin, says Currie. "We still believe that this is the key trigger for gold prices even as the risks of deferred tapering have increased. Accordingly, we still expect gold to trade close to our near-term target of $1300/toz until the end of this year when our economists expect economic data to begin to show some confirmation of the economic improvement embedded in the 2014 US outlook."
Tesla's stock is down 4% today on a story by Germany's Manager Magazine ó it suggests that the car maker may face more challenges expanding in the European market than previously thought. While Tesla has seen success in Europe ó it's the number one car in Norway, for example ó there have been issues with the car company's supply chain. Model S Director of Programs Jerome Guillen, who was interviewed in the Manager Magazine piece, also says that Tesla needs to work on building an infrastructure of charging stations across Europe, so Tesla owners can go wherever they want without worrying about power. Guillen in the interview: Our biggest challenge is currently the development and expansion in Europe. A few weeks ago we started with the delivery of the Model S in Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. The people here have been waiting for their vehicles, now we need to accelerate the handover to customers. We owe it to them easily. In addition, we need the right infrastructure.Therefore, we build a network in Europe own Tesla fast-charging stations, allow long distance travel. What Guillen didn't talk about, though Manager Magazine asked, is what all that building will cost Tesla. He only said that the company would "make sure that the expansion is cost-effective." Tesla wants to meet its Supercharger charging station target in Germany by the end of 2014. It's trying to build in a few years what traditional car companies have spent decades doing. This gets to the heart of the short thesis on the automaker's stock. Tesla bears say quarter after quarter that the company is burning through cash too quickly to build the infrastructure it wants, and make the improvements to supply chain that it needs. Bank of America analyst John Lovallo addressed that directly on the company's Q2 conference call, saying: "If we think about cash flow for a minute... free cash flow was a use of about $79 million in the quarter, and I think if you make the adjustments you guys were talking about... $11 million for the DOE payment, a $67 million increase in receivables that may not occur. That looks like the use of about a million dollars. Now, you have cap ex ramping up in the back half of the year so how are you thinking about free cash flow generation through the remainder of the year into 2014?" Tesla CFO Deepak Ahuja could only reply that Tesla "want[s] to be very careful about burning cash...We want to stay as close as we can to a free cash flow position... but that's not something we necessarily want to guide to. We're going to manage it... and spend the cap ex where we need to to ensure we're growing at the right pace."Apparently that's not completely reassuring to everyone. †
ChinaFotoPress/Getty ImagesCorn is found in three out of four supermarket products. So given that corn futures are now down 40% YOY for October, you might think we might be seeing the cost of groceries declining. Not so, says JP Morgan. In a new note, retail analyst Ken Goldman writes corn and other food ingredients represent less than half the picture among packaged food firms' cost of goods sold ó not enough to tilt the cost picture: "...we believe foodstuffs (corn, wheat, meat, et al) make up less than 50% of average COGS†(we estimate ~40%). Other COGS drivers include manufacturing and labor (which we estimate are ~22% of average COGS), freight and energy (~21%), and packaging (~16%). "Thus, even if foodstuff inputs are down in 2014, total COGS do not automatically have to decline." According to the firm's analysis, all those other elements are going to increase. "...based on the forecasts of J.P. Morgan Paper and Packaging analyst Phil Gresh, as well as our own assumptions, we expect average food packaging costs to be up ~5-10% on average in 2014. And based on futures prices, we expect freight and energy†costs for manufacturers to be inflationary, too." At least three companies have already warned of cost inflation, not deflation, Goldman notes. In addition, he says, JPM's†inflation model has been 72% correlated with packaged food gross margins.
John HussmanLong-time bearish fund manager John Hussman highlights a chart of the market capitalization of non-financial stocks relative to GDP, saying in a tweet, "Pay no attention to this chart. No attention at all. You see nothing." In his latest weekly commentary published this morning, Hussman writes: Examining various historically useful fundamentals, the S&amp;P 500 price/revenue ratio of 1.6 is now†twice†its pre-bubble historical norm of about 0.8. For perspective, itís worth noting that the 1987 peak occurred at a price/revenue ratio of less than 1.0 and neither the 1965 secular valuation peak, nor the 1972 peak (before stocks dropped in half) breached even 1.3. Also, take care to note that the price/revenue multiple is twice the historical†median†ñ not twice the level where†bear markets†have typically ended. No, the price/revenue ratio is closer to†three†times that level. Broadening our view to a larger set of historically reliable measures that are†actually well-correlated†with subsequent market returns, we arrive at identical conclusions. For example, the market value of non-financial stocks to GDP (based on Z.1 flow-of-funds data from the Federal Reserve) presently works out to about 1.24. This is†twice†the pre-bubble norm, well above the 2007 peak, and already at late-1999 levels. But while Hussman points to an extremely overvalued market using this chart, there's another interpretation that shows something different. When taking into account the total market value of all stocks relative to GDP (including financials), the ratio doesn't indicate such extreme valuations, as Jefferies strategist David Zervos pointed out in our recent book of Wall Street's most important charts in the world. Matthew Boesler/Business Insider
New York Post's Page Six unearthed this gem in a new book about billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen paying Guy Fieri to spend the day with him eating diner food.¬† From Page Six:¬† Cohen paid Fieri to drive around Connecticut with him to reenact a fantasy episode of ‚ÄúDiners, Drive-Ins and Dives,‚Äù reveals Allen Salkin in his book, ‚ÄúFrom Scratch: Inside the Food Network.‚Äù But after ‚ÄúCohen paid Guy Fieri $100,000 to be his friend for a day,‚Äù Salkin writes the odd couple became so close that the chef‚Äôs top-rated show even featured Cohen‚Äôs favorite hot-dog spot, the (perhaps appropriately titled) Super Duper Weenie. A spokesperson for Cohen told Page Six that the story is not true, but said they do know each other. We found the episode of "Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives" featuring the Fairfield, Connecticut-based Super-Duper Weenie. ¬†In it,¬†Fieri says his "friends" Alex and Steve (a.k.a. Cohen and his wife) were the ones who told him about it. Fieri said they invited him over to their house for dinner one night and the hot dog truck showed up.¬† Also, speaking of the Super Duper Weenie,¬†Cohen got the hot dog truck to stop by SAC Capital Advisor's Stamford, Conn., headquarters¬†the day the fund was criminally indicted on insider trading charges.¬†SAC¬†may end up paying a record fine of $1.8 billion¬†to settle those charges.¬† Watch the episode below:¬† 
J. CrewDressing well doesn't have to be overwhelming.† Men can put together the perfect casual wardrobe for fall and winter with just a few essential items.† Reddit user AllMoose put together his own guide of what men need to build a good wardrobe.† We liked his instructions so much that we did some research and created our own version.† Find out what you need to buy to look consistently put-together.†
If you blinked, you might have missed this telling detail about the strained relationship between JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon and President Obama in The Wall Street Journal. This weekend, the news broke that JPMorgan Chase was negotiating a $13 billion settlement with the government over a civil investigation into its sale of mortgages before the 2008 housing market crash. A criminal probe into the bank's activities is ongoing. Remember: This is happening to the only bank that never posted a negative quarter through the financial crisis, to the bank helmed by Jamie Dimon ó a man who used to have strong ties to the White House. Now, it seems, all that has been turned on its head, and you can tell because as we've learned in the past few weeks, Washington D.C. is a lot like high school. From The WSJ: When top bankers assembled at the White House in early October, J.P. Morganís James Dimon found his name card on a seat in the corner, far from his usual perch across from President Barack Obama. Mr. Dimon, who in previous gatherings had been quick to share his opinions with the president, was reserved and said little during the meeting, according to people who attended. Other chief executives saw Mr. Dimonís placement as a symbolic shift. "You can't sit with us," Jamie. 
OptionMetrics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchTrading volume in the VIX (a measure of the implied volatility of S&amp;P 500 index options known as the "fear gauge") hit record highs over the past two weeks as the government shutdown and debt ceiling debate became the dominant theme in financial markets. Goldman Sachs analysts Krag Gregory and Jose Gonzalo Rangel point out the surge in a note to clients: Explosion in VIX activity: VIX futures average daily volume in 2013 is over 38x that of 2008 Although the VIX became a household name in 2008 as the ìfear gaugeî moved to 81, the average daily volume in the VIX futures market so far in 2013 has been 38x the ADV in 2008, has more than tripled since 2011, and is up 73% yoy. The ADV in the VIX futures market so far has been 165k contracts or 165 million vega per day. The strong liquidity in the VIX futures market has strengthened the VIX options market. Most active two weeks in VIX options history: From year-end 2007 to year-end 2012 total VIX option volume was up nearly five- fold with a 5y CAGR of 36%. Total volume so far in 2013 is running 9% higher than in 2012 and we still have over two months to go. The last two weeks were the most active 10 trading days in the history of VIX options (Exhibit 7). The charts below show the rise in average daily trading volume in both VIX options and futures since 2006. Bloomberg, OptionMetrics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
Bloomberg's Julie Hyman noted the stock has the 13th largest short interest as a percentage of float in the S&amp;P 500.¬† In other words, there are a lot of people betting against the company. On Thursday, the company announced it was building a 250-megawatt solar farm in Riverside, Calif. for power plant developer NextEra. First Solar has climbed more than 56% YTD and 110% over the past 12 months.
Reuters/ Fred Prouser Brent Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin American Citizens, speaks as demonstrators protest against Herbalife, a nutrition and supplements company, outside the Ronald Reagan State Office building in Los Angeles, California October 18, 2013.This weekend, Herbalife its Herbalife Latina Extravaganza event in Los Angeles. It's a massive event hosted for the company's thousands of Latino distributors. † On Friday,†members†League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), a leading latino organization, hosted a "press conference" outside the Attorney General's office in L.A. LULAC members handed†out copies of a ìDear Herbalife Distributorî letter warning distributors about the perils of the company. (We've included a copy of the letter below.)†† While LULAC members were distributing letters, Herbalife's CEO Michael Johnson came outside and began yelling at them, according to Reuters.† The incident became very heated. †What's more is witnesses told Reuters that current Herbalife distributors also spat on the LULAC members. Reuters Svea Herbst-Bayliss reports: † Outside the convention center where Herbalife hosted its event the atmosphere became testy when some distributors spat at some of the community activists and when Herbalife CEO Michael Johnson arrived, several eye witnesses said. "Johnson approached us and was very confrontational," said Randy Fox, a regional director for LULAC, adding "he told us 'You don't know the facts. We don't want to hear your lies. This is all lies. You should be ashamed of this." Herbalife spokesman James Golden declined to comment on the matter. Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutritional shakes and supplements, is†the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is shorting. †Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals, particularly from the Hispanic population.† Ackman has said the U.S. will be better off when Herbalife is out of business.† Herbalife's CEO told CNBC back in December that the "United States will be better off when Bill Ackman is gone." So far, Ackman's short hasn't worked out in his favor. †Shares of the stock have skyrocketed. †A number of fund managers, including his rival Carl Icahn and George Soros, have gone long the stock.† If anyone has video footage from this incident, feel free to send it to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.† Here's the letter: October 18, 2013 Dear Herbalife Independent Distributor: This weekend you will hear unbelievable success stories about individuals who have gone from†rags to riches by becoming Herbalife distributors. Unfortunately, if the stories seem too good†to be true, itís because the vast majority of Herbalife distributors experience something far†different. According to Herbalifeís Statement of Average Gross Compensation Paid by Herbalife to United†States Distributors in 2012, 88% of Herbalifeís distributors earned no payments from Herbalife†in 2012, and only 3.67% received more than $1,000 for the entire year. As an Herbalife Independent Distributor you have the right to demand that the company make†important changes to the way it operates to ensure that the work of many does not end up†lining the pockets of the few. While you participate in training sessions over this weekend, we†encourage you to suggest the following reforms to Herbalife officials so the company can truly†realize its vision of changing peopleís lives for the better: 1) Report the average net income of Herbalife distributors and stop featuring highly†unlikely ìrags to richesî success stories. The only way a potential distributor can tell†if Herbalife is really a good ìbusiness opportunity,î worth pursuing is if the potential†distributor knows what the average distributor makes for a given amount of work after†subtracting their operating costs. Herbalife should publish this information to ensure†that potential participants are not induced into becoming distributors with unrealistic†expectations only to be disappointed when the expected profits fail to materialize. 2) Limit Herbalifeís down line compensation to three levels deep. This reform would†limit compensation (including royalty overrides, production bonuses and other forms of†multi-level income) for a distributorís downline to the number of levels that a distributor†can reasonably be expected to train and manage and reduce the incentive for distributors†to engage in predatory or deceptive business practices that place a far greater emphasis on†recruitment than on actually selling Herbalife products to retail customers. 3) Track and report Herbalife retail sales to new recruits and the general public. A†fundamental practice of all legitimate consumer product companies is to track retail sales†to consumers. While you as a distributor are required by Herbalife to keep track of all†your retail sales, Herbalifeís policy is not to collect this data from you and not to report†any data on retail sales to new recruits and the public. The FTC has clearly stated that†robust retail sales to non-distributors are the key to separating legitimate multi-level†marketing companies from pyramid schemes. 4) Donít Exaggerate the Health Benefits of Herbalife Products. Herbalife claims that†their products are healthy and nutritious; however, Herbalifeís 2013 product catalog has†a disclaimer that the vast majority of their health claims have not been evaluated by the†Food and Drug Administration nor are their products intended to diagnose, treat, cure,†or prevent any disease. Health claims should not be made about any Herbalife product†unless the claim has been proven to be true. 5) Require Nutrition Clubs to come into compliance with the law . Herbalifeís nutrition†clubs are required to follow a bizarre set of rules that prohibit club owners from†displaying the Herbalife logo on the outside of the store, posting prices for their products,†having an open/closed sign and advertising. Clubs are required to cover their windows,†sell only Herbalife products, destroy used containers, and keep products hidden until†they are sold. These bizarre rules appear to be designed to bolster Herbalifeís contention†that nutrition clubs are not retail stores, restaurants or food establishments when in†fact that is exactly what they are because they are selling food at fixed retail locations.†Herbalife distributors should demand that the company ensure its nutrition clubs are in†compliance with local, state &amp; federal health and business codes that apply to retail food†outlets. Better yet the company should franchise the nutrition clubs as most other national†brands have done when selling food at fixed retail locations. The ìfuture of the companyî†shouldnít depend on hiding from the law. 6) Stop targeting low-income Latinos. Between 60 to 80% of Herbalifeís 500,000 US†distributors are Latinoó4 to 5 times their representation in the US population. Close†to 90% of these distributors will quit within a year and Herbalife will seek to replace†them with another 300,000 to 400,000 Latino distributors to sustain their US profits. If†Herbalifeís executives refuse to implement the necessary reforms listed above, at the very†least they should stop targeting the family-oriented and trusting Latino community with†their deceptive business practices. No one community should have to bear the brunt of a†companyís predatory business model. Herbalife claims to do the right, honest and ethical thing. By insisting the company undertake the†6 reforms listed above, you will not only help Herbalife live up to its slogans, you will also help the company move to a financially stable business model for the long haul and address the long†standing criticisms that have plagued the brand for decades. Herbalifeís US business depends heavily on the Latino market. As Latino Herbalife distributors,it is time for you to take a leadership role in determining the direction of the company you†represent and to bring the Latino values of honesty, integrity, fairness, and compassion to a†company that sorely needs them. Sincerely,
Jay Yarow, Business Insider On October 22nd, Apple is finally launching new iPads. This launch can't come soon enough. It wasn't long ago that Apple fans were slapping each other on the back and crowing about how, one day, Apple would be known as "the iPad company." The theory was that iPads were such a mega-hit new product category that iPad sales would continue to grow at astronomical rates until, eventually, they might even eclipse sales of the iPhone. You don't hear that theory much anymore. Why not? Because, despite the launch of a cheaper iPad last year ó the iPad Mini ó the growth of Apple's iPad sales has hit a wall. In the June quarter, Apple's iPad sales dropped a startling 14% year over year, to only 15 million units. Even after adjusting for channel inventory, iPad sales to consumers dropped 3% year over year. This in a tablet market that is projected to grow about 50% this year. This for a super-ballyhooed new product category that is supposed to drive the company's growth for years. So, what's going on? Well, part of the issue was a tough comparison with last year: The iPad with a retina screen launched in the June quarter last year, and this triggered a nice jump in iPad sales in that quarter ó to 17 million units from 12 million in the prior quarter. That set a high bar for this year's June quarter. But that's not the whole problem. The larger problem, arguably, is that Apple is trying to maintain premium pricing in a market in which competitors are increasingly selling high-quality iPad alternatives for significantly lower prices. In short, Apple's iPads are too expensive. The June quarter's lousy sales, it is important to note, came only a couple of quarters after Apple launched its iPad Mini ó the smaller, cheaper tablet that was designed to allow Apple to compete with similar tablets from Google, Amazon, and others. We had not even reached the anniversary of the Mini launch, and iPad sales were still down. This "premium pricing" strategy is a departure from the strategy Apple has used for the iPhone and early iPads. (Those products were priced at or below the rest of the market). This is also a strategy that helped bury Apple in the earlier PC era ó when it was charging premium prices for the Mac. The iPad Mini and Apple's larger iPads are still arguably the best tablets of their kind on the market. But they're also some of the most expensive. Apple, which generates its profit from device sales, is trying to protect its profit margin by maintaining relatively high price points for its iPads. Amazon, Google, and other tablet manufacturers, meanwhile, are selling their tablets at lower price points, in part because they generate their profits from app and media sales rather than device sales. Apple says it wants to sell the "best" products, not the "most" products, so this pricing strategy is in keeping with that philosophy. BIIApple's tablet platform share is dropping fast...The trouble is that Apple is also trying to ensure that its mobile operating system, iOS, remains the dominant global mobile platform. And in platform markets ó markets in which third-parties build apps and sell services on top of a platform ó market share is crucial. By trying to maintain its premium pricing and high profit margin, Apple is likely losing sales that would otherwise help the company capture more of the mobile platform market. That tradeoff helps produce higher profits for Apple today, but it also likely weakens the long-term value of the iOS platform. If, instead of focusing on maximizing near-term profits, Apple were focused on trying to make iOS the dominant global mobile platform, it would likely reduce prices on its iPads and iPhones. This would hurt the company's profits today, but it would also likely lead to a stronger market position ó and higher profits ó several years from now. In other words, Apple is stuck with what can only be described as a high-quality problem. The company's profit margin is so high, and this is producing so much profit, that investors have made it one of the most valuable tech companies in the world. If Apple sacrifices its profit margin and profit to increase its mobile platform market share, investors will probably scream. (It is a slowdown in sales and drop in profits, after all, that has clobbered the stock over the past year.) If, on the other hand, Apple maximizes its current profit at the expense of market share, as it appears to be doing, this will likely weaken the company's market position long-term. Unless Apple believes that iOS can remain a dominant and sustainable mobile platform even with only niche market share, in which case market share losses don't matter, there's a right answer here. The right answer is for Apple to reinvest more of its gigantic profits by reducing the prices of its iPads and iPhones. Apple is so phenomenally profitable that it could reduce its iPad and iPhone prices significantly and still coin money. And, in doing so, it could also accelerate its unit growth and increase its global market share. Doing this, of course, would further reduce Apple's current profit and trigger additional declines in the stock price. But that doesn't mean it's the wrong decision for the long term. What Apple will not likely be able to do is have it both ways. The company will not likely be able to continue to own the dominant global mobile operating system while also trying to maintain its premium device pricing and profit margin. Gradually, as hardware competitors get better and operating systems like Android become more ubiquitous, iOS will become more of a niche player. Ultimately, if it becomes too much of a niche player, it will lose its value to developers and distributors. And if that happens, Apple is finished. If there's no clear reason for consumers and developers to pay up to be in "the iOS ecosystem," there will be no reason for consumers to pay up to buy Apple gadgets. The vicious cycle will feed on itself, and, ultimately, both Apple's profits and market share will collapse. So Apple investors (I'm one) and fans shouldn't just brush off last quarter's lousy iPad sales. And they should hope that the company will now offer a tablet that is very price-competitive. Tablets are still a rapidly growing market, and Apple still has arguably the best products in the category. But Apple appears to be losing market share fast. And that is likely a direct result of its decision to try to maintain its premium prices and profit margin in a world in which talented competitors are producing high-quality products and being ever more aggressive on price. Regardless, the new iPad product launch is important ...
This weekend Stan Druckenmiller sat down with the WSJ to talk about his continued crusade for entitlement reform. The legendary hedge fund manager has been visiting schools from Maine to California, encouraging kids to start a revolution to change the way the country spends on the future. The fact that he's doing this at all is strange ó what's stranger, at least for a Wall Streeter, is how he talks about it. From WSJ: Mr. Druckenmiller describes the reaction of students: "The biggest question I got was, 'How do we start a movement?' And my answer was 'I'm a 60-year-old washed-up money manager. I don't know how to start a movement. That's your job. But we did it in Vietnam without Twitter and without Facebook and without any social media. That's your job.' But the enthusiasmóthey get it." In an interview with Goldman Sachs earlier this year, Druckenmiller sounded equally futile about his place in an easy-money, QE market. He, like a lot of hedge fund managers, has been critical of Fed Chair Ben Bernanke's policies. Unlike other hedge fund managers, though, he's open about his own feelings of inadequacy because of those policies. It has become harder for me, because the importance of my skills is receding. Part of my advantage, is that my strength is economic forecasting, but that only works in free markets, when markets are smarter than people.... It's not predicting anything the way it used to and that really makes me reconsider my ability to generate superior returns. If the most important price in the most important economy in the world is being rigged, and everything else is priced off it, what am I supposed to read into other price movements? Druckenmiller told the WSJ that he's been shocked at the positive reception he's gotten from students around the country. Hopefully that's reinvigorating him. It'd be nice to hear him sound like he's got a little spring in his step.
REUTERS / Maxim ShemetovOligarchy versus democracy is a very old game, and so are the seven deadly sins. Why exactly men like Vladimir Potanin, Mikhail Prokhorov, Alisher Usmanov, Andrei Melnichenko et al. should calculate that advertising their standard of living should help them keep it is difficult to say. Maybe their pockets are under better control than their appetites. Maybe they believe that advertising profligacy will boost the accounting of their net worth and stave off margin calls. Thatís the point the ancient Athenians grasped with conviction. Itís the point of many of Platoís and Socratesís dialogues; of the comedies of Aristophanes; and of the records of the Athens law courts which have come down to us. To those Greeks, if a man displayed an excess of money, or what he did with it ñ by eating, drinking, betting, having sex, bejewelling his body, house, slaves, children, wives ó he was by that very fact to be suspected of a crime against the democracy. The Athenian judgement was both retrospective and prospective: spending money intemperately was evidence that it had been too easily (dishonestly) earned. It was also evidence that state policy (investment, tax, war) would be corruptly influenced to serve such oligarchsí material and personal interests, to the loss of everyone else.No Russian disagrees with the Athenians ó there are many precedents of men convicted of playing the oligarch from the time of Greek civilization, and from the time of the Russian civilization since 1991. Why then, cautious to an extreme as he usually is, did Potanin arrange recently with a New York city restaurateur by the name of Nello Balan to buy a white truffle weighing four pounds (1.8 kilogrammes)? The size of the Tuber magnatum pico rather than its taste ñ the black (Tuber melanosporum) is famously tastier, if less odoriferous than the white, at least across the Piedmont border in France ñ has contributed to the price demanded of, and reportedly paid by Potanin of $95,000. But did he pay to eat it on the spot in Balanís eat-house, shaved into omelettes for a dozen or so of Potaninís feasting friends? Or did the control shareholder of Norilsk Nickel, Russiaís largest mining company, get the truffle bagged for takeaway, so that he could share it with a dozen or more of his business and political associates in Moscow? At this point, before the Athenian curse and penalty on oligarchs should be brought down on the heads of those Russians who, according to ancient-type democrats, warrant mistrust and condemnation, Potaninís defence is that there is no evidence he did to the truffle what the New York Post†claims. According to Potaninís spokesman, Zoya Mischenko, Norilsk Nickel doesnít comment on rumours. Then there is the reputation of Balan the seller. Food vendors in ancient Athens were notorious blabbermouths. In Balanís case, London evidence suggests he does a great many things which are exaggerated for the press in order to advertise his line of trade. He†reportedly†overcharges, for one thing, to attract those who want to appear in public to be indifferent to price. Balan has been leaking the eating bills of Russian oligarchs before. According to†this version†from the London Telegraph, Balan spilled the beans on a £29,000 lunch eaten by Roman Abramovich, except that Abramovich denies the bill was his. Note the familiarity of the anonymous Balan employee who calls Abramovich, not only a big spender, but Roman, his first name. If indeed a £4,468 gratuity greased the waiterís palm, he seems to have mistaken it for intimacy with the rich man. Balan is currently into advance advertising of a new eatery heís opening in London. So, modus operandi, plus motive. When his barman and night manager refused to confirm the truffle deal, and referred to their boss, Balan responded by email; ìI am at an event now. I will get back to you tomorrow. Very Truly Yours, NELLO.î Then despite the intimacy of his first name, he went silent. So Balan is no longer saying what the New York Post claims he did, and Potanin isnít either. Now the New York Post ñ prop. Rupert Murdoch ó is famously unreliable when it comes to Russian oligarchs, or at least those targets of the oligarchs whom the Post can be induced to misreport. Oleg Deripaska, for example ñ his cuisinary taste has been†reported†by a fanzine writer in Canada as including self-grown apples. For Deripaskaís interest, the New York Post planted a story about Deripaskaís patron, then his enemy in court, Michael Cherney (Chernoy). That story, now almost two years old, intended perhaps to intimidate witnesesses in the court case, can be readhere. Deripaska also has motive for attempting to blacken Potaninís name and using the Post to send a message back to the Kremlin, where the fate of both of them will be decided in December. Thatís when President Vladimir Putin will supervise how the secret group of control shareholders in Rusal, the redeemable-share holders, will be paid out. For that group, it may be trebles and tubers all round on†December 6. Mikhail Prokhorov, whose investment position in local basketball and real estate has made the New York media his patsy, also has modus operandi and motive for trying to hurt Potanin by hanging a $95,000 tuber round his neck in public. That might be revenge for Potaninís role, if he played one, in blackening Prokhorov at Courchevel in January of 2007. That story, and the role played at the time by Nicolas Sarkozy ñ then in need of cash for his election campaign ñ can be read†here. According to one of the nubile women who were nabbed, Prokhorov was as innocent as Courchevelís driven snow. The women did nothing more, the eyewtitness†claimed, than send Prokhorov to sleep by reading to him from Turgenev, whose novels he kept under his pillows. Since the collapse of the Soviet regime, a Russianís privacy has been the jealously guarded constitutional right of everyone. So whether he puts large tubers in his mouth, or his organs into other mouths, is not quite what the Athenians meant by calling him katapugon (<U+03BA>at<U+03AC>p<U+03C5><U+03B3><U+03BF><U+03BD>), meaning profligate, intemperate, debauched, degenerate. The US courts†have ruled†that the Russian oligarchs are public figures, allowing their privates to be speculated about in public print. The Russian view is that so long as they donít advertise, the oligarchs have the same constitutional right to innocent privacy as everyone else, according to Article 23, section 1. It is worth re-reading what that says: ìEveryone shall have the right to privacy, to personal and family secrets, and to protection of oneís honour and good name.î Advertising is a different story, not because of the purported sinning in private, but because of what this signifies when it is made public. Then thereís the matter of price. The record for a white Piedmont truffle is $330,000 for a specimen of 1.5 kgs, paid by the Macau casino boss, Stanley Ho, in December 2007. The Guinness Book of Records is a little out of date on this score,†finding†their big one in Croatia, and way below the Ho price. Ho and other self-advertisers like Damien Hirst and the Hambro family have also paid premiums of comparable amounts, albeit for†charity plus publicity. By that standard, at $52.78 per gram Potaninís truffle ñ if indeed he bought it ñ is, er, a steal.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstExisting home sales fell 1.9% in September to an annualized rate of 5.29 million. Economists polled by Bloomberg were expecting a 3.3% drop. August's figures were revised down to 5.39 million from the original print of 5.48 million.¬† For months now, economists have been closely watching the impact of the run up in mortgage rates on existing and new home sales. Total housing inventory remained unchanged at 2.21 million existing homes available for sale, according to the report. ‚ÄúAffordability has fallen to a five-year low as home price increases easily outpaced income growth,‚Äù said National Association of Realtors chief economist¬†Lawrence Yun. ‚ÄúExpected rising mortgage interest rates will further lower affordability in upcoming months. Next month we may see some delays associated with the government shutdown.‚Äù "The median time on market for all homes was 50 days in September, up from 43 days in August, but much faster than the 70 days on market in September 2012," according to the press release. "Short sales were on the market for a median of 93 days, while foreclosures typically sold in 43 days, and non-distressed homes took 49 days. Thirty-nine percent of homes sold in September were on the market for less than a month."
Billionaire hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller, the founder of Duquesne Capital, ripped into President Obama over the debt ceiling talks and the government shutdown during an interview with the Wall Street Journal's James Freeman.† From the WSJ:† Not that Mr. Druckenmiller endorsed the most recent Republican strategy. "I thought tying†ObamaCare†to the debt ceiling was nutty," he says, and I can confirm that he was saying so for weeks before the denouement. But he adds that "I did not think it would be nutty to tie entitlements to the debt ceiling because there's a massive long-term problem. And this president, despite what he says, has shown time and time again that he needs a gun at his head to negotiate in good faith. All this talk about, 'I won't negotiate with a gun at my head.' OK, you've been president for five years." His voice rising now, Mr. Druckenmiller pounds his fist on the conference table. "Show me, President Obama, when the period was when you initiated budget discussions without a gun at your head." Open Secrets shows that Druckenmiller has donated to Republicans this year:†
We now have 20 minutes of trading behind us this week in U.S. markets, and major indices are basically flat from Friday's close. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.1%, trading around 15,380, while the S&amp;P 500 is flat at 1745 and the Nasdaq is up 0.3% at 3925. Last week, the S&amp;P 500 hit another all-time high. The only economic data release in the U.S. this morning is September existing home sales, due out at 10 AM ET. Economists predict sales fell 3.3% in September to 5.30 million at an annualized rate after rising 1.7% to 5.48 million annualized in August. Click here to follow the release LIVE ¬ª
REUTERS/ Larry DowningJP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon"We're trying to get it resolved." That's what†JPMorgan Chase†Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon told CNBC on Monday, in reaction to news that the bank has reached a tentative $13 billion settlement with the U.S. Justice Department, the New York attorney general, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency over allegations of sales of shoddy mortgage securities. "I am so damn proud of this company. That's what I think about when I wake up everyday," he added in an interview that aired on "Squawk Box," saying that "260,000 people around the world are going a great job for our clients. We're gaining market share. We're doing great stuff. We're trying to get our problems behind us." As for the potential of criminal charges down the road against JPMorgan, Dimon reiterated, "We are going to resolve every matter as best as we can, and then we're going to move on and serve our clients." Many of the government investigations involve practices at Bear Stearns and Washington Mutualócompanies that JPMorgan purchased during the 2008 financial crisis at the behest of the government and the†Federal Reserve.
Most times, when a venture-backed startup grows up, it provides a profit to its financial backers by selling to a larger company or going public. Either that or it doesn't grow up at all. It goes bust, and provides zero dollars back to investors. WhitePages, founded by a Stanford student all the way back in 1997, is an anomaly in startup world. It's forgoing all those routes. Nearly 20 years old, it's plenty grown up. It's not going bust anytime soon.¬†And it¬†has¬†provided a return for its investors ‚Äì but not through a sale or an IPO. It's buying shareholders out. A couple months ago, WhitePages CEO Alex Algard and CFO Jason Eglit used company profits and some debt to buy all the WhitePages stock owned by outside investors TCV and Providence for $80 million.¬† TCV and Providence, late stage private equity firms,¬†originally bought their stakes in WhitePages for a combined $45 million in 2005.¬† WhitePages wouldn't reveal the valuation at which it bought its stock back.¬†It said its current revenue run rate is $60 million, so you can figure the company is worth a couple hundred million. WhitePages is a private company, so there's no way to be sure. WhitePages has three lines of business. It has its consumer business on WhitePages.com, 411.com and a bunch of other domains.¬†It sells access to its data to third-parties, like ecommerce merchants who need to validate card-not-present transactions. It makes mobile apps, like a popular Caller ID app for Android. Algard and Eglit gave three reasons for completing the buyback: It's been a wild 16-year journey to this point for CEO Alex Algard. He started WhitePages as a student at Stanford in 1997. After graduating, he decided to get a real job in New York. He went into investment banking for Goldman Sachs. He'd spend 90+ hours a week on his day job, and 3 hours a week working on WhitePages.com. Eventually the income from those three hours surpassed the 90 hours. ¬†Algard quit the day job. He moved to Seattle in 1998, which was then still a startup hub on par with Silicon Valley. In 2005, WhitePages raised $45 million. Somewhere in there, Algard quit working on WhitePages and focused on another company, CarsDomain, which he'd founded in 1992. He came back to WhitePages in 2007. From 2008 to 2010, the company struggled. During growth years it had hired poorly, and didn't have the right team in place. Plus lots of its big customers in the online yellow pages space collapsed under pressure form Google. The last couple years, things got going again.¬† Now the company has 130 employees. It's using its profits to invest in building the company over the next 15 years.¬† Someday, Eglit and Algard hope it will go through a traditional startup exit ‚Äì a big sale or an IPO. Eglit expects that to happen in the next 3 to 5 years. That's not to say a sale sooner sounds terrible.¬† "If somebody wants to make us a stupid offer, we'd be happy to take it."
One of the big stories out of China today is the smog disaster in Harbin, the capital of northeastern Heilongjiang province, home to around 11 million people. According to Reuters, an index measuring PM2.5, or particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 micrometers (PM2.5), reached a reading of 1,000 in some parts of Harbin. More than 300 is considered "hazardous," and the city has been forced to shut down schools, airports and buses because of the air. One way to check out the daily life of people living in Harbin is through the Instagram tag "Harbin," which shows images and videos of life in a city shut down by smog. Here's a small selection:         While Weibo may be a more popular sharing tool in China, Instagram is gaining popularity in the country, despite the fact that its parent company, Facebook, is blocked.
Facebook/paceuniversityCollege tuition has reached record highs and grads are still struggling to get jobs and pay off mounds of student debt. So, it's more important than ever to have a ranking that asks a simple question: How much will a college help you succeed in life? Last year, MIT earned the top spot in our list of¬†America's Best Colleges for the third year in a row, with Stanford and Harvard trailing close behind. But have things changed? To create the fifth annual Business Insider list of the Best Colleges, we need your help. We have selected what we consider the 62 best colleges in America and we want you to help us rank them. Please rate at least 10 of the colleges on this list‚Äîand let us know who you're furious that we left off. Also please take this opportunity to sound off on which colleges you think are total ripoffs and which are actually worth your money.
REUTERS/ Larry DowningBarack Obama smile moments after he signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Bill next to U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science February 17, 2009. Since the beginning of the Great Recession, the longstanding canard from the political and economic left has been that the "stimulus" ‚Äî the Obama administration's attempt to mitigate 2009's economic trauma ‚Äî was too small. A new working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research takes a look at the administration's $796 billion fiscal stimulus (known as ARRA), and more specifically at the $318 billion dedicated to state and local governments. Economists Gerald Carlino and Robert Inman reach an interesting conclusion (via Dylan Matthews): Simulations using the SVAR specification suggest ARRA assistance would have been 30 percent more effective in stimulating GDP growth had the share spent on government purchases and project aid been fully allocated to private sector tax relief and to matching aid to states for lower-income support. "Aggregate federal transfers to state and local governments are less stimulative than are transfers to households and firms. It is important to evaluate the two policies separately," They write. Also: "Within intergovernmental transfers, matching (price) transfers for welfare spending are more effective for stimulating GDP growth than are unconstrained (income) transfers for project spending." The research suggests that the refrain that the stimulus was "too small" is misguided, or perhaps incomplete. If anything, the stimulus was poorly allocated.
Every fall, Business Insider releases the much-anticipated SA100 list¬†identifying the people who did the coolest things the past year in the NY tech scene. ¬† The list is feted at an invitation-only party on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. This year, we're taking it up a notch. Aspiring entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to get smart by day and party at the NYSE by night because we're holding Startup 2013,¬†NYC's preeminent entrepreneurship conference, on the same day as SA100. And for¬†the first time ever, we will be selling 50 VIP tickets. That's right: you can attend Startup all day, SA100 (and its after party) all night, with just one ticket. ¬† Startup offers a jam-packed agenda with a morning full of classes¬†from General Assembly -- you'll have the opportunity to select your own curriculum from 15+ carefully-curated classes --¬†and an afternoon of¬†insights from top entrepreneurs and VCs,¬†including: After a day of learning and networking, attendees who have purchased the VIP pass can walk on over to the NYSE trading floor and celebrate.¬† Buy your tickets now before they sell out!  If you're interested in joining the Startup/SA100 community by sponsoring, contact¬†events@businessinsider.com. Follow¬†@BI_Events¬†on Twitter for Startup updates.
Sears, once America's golden retailer, is a company in crisis.¬† The company has shuttered hundreds of stores in recent years. The embattled company has been selling some its most profitable stores to raise money.¬† Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, took poignant photos inside of New Jersey ¬†and New York Sears locations.¬† "To understand why Sears is in a 'sell stores mode' one must look no further than the stores themselves, where the truth is to be found," Sozzi writes.¬† His photos show the sad reality of what Sears is today.¬† Sears' mannequins are outdated in comparison with competitors like Macy's, Lord &amp; Taylor, and JCPenney, Sozzi says. "If you are living darn near paycheck to paycheck, does this presentation excite you about making a purchase with a couple saved up electronic dollars?" Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Sozzi points out that this display is confusing. "Huh? A random football themed carpet with no promotion around it?" he says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "What‚Äôs the deal in the back of this electronics department?" Sozzi asks. "Does Best Buy look like this? Or, how about the electronics sections at Wal-Mart, Target, Costco, and BJ‚Äôs Wholesale? Nope." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The shoe department isn't adequately stocked, with empty shelves. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "The team can‚Äôt find any way to repurpose abandoned portrait studios into something that drives traffic and sales?" Sozzi asks. "The consistently dark zones give a 'going out of business' feel to nearby departments that actually log some sales, which include appliances and baby." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Lights are out in the store. "This is not great for flattering a potential customer trying on merchandise," Sozzi writes. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "This is where the store underinvestment appears loud and ugly," Sozzi says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "Attack of the female basics? Look at the lack of organization," Sozzi says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Associates weren't on hand to help make purchases in this disorganized department, Sozzi says. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors These displays are almost totally empty. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors¬† "Toys stacked on a shelf next to an escalator by the shoe department," Sozzi writes. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Again, Sears is disorganized. "Accessories are some of the only discretionary items selling in the mall with consistency these days," Sozzi writes. "Best of luck navigating this flea market experience." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The men's department is overwhelming. "Inventory excess‚Ä¶an entire department of it!" Sozzi says. "Who is in charge of planning and allocation?" Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The beauty department also lacks innovation in comparison with competitors. "JCPenney has Sephora. Macy‚Äôs newly remodeled stores have an array of associates at the ready to assist in cosmetics, ditto Lord &amp; Taylor," Sozzi says. "Ulta stores are popping up everywhere. Sears, well, yeah." Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors "Retail is detail? Not here," Sozzi writes. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors The random clothing racks are confusing to customers and show a lack of organization. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors This mat appears to be shabby and stained. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Sozzi left the store with an empty cart. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors
">APIn his latest strategy note, Raymond James' Jeff Saut lays out a very simple bull case for the U.S. stock market and economy. On the earnings front, the bottom up operating earnings estimate for the SPX is currently $107.58, leaving the SPX‚Äôs P/E ratio at almost 16x. Next year‚Äôs estimate is $121.66. If the SPX continues to trade at that P/E multiple it renders a price target of 1946. Moreover, so far of the 190 companies that have reported earnings, 60.5% of those companies have beaten estimates and 50.9% have beaten revenue estimates. As far as economics, as stated the numbers are probably going to be ignored for a few months because of the shutdown. However, I believe GDP growth will accelerate to 3% in 2014 driven by a capital expenditure cycle because companies like GM are running their plants flat out 24/7 and the equipment is wearing out. Finally, with Janet Yellen at the helm of the Fed it should be steady as you go. That implies no tapering and plenty of liquidity. And, a number of other things are going right in this country. So the trifecta of bullish tailwinds: solid earnings growth, an accommodative Fed, and a boom in GDP caused by corporate America's need to invest.
YouTube McDonald's Q3 financial results are out and the numbers are essentially in line with expectations. Earnings climbed to $1.52 pershare, which was a penney higher than the $1.51 per share analysts were looking for. Revenue grew to $7.32 billion, which was only a hair below the $7.33 billion expected by analyhsts. Comparable store sales were up 0.7% in the U.S. and 0.2% in Europe. "For the quarter, our results reflect McDonald's ability to grow amid the broad-based challenges of the current environment by focusing on those areas of the business within our control," said CEO Don Thompson. McDonald's has a substantial global footprint. As such, it gives us some valuable anecdotal insight into global consumer behavior.
Most agree that the recent U.S. budget fiasco that shutdown the government will be a big stain in America's proud history. Analysts across Wall Street have panned Congress for manufacturing crises to advance political interests. Deutsche Bank's analysts compare the U.S. with Europe in their pitiful handling of fiscal crises. But the analysts go out of their way to note the America's leaders have been acting hypocritically. ‚ÄòDo as I say, not as I do‚Äô is how they characterize Washington. Here's an embarrassing slide from Deutsche Bank's latest House View report. See the bottom right corner. Deutsche Bank
What's going on today? Here's Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus with the ultra-quick take on what's happening today: Good Morning!† S&amp;P Futures are quiet this AM, but Nasdaq Futures adding 20bp as AAPL catches a bid into tomorrowís iPad event.††† EU Markets are under some pressure in very light volume, as Yields are wider in Italy on more Berlusconi angst.† The EU Fins are off over 1% though on accelerated ìBail Inî talks, and a potential rotation back towards US Financials takes root (Us Fins marked off small despite tough headlines this weekend).†† The Nikkei popped 1% as Trade data weakened the Yen ñ but China jumped almost 2% as their State Council calls for aggressive implementation of economic reform policies.†† Aussieís Miners enjoyed the headlines, dragging the ASX 50bp higher in decent volume.† The 10YY is slightly higher, but still below Fridayís peaks.†† There is some upside momentum in the DXY as Germanyís SAP warns on FX impact of the Ä surge of late, and risk-taking continues to press the Yen lower.†† We have most commodities under pressure, led by Oil - WTI under $100, a first in 3+ months, Discount nearing $10 to Brent ñ Gasoline at 9month lows.†† Keep a close eye on DOE Data for Crude today, specifically Cushing Inventories ñ GS thinks they increased for the 1st time in 14 weeks.† Both Silver and Copper are higher, while Gold rests close to unchanged.† This week sees a Slew of delayed data released, including Existing Home sales (Sept) today, and the Employment Report tomorrow AM ñ We also have 25% of S&amp;P Companies reporting, Key Earnings today include DFS, HAL, MCD, NFLX, TXN.
"Prise du palais des Tuileries" by Jacques Bertaux, 1793The crisis may be over, but "things could get messy again this winter," Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere wrote clients this morning. And a fractured Republican party could be the reason why. "We think there's a 40% chance that there will be a modest deal before mid-December, but we're not inclined to go higher than that ó in light of signs that the Tea Party has actually become†emboldened," said Valliere. Going into the winter (when we'll likely see another budget/debt ceiling showdown), the GOP remains bifurcated in a manner not too dissimilar from the French Revolution, Valliere writes. REIGN OF TERROR:†It's impossible to overstate the fury directed toward establishment Republicans by Tea Party activists. Five incumbent Republican Senators now face primary challenges: Thad Cochran (Miss.), Mitch McConnell (Ky.), Lindsey Graham (S.C.), Lamar Alexander (Tenn.), and Pat Roberts (Kansas).†This is looking (sort of) like the French Revolution,†when the Committee for Public Safety became more and more radical, beheading the moderates, until the revolution imploded. "Yes, the deficit is plunging, but still another confidence-sapping fiasco is possible in January," Valliere concludes.
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriChildren pose for their parents photo with a new installation of British graffiti artist Banksy's art, in New York October 20, 2013Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Quick heads up, in case you haven't noticed. Oil has really come off the highs it made over the summer, as geopolitical tensions ratcheted up the price. For the first time in a few months, WTI oil futures are below $100/barrel. From FinViz: FinViz
REUTERS/Gary CameronJ.P. Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon (front) leaves the U.S. Justice Department after meeting with Attorney General Eric Holder, in Washington, September 26, 2013.WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) -†JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co CEO Jamie Dimon has pleaded with and complained to the U.S. Justice Department but cannot convince the government to end its criminal probe of his bank because prosecutors are not yet certain of their findings, people familiar with the matter said. Dimon has negotiated a tentative $13 billion deal to settle many of the U.S. investigations into mortgage bonds that JPMorgan - and the banks it bought during the financial crisis - sold to investors. But the criminal investigation proved to be a sticking point during negotiations, the sources said, and Dimon's inability to win this point underscores the breadth of the problems his bank faces even after it resolves these mortgage suits. The criminal probe relates to whether JPMorgan misrepresented the quality of the mortgages it was packaging into bonds and selling to investors. While JPMorgan was not about to admit wrongdoing, Dimon suspected that ending the criminal probe was a long shot and the bank was not interested in holding up all the other settlements to wait for that, one of the sources said. Civil cases require a lower burden of proof than criminal cases, and can often be wrapped up quicker than parallel criminal proceedings. JPMorgan has set aside a total of $23 billion to pay for legal issues, and faces more than a dozen probes globally. Prosecutors did not want to end the criminal probe before they were sure of its findings, said several people familiar with the probe and other investigations of the banks. They said the investigation could take another several months. U.S. President Barack Obama's administration has faced extensive criticism for its failure to prosecute bankers criminally for behavior that led to the financial crisis, which by some estimates has cost the United States economy nearly as much as it earns in a year. Obama has set up a task force to investigate fraud and other activity that led to the meltdown. Former prosecutors and criminal defense lawyers not involved with the talks said that ending an early-stage criminal inquiry as part of the broader settlement could have created the appearance that JPMorgan was buying the right to flout the law. The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday that the Justice Department hopes to use its settlement with JPMorgan as a template for deals with other banks. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, one of the agencies negotiating with JPMorgan, is hoping to draw a $6 billion penalty from Bank of America, the Financial Times reported on Sunday. JPMorgan's settlement with the FHFA is expected to be closer to $4 billion. PRESSURE FROM BOARD, INVESTORS Dimon is under pressure from investors and the bank's board of directors to fix his frayed relationship with regulators and resolve the investigations. Beyond mortgage-related probes, federal prosecutors are looking into whether JPMorgan broke laws in its handling of derivatives bets known as the "London Whale trades" that cost the bank more than $6 billion in trading losses, and more than $1 billion in regulatory fines so far. Also, regulators are examining whether the bank gave jobs to children of executives at Chinese-owned companies to secure business in China, and whether it played any role in manipulating benchmark interest rates known as "Libor," to name a few of the more than a dozen probes it faces globally. While JPMorgan and the government have agreed to broad outlines of the $13 billion agreement, many parts of the settlement are not yet finalized, including a deal to resolve lawsuits from the credit union regulator, according to another person familiar with the matter. The sources all spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private. The tentative deal came after Dimon, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and some of their aides took part in a telephone call on Friday. Dimon has argued to the Justice Department that much of the conduct at issue stems from two firms the bank acquired with the encouragement of the U.S. government during the height of the crisis, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual. It is unfair to penalize the bank for alleged sins that took place before it owned the two banks, Dimon has complained. He has also said that the investigation will make JPMorgan reluctant to buy troubled institutions again. Former U.S. officials acknowledged that they encouraged JPMorgan to buy investment bank Bear Stearns and mortgage lender WaMu, but added that the bank knew it was taking a risk with the deals. Speaking on CNBC earlier this month, former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson said that even though JPMorgan was "begged" to make the Bear Stearns and the WaMu acquisitions, the government did not make any guarantees on legal liabilities. "Jamie knew that at the time," Paulson said. The government has said it is taking the nature of the WaMu and Bear Stearns acquisitions into account, a source said. It is unclear how the fines the bank is expected to pay reflect that. Some legal experts not involved with the talks say that JPMorgan does not have much of an argument when it comes to avoiding civil liability for Bear's and WaMu's mortgage abuses. "They weren't forced into it," said Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond. "A deal's a deal." (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha in Washington, and Karen Freifeld and David Henry in New York; Additional reporting by Casey Sullivan in New York; Editing by Matthew Goldstein, Dan Wilchins and Eric Walsh)
Air pollution is one of the biggest lifestyle concerns in China, and composite photos like this show why. From Reuters: A combination picture shows the 75-storey high landmark skyscraper of Shenyang in Liaoning province taken on October 11, 2013 (bottom) and October 21, 2013. Air quality in Chinese cities is of increasing concern to China's stability-obsessed leadership because it plays into popular resentment over political privilege and rising inequality in the world's second-largest economy. According to local media, most of the major cities in north-eastern China encountered heavy smog on Monday morning. The visibility in Shenyang was measured at 0800 local time (0000 GMT) on Monday to be of less than 200 metres (656 ft). Reuters For more on this situation, see here.
Well, here's a fact: The collapse of the Silk Road ‚Äî the online drug-buying bazaar whose alleged founder was arrested earlier this month ‚Äî has not destroyed Bitcoin, the digital currency that was used on the site. In fact, the death of Bitcoin has been declared many times, and yet it continues to show impressive strength. Lately it's been on a gigantic surge, with the price going from under $140 to over $190 in the course of a month. From Bitcoin Charts: Bitcoin Charts
Here's a great chart from Merrill Lynch (via @soberlook) showing which countries will have the largest working-age populations in 2037, just under 25 years from now. One interesting thing to note is that India passes China in this time. It's also interesting that the U.S. hangs onto the #3 spot, staying ahead of Indonesia. Merrill Lynch
A reader forwarded this video on to me. †Apparently itís gaining quite a bit of traction online. †The video is called ìThe Biggest Scam in the History of the World ñ Hidden Secrets of Moneyî. †Provocative, huh? †As you can likely guess, the video is about Federal Reserve conspiracy theories, the evils of fiat money and of course, how you can buy gold from the person who made the video. †The video is extremely well done, very convincing, provides lots of historical data and believable claims, but right off the bat I started to see some rather serious errors in the narratorís claims. †Here are just a few from the first few minutes of the video. In the first two minutes the narrator says: ìThe modern banking system creates currency far faster than trees can growî Iím being a real stickler for details here, but technically the banking system doesnít actually create the currency. †Banks create loans which create deposits. †The deposits can be drawn down to access paper currency, but that paper currency is actually created by the US Treasury who processes orders for it from the Fed system so they can supply it to the US banking system when bank customers need it. †You can read about the specifics of this process here. Moments later he says: ìTreasury bonds are our national debtî Right. †But the national debt is also part of the private sectorís savings. †If your grandmother owns a T-bond then the government has a liability and your grandmother has an asset. †When discussing a credit based monetary system itís best to understand both sides of the ledger. †Otherwise, youíre missing half the picture. †A credit based monetary system can be extremely unstable at times, but just looking at debt levels wonít tell you much about that. †Thereís much more to the accounting here. Seconds later, he describes deficit spending as such: ì[deficit spending] Steals prosperity out of the future so it can spend it todayî The US government has run budget deficits for the majority of its history. †Just to put this in perspective, can you imagine what someone like this narrator would have said back in 1945 when the deficit was over 25% of GDP? †Do you remember how the government ìstoleî all of our prosperity back in the 1940's? †Or did the USA undergo a massive economic boom over the 70 year period since then during which it became, by far, the most prosperous and wealthy nation mankind has EVER seen? †A little common sense should make you question the claim that government spending (which has happened for hundreds of years during an extraordinary American wealth boom) necessarily steals future prosperity. †Yes, government spending can have negative ramifications and isnít necessarily always good, but thereís a bit too much hyperbole in the claim that deficit spending ìstealsî future prosperity. †Thatís just not true in all cases. †The extremely high deficit from 1945 should make that abundantly clear. FRED As I described above, this is wrong. †Paper currency doesnít come from QE. †Paper currency is supplied to the US banking system when bank customers have demand for it. †This comes from the US Treasury and the Federal Reserve, but really has nothing to do with QE. †QE does result in more bank reserves in the system, but bank reserves and paper currency arenít precisely the same thing. †For more on QE please see my primer. Moments later he defines money in a very peculiar way so that it doesnít include anything that doesnít serve as a store of value. †According to his definition money is a store of value, medium of exchange, unit of account, portable, durable, divisible and fungible. †He then claims that gold fits this definition. †But gold doesnít fit this definition! †First off, you can hardly use gold to buy anything in the real economy. †Try going into Wal-Mart with a bar of gold. †Theyíll tell you to piss off. †Better yet, try transporting all your gold around with you where ever you go. †Gold doesnít even fit his own definition. †In fact, it fails almost completely in moneyís most important function ñ as a medium of exchange. Of course, most of our dollars donít serve as a good store of value. †In fact, holding paper currency or even bank deposits is a pretty dreadful way to try to maintain your purchasing power. †Does that mean bank deposits and paper currency are not money? †Of course not. The video then goes into a money multiplier explanation claiming that banks lend out deposits and reserves. †Anyone who actually understands banking knows this is wrong. †Heck, even Fed employees have written about this in recent years as the crisis and QE has clearly proven that the money multiplier concept is totally false. By this point you should see whatís going on here. †I didnít watch the rest of the video because it only took 5 minutes to see a whole multitude of errors. †In essence, the video is just a sales pitch for gold and an anti government agenda. †If youíre into that kind of thing then fine, but youíre being misled so be careful listening to people with such an obvious political agendaÖ. NB ñ Itís also interesting to note that the creators of this video are ultimately selling you a product. †Theyíre selling you gold and silver as seen here on their website. †And theyíre using fear to drive you into that product. †But look what they want from you. †After countless hours of video trashing fiat money theyíre asking that you pay THEM withÖUS DOLLARS. †If this whole thing doesnít set off a great big red flag for you then I donít know what to say. †Good luck?
This weekend we learned JPMorgan has reached a $13 billion settlement with the Justice Department to settle civil penalties related to allegedly faulty mortgage-backed securities deals. The New York Post is not a fan of the fine, which is believed to be the largest civil penalty ever paid. Here's their front page New York Post
Flickr/HonouAfter a strong week for stocks last week, markets have started this week by basically going nowhere. Asia was solid, with both Japan and China rising. Europe is seeing a bit of selling, with Italy down 0.35% and Germany down a bit less than that. And U.S. futures are essentially flat. So overall, world markets are basically directionless. This week will bring us the long-awaited reprieve from political news, with economic data coming back. On Tuesday we have the historic and unusual Tuesday Jobs Report, when we'll finally get the delayed numbers for September that became victim to the government shutdown.
