APPresident Barack Obama has canceled the remaining stops on his planned weeklong trip to Asia, citing the ongoing government shutdown that will enter its fourth day on Friday. On Wednesday morning, Obama canceled the latter two of his planned four stops¬†to¬†Malaysia and the Philippines. On Thursday night, he canceled the entire trip, including the first two to¬†Indonesia and Brunei. In a statement, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney blamed House Republicans for the cancellation: Due to the government shut-down, President Obama‚Äôs travel to Indonesia and Brunei has been cancelled. The President made this decision based on the difficulty in moving forward with foreign travel in the face of a shutdown, and his determination to continue pressing his case that Republicans should immediately allow a vote to reopen the government.¬† Secretary Kerry will lead delegations to both countries in place of the President. The cancellation of this trip is another consequence of the House Republicans forcing a shutdown of the government.¬†¬† This completely avoidable shutdown is setting back our ability to create jobs through promotion of U.S. exports and advance U.S. leadership and interests in the largest emerging region in the world.¬† The President looks forward to continuing his work with our allies and partners in the Asia-Pacific and to returning to the region at a later date. The White House said that Obama¬†called President Susilo Bambang¬†Yudhoyono of¬†Indonesia¬†and the Sultan of¬†Brunei¬†to personally inform them of the cancellation. Secretary of State John Kerry will visit the region in Obama's place.
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - A dramatic car chase through the streets of Washington from near the White House to the U.S. Capitol ended in gunfire on Thursday when law enforcement officers shot and killed the driver as lawmakers and aides huddled in a lockdown. The incident rattled Washington just three weeks after a government contractor opened fire at the Washington Navy Yard, about 1.5 miles from the Capitol, killing 12 people and wounding three others before he was shot to death by police. The car involved in the chase was registered to Miriam Carey, 34, of Connecticut, and law enforcement officials believe she was the driver, the Washington Post reported, citing officials. NBC News also identified the driver as Carey. Reached by phone at Washington's Metropolitan Police headquarters, a police officer confirmed that Carey was the driver, but declined to provide his name. "The suspect in the vehicle was struck by gunfire," Washington's police chief, Cathy Lanier, told reporters. Driving a black car, the woman rammed security barricades "at the very outer perimeter of the White House," U.S. Secret Service spokesman Ed Donovan said. Then the car, carrying a 1-year-old girl, raced up Pennsylvania Avenue toward the Capitol where Congress was in session. Police chased and fired at the car. It came to a halt near the Capitol building, said Capitol Police Chief Kim Dine. "My understanding is there was a 1-year-old child in the car," Dine said. "I believe one of our officers rescued the child," who was taken to a hospital. Michael McCaul, the chairman of the House of Representatives Homeland Security Committee, told CNN that officials believe the woman driving the car may have had mental health problems. "I got that from multiple sources - that they think she may have had some mental health issues," he said. "Obviously the way she responded at the gate near the White House and then turning around and hitting Secret Service." The woman was a resident of Connecticut and the girl in the car was her daughter, McCaul said. When the shooting erupted, lawmakers were trying to find a solution to a budget impasse that partially shut down the U.S. government this week. The Capitol was locked down for about an hour during the incident. Lawmakers were told to shelter in place on the floor of the House. Outside, some tourists were frightened. "I was just eating a hot dog over here and I heard about four or five gunshots, and then a swarm of police cars came in wailing their sirens," said Whit Dabney, 13, who was visiting Washington from Louisville, Kentucky, and heard the shots a couple of blocks away. Witness Travis Gilbert said several police cars chased the black sedan at high speed toward the Capitol. "They ran all the red lights. It was a very dangerous situation," Gilbert said. HIT BY CAR Two officers were hurt in Thursday's incident. One was a Secret Service officer who was struck by the suspect's car outside the White House, Donovan said. The other was a Capitol Police officer whose car struck a barricade during the mid-afternoon chase. It ranged over about a mile and a half and lasted just a few minutes, officials said. All the shooting appears to have been done by police; law enforcement sources said the suspect did not shoot a gun and there is no indication that she had one. Dine said it appeared there was no connection to terrorism. Just before the Capitol lockdown, Senator John McCain of Arizona was on the Senate floor urging that President Barack Obama and a bipartisan group of senators launch negotiations to break the deadlock over government funding and a debt limit increase. The House had just passed a bill to fund the National Guard and reservists who are not on active duty during the shutdown. The Capitol police, who were deemed "essential" staff, were at work despite the government shutdown, but they are not being paid. "What really comes home to me is that these are all people who are working without pay right now," Representative Matt Cartwright, a Democrat from Pennsylvania, said on CNN. He was outside on a Capitol balcony when he said he heard seven or eight shots "all in less than a second." Obama was briefed on the incident, a White House official said, providing no further details. Security is tight near the Capitol, but there have been previous shootings in the area. In 1998, a gunman burst through a security checkpoint at the Capitol and killed two Capitol Police officers in an exchange of fire that sent tourists and other bystanders diving for cover. The suspect, Russell Eugene Weston Jr., was not charged with a crime because of apparent mental instability. (Reporting by Tim Reid, Thomas Ferraro, Mark Hosenball, Caren Bohan, Alina Selyukh and Brendan O'Brien; Writing by Susan Cornwell; Editing by Alistair Bell and Jim Loney)
APTry it, Mr. Boehner! You might like it!One mystery of the government shutdown is why Republicans are so apoplectic about the Affordable Care Act, a piece of legislation that aims to make health insurance more affordable for millions of Americans. One theory is that the Republican leadership is scared that Obamacare actually won't be as bad as they have been saying it will be ó that, in fact, Americans (including Republican constituents) will quite like it. If Americans like Obamacare, the theory goes, this will be a big blow to the Republicans' big sales pitch over the past 30 years, which is that more government is always bad. (This despite the popularity of Medicare, Social Security, and other programs that even many Republicans support.) And this, in turn, the theory goes, will be a big blow to the Republican Party. Well, it seems at least one Republican is pleasantly surprised by the reality of Obamacare. Sy Mukherjee of ThinkProgress caught up with Butch Matthews, a 61-year-old former small business owner from Little Rock, Arkansas. Matthews, a diehard Republican, was skeptical of Obamacare. But the new law has already allowed him to buy insurance that is both much better, and much cheaper, than the astronomically expensive pre-Obamacare plan he was clinging to from Blue Cross Blue Shield. Matthews' old Blue Cross plan cost $1,069 a month and had a $10,000 deductible. The plan he just bought on the Arkansas state exchange has a $0 premium (after the government subsidy he gets because of his low income level) and only a $750 deductible. It's also a "Silver" plan, which has much better benefits than the vastly more expensive "Bronze" plan he ditched. Mukherjee asked Matthews whether he had any advice for fellow Republicans now that he has learned that Obamacare actually isn't that bad. Here's what he had to say: ìI would tell them to learn more about it before they start talking bad about it,î he noted. ìBe more informed, get more information, take your time and study and not just go by just what you hear on one side or the other. Actually check the facts on it.î ìI still am a very strong Republican, but thisÖ Iím so happy that this came along,î he continued. ìOur home is paid for, vehicleís paid for, this is our expense that we have. We have more expense on medical care than everything else put together, so this is going to be a great help for us.î So maybe Republicans can learn to love Obamacare? Maybe sooner rather than later? So we can get our government open again? SEE ALSO: Maybe Republicans Hate Obamacare Because They're Worried People Will Like It
(Reuters) - A¬†Montana¬†man who pieced together the remnants of five $100 bills eaten by his one-eyed dog last year is sporting a $500 check he says he received this week from the¬†U.S. Department of the Treasury¬†to replace the digested funds. Wayne Klinkel¬†said his dog Sundance, a golden retriever, sniffed the wad of bills out of a car cubby space while waiting for Klinkel and his wife to return from lunch, and the canine made the currency his lunch. Klinkel, a graphic designer from Helena,¬†Montana, who works for the local newspaper, the Independent Record, said he found Sundance had left nothing uneaten but one intact dollar bill and a small piece of a single $100 note. "He's been notorious for eating paper products," Klinkel said about Sundance. "I knew right away what had happened." Klinkel rescued Sundance as a puppy from a shelter 12 years ago and the dog later lost his left eye to surgery. For days after the December incident, Klinkel followed Sundance around in the snow, collecting his droppings in a plastic bag, he said. Klinkel kept the bag of doggy mess frozen in the cold outside his house, and after weeks of hesitation, he went forward with his plan for retrieving the soiled cash by thawing the droppings in a bucket of soapy water. Using an old metal mining screen and a hose, he separated the $100 bill pieces from the rest of the matter, then washed and began to assemble the tiny paper fragments. "It was sort of like putting the puzzle pieces back together," Klinkel said. He then took the taped bills to a local bank and the Federal Reserve in Helena but was turned away, he said. Klinkel was eventually directed to the U.S. Department of¬†Treasury's Mutilated Currency Division, where he mailed the digested bills with a notarized letter on April 15. "There was no guarantee I was going to get anything back," Klinkel said. The¬†Treasury Department¬†offers reimbursement for some proven cases of damaged currency, and a standard claim can take up to two years to be processed, according to the department's website. "When mutilated currency is submitted, a letter should be included stating the estimated value of the currency and an explanation of how the currency became mutilated," the website says. Klinkel said he didn't hear a word from the department until Monday, when he received a crisp $500 check in the mail from the¬†Mutilated Currency Division¬†to replace Sundance's midday snack six months prior. The Independent Record, the paper that employs Klinkel, has posted a picture on its website of Sundance with the check dangling from its mouth. An operator with the¬†U.S. Department of Treasury¬†on Thursday said department representatives were furloughed and unavailable for comment on Klinkel's reimbursement. (Editing by Alex Dobuzinskis; Editing by Sandra Maler)
JP Morgan FundsThe fourth quarter began with the U.S. government shutting down.† As Congress continues work on a budget deal to get the government back online, the U.S. inches toward the debt ceiling once again. Meanwhile, stocks are near their all-time highs as the Federal Reserve continues to pump money into the credit markets through its large-scale asset purchase plan. These are just a few of the things investors must consider as they position their investment portfolios for the future. David Kelly and the market strategy team at J.P. Morgan Asset Management have just published their Q4 presentation on the state of the markets and the economy. Through a series of charts and graphics, they offer must-see snapshots of stocks, bonds, and the economies in the U.S. and abroad. Note: Thanks to J.P. Morgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Russia is the frying pan from which the Ukraine is now trying to escape, Pinchuk and his celebrity guests agreed last month. But the fire into which Pinchuk is now committing his country is so flaming hot, itís a wonder men with impulse-control problems like Clinton and Strauss-Kahn would wish publicly to endorse it, let alone a presumed presidential candidate like Hillary Clinton trying to raise money for her race to succeed Barack Obama. For campaign reasons, the two Clintons have been dissociating themselves from Kuchmaís record for years. But they†have been taking†Pinchukís money, and he is insisting itís payback time.Pinchukís timing is awkward. For the past six months he has put himself in the London dock with a claim that Gennady Bogolyubov and Igor Kolomoisky owe him an unspecified amount of money for shares in an iron-ore mining complex called Krivorozhskiy Zhelezorudnyy Kombinat (KZhRK). The claim was filed in the High Court this past March. The alleged deal was done between 2004 and September 4, 2006. Pinchuk claims he paid the duo cash, but they kept the KZhRK shares to themselves before reselling them to another Ukrainian oligarch, Rinat Akhmetov. ìMr Pinchukî, according to his Particulars of Claim, ìduly paid the full US$143 million but the asset was not transferred to him.î That story can be read†here. Together, Bogolyubov and Kolomoisky own the PrivatBank group, one of Ukraineís largest conglomerates, and Ukrnafta, the leading oil and gas producer in the Ukraine. Separately, Bogolyubov owns Consolidated Minerals, a manganese and ferroalloy producer; Kolomoisky, aviation companies. Behind steelmaker Rinat Akhmetov, they are the three wealthiest business figures in the country. The net worth of Pinchukís steel pipe business used to rank him in their company, but no longer. Pinchuk has asked the court to adjudicate in his favour, and award him the KZhRK shares, or their money value now; the income he might have earned if he had owned the shares for the past seven years; damages; interest, and costs. The quantum is probably ten times his purported outlay. With current indebtedness of more than $1 billion, dwindling cashflow, a default warning from Fitch Ratings, and insufficient cash in the bank to pay an Italian invoice for Ä26 million ($35.4 million). Pinchukís business is desperate for the new money; especially so, since international bankers he has recently approached say they wonít lend him more. The High Court is the payday lender of last resort for Pinchuk; read his 23-page prospectus†here. Bogolyubov and Kolomoisky have now filed separate defences in the High Court. The first runs to 17 pages; it was composed by Mark Howard QC, backed by Skadden Arps; the second is 46 pages long, and was written by Laurence Rabinowitz QC with Freshfields. Howard was on the side of Mikhail Chernoy (Michael Cherney) against Oleg Deripaska in the High Court a year ago; this settled out of court. Rabinowitz was on the losing side for Boris Berezovsky in his High Court claim against Roman Abramovich. Read†Bogolyubovís†dossier; and†Kolomoiskyís. The case presentation and evidence are complicated; so much so that it has proved too hard for the Financial Timesís court reporter Jane Croft†to analyse or quote. The FTís Ukrainian correspondent, Roman Olearchyk, has other reasons for taking Pinchukís side; while the paperís columnist Mrs Moneypenny was on a junket to the Pinchuk-Clinton love-in last month, and admits she owes Pinchuk a favour. The Wall Street Journal was on board Pinchukís motor yacht in Venice in July, and hasnít come ashore for long enough yet to read the new court files. Bogolyubov and Kolomoisky say there is no evidence of anything like the agreements Pinchuk claims for the sale and purchase of KZhRK. The duo say there were meetings in various places and at various times, some of which Bogolyubov didnít attend at all. Pinchukís version of the oral record is disputed by witnesses who include a well-known rabbi. According to Kolomoisky, such documents as were negotiated between the duo and Pinchuk concerned other assets engaged in the production of manganese and ferroalloys, not iron-ore. Those documents donít mention KZhRK. The duo accuses Pinchuk and his lawyers of pulling a fast one on the court, adding an asset claim for which there is no paper record. ìThere was no such agreement [for KZhRK]î, Kolomoisky says. ìAs one would expect in relation to assets worth many hundreds of millions of dollars, the creation of the Ferroalloy Holding was the subject of a suite of detailed written agreementsÖthose agreements make no reference whatsoever to any transfer of KZhRK shares to the Claimant [Pinchuk].î According to Bogolyubov, Pinchuk ìhad no legitimate commercial bargaining position to cause either of the defendants to agree to acquire shares in KZhRK or transfer shares to him once acquired.î Pinchuk was a standover man, Kolomoisky argues, ìrepeatedly exploit[ing] his relationship with President Kuchma and his resulting influence over Ukrainian state-owned assets as a form of leverage to achieve his own financial and commercial objectives.î Pinchukís scheme for KZhRK was criminal, this weekís London court papers say. Allegedly, he arranged with Kuchma and the Ukrainian state property agency to set an artificially low tender price for the sale of the stateís shares in the asset ó $46 million compared to a market value of about $130 million ñ ìin the hope he would subsequently be able to benefit from a sale at such a low price.î Pinchuk allegedly told Akhmetov in a telephone-call to threaten Kolomoisky that unless he and Bogolyubov agreed to buy the KZhRK shares from the government on behalf of Pinchuk, and kept his interest secret, Pinchuk would arrange with Kuchma to veto the legislation implementing the privatization. The duo decided they had to string Pinchuk and Kuchma along, avoiding a deal for KZhRK ìuntil (at least) President Kuchmaís departure from office and the Claimantís [Pinchukís] loss of influence.î To sweeten Kuchma, Bogolyubov charges that Pinchuk demanded secret payments for a slush fund to finance Kuchmaís election expenses. In November 2002, Bogolyubov claims, Pinchuk proposed a scheme of monthly payments of $5 million, which would go into a ìSpecial Fundî. The money was demanded as part of a related scheme to influence Kuchmaís power over the stateís 50% shareholding in Ukrnafta. With the duo holding 40% of this enterprise at the time, Pinchuk is charged with trading Kuchmaís support for their operational takeover of Ukrnafta. The kickback was $5 million per month into Kuchmaís pocket, and for Pinchuk himself ì50% of the profits derived from the business of Ukrnafta net of these monthly payments.î Again according to Bogolyubov, between April 2003 and September 2004 ìthe Defendants caused a total of USD100 million to be paid to companies owned or controlled by the Claimant [Pinchuk] for onward payment to the Special Fund setting up Share Purchase Agreements as a mechanism pursuant to which the Defendants would transfer those sums of money to disguise the reason for the payments.î In October 2004 the court papers claim the duo discovered the $100 million hadnít been reaching Kuchmaís special fund. Bogolyubov says he believes Pinchuk ìkept the money for himselfî. Whether he shared it with his wife, or concealed it from her and her father isnít made clear. Pinchukís evidence that he put two deposits adding up to 689.4 million Ukrainian hryvnias ($138.1 million) in the duoís Privat Bank is dismissed by the duo because the cash was on quick-draw deposit ìwhich could be withdrawn at any time.î The money wasnít used as payments for KZhRK shares, they say in response to Pinchukís claim. The Brooklyn rabbi, Shmuel Kaminetsky, makes a cameo appearance in the court papers when he was witness to a telephone call on March 15, 2005, between Pinchuk and Bogolyubov. According to Pinchukís version, Bogolyubov told Pinchuk in front of Kaminetsky that the shares Pinchuk wanted in KZhRK would be sold to him if he paid $143 million. According to Bogolyubovís version, he and Kaminetsky were in Jerusalem at a museum opening, when the call came in. Pinchuk spoke to the rabbi, but Bogolyubov says he neither spoke to Pinchuk directly, nor gave the rabbi any buy-sell undertaking to relay to Pinchuk. In sum, claims Bogolyubov, despite years of negotiating terms and conditions over many of Ukraineís most valuable natural resources, terms were never agreed with Pinchuk for KZhRK, and ìthere are no implied terms arising from non-existent express termsî. What, readers who have reached the age of consent may ask, has sex got to do with all this contentious and expensive lawyering? According to Bogolyubovís brief, ìfrom 1997 the Claimant has had a relationship with Elena Franchuk (the daughter and only child of Mr Kuchma) whom he married in 2002.î Kolomoiskyís lawyers word the relationship more explicitly: Pinchuk and Mrs Franchuk, Elenaís first marriage name, ìcohabitedî for five years, but didnít tie the knot until 2002. 1997 was the year that Elenaís first marriage with Ukrainian politician Igor Franchuk ended. Pinchuk had also been married before. Eleven years later thereís no doubt Pinchuk and Kuchmaís daughter are the loving couple they pledged in their marital vows. So even if a bit of slap-and-tickle went on between 1997 and 2002, what possible bearing could that have on this case? The answer, according to Bogolyubov and Kolomoisky is that with, through, and because of his wife, Pinchuk was able to manipulate the duo into accepting schemes of illegal favour-seeking and corrupt favour dispensing. Pinchuk has now put himself, his wife and ex-President Kuchma on trial in London with more evidence on the history of Ukrainian business than has ever presented itself for cross-examination and judgement before. For information on what exactly has gone on in the second Mrs Pinchukís back yard, read†this.
peachypeachypanda via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Every Investor Should Question These 3 Portfolio Additions (Morningstar)  Investors often end up with "needlessly complex portfolios" writes Christine Benz at Morningstar. In making over a portfolio, she says "sector- and region-specific funds" should be the first to go because "layering them on top of a diversified list of holdings can add additional risk by supersizing exposures to individual regions and sectors, and often increases the portfolios' overall expenses, too." There are three portfolio additions in particular that investors should question. The first is emerging markets equity funds. "Unless your core international holdings focus strictly on developed markets ‚Ä¶it's a good bet that your portfolio already has a decent-sized dose of emerging markets." The second, is real estate funds, because "REITs are reasonably well-represented in many diversified domestic-stock funds." Lastly, investors should question individual blue-chip stocks because these tend to occupy a large chunk of most investors' mutual fund holdings so they already have exposure to these. But also because if an investor's manager is actively avoiding the stock, then the investors action could "inadvertently undermine your managers' intentions."  Here's What Gold, Rates, And The Dollar Did During The Last 8 Shutdowns (Guggenheim Partners)  Congress' inability to arrive at a short-term budget deal has led to a government shutdown.¬† Investors worry about the impact this has on their investments. Scott Minerd at Guggenheim Partners analyzed eight of the shutdowns in the past 30 years and found that "U.S. equities and the dollar tend to decline during shutdown periods, while gold and commodities tend to perform well." Guggenheim Partners UBS Team Managing Over $1 Billion In Client Assets Joins Merrill (Nasdaq) A team of advisors managing more than $1 billion in client assets has left UBS for Merrill Lynch's Private Banking &amp; Investment Group. Stephen Ruvituso, Lee Konopka, Robert Matluck, and Todd Stankiewicz has over $11 million in fees and commissions at UBS, reports Nasdaq. The Fed Creates Market Highs And Lows Whenever It Opens Its Mouth (The Armo Trader Blog/The Reformed Broker) This chart from Jerry Khachoyan at The Armo Trader blog shows that nearly ever market top and bottom has coincided with an announcement from the Fed, writes Josh Brown. Reformed Broker Firms Need To Do More To Make Younger Advisors Feel Valued (The Wall Street Journal)  Firms need to manage the expectations of young advisors, Mary Beth Storjohann of San Diego-based* Workable Wealth writes in a¬† new WSJ column. Young advisors want to know a firm is committed to their future and one way they can do this is by providing constant feedback. "Tasking them with using social media to promote the firm or making a procedure more efficient through technology can help them become more invested in the business." She also thinks firms should have more realistic expectations. A firm should allow a young adviser to bring in a few clients who have half the firm minimum so they can get used to the sales and client services process and learn the firm's messaging strategy." *The piece was corrected to reflect that Mary Beth Storjohann is based in San Diego.
Twitter's IPO filing is out. There are no really big surprises in it.† The company is on track to do over $500 million in revenue this year, though it's losing money.† It has 218 million monthly active users, of which 75% use Twitter on a mobile device.†It says that less than 5% of accounts are spam.† Its 218 million monthly active users is relatively small. Facebook has over 1 billion, for comparison. Twitter says in the filing, "We believe that there is a significant opportunity to expand our user base. Industry sources estimate that as of 2012 there were 2.4†billion Internet users and 1.2 billion smartphone users, of which only 215 million are monthly active users of Twitter." The company plans to trade under the ticker "TWTR".† It wants to raise $1 billion through its IPO.† Through six months of this year revenue is $253.6 million, up from $122.4 million a year ago.†Over the same period its net loss is $69 million, which compares to a loss of $49 million last year. It currently has $164.5 million in cash on hand, and it is cash flow negative. It burned $38 million in the last six months.† Here are all the high level financial details: SEC
Fascinating chart from Jerry¬†Khachoyan at The Armo Trader blog. Below (click to enlarge), Jerry shows how almost every market top and bottom has coincided with an action or announcement from the Federal Reserve or its FOMC ... Reformed Broker

Tesla's shares were down as much as 5.7% today to $170.60, but have since pared some losses. The stock closed down 6.2% on Wednesday after a video of a Tesla Model S vehicle on fire went viral. This raised questions about the safety of its battery. Yesterday, Tesla released a statement that the fire "fire caused by the substantial damage sustained during the collision was contained to the front of the vehicle thanks to the design and construction of the vehicle and battery pack."An AP report today says the fire "began in the vehicle's battery pack" and that this made it hard for firefighters to put out the fire. But Tesla maintains the fire wasn't "spontaneous." From AP: "In an incident report released under Washington state's public records law, firefighters wrote that they appeared to have Tuesday's fire under control, but the flames reignited. Crews found that water seemed to intensify the fire, so they began using a dry chemical extinguisher. "After dismantling the front end of the vehicle and puncturing holes in the battery pack, responders used a circular saw to cut an access hole in the front section to apply water to the battery, according to documents. Only then was the fire extinguished." Deutsche Bank analysts led by Dan Galves wrote that they expected "negative news flow and investor concern over the impact to demand of this incident will put negative pressure on the stock in the near-term," but pointed out a few reasons that investor concerns should wane. Here's a look at Tesla's five-day performance.  Google Finance
AP PhotoFlamboyant Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista made his first million from gold trading before he was 24 years old. And from there it was a life worthy of the silver screen ‚Äî he married a Playboy model, entered speedboat contests, and amassed a fortune of $34.5 billion. Batista told everyone who would listen that he would soon be the richest man in the world.  That was the spring of 2012. Since then Batista has lost 99% of his wealth. His commodities empire, EBX, is on the verge of utter collapse. Creditors are calling, and this week Batista did not pay a $47 million interest payment on his oil and gas company's (OGX) bonds. If he doesn't pay by Oct. 30, OGX will be the biggest corporate default in Latin American history. What Batista is doing is making yet another massive bet on himself. He wants bondholders to restructure his over $3 billion of debt, give him more cash, and allow him to continue developing his empire. He still believes he can make EBX great, but the market is losing patience.
Flickr/AngryJulieMondayDid you bring a brown bag to work today? If so, you‚Äôre probably doing your budget a big favor: A new¬†Visa survey¬†finds that those of us who tend to purchase our midday meal are racking up an average of $936 per year. According to the survey, the typical American buys his or her lunch nearly twice a week, and spends about $10 each time. (Only 30% of us never eat lunch out.) But that‚Äôs the¬†average‚Äîturns out, there are actually some pretty wide disparities across demographics and regions when it comes to lunch in America. According to the survey, men purchase their lunch a little more frequently than women. But when they go out, men also tally up a much higher receipt at the lunch counter: On average, they outspend women by a whopping 44% on a weekly basis. And it looks like location can affect your lunch budget as well. In the survey, those living in the South were found to head out for lunch more than any other region, while Northeasterners are most likely to brown bag it‚Äîexcept, when they¬†do¬†go out they like to splurge, spending 14% more per meal than the national average. And apparently some people like to¬†really¬†treat themselves come noontime: 1% of Americans spend more than $50 per lunch meal. That‚Äôs close to $5,000 a year! RELATED:¬†Save $1,000 Per Year On Your Coffee Habit One other disconcerting tidbit: Those who earn less than $25,000 actually spend the most‚Äî$11.70 per lunch. For comparison, those who earn over $50,000 actually spent 22%¬†less, at $9.60 per meal. But just because you want to keep your lunch budget in the green doesn‚Äôt mean you have to settle for another boring bologna sandwich or sad Tupperware leftovers: For inspiration, check out our eight¬†healthy lunchbox ideas¬†for delicious‚Äîand budget-friendly‚Äîmeals.
REUTERS/Paulo WhitakerBack in July and a few times since, Nomura's Alastair Newton flagged a few risks that would "feature significantly on markets‚Äô radar," in October. In a new report titled 'Red October arrives' he has an update on those issues. Newton also warns that recent protests in Turkey and Brazil stemming from corruption and inequality surprised markets and raised concerns about where else we could see civil unrest. While he writes that timing is hard to predict,¬† there are at least ten other potential countries, namely, Argentina, India, Russia, Venezuela, China, Indonesia, South Africa, Egypt, Malaysia, and Thailand.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidD.A. Davidson analyst Timothy Ramey, who covers Herbalife's stock, is out with a note today following Bill Ackman's repositioning on his $1 billion Herbalife short position in an effort to reduce risk.† According to an investor letter released late last night, Ackman's Pershing Square swapped more than 40% of its equity short position in Herbalife for put options. With those puts, Ackman will profit if the stock declines below his strike prices. †He will only†lose a little bit per share if the stock stays at the same level or†goes up.Bottom line, though, Ackman has just changed the payout profile for this trade.† But Ramey points out that one huge downside from Ackman's move is that he will run out of time and the puts will expire worthless for Pershing. † He also thinks that the over-the-counter (OTC) desk that sold Ackman the puts is going to be "very lucky."† From Ramey's note (emphasis ours):† Pershing Square buys out-of-the-money puts. Pershing likely bought out-of the-money (e.g., $37.50 strike price, at half HLFís current price) puts covering 10 million shares (100,000 puts if conventional 100 multiplier of listed puts) from a very lucky counterparty. We say lucky because it is highly likely that these puts will expire worthless and Pershingís counterparty will get to pocket the price of the puts at a time when the implied volatility is at historically unprecedented levels. Again, Ramey re-emphasizes this.† This new bearish position seems at odds with Pershing Squareís goals. If it truly still believes the go-to-zero thesis, and Mr. Ackman writes in his letter that he does, then it makes no sense to put a time element into this trade. He now needs to be both right on the go-to-zero thesis and right on the timing. On one thing we do agree ñ Pershing Square has significantly reduced the risk of unlimited losses, but has increased the certainty of a total loss of the original $1 billion short position as the puts expire worthless. The counterparty to his trades indeed has a winning hand. Herbalife's stock was last trading down more than 7%.†
APA simple typographical error boosted Spain's 2014 public debt forecast by 10 billion euros ($13.6 billion), the government admitted on Thursday. Four days after announcing the national debt figure to the world, the Economy Ministry issued a correction. "It is an erratum," an economy ministry spokeswoman said. It turns out that Spain's public debt in 2014 is expected to be the equivalent of 98.9 percent of total economic output, not the 99.8 percent figure that was originally published. The error was not due to a problem in mathematical computations, the spokeswoman said. Rather, the person who typed the number just mixed up the last two digits. The difference may seem minimal, but when dealing with an economy the size of Spain's, which is the fourth biggest in the euro zone, it is equivalent to about 10 billion euros. Even after trimming the excess 10 billion euros from the forecast, economists say Spain's debt is rising at a worrying speed as it struggles to emerge from a double-dip recession triggered when a property bubble imploded in 2008. Spain's public debt soared from 68.5 percent of total economic output in 2011 to 85.9 percent at the end of 2012 and 92.2 percent mid-way through this year. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, whose right-leaning government has imposed an austerity regime to fix the state's accounts, expects the public debt this year to rise to the equivalent of 94.2 percent of total economic output.
As we enter October and the final quarter of the year, I¬†thought it would be fun¬†to¬†highlight October stock market performance through some memorable¬†market snapshots. It‚Äôs almost a right of passage for active investors to ‚Äútour‚Äù the hallowed halls of October and feel its rich history of market volatility. Despite the stock market crashes of 1929 and 1987,¬†October stock market performance¬†has been historically positive. So, although we have seen great volatility and memorable market crashes (and rallies), the month has been on par with other months.¬† That said, it‚Äôs been a mad house for active investors, making or breaking many traders‚Äô years. From¬†the 1987 Stock Market Crash to the¬†1997 Asian Contagion to the¬†2002 Tech Bottom to the¬†2008 Stock Market Crash and more, it‚Äôs been a month of wild market swings. October Stock Market Performance ‚Äì In Pictures Okay, this wouldn‚Äôt be fun if we didn‚Äôt get right to the meat of¬†the more¬†memorable October stock market charts (of recent history). Enjoy! October 1987 Stock Market Crash SeeItMarket October 1990 Stock Market Bottom SeeItMarket October 1997 Asian Contagion Stock Market Crash SeeItMarket October 1998 Stock Market Rally SeeItMarket October 2000 Tech Bubble Volatility SeeItMarket October 2002 Tech Bubble bottom SeeItMarket October 2008 Stock Market Crash ‚Äì (following Lehman Brothers Sept 15 2008¬†bankruptcy filing) SeeItMarket October 2011 Stock Market Bottom and Rally SeeItMarket Thanks for reading. Trade safe. Twitter:¬†¬†@andrewnyquist¬†¬†¬† ¬†¬†@seeitmarket
ISM's monthly gauge of the American services sector came in well below expectations, and stocks have been falling while bonds have been rising since the 10 AM release. The S&amp;P 500 is now down 1.4%, trading around 1670, while 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.4%, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is three basis points lower at 2.58%. The headline index fell to 54.4 in September from August's 58.6 reading, missing economists' estimates for a smaller drop to 57.0 and indicating a significant slowdown in the pace of growth of the American services sector in September. The employment sub-index dropped to 52.7 from 57.0. In a week where the release of the monthly jobs report is postponed due to a government shutdown, the number stands out. The chart below shows the drop in the S&amp;P 500. Thinkorswim The next chart shows 10-year Treasury futures. Thinkorswim
Brett LoGiurato/Business InsiderWhat could be a more appropriate way to conclude this series of interviews than with today's former PR officer? Almost all of the 90-plus interviews featured on this blog over the past two years had to be anonymised. And there would have been at least a dozen more posts had not interviewees been gripped by anxiety at the very last moment and pulled the interview. Today's interviewee was on the other side of that equation for nearly 10 years, at a number of "tier one" global banks: How do we find out that bankers have spoken to the press without authorisation? There are external agencies that monitor the media for us. We flick through those. What happens if they're caught? There can be a disciplinary hearing and they can be fired, or disciplined. Sometimes it's more subtle. One time a senior trader took a call from a journalist, pre-crisis. When asked what it's like to work in London he passed the phone to a trainee who without thinking talked about the Ferrari, the flat, the restaurants Ö That senior banker had his promotion delayed by 12 months. There was the banker who had a habit of talking to the press without permission. He ended up on the front page of the FT. 'But the journalist said it was off the record,' he said. Yeah right. This guy never got promoted. She added that: "At least in my bank enough people have been disciplined by now for unauthorised speaking to the press that it hardly happens any more." I really recommend†the full interview†for its highly intelligent, nuanced appraisal of the kind of bankers rarely featured on this blog; the top people. In case you wondered why they never signed up for an interview with the Guardian banking blog: Very senior bankers would rather kill their mother than go to an interview without a PR person. We act as witnesses and set the rules. Before the interview we will agree on the topics. If a journalist veers away it's my job to step in: 'Nice try but he's not gonna answer that.' If these quotes make PR officers seem like sinister manipulators do read the full interview because that's not how it sounds when you see the full context. Also there is a logic to banks' attempts to control the outward flow of information. As the interviewee puts it: its reputation is a bank's core asset. Generally journalists don't like to publicise, let alone criticise each other's shortcomings. Which can make it quite refreshing to read this: Some journalists are in it just for the fun. Get taken out for a flashy meal and free wine. The good ones prefer to meet in the bank. They want to be in a space where bankers feel comfortable, so they forget they're talking to a journalist. But my favourite quote is about some journalists' understanding of the mentality in banks. Let's first set the scene. Senior bankers may be terrified of getting misquoted, the interviewee explains, but they love to see their name in the papers. Senior bankers become really nice to us just before and after they get promoted to the level where they are allowed to talk to the press. Suddenly they realise that we have the power to put them in front of journalists ñ authorisation to speak to journalists can be another status symbol. One outcome is that when journalists meet senior bankers in the context of an authorised interview in the presence of a PR officer, those journalists may get to see a side of that banker that is, shall we say, slightly one-sided? Quite a few journalists go to work for banks, that's true. Why? There's better pay, sure. But it's also because journalists have no idea what they're in for. Sometimes I would come across one who had gone over to our side and he'd have this shell-shocked look. The first six months they are like, what the fuck? They had no idea because bankers were always really, really nice to them.
REUTERS / Toru HanaiHaruhiko Kuroda"Japan matters," says SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategist Albert Edwards in his latest note to clients. Developments in Japanese economic policy are so important, according to Edwards, in fact, that they "could accelerate the trend towards lower U.S. bond yields, whether or not the Fed tapers." The Federal Reserve is considering winding down its third round of quantitative easing. When it finished the previous two rounds, Treasury yields fell. "My own view is that the end of QE3 will bring exactly the same market response as the end of QE1 &amp; 2," says Edwards. At the same time, the SocGen strategist expects a combination of a controversial consumption tax hike scheduled for April in Japan and an overheating labor market there to finally stoke inflation ó a lot more than Japanese policymakers are currently trying their best to bring about. That, he says, sets up a repeat of 1996-1997, "where yen weakness put a severe strain on other Asian countries balance of payments and contributed in large part to the 1997 Asian currency crisis." "I expect yen weakness over the next year to begin accelerating out of control as BoJ QE is stepped up, forcing widespread devaluations in the [emerging markets] world, including China," writes Edwards. "The impact of this on the West is not rocket science. There have only been two occasions when US implied inflation expectations have turned negative ñ 2008 in The Great Recession and 1998 in the wake of the Asian crisis." Edwards points to recent economic data releases that suggest labor shortages are sparking wage growth: The recently published Japanese Tankan survey of companies showed a sharp acceleration of the trend towards labour shortages. Although this may be surprising given Japanís anaemic economy over the last decade, it is another consequence of the rapidly aging population. The product market is still loose but the labour market is not. The consequence of this is pretty straightforward. We should expect to see a tight labour market resulting in an acceleration of wages. The first signs of this have just started to appear in recent data. Indeed higher nominal wage inflation has been cited by PM Abe as an essential component to exiting deflation. "So I am thinking that the hike in the consumption tax in Japan may play a role in shifting inflation expectations higher when juxtaposed with the BoJ moving to QE2, a sliding yen, rising wage inflation and rising property prices," says Edwards. "And if we get a lift-off in Japanese inflation via a wage/price spiral, the future for the worldís financial markets will look very different from what we have become used to over the last 20 years."
APEarly Thursday morning, Potomac Research Group analyst Greg Valliere predicted that if the debt-ceiling deadline grew closer, President Barack Obama would play his "trump card" in the debate. He would remind seniors that if Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling, seniors wouldn't get their Social Security checks. "GOP strategists like Karl Rove surely know that it's just a matter of time before President Obama throws a game-changer ó warning senior citizens that their Social Security checks won't be mailed because of John Boehner," Valliere wrote in a note to clients.† A few hours later, Obama did just that during a speech at†M. Luis Construction Company in Rockville, Md. He spent much of the speech warning that while the ongoing government shutdown was damaging, failure to raise the debt ceiling by an Oct. 17 deadline would be even worse. "In a government shutdown, Social Security checks still go out on time. In an economic shutdown ó if we don't raise the debt ceiling ó they don't go out on time," Obama said. "In a government shutdown, disability benefits still arrive on time. In an economic shutdown, they don't." Earlier on Thursday, the Treasury Department warned in a big report that breaching the debt ceiling could inflict economic calamity "more severe than any seen since the Great Depression."† "The United States has never defaulted on its obligations, and the U.S. dollar and Treasury securities are at the center of the international financial system," the report said.  "A default would be unprecedented and has the potential to be catastrophic: credit markets could freeze, the value of the dollar could plummet, U.S. interest rates could skyrocket, the negative spillovers could reverberate around the world, and there might be a financial crisis and recession that could echo the events of 2008 or worse." The Treasury says that the debt ceiling needs to be raised by Oct. 17 to avoid potential default on some U.S. obligations. After that date, the Treasury would have only approximately $30 billion to meet all of its commitments. On some days, expenditures can go as high as $60 billion.† Obama says that he won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling, calling it Congress' responsibility. House Republicans, meanwhile, have†looked to extract some kind of concession out of Obama in exchange for a debt-ceiling hike.
Flickr/hirotomoWant to impress your date? Know how to order oysters. Though there's no scientific evidence that oysters are actually an aphrodisiac, they are a classy appetizer for when you want to seem like a modern-day Casanova. But ordering and eating oysters is not intuitive for everyone. We spoke with Sandy Ingber, head chef of Grand Central Oyster Bar and Restaurant, whose cookbook "The Grand Central Oyster Bar &amp; Restaurant Cookbook" is out later this month (pre-order here). Here's his advice on what beginner oyster connoisseurs ought to know: Oysters have a vast range of flavor profiles depending on where they're from, also known as the "terroir." "From harbor to harbor, the oyster could taste totally different," Ingber explains. "It has to do with the food, the current, and the nutrients. Since oysters are a water filter and water flows through them all day long, they pick up hints of what's going on around them." Some of the more common flavors you may taste in an oyster are butter/cream, hints of melon or cucumber, sweet, salty or "briny," and a rusty, copper taste. Texture-wise, oysters are generally described as plump and springy. There are five known species of American oysters that are commonly separated by east coast versus west coast, or Atlantic versus Pacific. Wikimedia CommonsPacifc oysters have fluted, rough, and jagged shells. "On the west coast, oysters mostly have the same, sweet-tasting flavor profile," Ingber says. "As you get higher north into Canada and Alaska, they usually pick up a little more brine, but in general they have a sweet taste with different finishes like melon and cucumber." There are three main species of west coast oysters: 1. Pacific: Introduced from Asia in the 1900s, pacific oysters have fluted, pointed shells that are rough and jagged. These oysters are buttery and sweet, with fruit or vegetable flavors to finish. 2. Kumamoto: Introduced from Japan in 1947, these oysters are smaller and come in a little shell that looks like a small bowl. They generally taste sweet, and have a nutty flavor, too. 3. Olympia: The rarest of the west coast oysters, Olympias are native to the Pacific northwest, but were almost wiped out during the Gold Rush in San Francisco. They're tiny (about the size of a quarter), more shallow than Kumamotos, and have an intense, coppery flavor. Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderEast coast "Atlantic" oysters have tear-dropped shaped shells that are smoother. The east coast oysters are much different, and vary widely by where the oyster comes from. "Generally, we find that Long Island North oysters are mild, but from Rhode Island and Massachusetts all the way up into Canada, the oysters are much more briney," Ingber says. The east coast only has one species of oyster called the Atlantic, which makes up 85% of the oysters harvested in the U.S. There are a bunch of different types, including Bluepoints and Wellfleets. East coast oysters also generally have a smooth, tear drop-shaped shell with ridges, and taste brinier with a more savory (not sweet) finish than their west coast counterparts. Experienced oyster lovers will probably already have an idea of the types of oysters they prefer. But for those less experienced, it's okay to ask your waiter for a recommendation. Ingber says beginners should generally start with medium-sized and milder, sweeter oysters that are described as less briny. On the east coast, bluepoint oysters are an easy-to-eat, beginner-friendly choice. Most west coast oysters are good to try, too. "You don't want to assault a beginner's taste buds with a lot of brine and turn them off. As they get to enjoy mild oyster, then they can move up to different flavors," he says. And if you're really in doubt, order a platter. "We have one platter, we call it the Grand Central Oyster Platter. It's four different oysters, and it gives them a sense of variety," Ingber says. At this point, you've done your research, ordered your oyster, and it smells and looks wonderful. Now comes the part that trips up some people ‚Äî it's time to eat it. Ingber recommends eating your first oyster "naked" or without any condiments. Take your fork and make sure the oyster meat is separated from its shell, and then slurp the oyster and all its juice out. Chew it a few times (don't swallow right away) so you get the full flavor of the oyster. Then eat the other oysters however you like ‚Äî with shallot sauce, lemon, horseradish, cocktail sauce, Tabasco sauce, or mignonette sauce, just to name a few classic condiments. Ultimately, eating oysters is about enjoyment, so devour yours however you see fit and that makes you the most comfortable. As Ingber says, "People like oysters the way they like them." Flickr/jACK TWOBottoms up. Oysters should have a fresh, sea-water smell, be full of meat, and come served in its own juices (known as its "liquor"). First, smell your oyster. If it has an "off" smell, don't eat it. Also make sure that your oyster isn't served dry or with only a little bit of meat. The other big thing to look for in the summer is when an oyster has a fat belly that's leaking and turning the oyster juice cloudy. "In the summer, oysters are spawning," Ingber explains. "They have a big fat belly that's leaking cream into the oyster's liquor. It's not bad for you (it's just an oyster making babies!), but it doesn't taste particularly good either."
AP Photo/Ricardo ArduengoIn this Sept. 25, 2013 photo, Gilberto Olivo talks with a representative at a job fair in Catano, Puerto Rico. Olivo is a chemical engineer who held managerial positions in the U.S. and Puerto Rico before losing his job five years ago. "I'll do anything," he said. "I'll clean floors, I'll wash dishes, I'll be an errand boy." SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) ‚Äî Sweat gathered on the back of Gilberto Olivo's shirt as he tried to divert attention from his resume at a recent job fair in the working-class town of Catano. Once a chemical engineer who held managerial positions in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, Olivo became unemployed five years ago. Talking to a recruiter, the 64-year-old knew his former career might make him overqualified for jobs available now that could help him pay his mortgage, his daughter's college tuition and other costs. "I'll do anything," Olivo said in all seriousness. "I'll clean floors, I'll wash dishes, I'll be an errand boy." Olivo's predicament has become disturbingly common for many beleaguered lower- and middle-class residents of this U.S. territory, where energy, food and other costs were already much higher than those in the U.S. mainland. Now, the island's cost of living is hitting unsustainable levels for people such as Olivo as the government passes a flurry of new taxes and increases in water and sewer rates that are adding hundreds of dollars onto monthly budgets. Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla has said the island needs the new revenue to close a budget deficit and improve the near-junk status of its general obligation bonds while it hobbles through its seventh straight year of recession. But critics say the new measures are hurting potential economic recovery by squeezing Puerto Ricans who were already barely making ends meet. "We inherited a chaotic situation, and in 8 ¬Ω months, we've done a lot," Garcia said after meeting with Wall Street credit agencies in late September in hopes of improving the status of the island's bonds. "We've done everything we had to do." However, Gustavo Velez, a prominent local economist, said it wasn't clear yet whether the new measures would do more harm than good. Next year, the economy is expected to contract by as much as 2 percent as Puerto Rico remains burdened by $69 billion in public debt and an unemployment rate of 13.9 percent, higher than any U.S. state. "It's like a Catch-22," Velez said. "The big question is whether the economy is capable of absorbing the impact of these taxes. .... It's a question we cannot yet answer." Some critics say the island's public spending is the problem. The new business tax was enacted "to maintain a level of government spending that Puerto Rico's economy cannot sustain," said Priscilla Vazquez, spokeswoman for the Manufacturers Association of Puerto Rico, which is requesting a moratorium on the tax. Tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans have already left the island for better opportunities elsewhere, including Olivo's two sons who sought new jobs in the U.S. Olivo said he is too old to start a new life with them, noting he's still paying a $750 monthly mortgage and tuition costs with the help from his wife, a social worker. Meanwhile, Olivo's monthly water bill has more than doubled from $70 to $150, and gas prices have spiked following an increase in taxes on each barrel of crude oil from $3 to $9.25. He's adjusted by spending more time at home or walking instead of driving. If forced to use the car, Olivo buys only a few gallons (liters) at a time. He said three years have passed since he last bought any personal items for himself. "Those increases have been a disaster," he said. "I can't afford to live in Catano now on Social Security alone. ... I used to make more than $80,000 a year. To go from $80,000 to $0, imagine that." Such reactions prompted Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta to delay a portion of the oil tax increase in mid-August to give officials time to study its impact on prices, while the state water and sewage company has made concessions to help lower water bills for certain commercial and private consumers. As it stands, residential clients who use up to 35 cubic meters of water a month are paying almost double now. Some commercial clients have seen their bill go up by several thousands of dollars. "This has definitely had an impact on everyone," said Eugenio Alonso, president and CEO of Consumer Credit Counseling, noting that electricity costs are already on average double those on the mainland. "Business owners are saying, 'I can't do this anymore given the costs.' They declare bankruptcy or simply close." The new business tax is expected to generate nearly $500 million a year and applies to gross sales of companies generating $1 million or more a year. Another new tax applies to commercial bank transactions. Wendy Cordova, a 37-year-old widow with five children who relies on Social Security and her income as a hair stylist, said she's struggling to make car payments and pay the medical bills of her 13-year-old daughter, a diabetic. She already sent another daughter to live with her brother in the U.S. to finish high school. "Everything keeps going up, and people are still making the same salary," she said. "We're going from bad to worse." Nonprofit organizations across the island, meanwhile, have noted an increase in people seeking help. The concern now is that electric bills will rise next, given that the state power company depends largely on petroleum. It's another reason Olivo, the chemical engineer, wants a job. He said he had a stroke in May that he blames on financial stress. As he met with one last recruiter at the job fair, he learned they might need someone to help oversee the reorganization of a nearby factory. "Do you have immediate availability?" the recruiter asked. "Yes," Olivo answered. "Right now." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
APPresident Barack Obama directly pinned blame on House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) for the ongoing federal government shutdown that entered into its third day on Thursday.† Obama blasted Boehner for refusing to allow a so-called "clean" continuing resolution that keeps the government funded to come to the House floor for a vote. Twenty Republican representatives have come out and said†they favor a "clean" CR that would keep the government open through Nov. 15. Along with all 200 Democrats, that would theoretically be enough to pass the bill.† "There are enough Republicans and Democrats in the House of Representatives today that if the Speaker of the House John Boehner simply let the bill get on the floor for an up or down vote, every congressman could vote their conscience," Obama said at an event at a construction company Rockville, Md.† "The only thing that is keeping the government shut down is that Speaker John Boehner won't even let the bill get a yes or no vote because he doesn't want to anger the extremists in his party." He added: "Take a vote, stop this farce, end this shutdown†right now!" On Day 3 of the shutdown, there appears to be no end in sight. Congressional leaders came out of a meeting at the White House Wednesday night dug in on their long-held positions, without any progress toward any kind of deal.† Obama highlighted comments made by Republican Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.), who inadvertently explained how Republicans have moved on from Obamacare demands and don't have a clear idea of what they want. "Weíre not going to be disrespected. We have to get something out of this. And I donít know what that even is," he said. If workers acted like Republicans in Congress, Obama said, they'd get "fired."
APThe SEC's Mary Jo White has taken a hardline approach since her appointment as chairman earlier this year. White has pushed the Commission to seek admission of wrongdoing in cases, upending the SEC's longstanding policy of letting bigwigs off with a financial slap on the wrist but no real acknowledgment of guilt. Now, after a spate of high profile glitches on the stock exchange, White has brought into question whether exchanges should continue to "self-regulate," The Wall Street Journal's Andrew Ackerman, Scott Patterson, and Jacob Bunge report: The SEC chairman said the self-regulatory function of stock and options exchanges "has encountered challenges" in recent years as the trading venues have evolved into for-profit enterprises that compete more directly with brokerages. She added that "the current nature of exchange competition and the self-regulatory model should be fully evaluated in light of the evolving market structure and trading practices." The SEC should review whether the oversight of exchanges "continues to meet the needs of investors and public companies," Ms. White said. The comments reflect her first major public foray into market-structure issues since she took charge of the SEC in April. According to the Journal, so-called "dark pools" (private trading venues under less scrutiny) traded 38% of all shares. The growth of "opaque markets" has hurt the bottom line of exchanges, which make revenue off of executing buy and sell orders. "The review could result in a move to strip exchanges of some current responsibilities. It also could lead to tighter regulation for the private venues, which could benefit exchanges," the Journal reported. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal¬†¬ª
Wikimedia CommonsBelow is an interesting anecdote from a respondent in the public administration industry to the ISM's monthly survey on the state of the American services sector: "The federal government's spending is increasing greatly as agencies execute their final budgets and utilize fiscal year 2013 appropriated funds prior to their expiration on September 30th. This has caused a major increase in procurement activity for goods and services. Budgets are uncertain for fiscal year 2014, so some items requiring funding in future years are not being purchased." The anecdote highlights the problems many companies who do a lot of business with the federal government are dealing with right now as members of Congress wrangle over the 2014 budget. The ISM non-manufacturing survey's headline index†fell to 54.4 in September from August's 58.6 reading, missing economists' estimates for a smaller drop to 57.0 and indicating a significant slowdown in the pace of growth of the American services sector in September.
At least five U.S. nuclear plants have been shuttered this year, the result of runaway expenses and an inability to compete with cheap natural gas produced by the shale boom. So you may not need more reason to think nuclear is going nowhere. But here are five more charts, via a Citi team led by Jason Channell, showing that nuclear is not only on the wane in America, but also around the world. † Citi Citi Citi Citi Citi And here's team Citi's take on why all this is so. The capital cost of nuclear build has actually risen in recent decades in some†developed markets, partly due to increased safety expenditure, and due to smaller construction programmes (i.e. lower economies of scale). Moreover the ëfixed costí nature of nuclear generation in combination with its relatively high price (when back end liabilities are taken into account) also places the technology at a significant disadvantage; utilities are reluctant to enter into a very long term (20+ years of operation, and decades of aftercare provisioning) investment with almost no control over costs post commissioning, with the uncertainty and rates of change currently occurring in the energy mix. As an example, one need only look at the ongoing†debate in the UK over the next generation of nuclear build, and the reluctance of most parties to commit. A good run, but time to step aside.
ìHow do we know things?î turns out to be one of those big philosophical questions ó dating from the time of Plato &amp; Aristotle ó irritating all of us for the last few millennia. What Nate Silver addresses more than anything in ìThe Signal and The Noise: Why So Many Predictions Fail ó But Some Donítî† is how we know things ó in particular how we use and misuse information to understand and make predictions about complex phenomena such as baseball performance, political outcomes, the weather, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, chess, Texas Hold íem poker, climate change, the spread of infectious diseases, and financial markets. Iíve written before that†itís Nate Silverís world, and we just live in it.[2] ìThe Signal and The Noiseî offers a 21st†Century answer to the question of ìhow do we know things?î† Because†most of us, and most media, do not yet think this way, Silver implicitly criticizes everything I hate about the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex. Big Ideas vs. Small Ideas Silver argues effectively that we frequently go wrong in many areas when we adopt a single model or approach to a problem, when an evolving, flexible, multiple-input, probabilistic approach would serve us better. The problem of political pundits Silver repeatedly returns in ìThe Signal and the Noiseî to criticize political pundits on a TV show called ìThe McLaughlin Group,î on which commentators from the left and the right appear to make bold political predictions.† Silver ó among the most widely admired public forecasters of political outcomes ó eviscerates this type of ëprediction,í citing data that show these commentators make accurate predictions no more often than would a random coin toss. But television rewards ëbold stancesí and ëbig ideasí of the type ìThe McLaughlin Groupî traffics in, while largely ignoring more thoughtful approaches. Silver labels and criticizes the ìBig Ideaî mindset that passes for political commentary on television in favor of a more modest, probabilistic, and empirical ìSmall Ideaî mindset.† Small ideas, nuanced, uncertain, and modest, however, make for poor television ratings. But Silver does have a Big Idea himself For complex, hard-to-predict phenomena[3], Silver explains his preferred method, based on a probability theorem attributed to 18th†Century English minister Thomas Bayes. No doubt Silver thinks many more of us should become familiar with this branch of probability and statistics math.†[4] Beyond the Bayesian theory, however, Silver encourages us to adopt a probabilistic world-view.† His big idea is for us to move away from ìI have the explanation and I know whatís going to happen,î to a different way of understanding the world characterized by ìI can articulate a range of outcomes and attach meaningful probabilities to the possible outcomes.î Over time, as we refine our data-gathering and multifaceted models, we can move our small ideas forward and become ëless wrongí about the world. In the investment world the former style of traders ó the ones with big ideas and certainty ó may have a good run of success, but generally get flushed out when markets turn. †The best traders Iíve ever worked with think and speak in the latter way, considering new possibilities as markets evolve. Some parts of this remind me of Nassim Taleb The habits of mind that Silverís book encourages are not dissimilar to†Nassim Talebís empirical skepticism, although they differ greatly in style and in points of emphasis. Taleb tends to be aggressively critical of everybody elseís models, whereas Silver more generously praises other theoristsí models and critiques his own. Both Taleb and Silver share, however, a restless dissatisfaction with the inputs into our understanding†right now.† Both would say we do not know enough. We have not considered enough factors to explain whatever phenomenon we purport to explain. Our models need improvement and perpetual skepticism.† The best we can do is to think probabilistically about future events. Both encourage a learned humility about what we can know or patterns we think we observe in the world. How does this relate to investing? Iíd estimate only about ten percent of Silverís book explicitly addresses investing.† As I mentioned,†ìThe Signal And The Noiseî is really a ìTheory of Knowledgeî book rather than in investing book. But because Silver thinks like the best financial traders, uses probabilistic math effectively, and writes more clearly than almost anyone, his ideas are worth applying to investing. 1. Attribution of success Among people who invest their own or other peopleís money, 99.5%[5]†of us attribute successful outcomes to personal investing acumen, while attributing unsuccessful outcomes to circumstances beyond our control. The noise surrounding our own success ó misinterpreting a generally rising market as stock-picking skill for example ó leads us to overestimate our ability to influence investment returns. As a result, too many of us engage in security selection, or too many of us pay others to achieve superior investment results,†despite the evidence that weíre overpaying. 2. Responsibility for failure Conversely, our abdication of personal responsibility for losses ó it must have been ëthe bad marketsí after all! ó leads us to underestimate our own errors of judgment. In both cases ó success or failure ó weíre prone to adopt an uncritical approach to the right level of responsibility for outcomes. 3.†Efficient market hypothesis as an illustration of the Bayesian approach Although Silver gives numerous examples of his Bayesian probabilistic approach to problems with numbers, one of his best examples is purely textual, on the efficient market hypothesis.† He lists seven increasingly accurate, yet also qualified and probabilistic statements, on what we know about efficient markets. The series of increasingly accurate, yet ëless bold,í statements are not only a great illustration of his big idea but also the right lesson for us on investing, so I reproduce it in full here: a)†††† No investor can beat the stock market.[6] b)†††† No investor can beat the stock market over the long run.[7] c)††††† No investor can beat the stock market over the long run relative to his level of risk.[8] d)†††† No investor can beat the stock market over the long run relative to his level of risk and accounting for transaction costs.[9] e)†††† No investor can beat the stock market over the long run relative to his level of risk and accounting for his transaction costs, unless he has inside information[10] f)†††††† Few investors can beat the stock market over the long run relative to their level of risk and accounting for their transaction costs, unless they have inside information[11] g)†††† It is hard to tell how many investors beat the stock market over the long run, because the data is very noisy, but we know that most cannot relative to their level of risk, since trading produces no net excess return but entails transaction costs, so unless you have inside information, you are probably better off investing in an index fund.[12] The first approximation ó the unqualified statement that no investor can beat the stock market ó seems to be extremely powerful.† By the time we get to the last one, which is full of expressions of uncertainty, we have nothing that would fit on a bumper sticker.† But it is also a more complete description of the objective world. If you want a 21st†Century theory of knowledge, teaching you ëhow to thinkí about the major world problems of global warming, financial crashes, avian flu, and terrorism, as well as ephemera like poker, chess, sports betting and baseball, start with ìThe Signal and The Noise: Why So Many Prediction Fail ó But Some Donítî† by Nate Silver. [1]†Readers who study at an International Baccalaureate (IB) high school will be familiar with the ìTheory of Knowledgeî course.† Itís a really great idea for a course, but I have yet to meet anyone who thought the experience of the course lived up to the idea that inspired it. [2]†Also,†he might be a witch. [3]†Each chapter separately tackles baseball, political forecasting, weather, earthquakes, economic growth, infectious disease growth, sports betting, chess, poker, climate change, and terrorism ó each in their own way posing a challenge of seeing into the future. [4]†The mathematics of Bayesian probability is relatively straightforward so I think Iíll try in a subsequent post to do it justice. [5]†I rounded down to be conservative, because thatís just good science. [6]†The original, powerful, efficient market thesis [7]†Because, clearly, some people sometimes do, for some period of time [8]†You can take some crazy stock-market risks and WAY outperform boring stodgy stocks much of the time.† We have to match up comparable investment risk levels. [9]†A theoretical ëmarket-beatingí high volume trading strategy often looks less market-beating when you take into account the frictions of trading. [10]†Inside information sure is helpful, when trying to beat the market [11]†Maybe some can do it, like Warren Buffett, but itís super rare. Probably you canít do it. [12]†So carefully hedged!† So qualified and full of doubts!† So true!
Congress' inability to arrive at a short-term budget deal has led to a government shutdown.† Investors worry about the impact this has on their investments. There have been 17 U.S. federal government shutdowns since 1976, and Scott† Minerd at Guggenheim Partners analyzed eight of the shutdowns in the past 30 years. From Minerd: "Excluding drastic moves in commodity prices and bond yields in the late 1970s, analysis of eight occasions during the past 30 years reveals that U.S. equities and the dollar tend to decline during shutdown periods, while gold and commodities tend to perform well. Shutdown periods do not appear to have a significant effect on 10-year Treasury yields. Historically, when a shutdown ends, market performance reverses quickly, and Treasury yields fall by an average of 22 basis points over the following 10 days." Guggenheim Partners
Two days ago, former Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista crossed a line. He started to default on a $45 million interest payments on his oil and gas company, OGX's, bonds. The default will be official on October 30th, says Bloomberg. That leaves bondholders, like PIMCO, the largest bond fund in the world helmed by legendary investor Bill Gross, taking a massive hit. And what's worse is that there could be more to come, according to the Wall Street Journal: OGX has a little more than $3.6 billion in bonds outstanding, including $1.06 billion of bonds maturing in 2022 and $2.6 billion of bonds due in 2018. Tuesday's payment would have been on the 2022 bonds. Standard &amp; Poor's said it expects OGX to fail to make its next payment on the 2018 bond as well. If Batista defaults, it would be the larges corporate default in the history of a Latin American company. Fitting for a man whose fall from grace has become larger than life. In the spring of 2012 he was the 7th richest man in the world (worth $35 billion) with a six company commodities empire in one of the fastest growing countries in the world. Now he's lost 99% of his wealth and his empire is falling apart. Brazil, almost shadowing Batista, is facing serious questions about its economic malaise as well. No part of this story is as dire or reflective of the broken promise of Batista (and in a sense, Brazil) as OGX's collapse. Its problems are not hard to understand. The company forecasted product that it could not deliver. The fields Batista gave names like 'Hammer Head' did not produce the riches he expected. Batista's hope is to restructure his empire, get more cash from investors, and go on developing his oil fields ‚Äî that's why he's withholding cash. OGX's investors, led by PIMCO, have lawyered up, and hired Rothschild to advise on the deal that's coming. According to Bloomberg, Batista will them ask for $250 million in addition to the restructuring $3.6 billion worth of OGX debt. It's not completely unreasonable for Batista to think this is possible. Last month he managed to restructure the $2 billion loan he got from Mubadala Development Corp., Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund. The terms of the deal are unknown. Moreover, given Brazil's track record for settling defaults, it may be in the best interest of bondholders to restructure. According to the World Bank, Brazil ranks 143rd out of 185 economies when it comes to insolvencies. So Eike could hold on, for a little while.
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannThe Treasury Department released a new report Thursday morning warning of the catastrophic potential consequences of breaching the debt ceiling, cautioning that it could lead to economic calamity "more severe than any seen since the Great Depression." The report designed to put pressure on Congress to raise the nation's borrowing limit ahead of an Oct. 17 deadline. It detailed how even brinkmanship around the debt ceiling could be damaging to markets, consumer and business confidence, and interest rates. Here's how the report starts: The United States has never defaulted on its obligations, and the U. S. dollar and Treasury securities are at the center of the international financial system. A default would be unprecedented and has the potential to be catastrophic: credit markets could freeze, the value of the dollar could plummet, U.S. interest rates could skyrocket, the negative spillovers could reverberate around the world, and there might be a financial crisis and recession that could echo the events of 2008 or worse. The report also noted that the ongoing government shutdown ‚Äî currently in its third day ‚Äî could make the economy even "more susceptible" to a debt-ceiling breach. The debt ceiling needs to be raised by Oct. 17 to avoid potential default on some U.S. obligations. After that date, the Treasury would have only approximately $30 billion to meet all of its commitments. On some days, expenditures can go as high as $60 billion.¬† President Barack Obama says that he won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling, calling it Congress' responsibility. House Republicans, meanwhile, have insisted on extracting some kind of concession out of Obama in exchange for a debt-ceiling hike. "Postponing a debt ceiling increase to the very last minute is exactly what our economy does not need ‚Äî a self-inflicted wound harming families and businesses," Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in a statement along with the report. "Our nation has worked hard to recover from the 2008 financial crisis, and Congress must act now to lift the debt ceiling before that recovery is put in jeopardy." Here's the full report: Potential Macroeconomic Impact of Debt Ceiling Brinkmanship 
The gorgeous Bugatti Veyron is the fastest and most powerful production car on the planet. And it's an absolute money pit. According to a recent report from Wall Street research firm Bernstein Research, Bugatti (and its parent company Volkswagen) loses a whopping $6.24 million for every Veyron it sells. Take that number with a big grain of salt. The authors of the report warn, "Don't take these numbers too seriously," explaining that their estimates "are obviously very, very approximate." But, they say, "we've tried to be reasonably systematic about it." A spokesperson for Bugatti said the company does not supply financial data, but added, " The quoted figures of Bernstein Research are not plausible." The report calls the Veyron "the most ambitious and complex vehicle ever put on sale," and "a tour de force of engineering." Last month, BBC Top Gear magazine editors and readers named it the greatest car of the last 20 years. It's easy to argue it's the most impressive car ever made. So how could a great car with a price tag around $1.5 million lose so much money? The analysts put the blame on enormous R&amp;D costs (about $1.62 billion), and very low volume (Bugatti has sold about 40 Veyrons annually since 2009).
ISMLATEST:¬†ISM's monthly report on the U.S. non-manufacturing sector is out. The headline index fell to 54.4 in September from August's 58.6 reading. Economists predicted a smaller drop to 57.0. The figure indicates that the pace of growth in the American services sector slowed down significantly over the past month. The business activity sub-index fell to 55.1 from 62.2, while the new orders sub-index fell to 59.6 from 60.5. The employment sub-index dropped to 52.7 from 57.0. One bright spot: the new export orders sub-index surged to 57.5 in September from August's 50.5 reading. Below are what respondents to the survey are saying: The headline index from ISM's report on the manufacturing side of the economy, released Tuesday, unexpectedly rose to 56.2 from August's 55.7 reading. Click here for the full release ¬ª
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueA tourist gazes up towards the dome of the U.S. Capitol in Washington.Someone ‚Äî perhaps a furloughed federal employee ‚Äî had enough of the government shutdown and put the U.S. Capitol up for rent on Craigslist. It looks like Craiglist took the ad down, but ThinkProgress'¬†Zach Beauchamp found it via the WayBack Machine. "$1000 / 8br - 775000ft¬≤ - LARGE HOUSE! LOTS OF ROOM! RECENTLY OPEN! (Capitol Hill)," reads the ad. Here's the text from the "renter," who takes umbrage with House Republicans: So my roommates all left because of a job thing and I need to make rent. I really think this place is great and I've been living here for a while (incumbency FTW!). I don't want to leave but the utilities are a real bitch to afford on your own. Some facts about the digs: It's about 775,000 square feet. Yeah, it's big, I know. But don't let the size alone fool you! It's cozy too--lots of individual rooms!Location, location, location. It's close to everything you could possibly want. The Botanical Gardens (they're temporarily closed, but don't let that stop you); the metro, and plenty of bars. The bars are important, because what else are we gonna do?It's historic too! It was built in like 1800 something. Don't ask me the specifics, there's a plaque somewhere. Let's just say it's pretty sweet. There are plenty of cool things inside, like a giant statue of King Kamehameha I. It makes for weird midnight runs to the bathroom, but whatever. Wanna know more just ask!About you: Must be LGBT friendly. Must not be a Republican. Don't be racist. Don't hate women. Must think poor Americans are people.Oh, and don't be an Eagles fan, because, gross. Click here to see the ad ¬ª
APRep. Marlin StutzmanDemocratic offices started passing around a quote last night from conservative¬†Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.). Stutzman explained to The Washington Examiner's David Drucker how the new GOP position on the government shutdown isn't really even about Obamacare anymore. It's about respect: ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre not going to be disrespected. We have to get something out of this. And I don‚Äôt know what that even is.‚Äù Conservatives don't really seem to know what they want anymore in these budget battles, which have dragged the ongoing government shutdown and debt ceiling together. Remember, it started because Republicans like Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) were dead set on first defunding ‚Äî and then delaying ‚Äî the Affordable Care Act. Their insistence on defunding Obamacare was strong, but Republicans would openly admit that they didn't have a clear strategy, and that led to bickering within the party. One GOP aide complained that Cruz and other "defunders"¬†don't have a plan beyond expecting Obama to sign a rollback of his signature legislative achievement in a grand, Rose Garden ceremony.¬† But with the shutdown in its third day, Republicans are pushing piecemeal bills that fund popular parts of government affected by the shutdown. Here's another quote from Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), who spearheaded the "defund" effort in the House by getting 80 House conservatives to sign onto a letter urging House leadership to defund Obamacare: "This fight now has become about veterans, and about National Guard folks that perhaps‚Äîreservists that are not getting paid. That‚Äôs where the fight is today."
Bruno Vincent/GettyThe shutdown battle has become, essentially, a high-stakes blame game. Republicans tried to raise those stakes yesterday by offering a piecemeal plan to reopen popular parts of the federal government, in the hopes that it would be politically costly for the Democrats to oppose things like aid to veterans. The bill failed to move forward. But in a note to clients, Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere says that President Obama still has one "trump card" of his own left to play, Social Security: THE HEAVY ARTILLERY: †We have thought for weeks that Obama would play the Social Security trump card if there was no deal on the debt ceiling by mid-October.†This is one of several reasons why we think a default is unlikely, and it's one of several reasons why Boehner will capitulate; the only questions are when and under what terms.†We think he may get a few crumbs, but no major concessions. It looks increasingly likely that the debate over the government shutdown will roll into a debate over the debt ceiling. "GOP strategists like Karl Rove surely know that it's just a matter of time before President Obama throws a game-changer ó warning senior citizens that their Social Security checks won't be mailed because of John Boehner," Valliere notes. Seniors tend to care about Social Security. Moreover, they tend to let Congress know when they're unhappy. And Congress listens, because seniors tend to vote. Valliere believes this will be the turning point in the debate. As far as this week, "There are signs of dissent within the House GOP as moderates step up their campaign for a clean bill that reopens the government," Valliere writes. "This evolving shift in the House will set in motion the eventual capitulation by John Boehner, which could come by late next week."
REUTERSDead fish in Rio.OSLO (Reuters) - The world's oceans are under greater threat than previously believed from a "deadly trio" of global warming, declining oxygen levels and acidification, an international study said on Thursday. The oceans have continued to warm, pushing many commercial fish stocks towards the poles and raising the risk of extinction for some marine species, despite a slower pace of temperature rises in the atmosphere this century, it said. "Risks to the ocean and the ecosystems it supports have been significantly underestimated," according to the International Programme on the State of the Ocean (IPSO), a non-governmental group of leading scientists. "The scale and rate of the present day carbon perturbation, and resulting ocean acidification, is unprecedented in Earth's known history," according to the report, made with the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The oceans are warming because of heat from a build-up of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Fertilizers and sewage that wash into the oceans can cause blooms of algae that reduce oxygen levels in the waters. And carbon dioxide in the air can form a weak acid when it reacts with sea water. "The ëdeadly trio' of ... acidification, warming and deoxygenation is seriously affecting how productive and efficient the ocean is," the study said. Alex Rogers of Oxford University, scientific director of IPSO, told Reuters scientists were finding that threats to the oceans, from the impacts of carbon to over-fishing, were compounding one another. "We are seeing impacts throughout the world," he said. EXTINCTIONS Current conditions in the oceans were similar to those 55 million years ago, known as the Paleocene-Eocene thermal maximum, that led to wide extinctions. And the current pace of change was much faster and meant greater stresses, Rogers said. Acidification, for instance, threatens marine organisms that use calcium carbonate to build their skeletons - such as reef-forming corals, crabs, oysters and some plankton vital to marine food webs. Corals might cease to grow if temperatures rose by 2 degrees Celsius (3.6F) and start to dissolve at 3 degrees (5.4F), the study said. Scientists said the findings added urgency to a plan by almost 200 governments to work out a deal by the end of 2015 to limit a rise in average world temperatures to less than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6F) above pre-industrial times. Temperatures have already risen by about 0.8 degree Celsius (1.4F). The report also urged tougher management of fish stocks including a ban on destructive bottom trawlers and granting more power to local communities in developing nations to set quotas. Last week, a report by the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) raised the probability that mankind was the culprit for most global warming to 95 percent, from 90 in a report in 2007. The Global Ocean Commission, a group of politicians working to advise governments, urged stronger action. "If the IPCC report was a wake-up call on climate change, IPSO is a deafening alarm bell on humanity's wider impacts on the global ocean," said Trevor Manuel, co-chair of the Commission and minister in the South African Presidency. (Reporting By Alister Doyle, editing by Elizabeth Piper)
Wikimedia CommonsThe Frances Perkins Building, U.S. Department of Labor HeadquartersThe Department of Labor just published its latest weekly tally of initial unemployment insurance claims. Claims ticked up to just 308,000 from 307,000 a week ago. This was much lower than the 315,000 economists were looking for. The four-week moving average¬† fell to 305,000, which is the lowest level since May 2007. "While the decline in jobless filings is certainly an improvement, we find it worth highlighting that the data only sheds light on the layoff side of the labor equation, doing little to provide much insight about actual hiring intentions," noted TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg. "Other surveys such as the recently much-improved NFIB hiring plans index show businesses intending to hire more employees, suggesting that the combination of lower claims and improved hiring intentions could lead any new job creation to more easily translate into labor market slack absorption." In the near-term, the initial claims tally is not expected to stay this low for very long as furloughed government workers file for claims thanks to the ongoing shutdown.
Citizen BrickSINGAPORE (Reuters) - The boss of Lego Group carries two business cards - one the usual kind and the other a Lego mini-figure in his likeness, complete with beard and glasses, with contact details on the back. That kind of playful thinking has helped the Danish company become the world's second-biggest toy maker as it clicks with fast-growing Asia and builds on its popular plastic bricks with video games and theme parks. "We are seeing a society where the wealthier it becomes, the more room there is for what I call the business of play," Chief Executive J¯rgen Vig Knudstorp told Reuters in Singapore. "In that I will include the role of play in education, the role of play in theme parks and family entertainment, the role of play in adult age." Video games are big business and Lego Group has "a major role through licensing arrangements" but the digital realm is a complement, not a replacement, for physical play, he said. "You can say that the fundamental patterns of play are unchanged through generations but the technology and materials are changing," said Knudstorp, who was a management consultant at McKinsey and Co before he joined Lego in 2001 and was named chief executive in 2004. Lego has a partnership with video game developer TT Games that has resulted in titles such as Lego Star Wars and Lego Batman. Another game, Life of George, combines building physical bricks with apps that can be downloaded on an iPhone. Lego, whose name is derived from the Danish words "leg godt" meaning "play well", started 81 years ago in the workshop of carpenter Ole Kirk Kristiansen and is now owned by the founder's grandson and his children. Rides, rollercoasters and replicas of famous landmarks are also part of the strategy to target families. Kirkbi A/S, the Kristiansen family's investment company, owns about 36 percent of British-based Merlin Entertainments Group, which runs six Legoland theme parks around the world. Last year, it opened its first Asian theme park in southern Malaysia, a short drive from Singapore. An onsite hotel is nearing completion and is due to open next year. Lego is banking on people like Vanessa Lee, a Singaporean mother of four children aged 8 to 13 who enjoy playing with sets such as Ninjago and Bionicle. "It's quite expensive but I don't mind buying it for them," she said. "It takes quite some time to build the sets, especially the big ones, so it helps train their patience." Driven by China, South Korea and Japan, Lego's revenues were 10.4 billion Danish crowns ($1.9 billion) in the first half of this year - a 13 percent jump from the same period of 2012. Lego, which has overtaken Hasbro Inc and is now behind only Barbie maker Mattel Inc in terms of sales, also boosted its share of the global toy market to about 8.8 percent from 8.6 percent at the end of 2012. The company plans to build and operate its own factory in the Chinese city of Jiaxing, near Shanghai, that will supply up to 80 percent of the Lego products sold in Asia by the time it is fully operational in 2017. "We don't have plans to open other factories in Asia because this factory will be able to handle our volume for the many next years of expansion in the Asia region," Knudstorp said. ($1=5.4887 Danish crowns) (Editing by John O'Callaghan and Robert Birsel)
Steve Feinberg, CerberusShares in BlackBerry have risen after a report that private equity firm Cerberus was considering a bid. Cerberus specialises in distressed companies and is understood to have asked to look at the smartphone maker's accounts in order to gather the information needed to make an offer. The firm, whose interest was first reported by the Wall Street Journal, declined to comment. BlackBerry publicly put itself up for sale this summer after a failed turnaround bid by its chief executive, Thorsten Heins, but has so far attracted only one bidder. A preliminary agreement to sell the company for $4.7bn (¬£2.9bn) to former board member Prem Watsa was signed last week. Watsa's investment fund, Fairfax Financial, has until 4 November to raise the required capital. BlackBerry's shares traded up on news of interest from Cerberus, closing up 4c at $7.96, but their value is still well below the $9 a share being offered by Fairfax. A spokesman for the company said: "We do not intend to disclose further developments with respect to the process until we approve a specific transaction or otherwise conclude the review of strategic alternatives." Heins launched a new generation of BlackBerry phones in January, but the innovation left consumers cold. While many BlackBerry loyalists still prefer its physical keyboard to touchscreen machines, developers have not embraced the new BB10 devices, meaning many popular games, social and media applications are not available on the phones. In 2011, BlackBerry still accounted for 14% of all smartphone sales worldwide, but according to industry analyst IDC its share had fallen to 3% by the second quarter of this year. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  
REUTERS/Jim YoungHenry PaulsonFormer Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson was on CNBC this morning talking about the recent financial crisis among other things. Paulson, once the CEO of Goldman Sachs, was asked about JP Morgan and CEO Jamie Dimon. And he only had praise for Dimon, pointing specifically to his role in JP Morgan's decision to acquire investment bank Bear Stearns as it was on the brink of failure. "It took someone with a great deal of courage and confidence and someone with the support of his board," said Paulson. Over a matter of days, Bear Stearns's stock price got destroyed as investors and counterparties became increasingly aware of the bank's exposure to the crumbling housing market. Paulson noted that on one Thursday, the major Wall Street players were informed that Bear Stearns would effectively fail the next day. With Paulson acting as a broker, Dimon led the acquisition and rescue of Bear Stearns in a matter of days. "No one wants to make an acquisition under those circumstances that quickly," said Paulson. Had Bear Stearns failed "my belief is it would've been a real disaster," he added. "I can't even imagine."
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren Buffett, the "Oracle of Omaha", was on CNBC's "Squawk Box" speaking with Andrew Ross Sorkin.† Former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson was also on CNBC. During this segment, they talked about the government shutdown, the debt ceiling and the five-year anniversary of the financial crisis.† Today is the anniversary of TARPóTroubled Asset Relief Program. Sorkin asked him if he thinks years from now if people will appreciate TARP.† "I think there will be. At the time...Hank was in a very tough position. If he told how bad things were, it would have made it worse. Some people didn't appreciate the need...."† Sorkin asked Buffett about whether or not banks are "Too Big To Fail." "They're not that big on a relative basis around the world," Buffett says.† As for "Too Big To Manage," Buffett says things will go wrong and big institutions and small institutions. He says the "London Whale" at JPMorgan isn't a big problem for the bank.† Sorkin then brought up what's been going on in Washington, D.C. with the shutdown and the debt ceiling. "We will go right up to the point of extreme idiocy, but we won't cross it," Buffett said.† "These guy smay threaten to take their mother hostage, but they won't hurt their mother," Paulson added. He also talked about his love for hit TV series "Breaking Bad."† "Vince Gilligan is a genius," he says.†
Are ethical dilemmas ever black-and-white? RedBalloon founder Naomi Simson answers that with an all-too-vivid question over at LinkedIn: ‚ÄúHow may drops of urine does it take to spoil the soup?‚Äù Here are 11 questions that Simson says will help test your integrity: How many times did you make the ethical choice over personal gain? Now read: Networking Gives People An ‚ÄòIllegitimate Advantage Over Others In The Job Market‚Äô: Ethicist Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter Read more posts on Business Insider Australia ¬ª
From the letter [via the NYPost]: "In order to mitigate the risk of further mark-to-market losses on¬†Herbalife, in recent weeks we have restructured the position by¬†reducing our short equity position by more than 40% and replacing it¬†with long-term derivatives, principally over the counter put options.¬†The restructuring of the position preserves our opportunity for¬†profit--if the Company fails within a reasonable time frame we will¬†make a similar profit as if we had maintained the entire initial short¬†position-while mitigating the risk for further substantial¬†mark-to-market losses-because our exposure on the put options is¬†limited to the total premium paid. In restructuring the position, we¬†have also reduced the amount of capital consumed by the investment¬†from 16% to 12% of our funds." So essentially what he did here was recognize losses and cover $400¬†million worth of Herbalife stock and then buy puts. What he has also done by buying puts, though, is he has freed up¬†capital and limited the money he would lose from the stock going up further. ¬†He¬†will profit if the stock declines below his strike prices. ¬†He will only¬†lose a little bit per share if the stock stays at the same level or¬†goes up. So far, Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management has lost an¬†estimated $500 million on his short position, the Post estimates. Back in December, Ackman publicly declared at a special Sohn¬†Conference event that he was shorting 20 million shares, or $1¬†billion, worth of Herbalife stock with a price target of $0. Ackman said he believes the California-based multi-level nutritional¬†products seller is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income¬†people, especially from the Hispanic population. ¬†He believes that¬†regulators, particularly the Federal Trade Commission, will be¬†persuaded to investigate and shut the company down. Since confirming his short position, Herbalife's stock has skyrocketed more than 71%. He's still standing by that thesis in his latest letter, though. "Since our presentation on Herbalife at the end of last year, we have¬†not learned any facts that our inconsistent with our belief that the¬†Company is a pyramid scheme that engages in unlawful and deceptive¬†marketing practices," Ackman wrote in the letter, which was posted by¬†the NYPost.A number of hedge fund managers have disagreed with Ackman. ¬†A few of¬†them snapped up long positions after he gave his massive 342-slide¬†presentation.His long-time rival billionaire investor Carl Icahn holds the largest¬†long position in the company. ¬†Icahn has said that he believes Ackman¬†will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."Icahn weighed in on Ackman's latest move last night.¬† Icahn on Ackman $HLF cover and $500m profit: "happy I made the profit. I think Ackman's purchase is judicious one bec co. still undervalued"
Via Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin: "Large-cap core mutual funds have slightly outperformed the S&amp;P 500 year-to-date, returning 20.4% vs. the market at 19.8%. Hedge funds have continued to lag returning only 3.5%; however long/short equity funds have returned 11.8%." Kostin says those mutual funds are overweight names like Microsoft, Google, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Wells Fargo, and Procter &amp; Gamble; whereas they are underweight names like Apple, Berkshire Hathaway B shares, Pfizer, Exxon Mobil, and IBM. Compustat, IDC, MSCI, Dow Jones - Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research. Hedge fund data as of September 23, 2013
YouTube Yesterday, Tesla shares fell 6.2% ó in part because of an analyst's downgrade, but also perhaps in part because of a fiery car crash that raised concerns over the safety of the electric vehicle's lithium-ion battery. In a note to clients (titled "Had to happen at some point; no change to the thesis"), Deutsche Bank analysts led by Dan Galves argue that this was inevitable. "We expect that negative news flow and investor concern over the impact to demand of this incident will put negative pressure on the stock in the near-term," write the Deutsche Bank analysts. "And these are meaningful concerns, as this is a new technology and one in which sensitivity to safety risk is very high." However, the Deutsche Bank team also offers a few reasons why damage to investor perceptions of Tesla vehicles' safety should be mitigated: "This incident does not change our positive thesis on the company or the stock," concludes Galves. "Given significant Roadster and Model S experience (6 years, tens of millions of miles driven) without a fire, we have confidence that this is an isolated incident that could happen to any vehicle." Deutsche Bank has a buy rating on the stock and a price target of $200.
It's the Golden Week holiday in China. This is the time of year when hundreds of millions of urban Chinese residents take some time off and travel to their rural home. China's railways already had a record 10.33 million passengers on October 1, the first day of the Golden Week holiday. This was up 13% on the year.† The Ministry of Transport expects 610 million more travelers to use the road and waterways during the holidays reports Xinhua. The week long holiday always leads to some of the most spectacular traffic jams we have ever seen. We put together some early images. Here's an image from photojournalist Sean Gallagher: "Tired of waiting, drivers and passengers go for strolls along the highway. Today is the first day of China's national holiday. Most people take the opportunity to escape the major cities and return to their hometowns for a few days. In China, that means that millions are on the move. I'll be documenting my experiences over the coming days as I embark on a 1000 km road trip to Shandong Province in the north-east of the country. 1st Oct, 2013."  Mark Stone of Sky News tweeted this picture of an early morning traffic jam in China's Shandong province: Early morning traffic jam somewhere in China's Shandong province. This will be a long journey. pic.twitter.com/fST8jLS3he Throngs of people visit tourist spots on National Day which kicks off the Golden Week holiday. An AP photo shows paramilitary policemen pushing crowds of tourists to the entrance to an underpass to cross the street between Tiananmen Square and Tiananmen Gate: AP Photo/Alexander F. Yuan Here are some images from previous years, of traffic jams and the stuff people to do to pass the time when they're stuck in them: Tea Leaf Nation News.163.com Weibo
REUTERS/Tony GentileItalian center-right leader Silvio Berlusconi (L) talks with senators at the Senate after Italy's Prime Minister Enrico Letta's asking for a possible call for a confidence vote immediately in Rome, October 2, 2013. Letta said on Wednesday that the government's survival must be separated from the legal troubles of centre-right leader Silvio Berlusconi and that its collapse could be "fatal" for the country.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Washington goes dark.The last few jobs reports in the U.S. (excepting for the most recent one) have been bad news for emerging markets. Because the Federal Reserve has said its outlook for when it will begin to taper back its quantitative easing program depends on progress in the labor market, better-than-expected results from the report have caused sell-offs in the U.S. Treasury market, sending yields flying higher. Billions of dollars have flowed into Emerging Market (EM) assets over the past five years as the Fed's bond-buying programs have kept yields on Treasuries low, sending investors elsewhere in search of yield ‚Äî but now that yields are rising in the U.S., those inflows to emerging markets have quickly turned to outflows, and EM stocks, bonds, and currencies have all taken big hits as a result. As a result of the U.S. government shutdown that went into effect Tuesday, the BLS ‚Äî because it is considered a "non-essential" agency by the White House ‚Äî won't be releasing the jobs report at its regularly-scheduled time on Friday morning. The release will be postponed until Congress comes to an agreement on a continuing resolution to fund the government and the BLS, along with other "non-essential" government agencies, is reopened. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale head of emerging markets strategy¬†BenoiÃÇt Anne says this amounts to a tactical buying opportunity in EM in a note to clients Wednesday: No data news is good news. There are basically two ways to look at what is going on in the US currently from a global markets perspective. The first one is negative as essentially, what we have now is fiscal policy uncertainty, on top of monetary policy uncertainty. And all this policy uncertainty may be damaging to global risk sentiment. But the other way to look at it is perhaps more positive, at least tactically. With this US government shutdown, one of the implications for markets is the suspension ‚Äî or at least a restricted schedule ‚Äî of US data release. That to me is a risk-on signal as it removes the short-term risk of watching a stronger US labour report, a release that could potentially create renewed jitters in global markets. Mind you, today's ADP report was not particularly strong but probably not as market significant as nonfarm payroll would have been. I know it is only a matter of time before the Fed has to normalise its policy, and by the way, that fundamentally is a good thing, but to me, and based on the most recent developments locally, it does not sound like a fast track. Which means that there is a window of opportunity for global emerging markets (GEM) to stage a rebound after a challenging few months. I particularly like EM fixed income where I think there are some interesting pockets of value. The most recent jobs report released a month ago by the BLS pointed to weaker-than-expected job creation, causing Treasuries to rally, sending yields lower and offering a bit of a reprieve for EM. While a shutdown is only temporary, it could give EM a further short-term boost, if¬†Anne is correct.

Hyundai announced that it†will extend all auto loan and lease payments for the duration of the shutdown for the roughly 800,000 government employees that are on furlough.† Current owners of Hyundai products will be provided relief from payments for as long as they are out of work. Furloughed employees that want to buy a car in October will be offered a 90-day payment deferral. This is not the first time Hyundai has extended car payments on compassionate grounds. In 2009, during the depths of the financial crisis, Hyundai launched a plan under which laid-off workers could return their Hyundai if it was under a year-old.† ìWe recognize the impact on family budgets that the furlough will drive,î said John Krafcik, president and CEO of Hyundai Motor America in an official statement. ìLike we did almost four years ago when we launched Hyundai Assurance, this is our way of saying ëWeíve got your backí during this uncertain time.î
REUTERS/Ali Jarekji Due to an ongoing government shutdown, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics ó considered a "non-essential" agency by the White House ó will not be releasing the monthly nonfarm payrolls report on Friday. Here are four reasons why we're better off without it anyways:
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThe U.S. House of Representatives remains fully lit during a rare late-night Saturday session at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, September 28, 2013.There's not much good to be said about the ongoing U.S. government shutdown, which was triggered by Congress' inability to come to a budget deal. However, most experts are now saying that the shutdown and budget debacle is just a sideshow to the real risk: the debt ceiling. "The budget debate and the looming debt ceiling are two distinct issues: the former is related to appropriations authority and the later pertains to debt issuance authority," wrote Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart. There's a fear out there that the U.S. may have to default on its obligations if the debt ceiling isn't raised. But Reinhart is confident that a default won't happen. From his note (emphasis added): ...There has been a good deal of public and media confusion surrounding the approaching funding deadlines. As Secretary Lew notes in his letter to Congress, October 17th is the date when ìextraordinary measures will be exhaustedî and the Treasury will run out of borrowing capacity ñ this is not the date the Treasury will run out of cash. We expect that the $30 billion in cash they have will last until November 1st, when several large program expenditures are scheduled. While on one hand this gives politicians more time to strike a deal, on the other it also means they have more time for political gamesmanship (ping pong, anyone?). Nonetheless, we believe there is a zero percent chance of a federal government default at that time. The US government will pay its bills. Reinhart's note is set up as a Q&amp;A, and in the last question he expands on how events could unfold as the government runs out of cash. Bottom Line: Yes, but it will break one of three laws. If the Treasury is unwilling to stretch the definition of extraordinary measures, on the day that the Federal Reserve predicts that the Treasury will run out of cash in its account and the Treasury is bound by the debt ceiling, it should pend all payments and await instructions from the Treasury. As a result, all principals will face the prospect of violating one of three laws: They have to break a law. Full stop. We think at the end of the day officials will avoid violating the Constitution by indicating that they have been given inconsistent instructions and are obeying the one with the most important precedent. If it is the Secretary of Treasury that decides to contest 1, then the Treasury will issue debt and raise cash. However, the debt arguably does not have the protection of Amendment 14, as it was not necessarily lawfully issued, so it may not be default free. That is, in the European context, the Treasury will issue ìredî bonds in order to pay the maturing principal and interest on ìblueî bonds. The reds turn blue when the debt ceiling is increased. If it is the Chairman of the Federal Reserve that decides to contest 2, then the Treasury General Account (TGA) goes into overdraft and all Treasury operations continue. Either a Secretary of Treasury who holds 3 as the overriding instruction or a Chairperson of the Federal Reserve who waves 2 saves the global financial system and at most risks being impeached or fired. That seems like a reasonable risk and reward trade-off. The government of the United States is not going to default. For now, the madness in Washington D.C. continues.
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA waiter smokes as he takes a break from work in the city of London.LONDON (Reuters) - The nascent recovery in euro zone businesses strengthened in September as order books filled at a faster rate and layoffs slowed to a trickle, surveys showed on Thursday, pointing to very mild growth in the third quarter. Markit's Euro zone Services Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), a monthly survey of businesses, rose to 52.2 in September from August's 50.7, little changed from a preliminary reading of 52.1. Readings above 50 signify growth. Growth in services companies, comprising the vast bulk of the euro zone's private sector, increased at the fastest pace since June 2011, offsetting a slightly slower pace of expansion in manufacturing last month. Germany again led the expansion, while services firms in the bloc's next largest economies - France and Italy - returned to growth after more than a year in the red. Spanish services businesses, however, disappointed slightly, slipping back into contraction after achieving modest growth in August. "With the rate of expansion picking up in September, the survey bodes well for ongoing growth in the final quarter of the year," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at PMI compiler Markit. But he added that the region was not out of the woods yet. "The political instability that has reared up in Italy is a reminder that there remains plenty of scope for recoveries to be derailed," said Williamson. Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote in parliament on Wednesday after Silvio Berlusconi, facing revolt in his own party, backtracked on threats to bring down the government. Still, the surveys made positive reading. The composite PMI's employment index, gauging the labor market in both manufacturing and services, rose to 49.7 from 48.4, signifying the slowest pace of job cuts since January 2012. Private sector companies have not added staff since December 2011. Williamson said the PMI surveys were consistent with economic growth of around 0.2 percent from July through September, similar to the 0.3 percent reading for the second quarter. Services companies reported orders coming in at the fastest pace since June two years ago, with the new business index rising sharply to 51.7 from August's 50.1. The composite PMI, combining both services and manufacturing surveys, picked up to 52.2 last month from 51.5 in August, its best showing since June 2011. - Detailed PMI data are only available under license from Markit and customers need to apply to Markit for a license. (Reporting by Andy Bruce; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
Jordan ShapiroMarkets are up slightly across Europe. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.2%. France's CAC40 is down 0.2%. Germany's DAX is flat. Spain's IBEX is up 0.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.1%. It's day three of the U.S. government shutdown, and the markets have calmed down a bit. But Wednesday's sell-off reminds us that this might not be a smooth ride. From Societe Generale's Alvin Tan and Eamon Aghdasi. "A whiff of risk-off in the air yesterday, with yen being the top performer while AUD and NZD sold off slightly. ADP numbers were also softer than expected at 166K after a downwardly revised 159K for August. The US 10-year yield fell briefly below 2.6% intraday, and so the dollar remained in the back foot as the US shutdown persisted into its third day. The USD will remain under pressure so long as the US fiscal uncertainties reign." U.S. futures are down slightly.
