MarkitJapan just published some impressive manufacturing numbers. According to Market/JMMA, Japan's manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) jumped to 54.2 in October from 52.5 in September.† This is a 41-month high. Here are the key points from Markit: From Markit economist Claudia Tillbrooke: ìOctober saw operating conditions in the Japanese manufacturing industry improve at the sharpest pace for over three years, driven by a surge in new orders. The data signalled that the latest expansion was largely demand-driven and apparently unimpeded by the Prime Ministerís recent confirmation of a sales tax hike next April. ìHowever, whilst new order growth hit a four-year high and production grew at a similarly sharp pace, employment failed to follow suit in October. Payroll numbers were broadly flat for a third consecutive month and appeared to have been thus far unaffected by the structural reforms constituting Prime Minister Abeís ìthird arrowî. ìFirmsí reluctance to hire may well indicate uncertainty regarding the future, but could also stem from the inflexibility of Japanís labour market. The sustainability of the recent growth trend looks set to be tested by the labour market rigidities, as backlogs of work continue to rise.î
flickr/Sudipto SarkarNEW YORK (AP) ‚Äî Smokers younger than 21 in the nation's biggest city will soon be barred from buying cigarettes after the New York City Council voted overwhelming Wednesday to raise the tobacco-purchasing age to higher than all but a few other places in the United States. City lawmakers approved the bill ‚Äî which raises from 18 to 21 the purchasing age for cigarettes, certain tobacco products and even electronic-vapor smokes ‚Äî and another that sets minimum prices for tobacco cigarettes and steps up law enforcement on illegal tobacco sales. "This will literally save many, many lives," said an emotional City Councilman James Gennaro, the bill's sponsor, whose mother and father died from tobacco-related illnesses. "I've lived with it, I've seen it...but I feel good today." Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who is a strong supporter of the tough smoking restrictions, has 30 days to sign the bills into law. The minimum age bill will take effect 180 days after enactment. "We know that tobacco dependence can begin very soon after a young person first tries smoking so it's critical that we stop young people from smoking before they ever start," Bloomberg said in a statement. With Wednesday's vote, New York is by far the biggest city to bar cigarette sales to 19- and 20-year-olds. Similar legislation is expected to come to a vote in Hawaii this December. Officials previously shelved a plan Bloomberg unveiled with fanfare earlier this year: forcing stores to keep cigarettes out of public view until a customer asks for them. The city's current age limit is 18, a federal minimum that's standard in many places. Some states and communities have raised the age to 19. At least two towns, both in Massachusetts, have agreed to raise it to 21. Advocates say higher age limits help prevent, or at least delay, young people from taking up a habit that remains the leading cause of preventable deaths nationwide. And supporters point to drinking-age laws as a precedent for setting the bar at 21. Cigarette manufacturers have suggested young adult smokers may just turn to black-market merchants. And some smokers say it's unfair and patronizing to tell people considered mature enough to vote and serve in the military that they're not old enough to decide whether to smoke. The tobacco-buying age is 21 in Needham, Mass., and is poised to rise to 21 in January in nearby Canton, Mass. The state of New Jersey is considering a similar proposal, and the idea has been floated in other places, including the Texas Legislature. E-cigarette makers say their products are healthier than tobacco, and a trade association leader bristled at the city's proposal to prevent people under 21 from buying them. "Is 21 the right number? People can join the Army at 18," said Ray Story, founder of the Atlanta-based Tobacco Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Suzanne MillerThey may not admit it, but most people lose money through gambling ‚Äî and heavy gamblers lose the most, according to a new¬†analysis by the Wall Street Journal. The Journal drew these conclusions from a study of several databases and interviews with experts. Eighty-nine percent of gamblers lost money in a study of 4,222 anonymous users of one online gambling network in Europe that includes games of chance like roulette, blackjack, and slots.¬†In the small set of winners, few won more than $150. Among the heaviest gamblers, 95% lost money. In this group, big losers outnumbered big winners by 128 to 1. In another study of 18,000 loyalty card holders at U.S. casinos, only 13.5% ended up winning money. The odds of winning were better when it came to games of skill like poker, but still most gamblers lost money. And that's all you need to know when it comes to the investment value of gambling for most people. Read the full analysis at the Journal &gt;
Michelle McLoughlin/ReutersRobert ShillerFinance isn't all bad, at least not according to renowned Yale professor and Nobel Prize winner Robert Shiller. In a¬†debate titled "Goldman Vs. Google: A career on Wall Street or in Silicon Valley?" at The Economist's Buttonwood Gathering, the esteemed economist argued¬†that young graduates with a "moral purpose" and interest in the financial world should work for Goldman Sachs instead of Google. "When you study finance, you are studying how to make things happen, on a big scale, on a lasting scale," Shiller said. "That has to matter more than getting into Google and programming some little gimmick." The way Shiller sees it, finance underscores every worthwhile pursuit. "Every human activity that matters has to be financed," he explained. "You cannot do good things for the world all by yourself." Not surprisingly, his claims were hotly contested by the other speaker, Vivek Wadhwa, vice president of innovation and research at Singularity University. Google, Wadhwa argued, has already given us immense research capabilities and is working on groundbreaking technology with its self-driving cars and floating wireless networks. "Would you rather have your children going and cooking up the financial system, engineering the financial system, and creating more bubbles for us?"¬†Wadhwa asked, incredulous. "More bubbles like the ones my esteemed friend is famous for? Or would you rather have them saving the world?"¬† "It‚Äôs a binary thing," Wadhwa¬†added. "I can‚Äôt even believe I‚Äôm having this debate with a Nobel Prize winner." Shiller may have indirectly addressed Wadhwa's concerns when he began his talk. "My assumption is that I'm not talking to students who want to make a lot of money," joked Shiller.
Earlier today, the ADP employment survey showed that U.S. companies added just 130,000 private payrolls in October.† This number, which was the lowest since May, has been trending lower in recent months. The trend in the official BLS jobs report has been similarly weak. "The 3-month average gain in nonfarm payrolls is now down to 143,000, the weakest pace since August 2012," noted Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. "Other measures are even softer, with 3-month averages of 82,000 for total household employment growth and 42,000 for "payroll-consistent" household employment growth (that is, job growth estimated from the household survey adjusted to conform to the definitions of nonfarm payroll growth in the establishment survey)." In a research note published this afternoon, Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna argues that these trends conflict with many other jobs indicators. ...What is most surprising to us is that many of the inputs used to forecast both ADP and BLS employment do not indicate the same loss of momentum as these two series have exhibited. Rather, they suggest employment should be accelerating, not decelerating. While this list is hardly exhaustive, those indicators that have worked reasonably well in forecasting employment, at least over the intermediate forecast horizon, include the following: initial jobless claims, NFIB hiring intentions, the Manpower survey, the Conference Boardís jobs plentiful less jobs hard to get differential and manufacturing ISM employment. All of these series have shown improvement from where they were in February relative to where they stood in September. The only series not in this list that we closely follow is non-manufacturing ISM employment. It fell slightly over the aforementioned seven-month period... This is very curious. "Our best guess is that there may be something askew in the seasonal pattern of hiring that neither ADP nor BLS is properly capturing," said LaVorgna. "As we have noted on numerous occasions, the year-over-year rate of increase in hiring has been uncannily steady." Before the Wednesday's ADP report was released, Business Insider's Matthew Boesler observed that the non-seasonally adjusted BLS jobs growth stats were actually trending higher whereas the seasonally adjusted one ó which most people follow ó has been down. Just maybe, this will be one of those situations where numbers get revised up months down the road. Deutsche Bank
Wikimedia CommonsWall Street economists and strategists are revising their views on the Federal Reserve's most likely start date for tapering down its quantitative easing program in light of the surprise delivered by the October FOMC policy statement released today. Here's what they are saying. Kevin Cummins, UBS: Todayís statement also cut the reference to a "tightening in financial conditions observed in recent months", a reference we had trouble squaring with reality unless "financial conditions" was simply code for "mortgage rates". Presumably, officials are now happier with the recent decline in interest rates, especially mortgages. All in, there was nothing here to contradict our outlook for policy. With data likely to be muddied by collection difficulties, the first QE taper seems to be a question for Q1(14), with the†Jan. 28-29†FOMC meeting somewhat more likely than the†March 18-19†meeting. (Note: A January announcement would likely mean the start of tapering in March, as the Fedís purchase schedule is announced in advance, so that the schedule for February purchases will likely exist by the†Jan 30†Fed meeting.) Michael Hanson, BofA Merrill Lynch:†Like September, they decided to "await more evidence that progress will be sustained" before tapering. In light of the lack of a more dovish assessment, we maintain our flat distribution over the possible first taper date during the first half of 2014 ó todayís statement does not rule out a January taper, for example. The market was clearly anticipating a long time before tapering began; hence todayís selloff. We caution that although the Fed did not taper in either September or October, the economic hurdle to get the Fed to scale back purchases modestly does not appear all that high. Steven Englander, Citi:†The statement did not change much from September and in absolute terms there was no hawkish bias. However the market had moved far beyond the reaction to the September non-tapering surprise to pricing in tapering beginning no early than March and ending in end-2014 or early 2015. To justify this pricing you needed far more aggressive language than the Fed delivered. If anything, they lowballed on the disappointing incoming numbers (except a brief nod to weaker housing) and continued to use September language that emphasized the medium term economic improvement. Hence a dovish and pessimistic market was confronted by a Fed looking at the bright side of life. If anything, with Beige Book having characterized growth as ëmodest to moderateí,† the unadorned ëmoderateí in the Statement comes across as confident. Chris Rupkey, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ:†In September they tacked on a caveat to the diminished risks sentence saying tighter financial conditions, "higher mortgage rates," if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. That must mean something, that they dropped that warning. †They must be somewhat more confident about the outlook.†Net net, we are not going to buy in to the idea that the Fed will wait to taper until March or June next year. The economy is not going to go off the rails because of the uncertainty down in Washington. We have two more monthly employment reports before the December meeting and if even one is a 200K jobs number, we think they taper in December. Again, they dropped the reference to tighter financial market conditions, that's got to mean something. They must be somewhat more confident about the outlook. Aneta Markowska, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale:†Overall, the FOMC seems satisfied with recent progress, and is relieved that some of the risks have failed to materialize. The committee sees the underlying growth (ex fiscal restraint) as having strengthened gradually since the launch of QE. Their bias is clearly towards tapering, the only question is when. The Fed has once again decided to wait for more evidence that progress will be sustained before reducing the pace of asset purchases. We now see the March meeting as the most likely timeframe for the first tapering announcement. December is not out of the question, but with the October data distorted by the government shutdown, it is unlikely that the Fed will have enough clarity before year-end. Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs:†The October FOMC statement was just a bit more hawkish than expected. The FOMC's overall assessment of the economy was only marginally changed in the face of recent events, tighter financial conditions were no longer listed as an explicit worry, and there was no shift in language to more directly indicate a later expected date of the first reduction in asset purchases. Paul Ashworth, Capital Economics:†The latest policy statement from the Fed today is remarkable for what it omits rather than includes. Despite the wall-to-wall coverage in the financial markets and media of the two-week Federal government shutdown, particularly what impact it had on the economy, and the new uncertainty over whether a second shutdown could be triggered early next year, the FOMC statement doesn't make a single clear reference to it. Not one. It's like the whole thing never happened. The only cryptic reference is to the "available data" when assessing the recent incoming economic data...But if officials are trying to downplay the impact of the shutdown and are happier with the level of long-term interest rates, then perhaps a December taper isn't quite as out of the question as we had previously thought. We still think sometime early next year is the most likely outcome, but the balance of risks just shifted a little. Kit Juckes, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale:†Fears about what happens as a result of higher bond yields have gone, but the housing market recovery has stalled. This is 'dovish' I suppose but I don't suppose there is a single economist, strategist, journalist, trader or barman who expected anything less dovish. The market therefore, sees this is a slightly hawkish light and the DXY rebound continues...But honestly folks, this is the most dovish CB out there simply failing to surpass expectations. For choice I look for the dollar rebound to go a bit further, and long USD/CAD is my favourite way to express that, while receiving USD and EUR rates after a day of soft inflation numbers which will slowly filter down into folks' rate expectations in the coming days. Vincent Reinhart, Morgan Stanley:†The October FOMC statement contained few meaningful changes. In a nod to higher mortgage rates, the Committee acknowledged softer data on housing but made no changes in its assessment of labor market conditions and made no mention of the potential economic fallout from the government shutdown. We think the Committee wanted to draw as little attention to itself while it awaits more data and a better outlook before taking the decision to taper asset purchases.† Andrew Wilkinson, Miller Tabak:†The message from the Fed is that the economy remains on course for recovery and that it sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall. The Fed is on hold, but the tone of the statement and the failure to bend on account of the government shutdown is very likely to bring forward the marketís timetable of tapering from March where we feel the pendulum has swung too far. It would seem the Fedís approach is extremely balanced and that members are taking a level-headed view of the impact of interruptions to the economy. We believe that the central bank does not want to confuse the market by chopping and changing its view at a micro level. A bigger change might come for example should their be failure to agree on budget measures that would threaten further the ability of the government to remain open. Michael Gapen, Barclays: The information contained in the October FOMC statement was in line with our expectation. The committee made few changes to the statement and appears willing to keep its options open at upcoming meetings. We were looking to see whether the committee preserved the language saying that it ìdecided to await more evidence that progress would be sustained before adjusting the pace of purchases.î In our view, keeping this statement suggests the Fed is closing in on a decision to taper, but has not seen sufficient evidence to trigger that move yet. A more dovish signal would have been to return to language in the July statement, which said that purchases could be adjusted up or down based on changes in the outlook for labor markets ...†Looking ahead, the October statement suggests that tapering at the December meeting remains a possibility, although we believe that it is unlikely data will take a sufficiently strong turn by then to justify a reduction in the pace of asset purchases ... and maintain our view that the Fed will reduce the pace of asset purchases to $70bn per month in March of next year. George Goncalves, Nomura:†We are perplexed why traders and the media are focusing on the first sentence in the third paragraph that addresses their views on the fiscal impact, which was basically a repeat. They continue to state that given "the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment over the past year" they are still viewing QE as a success and that due to their asset purchases it has resulted in improving economic activity and labor market conditions, which are consistent with a growing economy. Granted by leaving this point basically intact, the market believes they are trying to put a positive spin to their messaging, but can it last? ...†Bottom-line, the FOMC has not hit their rosy forecast marks ìall year longî (well since GFC really) and got overly excited about the data in 1H13, which got them talking about tapering too early - Doh! They need to continue to sound optimistic, got it, but to taper they will still need the data to improve and DCís fiscal fights to go away, which doesnít seem likely in our view.†Markets are skittish any time Fed doesnít validate that the ìcarry tradeî is a-ok and that means pushing bond markets and 10s for example through 2.5% will require weak data &amp; round 3 of fiscal fight; unfortunately, we think itís coming. Vincent Chaigneau, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale:†The FOMC delivered a huge surprise in September, and this time thought itíd be better to say as little new as possible. It noted slower housing trends, but fell short of sounding more dovish. This caused instant profit taking on UST longs and dollar shorts. 10yr yields snapped back to the 2.55% area from 2.47% after a solid $29bn 7yr note auction. We doubt weíll see much follow-through in the corrective UST sell-off just now. Many market players, perhaps too many, want to be short here. That may be the pain trade just now, in an environment where inflation continues to surprise to the downside and growth remains soft.† Michael Gregory, BMO Capital Markets: When will the Fed start slowing QE? Labor market performance remains the critical factor determining the timing and magnitude of tapering, performance that will be interpreted in the context of inflation trends and prospective GDP growth (the latter speaking to the sustainability of labor market and inflation performance). We know the FOMC was close in September, but were dissuaded primarily by the risks posed by fiscal uncertainties and the spike in mortgage rates. This must also mean that labor market performance through August was likely sufficient to start tapering. However, labor markets deteriorated in September and likely did so again in October (if ADP is any guide). The Fed will likely wait for the November and December results before concluding whether underlying labor market trends are at least similar to what was around in August. As such, we see the earliest Fed move to be in January.†
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderClick the map to find out more about the millionaires and billionaires from every stateWealth-X, an international wealth management firm, has just released a report listing the richest person in every U.S. state. Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Larry Ellison all grabbed the top spots for their home states of Washington, Nebraska, and California, respectively ‚Äî no big surprise, considering they're three of the wealthiest men on the planet. Of the 50 states, nine did not have a single billionaire living there, including Maine, North Dakota, Hawaii, and Alaska. Joshua Berlinger also contributed to this story.
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Retiring Baby Boomers Won't Deliver A Blow To The Stock Market (Vanguard) As baby boomers begin to retire and move pull their money from stocks towards their expenses, there is some concern that this could deliver a blow to the stock market. But Daniel W. Wallick, Julieann Shanahan, and Christos Tasopoulos at Vanguard don't believe this is the case for a few key reasons.† "First, although the boomer generation is sizable, it is also like other generations in that it is spread over two decadesósignificantly reducing the prospect that of all its members will act in concert. Second, the amount of equity owned by preretirees today is, despite the size of the boomer population, similar to that of other previous generations, implying that the impact of these investors might well be similar to that of the past. Third, equity ownership is highly concentrated within the baby boomer cohort, with the wealthiest 10% owning 88% of the generationís stock holdings. "In addition, continued globalization and its impact on stock ownership could further diminish the affect of the U.S. baby boomer generation on future stock returns. By year-end 2012, nearly 21% of all U.S. stocks were held by foreign investors, compared with just 7% in 1990." What Advisors Need To Consider Before Recommending Target Date Funds To Employers (The Wall Street Journal) Target date funds (TDFs) are popular with employers writes Tara Mashack-Behney of Pennsylvania-based Conrad Siegel Investment Advisors in a Wall Street Journal column. Target date funds rebalance assets based on a future date and typically get more conservative closer to retirement. But TDFs might not meet the requirements of all employers and employees.† For that reason, Mashack-Behney writes one thing advisors should focus on is the "glide path--the formula that defines how assets in the fund are allocated until its target date." Advisors need to ensure that both the employers and employees are "comfortable with" the glide path. Since all the employees also don't have the same risk tolerance advisors should also consider risk-based portfolios. The Coming Months Will Be All About 4 Key Macro Trends (Credit Suisse) Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite has identified four macro trends that will impact asset prices in coming months. 1. Global GDP growth is gathering steam, and is projected to go from 2.7% in Q2 2013, to 3.5%-3.75% by Q4 2014. 2. Global macro uncertainty is waning. Credit Suisse's "proxy of US macro uncertainty has recently fallen to a six-year low - and we think it is set to drop further as the US budget deficit continues to fall." 3. Disappointing emerging market growth relative to the growth in developed markets. 4. Rising bond yields. Why Investors Should Ignore The Noise When It Comes To Gold (World Gold Council) Investors have been antsy about their gold holdings since the slump in April. But a new report from the World Gold Council argues that changing gold holdings based on "single news items" has made investors lose sight of the reason they held gold in their portfolio in the first place.† "The primary benefit of having exposure to gold in an investment portfolio is that it is a cost-effective, long-term asset† that can provide downside protection without reducing long-term returns," said Juan Carlos Artigas, Head of Investment Research at the World Gold Council in a press release.† The three key arguments for holding gold are 1. "It protects purchasing power (taking into consideration local inflation rates as well as currency fluctuations)." 2. "[It] Reduces portfolio volatility." 3. "[It] Serves as a high-quality, liquid asset that can be used when the selling of other assets can be costly or cause large losses." The Rebound In Value Stocks Is Just Beginning (AllianceBernstein Blog) "The value rebound is just beginning," according to Kevin Simms at Alliance Bernstein Blog. "Our measure of the value opportunity looks at spreads between the cheapest and most expensive quintiles of global stocks based on price/book (p/b) value. Even after this yearís equity rally, these spreads remain very wide. Spreads probably havenít narrowed as much as you might expect because the market dislocations created by the financial crisis were so profound. The lingering distortive effects of the safety trade left defensive, low-risk stocks at near-record premiums to the market and riskier, cyclical stocks at near-record discounts."
Flickr/ estatesgazette The cost of living in London has always been high, but recently it has been getting out of control, with real estate asking prices jumping a shocking 10% in October, for example. This level of housing insanity has prompted some crazy solutions to the horrible expense of London life. For example, Sam Cookney, a blogger based in London, theorized on Twitter that it'd be cheaper for him to rent a two-bedroom in Barcelona, Spain, and commute to work four days a week than live in a one-bedroom in the U.K. capital: Done the sums. Would actually be cheaper for me to rent 2 bed flat in Barcelona+commute to London, than get 1 bed here. Genuinely. Blog it? Cookney reasons that he'd need around £1,697 a month for rent in the area he'd ideally live (the admittedly fairly nice West Hampstead), if he includes tax and travel. That's Ä1,979 a month or $2,700. How far would that money go in Barcelona? Well, Cookney looked towards the upscale Les Corts and found a fairly average three bedroom apartment for a flat rate of Ä680 ($933) a month. He found cheap flights from a nearby airport worked out to around Ä57 ($78) a day, even factoring in the costs to and from the airport. In total, Cookney claims, he would live in Barcelona and commute to London four days a week for around Ä1,592 a month ó a Ä387 discount ($530) on life in London, with two extra bedrooms. Whatever the logic of Cookney's argument (four hours of flying every day is not an ideal lifestyle, certainly), it has hit a nerve. His original blog post has now been shared seven thousand times at the time of writing and picked up by the Daily Mail and even appeared in Spain ó a bit surreal for a blog devoted to finding "the best burger in North West London." Unfortunately, this does seem to be the new reality of the largest city in Europe ó a London where Londoners dream of commuting from Spain, and Spanish expats with multiple college degrees live cleaning toilets.
U.S. Treasury, Haver Analytics, Barclays ResearchThe U.S. Treasury Department just released its fiscal-year 2013 and September budget results. The September budget surplus was $75.1 billion (versus the $69 billion estimated by economists). Perhaps the more notable figure is the fiscal-year 2013 deficit, which at $680.3 billion is at a five-year low. Revenues from tax receipts hit a record high of $2.77 trillion in 2013, while spending was $3.45 trillion ‚Äî down from $3.54 trillion in 2012. "We expect the deficit to continue to narrow in the coming months, although likely not at the record-setting pace seen during the past year," says Barclays economist Cooper Howes.
When Facebook IPO'd, it made no money from mobile ads. Today, half of its revenue is coming from mobile ads. This chart, tells the incredible story of how this business got to be huge in just a few quarters. More coverage of Facebook's earnings here &gt;
Oli Scarff/ Getty ImagesStarbucks reported Q4 earnings of $0.63 per share, beating expectations for $0.60 per share. The company reported earnings of $3.8 billion, just shy of expectations for $3.81 billion. Global comp store sales were up 7%. There was 8% comp sales growth* in the Americas and the U.S. Same store sales in China were up 8%, though this was below expectations for a 9.1% gain. "The fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 capped off by far the best year in Starbucks 42-year-history," said Howard Schultz, Ceo of Starbucks in a press release. Starbucks also declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per share. For FY 2013, net revenue was up 12% to $14.9 billion. Global comp sales were up 7%. There was 7% growth in comp store sales in the Americas, driven by 8% comp growth in the U.S. Meanwhile, China/Asia Pacific saw 9% comp growth. The stock was up 1.3% ahead of the release. But was down as much as 3.0% after hours. "Transaction growth at each of Starbucks regions slowed on a sequential basis," Brian Sozzi CEO and chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors told Business Insider in an email. "While this underscores Starbucks' need to drive constant product innovation across dayparts (which drives traffic and higher tickets), the traffic moderation is not something you want to see from a company that has been valued the way it has by the market over the past three months. Key question: Does the company need to drive a greater number of promotions off of prices that were recently raised?" Here's a quick look, from Sozzi: Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Click here for the entire release ¬ª * The article was corrected to reflect 8% comp-sales growth in the U.S. in Q4 2013.
The United States has run a pretty massive trade deficit for years now, importing $730 billion more in goods than it exported last year. More trade is generally good, but higher imports mean GDP takes a hit. ¬† The interesting part, as Seth Kadish at the blog Vizual Statistix finds, is that there are about as many countries that are net exporters to as those we import more from. But because we import such an incredible amount from a select few countries, we end up with a massive deficit overall.¬† The gap with China in particular is shocking ‚Äì that $315 billion trade deficit is more than all of the United States' trade surpluses combined, and is almost half of the total negative balance. And even though energy imports are down, we still run massive deficits with Mexico and Saudi Arabia. ¬† Here's Kadish's map of our balance of trade with the countries of the world in 2012. All of the countries are color coded, but only the top 5 biggest deficits and surpluses are labeled:¬† Vizual Statistix/Seth Kadish
REUTERS/John GressFed Chairman Ben Bernanke pauses as he speaks at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago's Annual Conference on Bank Structure and Competition, May 15, 2008.The Fed spoke today and markets got spooked. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
REUTERS/StringerThird Point's Dan Loeb and Pershing Square's Bill AckmanBuried in the¬†unflattering Vanity Fair profile of Daniel Loeb is a sad anecdote about the demise of the friendship between the sharp-tongued activist investor and Bill Ackman. Late last year, Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, publicly said that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional supplements. It's Ackman's belief that Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals, especially from the Hispanic population.¬† Shortly after Ackman's presentation, Loeb snapped up an 8.2% stake in the company. He also called Ackman's pyramid scheme accusation "preposterous." Loeb also gave Herbalife a stock a price target of¬†$55 to $68 a share¬†in a letter to investors. He exited the position sometime in the first quarter of this year for a nice profit.¬†Herbalife's stock was trading below Loeb's price target, though.¬† The highest the stock hit during that time frame was $46.19 a share. That didn't seem to sit well with Ackman who confronted Loeb about the trade at Vanity Fair's Oscar party on Feb. 24th.  From Vanity Fair: In February both Loeb and Ackman attended Vanity Fair‚Äôs Oscar party in Los Angeles. A person there reported that Ackman went up to Loeb, said hello, then added about Herbalife, ‚ÄúLook, you really shouldn‚Äôt have done that,‚Äù to which Loeb replied, ‚ÄúWhy? Why shouldn‚Äôt I have done that?‚Äù Ackman said, ‚ÄúIt was really wrong.‚Äù Loeb replied, ‚ÄúNo, why? I made $50 million. What‚Äôs wrong with that?‚Äù The two men no longer speak. Ackman told Andrew Ross Sorkin in a New York Times Q&amp;A earlier this month that Loeb neither is nor has been "a close friend of mine."
Five years ago, the phrase ‚Äúthe new normal‚Äù began to be coined to describe the investment environment of the years that were to follow. Prognosticators claimed the new normal of the future was likely to include a lowered living standard, high unemployment, stagnant corporate profits, heavy government intervention in the economy, and disappointing stock market returns. While certainly job growth has been sluggish and government intervention intense, how has the new normal been for investors? As it turns out‚Äîa lot like the old normal. In fact, over the past one-, three-, and five-year periods total returns for the S&amp;P 500 were very average. LPL While the year is not over yet, if it were to end with Friday‚Äôs (October 25, 2013) year-to-date total return of 24.9%, it would be a very typical year for the stock market.¬†The annual total return of 20‚Äì25% this year is the second most common outcome for the stock market since records for the S&amp;P 500 began in 1927. In fact, were it not for the recent gains in 2010 and 2012 boosting the number of occurrences that returns fell in the 15‚Äì20% range, the 20‚Äì25% range would be tied for the most common annual outcome for the stock market.¬† Despite what some may fear as an outsized gain in the stock market during 2013, surely to be punished with losses in the coming year, looking forward after a one year total return in the 20‚Äì25% range, the S&amp;P 500 has usually followed up with more years of solid gains. In fact, the average return in a year following a 20‚Äì25% gain was 13.7% and was positive in seven of the nine occurrences (the exceptions were 1976‚Äôs gain of 23.8%, which was followed by a loss of 7.2% in 1977, and 1999‚Äôs gain of 21.0%, which was followed by a loss of 9.1% in 2000). In fact, such years often marked the start of several years of strong gains, as was the case in 1942, 1963, 1982, and 1996.¬† Similarly, the past three years‚Äô annualized return for the S&amp;P 500 falls within the most common 10‚Äì15% range. LPL Whether measured over the past five years, from 10/25/08 to 10/25/13, or like the other periods, from the end of 2008 until now, the total return falls into the slightly above average, but still very common, 15‚Äì20% range. LPL Sometimes it helps to look back when trying to look forward. Stock market returns have been remarkably average over the ‚Äúnew normal‚Äù period and not very disappointing at all. We may have another year of normal ahead of us. After all, every period has its major events and new challenges and can seem ‚Äúdifferent this time‚Äù (Federal Reserve actions, government debt levels, inflation, oil prices, military actions, etc.). History shows that although there are differences, the people that make up the businesses, policymakers, and markets adapt to the environment and find innovative and flexible ways to thrive.¬†We face challenges ahead and new trends will emerge, but we can take some comfort that it takes a lot to result in a major departure from history for the stock market.
YoutubeaOut with a bang, that's the least we can say for Eike Batista. After a year of agonizing losses, after seeing 99% of his $34 billion fortune fall away, the Brazilian tycoon has finally put OGX, his flagship oil and gas company, into bankruptcy proceedings, according to Bloomberg. The company owes $3.6 billion worth of bonds issued on the international market, and $500 million to suppliers. On October 1st, OGX missed a $45 million interest payment to the company's bonhondholders, initiating an attempt to negotiate with them to keep the company alive til April. He would need $250 million to do it, he said. Otherwise, OGX would run out of money in December. Negotiations for such a restructuring fell yesterday, and according to Brazilian paper, Valor International, one of the major sticking points was OGX's relationship with another one of Batista's companies, shipbuilder OSX. (Batista has 6 interconnected companies, held together by his holding coming EBX.) Here's how it went down, according to Valor: The documents disclosed by OGX showed the company proposed that creditors converted their bonds into 57% of the business. Mr. Batista and current shareholders would have 10%. OSX would have 14%, because of credits of about $1 billion, and the remainder would be split between new investors and suppliers. Creditors, for their part, asked Mr. Batista to put $500 million in the company, with his stake and that of current shareholders reduced to 5% of the post-agreement company. The bigger sticking point, however, was about the commercial relationship with OSX. Creditors wanted to reduce the value of the daily rent of OSX-3 to $150,000 from the agreed-upon $400,000 ó because of underutilization of the structure due to lower field productivity. In addition, they wanted the right to break the contract in three years without penalties in three years and also restricting OSX credits with OGX to $500 million ó half of what the shipbuilding company alleges being owed. OSX as a sticking point is key, because the company depends a lot on OGX orders for its business. Obviously shareholders wanted to reduce that dependence, which would've been brutal for Batista's flailing empire as a whole. OSX, for its part, is in the midst of a a major cost cutting, asset selling regime. So perhaps, now that Batista has cut off this poisoned OGX limb, he can save the rest of his body. We'll see.
Awwwww yeah. Snoop Dogg is playing 45s (old school records, for you youngins) on a live video stream for your listening enjoyment right now. We have no idea where he is... apparently he does this on Wednesdays, just because. He used to do Puff Puff Pass Tuesdays too, so why not? Just enjoy.   Live streaming video by Ustream
Wikimedia CommonsAt a time when stocks have been hitting new all-time highs, investors might feel like they need to approach their advisors about their portfolio's performance compared to the S&amp;P. Measuring the results is important, but it is important for clients to do so with their own financial goals in mind. Clients should ask their advisors to explain their returns to them in the context of their principal and the investment term. They should also ask their advisors for appropriate benchmarks. Some like Steve Blumenthal, CEO &amp; founder of Pennsylvania-based CMG Capital Management Group, argue in favor of different buckets with different investments.¬† In a Wall Street Journal column, Blumenthal elaborated on three such buckets.¬† "The first bucket is the equity bucket, and this could be compared with the S&amp;P. However you need a second benchmark for the bonds in a client's portfolio, which could be better compared with the Barclays bond index. The third bucket I reserve for alternative strategies or things like REITS or commodities. There are many different kinds of strategies that could fall into this bucket and each has a different benchmark, so you may end up using many different benchmarks for this bucket." But not everyone is in favor of benchmarks. Hedge fund manager Paul Singer, CEO of¬†¬†Elliott Management Corporation, would like to do away with benchmarking altogether. "As much as we sympathize with investors who want a basis for understanding when their managers are doing well or not, benchmarking is not helpful to us," Singer wrote in a letter to investors back in July. "We are proud of our very long-term consistent results obtained with an extremely low variability of return. That result is what really counts ‚Äî not what the other person is doing." At the end of the day the most important thing investors should remember about benchmarking is that they should be a fitting way of measuring their returns, taking into account their risk tolerance and financial goals.
REUTERS/Larry DowningStocks and bonds are selling off as the dollar strengthens in the wake of the release of the statement from the FOMC's October policy meeting. In other words, the market is interpreting the statement as "hawkish" ó meaning the Federal Reserve now seems closer than previously to tapering its quantitative easing program. This was not†what was expected by most on Wall Street. Many economists figured the FOMC would insert language in the statement to address the weight the government shutdown and ongoing fiscal crisis in Washington, D.C. was putting on the economy. The FOMC did just the opposite in the October statement. Here's the key sentence: "Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment over the past year, the Committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since it began its asset purchase program as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy." Because market participants have been coming around to the view that the potential damage to the economy from the fiscal crisis in D.C. means the Fed is unlikely to taper QE before March, today's statement comes across as "hawkish" on balance, because it leaves in play the possibility of tapering before then despite Washington-induced turmoil. So, there exists the possibility that the FOMC could still spring a tapering announcement at the December or January meetings, as Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson suggests in a note: Emerging from the fiscal mist hovering over Washington, the FOMCís October statement is remarkably and somewhat surprisingly similar to the prior monthly note. The committee left the taper-window wide open for any forthcoming meeting. The statement noted that ìfiscal policy is restraining growth,î but took the issue no further. It also noted that the recovery in the housing market had slowed somewhat in recent months. We suggest that this is entirely on account of resurgent summer time yields, which played a role in the September statement yet has been dropped from the latest summary. The message from the Fed is that the economy remains on course for recovery and that it sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall. The Fed is on hold, but the tone of the statement and the failure to bend on account of the government shutdown is very likely to bring forward the marketís timetable of tapering from March where we feel the pendulum has swung too far. It would seem the Fedís approach is extremely balanced and that members are taking a level-headed view of the impact of interruptions to the economy. We believe that the central bank does not want to confuse the market by chopping and changing its view at a micro level. A bigger change might come for example should there be failure to agree on budget measures that would threaten further the ability of the government to remain open. "This is 'dovish' I suppose but I don't suppose there is a single economist, strategist, journalist, trader or barman who expected anything less dovish," says SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategist Kit Juckes. "But honestly folks, this is the most dovish [central bank] out there simply failing to surpass expectations."
Google FinanceThe Fed just concluded its Federal Open Market Committee meeting and released its statement. The committee said that the economy continues to improve despite fiscal retrenchment. It's also worth noting that the Fed removed comments about tighter financial conditions in the economy, which was one of the key reasons why it refrained from tapering its quantitative easing program in September. Overall, the message appears to be positive on the economy, which in turn may be seen as hawkish on monetary policy. Markets exhibited some volatility in the wake of the announcement, even turning positive for a few moments. But now they are decidedly lower.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueChairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke speaks at the Federal Reserve Conference on Key Developments in Monetary Policy in Washington October 8, 2009.The October FOMC statement is out. The Committee said it would refrain from tapering its quantitative easing program because it needs "more evidence" before doing so. The Committee said it sees improvement in the economy despite fiscal retrenchment, but also noted the recent slowdown in housing. In addition, the Committee omitted the line about worsening financial conditions contained in the September statement. U.S. Treasury yields are rising and the dollar is higher in the wake of the release. Stocks are unchanged. Below is the full text of the release. --------------------------------------- Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September generally suggests that economic activity has continued to expand at a moderate pace. Indicators of labor market conditions have shown some further improvement, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Available data suggest that household spending and business fixed investment advanced, while the recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat in recent months. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Apart from fluctuations due to changes in energy prices, inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will pick up from its recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment over the past year, the Committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since it began its asset purchase program as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. However, the Committee decided to await more evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchases. Accordingly, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In judging when to moderate the pace of asset purchases, the Committee will, at its coming meetings, assess whether incoming information continues to support the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective. Asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's economic outlook as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Charles L. Evans; Jerome H. Powell; Eric S. Rosengren; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against the action was Esther L. George, who was concerned that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations.
For younger clients, though, the reality is that their "human capital" ó the ability to generate earnings from their labor ó is actually the greatest asset on their balance sheet, and financial capital simply represents human capital that was converted to income and saved rather than spent. From this perspective, the reality is that for younger clients, financial planners can bring significant value to the table by helping clients to enhance and maximize not just their financial capital, but also their human capital. Sometimes, it may even be better to invest in the client's career than a tax-preferenced retirement account, and many clients unwittingly fail to diversify between their financial and human capital. Accordingly, in the future firms that are aiming to serve younger clientele should consider adding "career asset management" services, and advising clients on their career decisions, and not focus too heavily on "just" the financial products clients need to purchase or the assets they have available to manage. In fact, such services may be especially conducive to an ongoing retainer-style financial planning engagement, and become a way for advisors to bring value to the large number of underserved Gen X and Gen Y clients. And of course, clients who are effective maximizing their human capital in the early years may even become the clients with the most financial assets in the future, too! Defining Human Capital The concept of "human capital" is relatively simple: as human beings, we have the potential to labor, create products, and/or render services in exchange for compensation (in the past for barter and trade, in today's modern economy for money that can be used to fund various consumption needs). The more income we can generate, and/or the longer we're willing to do the work, the greater the economic value of our worker capabilities. Accordingly, the total value of our "human capital" is simply the (net present) value of our future earnings potential. Ultimately, as we work and labor, we convert our human capital potential into actual income and cash flow, which in turn we can choose to spend (consume now) or save in the form of financial capital (to consume later). In fact, viewed from this perspective, arguably then our primary source of wealth as human beings is actually our human capital, and our financial assets simply represent the portion of our human capital that we chose to save for future consumption rather than spend at the time it was earned (supplemented, perhaps, by an outside inheritance). In fact,†we could show a client's balance sheet as a combination of assets in the form of financial and (lifetime) human capital, against which we have financial and (lifetime) spending/consumption goals. If our lifetime assets exceed our lifetime liabilities, the remainder is positive and we will leave a financial legacy behind; if the remainder is negative, we are living beyond our means and need to either decrease our liabilities (spending) or increase our assets (earn more or work longer to expand our human capital).  The moment of retirement represents the point where human capital goes to $0, and our remaining consumption needs for life must be dependent upon financial capital alone. Conversely, in the earlier years, total wealth may be dominated by potential human capital, as little has yet been earned and saved in the form of financial capital. Accordingly, we also purchase disability insurance to protect against the risk that the value of our human capital ó especially in those early years where it represents the dominant portion of our wealth ó might unexpectedly experience a precipitous decline as a result of an accident or significant change in health. Planning For Human Versus Financial Capital The reason why this distinction between financial and human capital matters is that just as we engage in financial planning to help clients maximize their use of financial capital, so too can we engage in financial planning strategies to maximize their human capital. In fact,†for younger clients ó where the size of human capital may dwarf the value of their financial capital ó effective human capital planning may actually represent the greater opportunity to add value! For instance, over a multi-decade working career, helping clients to negotiate a raise, or earning some additional income from consulting or self employment, can have a dramatic financial impact. Similarly, when human capital is viewed as an asset that can be invested in and enhanced, it even raises the question of whether young people should focus on saving more in the early years, or†instead trying to reinvest into their careers with job skills that can secure a future raise may be an even better deal than contributing to a Roth IRA. Overall, the reality is that for many clients, helping them negotiate a 1% raise will have drastically more financial impact than trying to generate another 1% of returns. In addition, it's notable that sometimes planning lies at the intersection of financial and human capital. For instance, from the perspective of total balance sheet diversification, arguably those with more stable human capital can afford to take more portfolio risks, while those with volatile human capital should invest far more conservatively. Thus, for instance, a government worker or a tenured professor might have an aggressive portfolio, while a salesperson or an athlete might be invested far more conservatively... leaving both with comparable volatility on their†total†balance sheet. Similarly, when an individual's human capital is already tied to their company and industry, it becomes even clearer why their financial capital shouldn't be concentrated there as well. And of course, in practice many clients will make decisions about one part of their balance sheet to help the other. For instance, choosing to work longer and adding more years of income to the picture can help to shore up a shortfall of financial capital (as can choosing to spend less and reducing the 'liability' of cumulative future consumption). Financial Planning Services To Enhance Human Capital So how does this fit into the framework of services that a financial planning firm provides to its clients? The first is to simply recognize the intersection of decisions about financial and human capital, from recognizing that sometimes investing in the human capital is a better decision than saving financial capital, to the fact that sometimes the risks of one may need to be balanced against (or diversified away from) the risks of the other. The second is to acknowledge that there is a material potential benefit for financial planners to provide advice for clients about their careers, and that "career asset management" is a significant value proposition under itself. Envision a world where financial planners don't only compare investment performance to benchmarks, but also help clients benchmark their compensation given their job duties and capabilities, help them make decisions about which investments in education and job skills may have the biggest payoff, and even assist them in taking a break from the workforce to reinvest themselves into a new more lucrative career path. In the meantime, planners might engage clients with†Ramit Sethi's "Earn 1K"†program to help start generating income on the side, or the kind of guidance that Sethi includes in his video below:  Certainly, for advisory firms that concentrate on retirees and near-retirees, the benefits of a focus on human capital will be limited; quite literally, the clients will have nearly depleted their human capital at that point, and their financial capital will be the larger of the two, and the one justifiably most deserving of attention. But for younger clients, particularly those in the Gen X and Y demographics, human capital may represent a far greater opportunity and value-add, and a way for advisors to provide value for those who don't have the financial assets to purchase traditional financial products or engage on an assets-under-management basis. In fact, human capital advice services ó and the ongoing nature of the opportunity as the client's career unfolds over time ó may be a particularly effective service to wrap into†an ongoing monthly retainer style business model for serving the younger demographics. The bottom line, though, is simply this: for a huge number of clients, especially amongst those who are not already retired, human capital is not only an asset that can be managed, advised upon, and enhanced by good financial planning, but may actually be the largest asset on the client's balance sheet. Isn't it time to give that asset more financial planning attention? Or are you one of the few who are already providing value to clients in this area?
This is a not-so-great development... From my perch†at the crossroads I've been watching the formation of several tribes materializing around some of the highest-flying cult stocks, predominantly within the tech sector. There is a Tesla Tribe and a Google Tribe and an Amazon Tribe and a Facebook Tribe and a Netflix Tribe and probably a handful of others right now. Merrian-Webster defines the word 'tribe' as "a group of persons having a common character, occupation, or interest." This description would be a fairly apt one in terms of the way traders and "investors" seem to be rallying 'round their favorite ticker symbol's flag these days. The stories behind these stocks are becoming canonical to those who've made a lot of money with them. The valuation justifications for their share prices are requiring an increasing amount of ideological contortion with every ten percent rally. "Don't bet against Elon Musk, if he can just capture 10% of the global auto market by 2018 and we can use a healthy discount rate on cashflow looking five years forward..." Believing in the business plans and their eventual profitably has become something of an article of faith amongst the tribes. Questioning whether or not they will ever be profitable enough to justify the current enthusiasm is enough to get you voted off the island during the next earnings call / tribal council. "Hasn't Jeff Bezos already proven himself over and over again?" I'm seeing "Facebook People" squaring off against the "Google People" about which company has the better mobile strategy. The Musk-ites are tilting at the Page-ists, who are sneering at the Bezos-ians who are bristling at the idea that Reed Hastings isn't the most innovative in all the land. If Steve Jobs were still around, his acolytes would surely be engaged in this cult-of-personality jihad up to their elbows. If you substituted a few of the proper nouns and names from these squabbles with those of professional athletes and sports franchises, they would almost be identical. The thing to keep in mind is that this undying loyalty toward stocks that have rewarded their tribes so well is not a feature of a calm and orderly bull market. Tailgating before an quarterly earnings call is the kind of thing we typically see toward the latter stages of a bull market, not in the beginning phase or even the middle. "Traditional valuation metrics have never been able to capture the competitive position that Netflix has built for itself!" This is not to say that Facebook and Chipotle and Amazon and Buffalo Wild Wings are automatic sells - the key to remaining long these names is probably just an awareness of the phenomenon. It is essential that investors in these story stocks don't allow the narrative to possess their hearts and minds. Enthusiasm is good, but fandom can be a killer when it affects one's objectivity as new information emerges, good or bad. Can you stick with the stock but stay out of the tribe? Read Also: My Edge and the Crossroads (TRB)
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesA college student is stoked to land a summer gig as a union-wage doorman‚Äîuntil he learns the job description includes everything from hauling out hoarders to discovering dead bodies. The smells are the thing I don‚Äôt forget. Harsh cleaners, dead bodies, the results of four a.m. bodega runs, cluttered apartments filled with rotting paper. I can recall each smell distinctively; they are unique to that time and place. It also works in reverse: if I stumble upon one of the smells, it takes me back to being a na√Øve seventeen-year-old, working in the hot New York City summer‚Äîthe buzz of air conditioners working in the night, straining power grids. The city was asleep and I was awake. I was a doorman. Through the best Catholic invention of all time‚Äînepotism‚Äîmy uncle gave me a summertime job. While most of the youth of America struggled to find any money-making position, I was going to make $660 for my forty hours a week,¬†after taxes. Union rules‚Äîgod bless union rules‚Äîadded time-and-a-half for overtime and double time-and-a-half for holidays. I covered vacations‚Äîmost of the doormen and porters in the building had at least three weeks paid‚Äîso I would work whenever I was needed and, as a result, worked the crappy shifts. The swing shifts‚Äîliterally working¬†any time of day or night‚Äîand the midnight-to-eight a.m. shift became my summer. That first summer, I dedicated myself to finding some kind of spiritual awakening. I decided to read the entire Kurt Vonnegut canon. It was not in order, but during lunch breaks and slow times at the door I would peel back the pages and plunge in. * ¬† * ¬† * The summer went by quickly. June and July were consumed by Nazi propagandists (Mother Night), Watergate (Jailbird), and Kilgore Trout. It was those unrelenting August nights that played and preyed on my mind my first year. The lobby A/C barely worked and I constantly sweat through my baby blue polyester building-issued shirt. I would spend the midnight-to-eight-a.m. shift reading at the desk. At around four I would lock the front door and walk to the bodega on Broadway with a box cutter in my pocket (‚ÄúAlways carry this,‚Äù my uncle told me the first night). There I would buy cups of iced coffee, Red Bull and gum. I hated walking back. The lack of social interactions on the overnight shift killed me. I would be lucky if I had the chance to talk with anybody coherent. Midnight to three consisted of the drunks‚Äîrich residents and rich friends stumbling around, fumbling for keys, phones, wallets. Three to five was dead‚Äînobody in or out. While I waited for sunrise, five to eight was work‚Äîpeeling my back from the stool, locking the door, taking the newspapers that magically appeared on the stoop (I never saw the delivery van), and putting out garbage bins on all of the floors. Residents ran out yelling on phones, at children, at occupied taxis speeding by as I handed out keys to housekeepers, learning to communicate in broken English. I greeted the porters and day doorman, who never came up to the desk at eight, always at 8:05 a.m. or later, wearing a snide smile. At the end of the shift, I would run to the subway and take it to Grand Central Terminal to reverse¬†commute. I was going home from work to the suburbs while most people were traveling to their jobs in the city. Sleeping against the sun on the train, then in my bed, I would wake up in the afternoon. ‚ÄúWhat am I doing?‚Äù I asked myself. ‚ÄúYou are making money,‚Äù¬†I answered. What day is it? What month is it? I lost all sense of time and all ability to interact. The weeks on the overnight shift were like solitary confinement. My day planner from that period makes no sense; pages either blank or full of scribbling of strange ideas. It was my own personal¬†Groundhog Day¬†every night, the same, unmovable time loop over and over and over. Vonnegut, of all people, tried to keep me sane. * ¬† * ¬† * Ben Juers/Narratively6H - The Hoarder New York City residents know an incredible amount about their neighbors, without even doing too much detective work. Smells and open doors can give you insightful knowledge into neighboring rooms, but the remaining mystery of what residents don‚Äôt know about their neighbors is exploited. It is exploited by those working in buildings. Nobody ever went inside 6H. In a building with 120 apartments you recognize faces, names on packages and number-letter combinations. 6H never came up. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre going upstairs,‚Äù my uncle said one day. He fished a key from his shirt pocket and tossed it to me. ‚ÄúTo 6H.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhat are we doin‚Äô?‚Äù ‚ÄúYou‚Äôll see.‚Äù After the short elevator ride, I tried¬†the key in the door of 6H. My uncle laughed at the struggle; he knew exactly what he was doing. ‚ÄúWhat are you doing?‚Äù he mockingly yelled and motioned me away. He opened the door in one swift motion, but it only moved in three inches. It was pitch black, bizarre for an early afternoon summer day. I fished out my mini Maglite and pushed hard on the door. Something crashed and all I saw was paper. Rotting sheets revealed the half-life of newsprint. I couldn‚Äôt see walls or windows. We stepped over old newspapers and issues of magazines. I remember a New Yorker issue covered with¬†an army of snowmen. It was dated January 8, 1972. ‚ÄúThis lady died two years ago,‚Äù my uncle informs me. ‚ÄúNot in here, thank god. We would have never found her.‚Äù It sat empty of humans but full of stories, clips, bills, letters. I made a joke about turning up the heat to 451 degrees Fahrenheit. My uncle stared at me. I mumbled something back to cover my embarrassment. The son of the dead woman was finally able to sell the one-bedroom apartment, after two years of court probate due to the lack of a will. We found the will when we were emptying out the apartment. The garbage filled three forty-cubic-yard dumpsters. The will left all of the woman‚Äôs fortune and apartment to various public institutions, with no mention of the son. He was cut out. The next day we revealed this to him. We gave him the document, for which he tipped us an extra $200 each. Nothing was said. The apartment was repainted and sold for over a million dollars, which a court allowed the son to keep. The will ended up like all of those other words‚Äîin a landfill, forgotten, never to be read again. * ¬† * ¬† * Ben Juers/Narratively2B¬†‚Äì The Body New York City residents also have an interesting relationship with death. We are constantly surrounded by it, but we're¬†blissfully ignorant, even when it happens to our neighbors. ‚ÄúAunt ______ isn‚Äôt answering my calls. Can you check on her?‚Äù This was the scariest two-sentence combination I heard as a doorman. That old lady in 2B wasn‚Äôt in the Hamptons. I knew exactly where she was. She was fucking dead, in her apartment. The doorman and porters gathered around the front desk, drawing imaginary straws. I walked up. The key was on top of the doorman podium. All three men‚Äîthe two other porters and daytime doorman‚Äîlooked at me, grinning. ‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù ‚ÄúMrs. ______‚Äôs relative called. They haven‚Äôt heard from her in a few days.‚Äù Corey, the daytime doorman, answered. ‚ÄúSo?‚Äù ‚ÄúSo, you have to‚Äî‚Äù Corey was cut off. ‚ÄúShe is fucking dead in there, man,‚Äù Eddie yelled. ‚ÄúYou have to go check before we call the cops.‚Äù ‚ÄúJust call them.‚Äù Corey tried to retain order. ‚ÄúWe can‚Äôt, you have to check first.‚Äù ‚ÄúShit, why do I have to?‚Äù ‚ÄúBecause.‚Äù ‚ÄúFuck that, I‚Äôm not.‚Äù All three guys stared at me, the seventeen-year-old Kurt Vonnegut-reading summertime worker.¬†I was their peon all summer: mopping, cleaning, lifting, pulling and climbing while they sat in air conditioning and watched NY1 in the break room. I didn't want to see a dead body. ‚ÄúFine, fine, fine. You¬†pendejo,‚Äù the oldest porter, Manny, said. ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs go.‚Äù On the elevator ride up, he told me that this would be his fourth dead body, bragging about his experienced undertaker status. It is sick, but I understood the joy Manny could not help but express. Some of the residents constantly talked down to us: ‚ÄúBoy, did you empty those bins?‚Äù ‚ÄúThis hallway hasn‚Äôt been mopped in weeks! I‚Äôm calling the building management company.‚Äù (I had cleaned it the previous day.) Nothing compared to being asked my first day by a longtime resident‚Äîwho was hated equally by porters, doormen¬†and¬†her neighbors‚Äîif I spoke English. She followed it up with¬†, ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs about time they got some white people working here.‚Äù Even the ones who pretended to be nice only did so for ulterior motives: ‚ÄúHey! How‚Äôs it going? How about those Yankees?" (Translation: I know you know that I‚Äôm cheating on my wife after you saw me coming home in that cab last week. You opened the door when I was pulling my hand out of¬†my mistress‚Äôs skirt. I will be nice to you, and tip you well, if you don‚Äôt tell anyone.) ‚ÄúYou want a soda? You hungry?‚Äù (I know you know I have male prostitutes visit me in my apartment late at night. I will continue to buy you food if you don‚Äôt tell anyone.) Manny was in control. His joy came from being one of the first to see Mrs. ______; all the residents would ask him about it. He would be the center of the building gossip, temporarily, but at the center nonetheless. ‚ÄúI hope,‚Äù he grinned, ‚Äúthat she isn‚Äôt burnt alive.‚Äù ‚ÄúCome on,‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúTwo years ago, Mr. ______ was smoking a cigar in his bedroom,‚Äù Manny said. ‚ÄúAll of the rooms are fireproofed. He had a heart attack in his bed and the cigar burnt his body.‚Äù I didn‚Äôt believe him. I couldn‚Äôt believe him. Later I confirmed with my uncle, my only friend here, that Mr. ______ did in fact die of a heart attack and get incinerated by a cigar. My uncle, who smoked cigarettes while he recounted this story, looked under the coroner‚Äôs white sheet because his curiosity of what burnt flesh looks like got the better of him. The elevator doors opened. I pushed the key into the keyhole and wiggled it until it caught. All the lights were on. I scanned the living room. Then, I saw it. An arm, completely dark blue,¬†limp over the side of the couch. She was facing the TV. The smell in the apartment was every clich√© from every horrible television detective procedural. It was acrid; it smelled like rotting meat. I couldn‚Äôt take it and I ran outside. I desperately wanted to vomit but couldn‚Äôt show weakness in front of Manny. He would tell the others and I would be mocked for the entire summer. Manny and I went downstairs and he told Corey to call 911. The cop car was followed by the coroner‚Äôs van. The coroners carried the body on a stretcher out of the service entrance. As the body went into the van, all of the porters stared at each other. I went back inside and worked extremely fast so I could make the 4:20 train. I focused on my work so I could ignore the smell my brain couldn‚Äôt get rid of. I made the train, got home and showered for a long time to try to get rid of the smell. I looked at the water circling the drain, and felt nothing. * ¬† * ¬† * My first summer as a doorman came to a close. I worked for two more summers during college. At the end of my third, I knew it would be my last. The union leadership in the building was changing and 32BJ was strong. I also knew I wouldn‚Äôt miss it. ‚ÄúCorey‚Äôs dead.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù ‚ÄúCorey‚Äôs dead. This morning, heart attack.‚Äù I could tell this wasn‚Äôt a prank. I could tell my uncle was tearing up over the phone, trying to fight showing any emotion at all. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm going to need you to work all break,‚Äù my uncle continued. ‚ÄúThe money will be great. Lot of holiday and overtime pay.‚Äù I had just finished finals at NYU, right before winter break. I hadn‚Äôt slept in three days. I said yes and hung up. I hated Corey. He showed up late all the time and always yelled at me for rules that he himself violated continually. And now, I had to be him. I had to wear his fancy clothes and play the part of the daytime doorman. On the overnight shift, I didn‚Äôt have to dress up, but during my short reign over the coveted eight-to-four daytime shift I had to wear a hat that hung over my ears and an overcoat that dragged on the floor when it was slung over my shoulders. The snow did nothing to slow or freeze my hatred of Corey, or of the way the residents treated me. This was the end. * ¬† * ¬† * After that break, I never went back to work as a doorman. My uncle is now retired and most of the workers have been replaced‚Äîsome after forty years of service‚Äîdue to a change in union leadership. I hate walking by the front door. It‚Äôs like going back to the carnival or office you worked at when you were a teenager. When you had no idea who you were. Garrett McGrath¬†is a frequent Narratively contributor. Follow him on Twitter¬†@garrettpmcgrath. Ben Juers¬†is a Sydney-based cartoonist whose work has appeared in The Lifted Brow, Seven Days and the Australian Book Review. * ¬† * ¬† * Narratively is an online magazine devoted to original, in-depth and untold stories. Each week, Narratively explores a different theme and publishes just one story a day. It was one of TIME's "50 Best Websites of 2013.  Read more at Narrative.ly: Whatever Happened to the Kids from 'Kids'?¬† A Clean Slate for Tattooed Ex-Cons Reclaiming The Foreskin
Vanity Fair's latest Wall Street story is a take down of Dan Loeb, the CEO of hedge fund Third Point Partners. It's called 'Little Big Man.' The story, written by William D. Cohan, is incredibly unflattering, and characterizes him as a vitriolic, petty, overly aggressive man with little regard for the boundaries of decency. Here's a quote: A colleague who has known Loeb for decades says Loeb ìcan write the most obnoxious letters on the planet, make up sh-tó[because he does] not really care Ö whether or not you hurt people or donít hurt people. You just donít care. The only thing you care about is making money on their stock. . . . [His letters] were juvenile, sophomoric, and cringe-making. Horrible. If youíre a decent member of society you [donít do] shit like that. But he did. That was his business strategy. He was very smart. Because other peopleómost of usóhave certain values and certain norms, and there are certain boundaries we just wonít cross. And he just obviously doesnít have those same kind of limitations. Never has.î And if you think that's bad. Here's the art that goes with it.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Hedge Funds                                            Dan Loeb                                            Wall Street                                            Vanity Fair                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						3									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Here's The Brutal Artwork Vanity Fair Attached To Its Piece On Dan Loeb    Here's The Brutal Artwork Vanity Fair Attached To Its Piece On Dan Loeb        He's so small!!
REUTERS/Tim ShafferEBay founder and chairman Pierre Omidyar in Delaware, December 7, 2009. The billionaire's dilemma: spend $250m on buying the venerable Washington Post, or splash the cash on a start-up news network to be headed by a controversial investigative journalist with no experience of running anything?  It is entirely in character that Pierre Omidyar chose the second option, bankrolling the new journalism venture of Glenn Greenwald, best known for his reporting on the National Security Agency. Mr Omidyar did not become a billionaire at the age of 31 by fixing an established institution, but by building eBay from scratch into a worldwide online marketplace. And fostering innovative start-ups with an ambition to improve the world has been the focus of his philanthropy since he gave up his executive role at eBay while still in his 30s.  Mr Omidyar, who is now 46, has already deployed $1 billion of his fortune to this end, which puts his $250m media investment into perspective: a big bet, but not that big. His wealth--still around $8.5 billion--is not the only reason why any venture by Mr Omidyar should be taken seriously. Both at eBay and in his charitable schemes he has demonstrated an ability to turn a promising but vague idea into something concrete and substantial. And the evolution of his philanthropy is a case study with lessons for other entrepreneurs seeking to become benefactors. In his first few years as a big giver, Mr Omidyar went from embracing the conventional wisdom to challenging it. From the days of Carnegie and Rockefeller a century ago to Bill Gates today, the American tradition has been for the rich to give a large chunk of their fortune to a foundation, usually carrying their name, which then doles out chunks of money to charities it likes. Mr Omidyar started out doing that, but quickly concluded that handing out grants was not the most effective use of his money. His experience at eBay led him to conclude that in the right circumstances a business can be at least as powerful a force for good as a charity. By creating a readily accessible global marketplace, eBay had given hundreds of thousands of people the chance to improve their lives by becoming online entrepreneurs. So in 2004 Mr Omidyar replaced his foundation with a new organisation, Omidyar Network, which sees itself as an active investor, not a passive donor, and is free to put money equally into for-profit and non-profit ventures. Almost half of the 300 or so outfits it has backed aimed to make money--though Mr Omidyar has said that any profits will be recycled, with none going back to him. The network's early years were a mess, with the sort of frequent strategy changes and staff turnover that are common among foundations. Things have got better since 2007, when Mr Omidyar brought in Matt Bannick, a former head of eBay's international operations, to run the network. He has focused it on five main themes: financial inclusion, consumer internet and mobile telecoms, education, property rights and open government. With the non-profits it backs, ranging from Kiva, a microfinance website, to the Sunlight Foundation, which promotes open government, Omidyar Network practises "venture philanthropy"--developing a non-profit start-up in the same way as a new business venture, except for not expecting it to make money one day. Typically, foundations have given funds for a specific project rather than to build the capabilities of the charity itself, which makes it hard for the charity to hire and retain talented people.In contrast, the network not only provides money for its charities' general budget, it has a human-resources department that helps them find good staff. This service seems to be universally appreciated by the charities Mr Omidyar backs, some of which say it is more valuable than the money they get. Although there are several other successful venture-philanthropy organisations, such as New Profit Inc (which helped develop the Teach for America charity), none comes close to the scale of Omidyar Network, which makes it the crucial test case for the idea. The moneymaking counterpart to venture philanthropy is "impact investing": aiming to turn a profit while doing some social or environmental good. But Mr Omidyar thinks most so-called impact investors are being too risk-averse. He has concentrated on trying to build viable businesses that sell to the very poorest consumers, where costs must be pared to the bone. Some of these already look promising. D.light, a provider of cheap lamps that absorb solar energy during the day and dispense light at night, in place of dangerous and toxic kerosene lamps, is now shipping 500,000 units a month, in India and Africa. Bridge International Academies now has 200 schools providing poor children in Kenya with a decent education for $5 a month. MicroEnsure, a firm that gets mobile-phone companies to provide free life-assurance as an incentive for loyal subscribers, now serves over 4.5m people in Africa and Asia, up from 600,000 in 2010. To be judged a success, Omidyar Network will need some of these promising start-ups to grow far bigger. To encourage this, it is seeking ways to co-ordinate its investments in for-profits and non-profits so as to accelerate the growth of an entire sector. So far it has succeeded only, to some extent, in microfinance, where it has invested in for-profit lenders and in non-profits that provide the "ecosystem" for the market, such as credit bureaus and consumer-information services, for which there was no viable commercial model. Can Mr Omidyar do the same in education? Or health? Or indeed journalism? His media venture is in a similar spirit to his other projects, seeking a new business model for the investigative journalism that he sees as a crucial underpinning of democracy. Years more of work will be needed before it is clear whether his mix of impact investing and venture philanthropy can deliver social change on the scale Mr Omidyar dreams of. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
REUTERS/Tim ShafferEBay founder and chairman Pierre Omidyar in Delaware, December 7, 2009. The billionaire's dilemma: spend $250m on buying the venerable Washington Post, or splash the cash on a start-up news network to be headed by a controversial investigative journalist with no experience of running anything?  It is entirely in character that Pierre Omidyar chose the second option, bankrolling the new journalism venture of Glenn Greenwald, best known for his reporting on the National Security Agency. Mr Omidyar did not become a billionaire at the age of 31 by fixing an established institution, but by building eBay from scratch into a worldwide online marketplace. And fostering innovative start-ups with an ambition to improve the world has been the focus of his philanthropy since he gave up his executive role at eBay while still in his 30s.  Mr Omidyar, who is now 46, has already deployed $1 billion of his fortune to this end, which puts his $250m media investment into perspective: a big bet, but not that big. His wealth--still around $8.5 billion--is not the only reason why any venture by Mr Omidyar should be taken seriously. Both at eBay and in his charitable schemes he has demonstrated an ability to turn a promising but vague idea into something concrete and substantial. And the evolution of his philanthropy is a case study with lessons for other entrepreneurs seeking to become benefactors. In his first few years as a big giver, Mr Omidyar went from embracing the conventional wisdom to challenging it. From the days of Carnegie and Rockefeller a century ago to Bill Gates today, the American tradition has been for the rich to give a large chunk of their fortune to a foundation, usually carrying their name, which then doles out chunks of money to charities it likes. Mr Omidyar started out doing that, but quickly concluded that handing out grants was not the most effective use of his money. His experience at eBay led him to conclude that in the right circumstances a business can be at least as powerful a force for good as a charity. By creating a readily accessible global marketplace, eBay had given hundreds of thousands of people the chance to improve their lives by becoming online entrepreneurs. So in 2004 Mr Omidyar replaced his foundation with a new organisation, Omidyar Network, which sees itself as an active investor, not a passive donor, and is free to put money equally into for-profit and non-profit ventures. Almost half of the 300 or so outfits it has backed aimed to make money--though Mr Omidyar has said that any profits will be recycled, with none going back to him. The network's early years were a mess, with the sort of frequent strategy changes and staff turnover that are common among foundations. Things have got better since 2007, when Mr Omidyar brought in Matt Bannick, a former head of eBay's international operations, to run the network. He has focused it on five main themes: financial inclusion, consumer internet and mobile telecoms, education, property rights and open government. With the non-profits it backs, ranging from Kiva, a microfinance website, to the Sunlight Foundation, which promotes open government, Omidyar Network practises "venture philanthropy"--developing a non-profit start-up in the same way as a new business venture, except for not expecting it to make money one day. Typically, foundations have given funds for a specific project rather than to build the capabilities of the charity itself, which makes it hard for the charity to hire and retain talented people.In contrast, the network not only provides money for its charities' general budget, it has a human-resources department that helps them find good staff. This service seems to be universally appreciated by the charities Mr Omidyar backs, some of which say it is more valuable than the money they get. Although there are several other successful venture-philanthropy organisations, such as New Profit Inc (which helped develop the Teach for America charity), none comes close to the scale of Omidyar Network, which makes it the crucial test case for the idea. The moneymaking counterpart to venture philanthropy is "impact investing": aiming to turn a profit while doing some social or environmental good. But Mr Omidyar thinks most so-called impact investors are being too risk-averse. He has concentrated on trying to build viable businesses that sell to the very poorest consumers, where costs must be pared to the bone. Some of these already look promising. D.light, a provider of cheap lamps that absorb solar energy during the day and dispense light at night, in place of dangerous and toxic kerosene lamps, is now shipping 500,000 units a month, in India and Africa. Bridge International Academies now has 200 schools providing poor children in Kenya with a decent education for $5 a month. MicroEnsure, a firm that gets mobile-phone companies to provide free life-assurance as an incentive for loyal subscribers, now serves over 4.5m people in Africa and Asia, up from 600,000 in 2010. To be judged a success, Omidyar Network will need some of these promising start-ups to grow far bigger. To encourage this, it is seeking ways to co-ordinate its investments in for-profits and non-profits so as to accelerate the growth of an entire sector. So far it has succeeded only, to some extent, in microfinance, where it has invested in for-profit lenders and in non-profits that provide the "ecosystem" for the market, such as credit bureaus and consumer-information services, for which there was no viable commercial model. Can Mr Omidyar do the same in education? Or health? Or indeed journalism? His media venture is in a similar spirit to his other projects, seeking a new business model for the investigative journalism that he sees as a crucial underpinning of democracy. Years more of work will be needed before it is clear whether his mix of impact investing and venture philanthropy can deliver social change on the scale Mr Omidyar dreams of. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Earlier, stocks were up. Now, they're down. The release of the FOMC's October policy statement from the Federal Reserve at 2 PM ET is the big event of the day. Ahead of the release, the S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq are both 0.3% lower, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.2%. Meanwhile, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.2%, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 2.48%, two basis points lower from yesterday's close. The big question on the minds of market participants ahead of the FOMC release is whether or not the Fed will try to leave the door opening to tapering its quantitative easing program in the next few meetings. Click here for a complete preview ¬ª The chart below shows trading in S&amp;P 500 futures this morning. Thinkorswim
Starbucks is ubiquitous, but the coffee chain still has plenty of room to grow.¬† Trefis has released a report showing how customer traffic will continue to increase at Starbucks stores.¬† While Starbucks stores currently have an average of just over 500 customers per day, that number will grow to more than 750 customers in 2020, according to the report. An expanded food menu, Starbucks' mobile app, and mobile payment capabilities will help drive Starbucks growth in the future, Trefis writes.¬† The company will report earnings later today.¬† Here's the chart showing growth:¬† Trefis 
Druckenmiller, who previously had a reputation for being press shy, told CNBC today that he added a little more to his Google position following the tech giant's third-quarter earnings results.† He touted Google for having the "greatest business model in American business."† He also said that Larry Page, the company's CEO, is "this generation's Thomas Edison."† Right now, Druckenmiller says he sees the stock as "really well priced." He added that you don't know what else they're going to come up with noting that they have the Google Car, and Google Glass.† Back in September, Druckenmiller told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle that he was "lost" in this market. He said that if he found a stock he really liked that he would buy it, or one that he really hated he would short it.† Well, it looks like Google has been one idea working out for him. Google's stock has been on a tear over the past six months.† It recently broke the $1,000 range and it's now trading at about $1,034 per share.† Druckenmiller got in the stock back in May. Check out the chart: Yahoo Finance
Deutsche BankThe consensus among Wall Street economists and strategists is that the Federal Reserve will strike a dovish tone with today's release of the statement from the October FOMC meeting. Observers are focused on changes to the section about the economy: they suggest the FOMC will update this part of the statement to reflect the ongoing uncertainties surrounding the fiscal battles in Washington that were cited as one part of the reason to refrain from tapering quantitative easing in September, when everyone expected it to happen. Alan Ruskin, managing director and global head of G-10 FX at Deutsche Bank, disagrees. "Although not much is expected from the October FOMC, it is difficult to see the statement pushing central expectations of tapering beyond March 2014, and easier to see some subtle signals that could show the door remains ajar to a tapering before then," he writes in a note. "In the October statement the most important signals to watch for include on the hawkish side: how much the Fed retreats from concerns related to tightening of financial conditions." Financial conditions, which have eased since the FOMC's surprise September decision, are the key, as Ruskin explains: The updated Financial conditions indicator to Oct 28th shows a 12m deterioration that warrants some attention, but the more recent big story is the sharp improvement in the FCI in the 6 weeks since the last FOMC meeting. Were the Fed to soon taper, the FCI has built up a nice cushion, such that conditions are unlikely to be nearly as threatening as we saw before the September FOMC meeting. This is one important benefit from the delay to tapering. Although Financial conditions (FCI) have eased substantially since the September FOMC meeting, this FCI easing will be regarded by the Fed as highly desirable and certainly not something to use FOMC statement language to ëprotestí against. Nonetheless, it is more or less inevitable that the FOMC changes the September language on FCI in a more hawkish direction. Last time, they said, ìThe Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market.î This time they will have to at least acknowledge the tentative improvement in FCI. Many strategists believe that given expectations, any hawkish shift like this could upset markets. As Alvin Tan, director of FX strategies at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, puts it in a note to clients this morning, "The market is definitely looking (and positioned) for a dovish treat from the Fed, or else we could see some tricky markets near-term." Click here for a complete preview of today's FOMC release, due out at 2 PM ET ª
"Napoleonic," "Machiavellian," Kanye Westian ‚Äî this wasn't the kind of story¬†Dan Loeb was hoping for. In the new issue of¬†Vanity Fair, William D. Cohan profiles the hedge funder, and the piece is as brutal as Loeb's famously caustic activist "letters of mass destruction." It seems finance folks are eager to slam Loeb, who has made plenty of enemies throughout his meteoric rise, 2008 fall, and post-crisis boomerang. From Vanity Fair: A Wall Streeter who has known Loeb since his early days in New York describes how Loeb climbed to the pinnacle of hedge-fund success: He started out ‚Äúa little bit like J.P.‚ÄîJohn Paulson [founder and president of the hedge fund Paulson &amp; Co.]. He was doing O.K. No one took him terribly seriously. And then he kind of figured out his niche. We all know what his niche is: He is just long and loud. He took a position and then started screaming and trying to force some change. He was smart to occupy a place that was really left vacant: All the private-equity funds and the banks had to get out of [doing] hostile deals, and it was left to the guys who didn‚Äôt give a crap, knew how to do it, and had nothing that they were compromising or putting in jeopardy by taking on those powers. Carl Icahn didn‚Äôt give a fuck. Dan Loeb didn‚Äôt give a fuck. I don‚Äôt think anyone‚Äôs ever said Dan‚Äôs a really, really brilliant guy, but this is what the hedge-fund world allows you to be if you‚Äôre massively ambitious and you‚Äôre kind of really, really, really focused. You‚Äôll probably get there.‚Äù There's a ton more of this kind of color¬†in the story itself, as it stretches from Loeb's childhood, to his early days as a hedge fund manager posting vitriolic commentary on equities anonymously online under the pseudonym 'Mr. Pink,' up to his time as an activist now. Very much worth a read.¬† One of Loeb's former friends willing to speak on the record was Robert Chapman, a hedge funder in California.¬†He offers up the "juiciest" part of the piece about a little issue Loeb faced in Cuba in 2002: In March 2002 there was a strange blip in Loeb‚Äôs biography, when he traveled to Cuba with his friend Alexander von Furstenberg (son of the designer Diane von Furstenberg, a¬†Vanity Fair¬†contributor) for what was supposed to be a long weekend. Things unexpectedly took a dark turn, and according to a lawsuit later filed by Youlia Miteva, a former Third Point analyst who accused Loeb of breach of contract, among other things, ‚ÄúCuban authorities had refused to allow him to leave.‚Äù Asked what had happened in Cuba, Loeb told me earlier this year, for a previous¬†Vanity Fair¬†story, that he had been involved in a car accident, stuck around for a couple more weeks, had a legal hearing, and everything turned out fine. According to Chapman, a desperate and sobbing Loeb had called him from Cuba, where he was confined to his hotel after the accident. ‚ÄúI remember how scared Dan sounded when describing the incident involving his hitting a local Cuban kid with his car,‚Äù recalls Chapman. ‚ÄúI truly felt so sorry for him when he told me he had found himself unable to leave the country, curled up in a ball on the floor of his room crying, promising God that he‚Äôd do anything if the Almighty got him out of his predicament. It wasn‚Äôt as if Dan had done it on purpose, and who¬†really¬†knows what ended up happening to the kid?‚Äù It's hard to know where the truth lies here.¬†Loeb's art dealer friend¬†Christophe Van de Weghe told the New York Post that some versions of this story are bogus. "I was with Daniel Loeb in Cuba at the time of the accident and the period following. I state categorically that Daniel was never in jail . . . and that the child involved in the accident was not killed," Van de Weghe told the Post. "These statements are malicious and defamatory." The Vanity Fair story burns either way. Read the full profile at Vanity Fair¬†¬ª
This sprawling, seven story government building was recently built in the village of¬† Yungai.  Via Ifeng Nice right? The problem is, the building begins to look a little ostentatious when you consider that Yungai, an impoverished village on the outskirts of the city of Changsha in the central province of Hunan with just 3,683 residents, only has five government officials. In total, eight people will use the building. What's worse, according to the Telegraph, is that the building cost a reported 15 million yuan (around $2.4 million). One public official also told a Chinese news source that the construction was financed with "all debts, no payments." The construction of such an extravagent public building on it's own would probably be infuriating to the average Chinese citizen, but worse still is that it seems to be part of a trend ‚Äî things got so bad that earlier this summer, Beijing implemented a five year ban on new government buildings.
Screenshot via NDTVA local committee member of the Communist Party of India CPI(M), Samar Acharjee, has been ousted from the party after a video of him lying on a bed of money began to do the rounds.¬† In the video, Acharjee is reportedly saying that he pulled Rs 20 lakhs (approx $32,500) from his bank account to fulfill his "long cherished dream of sleeping on a bed of money," reports NDTV.¬† He goes on to add, "I am not a hypocrite like other party members who depict themselves as proletariat, yet have a huge amount of money." Acharjee is reported to have milked money through civic contracts, largely building public latrines, that he landed over the years. Since then, Adam Halliday of The Indian Express visited Acharjee in what he describes as "a two-room tin house in a narrow by-lane near Agartala's Jugendranagar railway station." Here's Acharjee's explanation from The Indian Express: "The "Rs 20 lakh" ‚Äî it was not nearly as much, Acharjee says ‚Äî was actually spread out at his business partner Santosh Bhoumik's equally sparse rented flat, a few minutes away. "They took turns lying on the money, Acharjee adds, as a joke. "We had withdrawn more than Rs 16 lakh for work on April 24. My house is nearer to Tripura Gramin Bank and so we kept the money there," says Bhoumik, who describes himself as a Left sympathizer. "The people who were to collect the money were an hour late. So we put the cash on the bed. We are not well-off people, and we were excited about having so much money. So to pass time we took videos of each other on our cellphones ‚Äî just as a joke, an innocent joke," says Acharjee. Acharjee told Halliday he did lie on the money but the video was edited to make it look like there was more money than there actually was. Acharjee claims the original video on his phone has been deleted and the entire fiasco has been an attempt to embarrass the Communist Party.¬† Watch the video here: 
REUTERS/ Jim YoungWe don't know of anyone who thinks the Federal Reserve will announce a tapering of its quantitative easing program today at the conclusion of its October FOMC meeting. However, Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid offers five reasons why you can't completely rule out such a move this morning in a note to clients: So will today's FOMC be as surprising to the market as the September meeting? Almost certainly not but you can't completely rule out a small taper for the following reasons: 1) In the September meeting a large majority of FOMC participants expected the taper to start before December; 2) the fiscal situation has been kicked down the road for a while; 3) financial conditions have arguably eased since the last meeting with rates lower and equities higher and 4) many of the members won't be on the committee into next year and may want to make a statement before leaving; and 5) they may feel a little bruised by the market's verbal reaction last time.  Overall we continue to think the Fed are trapped to a large degree by the liquidity they've provided financial markets over recent years which could destabilise assets if they reversed course without a strong economic recovery. Indeed the current data uncertainties is probably the biggest reason for holding fire at the moment, especially so soon after the shutdown. Indeed our view is that the Fed may have to adjust their criteria for tapering if they want to make regular cuts to QE in 2014. We're not sure how employment is going to suddenly pick up at this relatively mature stage of the cycle.  However when all said and done, the Fed do seem to want to taper and although we think they won't until well into next year, we can't help but think that the Fed are currently unpredictable enough at the moment that we need to be vigilant tonight and indeed in December. The story of the next 6 months could be very little tapering but a swing between liquidity complacency and liquidity fear. Maybe we're veering towards the former at the moment. DB‚Äôs Peter Hooper expects today‚Äôs FOMC to be most likely a ‚Äúwait and see event‚Äù though he sees the case for a taper now is about as strong as it was in September when it was a very close call. Last week, Mary-Beth Fisher, head of U.S. interest rate strategy at Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale, said there is a 10% chance that the FOMC elects to increase QE at this meeting. Many on Wall Street actually expect the Fed to try to send a dovish statement today, perhaps by tweaking the language surrounding economic conditions to reflect the impact of the government shutdown. Click here for a complete preview ¬ª
The Fed Model actually worked quite well in the late 1990s. It showed that the S&amp;P 500 was 21% overvalued during the week of July 4, 1997. It was then undervalued by 16% during the week of October 9, 1998 as a result of the meltdown of LTCM. It didn‚Äôt take long after that for the market to be overvalued by a record 69% during the week of January 14, 2000. Greenspan got his answer. The bubble burst, and so did the usefulness of the Fed Model. Since the start of the previous decade, the Fed Model has signaled that stocks were cheap relative to bonds. They got much cheaper during the last bear market from October 2007 through March 2009. Currently, the model shows that stocks are 63% undervalued relative to bonds. Or is it that bonds are overvalued relative to stocks because the Fed is keeping yields artificially low with its ultra-easy monetary policies? Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Detecting Irrational Exuberance. (1) Greenspan‚Äôs unanswered question about irrational exuberance. (2) The Maestro says stocks are cheap. (3) Fink says investors may be ‚Äúoverzealous.‚Äù (4) How to recognize irrational exuberance. (5) Why has the Fed Model been useless? (6) How much should we pay for subpar growth? (7) Bad news is good news until it isn‚Äôt. (8) S&amp;P 500 diverging from fundamentals thanks to Fed. (9) A melt-up portfolio: betting that the first shall continue to be first. (10) Focus on market-weighted S&amp;P 500 Retailers. (More for subscribers)
Tesla has greatly expanded the number of lithium-ion battery cells it's buying from Panasonic, the electric car maker announced today, hinting at a major increase in production of the Model S sedan and upcoming Model X SUV. Under the new agreement, Panasonic will supply nearly 2 billion cells over the next four years. The number of cells used in a Tesla Model S battery varies, but the biggest one uses about 7,000 cells, according to The New York Times. That means the new deal will provide Tesla enough juice to power more than 285,000 top-of-the-line sedans. Right now, Tesla is building more than 400 cars per week. In July, CEO Elon Musk said he plans to crank that up to 800 per week in late 2014. That's about 41,000 per year. To use all of the Panasonic battery cells within four years, Tesla will need to roughly double that production rate again. The new deal expands on a 2011 agreement, under which Panasonic provided enough battery cells to build 80,000 cars, according to Forbes.
Wolf of Wall Street trailerIn the last 24 hours, two awesome pieces of news about Martin Scorcese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" film have broken ó first, that it will hit theaters on Dec. 25, and second, that there's a new trailer out (you can watch it below). We've already taken a look at the script, written by Terence Winter, and luckily a bunch of the most awesome scenes seem to have stayed in the movie. You can check out scenes from the movie script here (spoiler alert) ª The movie tells the story of Jordan Belfort, a Long Island kid who rose to become a millionaire penny stock scammer and boiler-room boss. Back in the 1990s, Belfort ran Stratton-Oakmont, a Long Island-based pump and dump that found itself on top of the Wall Street world. Think: drugs, hookers, parties with performing midgets. And then it all came crashing down. Belfort went to jail for 20 months and lost everything. Check out the new trailer below: 

The S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high on Tuesday, and U.S. futures are pointing to another day in the green. In case you missed it, here's Dan Greenhaus on Tuesday commenting on this rare rally: You may have already noticed it, but the S&amp;P 500 rose today, the 13th time in the last 15 sessions it has done so (small and midcaps cannot make the same claim). This has happened before of course -- most recently on September 18 and before that, July 22 of this year -- but going back to 1960, a run such as this has happened less than 1% of the time. Yes it‚Äôs happened 8 times during the current recovery (S&amp;P rose 17 out of 20 days in December 2010) but during the previous expansion, the S&amp;P was able to muster a 13/15 gain just once, in September 2003. And if you can believe this, while it happened a bunch in the nonstop year of 1995, it didn‚Äôt happen once during 1996-March 2000. Not once. What does that mean, perhaps in light of Larry Fink's comments today? We‚Äôll leave that for another evening. Additionally, the Federal Reserve wraps up its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting today. Here's UBS's Art Cashin: An FOMC Pattern? ‚Äì Jason Goepfert notes that the S&amp;P has closed at a record high on the day before an FOMC statement 13 times.¬† On the following (statement) day, they moved higher, nearly two-thirds of the time.¬† Not so hot in the next three days. Earlier today, ADP told us that U.S. companies added only 130,000 private payrolls in October, down from 145,000 in September. This missed expectations and it was the lowest reading since May. Yet, markets are standing firm. These are extraordinary times. FinViz
 REUTERS/Chance ChanIn a note to clients on Tuesday, Credit Suisse's top equity strategist Andrew Garthwaite summarized "four key macro trends impacting asset prices in the coming months." Here they are verbatim: What does all this mean for the stock markets? "Underweight US equities relative to global markets: the US tends to underperform when global growth accelerates and has demanding relative valuations, which should come down as macro uncertainty (and the US' perceived 'safe-haven' appeal) declines," recommended Garthwaite. Still, he like equities as an asset class. "Overweight equities: lower macro uncertainty means the [equity risk premium] (currently at 5.4% on our EPS estimate) should fall further towards our target level (4.5%)," he added. "Accelerating global growth is good for the performance of equities relative to bonds. Relative valuations remain favourable until 10-year bond yields rise to 3.5%. We highlight developed market corporate spend plays.
APSen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) will attempt to block the nomination of Janet Yellen to chair the Federal Reserve unless there is consideration of the†Federal Reserve Transparency Act.† In a statement, Paul said he would place a "hold" on Yellen's nomination unless he gets a vote on the bill, which would require audits of the Fed and provide for other measures he argues would make the bank more transparent. He wrote a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) informing him of his intentions. "The American people have a right to know what this institution is doing with the nationís money supply. The Federal Reserve does not need prolonged secrecy ó it needs to be audited, and my bipartisan Federal Reserve Transparency Act will do just that," Paul said in the statement. A "hold" is an informal Senate procedure to signal a senator's intentions that he or she does not want a bill or nomination to reach the floor. In February,†Paul put a hold on the nomination†of John Brennan to be CIA Director while he awaited answers to questions about the U.S.' drone program. A few weeks later, Paul began his†historic talking filibuster of Brennan's nomination. Paul's intention to hold Yellen's nomination depends on whether fellow Senate Republicans go along with him. If Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has 60 votes, Yellen's nomination will get through to a final confirmation vote and around a hold. "I don't know enough yet to know whether his request for a vote will be taken seriously, but I kind of doubt it," a Senate Democratic leadership aide told Business Insider last week. Here's Paul's letter to Reid: Reid_Yellenletter.pdf 
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper (seated, L) and Deputy Attorney General James Cole prepare to testify at a House Intelligence Committee hearing as protesters hold up signs in the audience on Capitol Hill in Washington, October 29, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Miguel VidalConsumer prices rose 0.2% in September from the previous month, according to the latest data, matching economists' consensus prediction. Excluding food and energy, however, prices rose only 0.1%, below economists' consensus prediction for a 0.2% rise. In August, prices rose 0.1%. The September numbers bring the year-over-year inflation rate to 1.2%, down from 1.5% in August ‚Äî a result in line with expectations. Year-over-year inflation of prices excluding food and energy fell to 1.7% in September from 1.8% in August. Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson breaks down the internals of the report: Energy costs forming 10% of the picture rose by 0.8% in September for the biggest gain since June. Fuel and utility costs within the housing component increased by 0.7% helping boost housing inflation by 0.3%. Food and beverage costs were unchanged last month for the lowest reading since falling back in May. Food and beverage costs are 1.45 above year ago levels. Consumers faced weaker prices for apparel (+0.5%) and recreation (-0.1%) last month. Transportation costs making-up 17% of the overall index rose by 0.4% to stand 1.6% below year ago levels and following a monthly dip in August. Commodity prices rose by just 0.1% in September. "The Fed is meeting today and they have it in their press statement that too-low inflation is a worry," says Chris Rupkey, managing director and chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.¬†"They seem to think the output gap, large numbers of unemployed resources like people, means less demand in the economy which can allow deflationary forces to gather. ¬†There is probably something other than weak demand holding down inflation. The recession ended five years ago. Anyway, the Fed wants to see 2% inflation, a Harvard professor wants to see 6%, and core CPI is 1.7%, pretty close to 2% in our book, even if the core PCE deflator, the Fed‚Äôs inflation measure, is just 1.2%. Maybe the Fed should go back to CPI as their preferred measure if they want to see some inflation."
ADPADP's monthly employment change report is out. The report estimated that the private sector added 130,000 workers to private payrolls this month, below economists' consensus estimate for 150,000. September private payroll growth was revised down to 145,000 from 166,000. The October number is the lowest since May. 24,000 of the payrolls added in October were in the goods-producing sector, while 107,000 were in the service-providing sector. Below is the full text of the release: Goods-producing employment rose by 24,000 jobs in October, up from 16,000 in September. Construction payrolls added 14,000 jobs, while manufacturing payrolls increased by 5,000. Service-providing industries added 107,000 jobs in October, down from 130,000 in September. Among the service industries reported by the ADP National Employment Report, trade/transportation/utilities added the most jobs with 40,000 over the month. Professional/business services employment rose by 20,000, while financial activities shed 5,000 jobs. "According to ADP National Employment Report findings, the U.S. private sector added a total of 130,000 jobs during the month of October, well below the average of the last twelve months,‚Äù said Carlos Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. "Small business growth was down from the previous month, while payrolls among large enterprises showed an increase." Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody‚Äôs Analytics, said, "The government shutdown and debt limit brinksmanship hurt the already softening job market in October. Average monthly growth has fallen below 150,000. Any further weakening would signal rising unemployment. The weaker job growth is evident across most industries and company sizes.‚Äù Businesses with 49 or fewer employees added 37,000 jobs in October, while employment levels among medium-sized companies with 50-499 employees rose by 13,000 and employment at large companies ‚Äì those with 500 or more employees ‚Äì increased by 81,000. The matched sample used to develop the ADP National Employment Report was derived from ADP payroll data, which represents 411,000 U.S. clients employing nearly 24 million workers in the U.S. The ADP report is a proxy for the official jobs report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics each month. Usually, the two are released in the same week ‚Äî ADP on Wednesday and the jobs report on Friday ‚Äî but due to the government shutdown, the September report was released just last week, and the October report won't be released until November 8. Employment growth has been tepid in recent months. The rolling 3-month average of nonfarm payroll creation slipped to 148,000 in September, down from 224,000 in April.
General Motors reported Q3 earnings of $0.96 per share, beating analysts expectations for $0.94 per share. Revenue came in just shy of expectations at $39 billion. Analysts were looking for $39.38 billion. U.S. sales were boosted by 18 new products introduced this year including the Chevrolet Silverado. "We made gains in the third quarter as we improved our North American margins and increased our global share on the strength of our Chevrolet brand," said Dan Akerson, GM chairman and CEO in a press release.  "Our efforts to build great cars and trucks and deliver solid financial results were recognized this quarter by Moody‚Äôs investment grade rating." General Motors said North America margins were the highest they've seen in "quite some time." The stock was up 1% in the pre-market before the release. It is now up 2.3%.
Now that we know "The Wolf of Wall Street" will definitely be released this year, Paramount has released another trailer for the Martin Scorsese flick. Starring Leonardo DiCaprio, the film follows the rise and fall of wealthy stockbroker Jordan Belfort. The film also features Jonah Hill, Matthew McConaughey, and Jon Bernthal ("The Walking Dead"). Unlike the first trailer, which played to the tune of Kanye West's "Black Skinhead," this time we get Belfort's backstory.† Sorry, no crazy GIFs of DiCaprio this time. "The Wolf of Wall Street" is in theaters Christmas Day, December 25, 2013. 
In this commentary we wish to add a few additional points to what is already an intense and public debate.†At the end of this note we will offer our firm's position on Puerto Ricoís debt.†Many of the professional folks we spoke to about Puerto Ricoís debt situation asked for anonymity.†They are under constraints from their firms, and we respect those restrictions.†So our citations here will be from publicly available resources or our own computations. We cannot say that Puerto Rico will default on all or some of its debt. Nor are we saying that it will pay all or some of its debt.†We are saying the risk of default is high. As a skilled Washington-based expert said to me, ìPuerto Rico might become an Argentina; and it might be able to turn itself around like Brazil.î†Right now the best guess is that we do not know which outcome will prevail. However, we must add that the pressure to roll existing debt maturities and pay liabilities is nearing a critical point. We've heard from debt holders who point out that hedge funds are buyers of Puerto Ricoís debt.†They take that information as a positive indicator.†We agree with the hedge fund purchase information.†We disagree that it is a positive indicator.†UBS's Mike Ryan sums it well.†"I would be really careful to play Puerto Rico or trade it" he said.†"Hedge funds donít own Puerto Rico.†They rent."†(Barron's, October 28) My colleagues Michael Comes, John Mousseau, and I took apart a hedge fund trade. We reconstructed ways in which hedge funds can buy Puerto Rico and also hedge the other side of the trade for their profit.†They can take long positions in Puerto Rico debt.†They offset the risk through either a short position or put option on Assured Guarantee stock.†Assured Guarantee is the major bond insurer of some Puerto Rico debt.†Alternatively, the hedge fund can use a credit default swap on Assured Guarantee.†In either case they try to neutralize their Puerto Rico default risk by using Assured as a proxy. The theory behind this is that Assured Guarantee would be hurt if Puerto Rico defaults. So, the hedge fundís long position would lose from a Puerto Rico debt downgrade or default, but it would have an offsetting gain from the credit default swap position or short position on Assured Guarantee stock.†The offsetting neutralized position could result in a profit to the hedge fund. In fact, my colleagues and I calculated that the hedge fund could assume a neutral duration position and thereby create about 350 basis points in an annualized tax-free yield. That yield would also be a tax-free yield to the hedge fundís investors.†So the typical hedge fund investor can derive a taxable-equivalent yield of about double the tax-free yield, or about 7% on a maturity structure that can be unwound in only a few days.†That is without leverage.†My colleague John Mousseau noted that some hedge funds may be able to lever this up to 20 times. There is still counterparty risk when putting such a trade together. And the position needs continuous rebalancing, since it has three or more moving parts and constantly adjusting weights.†But that is exactly what a hedge fund is supposed to do.†What we want to show is that there are ways to do it.†Furthermore, note that the starting point of the trade is buying Puerto Rico debt, not because you like it but because it offers a hedging opportunity in a distressed market. We want to demonstrate this with a chart that we have posted on our website for all to see (http://www.cumber.com/content/special/puertoricocomplexity.pdf). (We suggest that you view the image as you follow this discussion.) We have used Bloomberg data and constructed three series. (1) The Assured Guarantee stock price is in orange; that company is the bond insurer that has the dominant position with respect to Puerto Rico credit enhancement. (2) The Assured Guarantee credit default swap is depicted in green; it is inverted so that it can be visually compared to the stock price. (3) The price of the general-obligation bond of Puerto Rico is in blue. The similarities in price change are obvious to the eye and well supported by the math that one would use to determine how tightly these are correlated. That is the math that helps to guide the hedge fund as it rebalances the weights.†We've also marked the Detroit bankruptcy date and the Barronís Puerto Rico article date with respect to the front-page description of Puerto Rico.†These two dates are important because they introduced headline risk.†Please note that Assured Guarantee also has exposure in Detroit. Readers can now make their own determinations about this so-called ìbullishî hedge-fund trade.†We will move on to the issue of credit risk. At www.cumber.com, underneath the chart of the hedge-fund trade, readers may find the "Commonwealth Of Puerto Rico Financial Information and Operating Data Report," dated October 18, 2013.†Here is a direct link: http://cumber.com/content/special/october18commonwealthreport.pdf .†One can peruse it and see that about 40% of the revenue for the government of Puerto Rico is coming from the federal government of the United States.†The details are in the report.†The report is very comprehensive, and that is a positive from this beleaguered bond issuer.†Such reports are now required under the newest versions of disclosure rules. Read the details about the pension systems, which are in horrible straits. Various retirement funding liabilities of Puerto Rico are estimated at $37 billion by methodologies that include a 6% discounting rate to get to present value. The reports show that the pension system is only 8% funded, meaning it is 92% unfunded. On digging deeper, one can find that a substantial amount of the funded portion is in the form of assets consisting of small loans, mortgages, and certain cultural loans to participants. Those ìassetsî substituted for what otherwise would be cash or investments in the pension system. We excerpt this quote from the report: ìAnother cause for the current situation of the Employees Retirement Systems is its personal loan program. The Employees Retirement System offers and manages a program that offers personal loans, mortgage loans and loans for cultural travels for retirement plan participants. Participants may obtain up to $5,000 in personal loans for any use. In 2007, the System increased this amount to $15,000, which reduced the cash in the System by approximately $600 million between 2007 and 2010. This deficit has been covered by funds from the System itself and has required the liquidation of assets that would have otherwise been available to make pension payments. Due to the amount of personal loans originated during recent years, the Systemís loan portfolio now has a significant amount of illiquid assets. In an effort to improve the situation, in 2011, the Board of Trustees of the Employees Retirement System lowered the maximum loan amount back to $5,000 and, in 2012, it approved the sale of approximately $315 million in loans. With a balance of $539 million as of June 30, 2013, personal loans are equivalent to approximately 76% of the Employees Retirement Systemís net assets. ìFinally, in 2008, the Employees Retirement System issued $2.9 billion in pension obligation bonds (ìPOBsî). The purpose of this offering was to increase the assets of the System available to invest and pay benefits. Unlike some other U.S. jurisdictions that have used this strategy, POBs are obligations of the Employees Retirement System itself and government employer contributions constitute the repayment source for the bonds. The Commonwealth and other participating employers are ultimately responsible for any funding deficiency in the Retirement Systems. The depletion of the assets available to cover retirement benefits would require the Commonwealth and other participating employers to cover such funding deficiency. Due to its multi-year fiscal imbalances previously mentioned, however, the Commonwealth has been unable to make the actuarially recommended contributions to the Retirement Systems. If the measures taken or expected to be taken by the current Commonwealth administration fail to address the Retirement Systemsí funding deficiency, the continued use of investment assets to pay benefits as a result of funding shortfalls and the resulting depletion of assets could adversely affect the ability of the Retirement Systems to meet the rates of return assumed in the actuarial valuations, which could in turn result in an earlier depletion of the Retirement Systemsí assets and a significant increase in the unfunded actuarial accrued liability. Ultimately, since the Commonwealthís General Fund is required to cover a significant amount of the funding deficiency, the Commonwealth could have difficulty funding the annual required contributions if the measures taken or expected to be taken to reform the retirement systems do not have the expected effect. There may also be limitations on the Commonwealthís ability to change certain pension rights afforded to participants in the Retirement Systems.î There is no way we can predict when a pension system will fail to pay its pensioners. We can say that this is a terrible funding situation for promised retirement benefits. Puerto Rico is essentially operating on close to a pay-as-you-go basis.†It has far worse pension funding than any of the 50 states in the US.†We have not included the promise of post-retirement health benefits, which only make the funding ratios worse.†These are among the reasons why The Economist calls Puerto Rico a ìGreek-like crisis on Americaís southern doorstep.î (The Economist, October 26) There is a second derivative at work now in dealing with state-specific mutual funds. Remember that Puerto Rico debt is tax-free in the various states and cities. State-specific funds can and do hold Puerto Rico debt as part of their composition. We think the involvement by states makes the exposure to Puerto Rico debt a nationwide issue, as opposed to the narrowness of exposure to the debt of Detroit, Stockton, or Harrisburg. A person in Arizona is not likely to own a tax-free bond from Detroit. Such a bond would be subject to taxation by Arizona. But a Puerto Rico bond could be held by any state-specific investor, because it would be tax-free.†Mutual fund investors in state-specific funds may not know the exposure their fund has to Puerto Rico.†The Oppenheimer Rochester funds have been mentioned by Lipper as having ìthe highest concentration of Puerto Rico bonds in the industry.î†(Reuters, October 16) Rating agencies have Puerto Rico debt on negative watch and have it rated at the lowest level of investment grade.†The ratings story is in the report and is available to those who subscribe to the rating agencies.†There is not much we will add to it.†But in our internal rating work at Cumberland we also consider population shifts and crime rates.†This data is not positive for Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico has a financing plan that it is trying to advance in order to raise between $500 million and $1.2 billion in the next round of bond issuance. The subject of Puerto Rico has been explored by a number of Wall Street firms and research houses and has been a topic at several conferences.†We cannot say whether Puerto Rico will successfully be able to roll its debt.†We can project that any financing will be at a high cost, imposed upon an economy beset by questionable growth, a history of chronic deficits, a huge per-capita debt load, and a nearly exhausted pension fund. Since we have written about Puerto Rico and taken a hard-line negative position on its debt, naturally we have received emails regarding our position on Puerto Rico.†We wish investors well.†And we certainly hope that the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico finds a way to avoid any defaults and to keep its promises to pensioners.†We are not cheering for the demise of this beautiful island, where 45% of its 3.5 million inhabitants live below the poverty line and where the debt-to-GNP ratio is estimated at about 140%, if the pension liability is included. That said, we think there is additional headline risk of trouble in Puerto Rico; there is risk of a debt-service-payment miss in the event that Puerto Rico finds itself with insufficient cash flow to meet debt-service payment; and there is market risk if the Commonwealth fails to obtain sufficient market access so that it can roll the debt.†At Cumberland, we are not holding Puerto Rico debt ó we do not own it, and we would not buy it today.†The same is true for any mutual fund with exposure to Puerto Rico.
eflon/FlickrHeads up. At 8:15 AM ET, we get the ADP jobs report for October. What to expect? Here's Calculated Risk: †ï At 8:15 AM, the ADP Employment Report for October. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 138,000 payroll jobs added in October, down from 166,000 in September. And here's Ben White at Morning Money: ADP PREVIEW: LIKELY TO BE WEAK ñ Pantheonís Ian Shepherdson: ìWe think the ADP private sector employment number for October will undershoot the 150K consensus, which seems to take almost no account of any hit from the government shutdown. The underlying trend rate of increase in the ADP employment number is about 160K per month.†††† ìThe survey excludes government workers, but we know from the jobless claims data that several tens of thousands of private sector employees, at least, were laid off during the shutdown. The administration Ö has estimated the total private sector hit was about 120K. Our 100K ADP forecast assumes that half of these job losses will be captured by todayís survey, with no change in the underlying trend.î
Packer achieved this by targeting the new middle class of China and, judging by Crownís strategy, there are bigger opportunities with the new rich of Asia. ìChinaís middle class will change the world,î Packer says. ìThrough their spending power and tastes, this Chinese middle class will profoundly alter every aspect of our economy.î This chart tells the story, the difference between the market in Australia and Asia. Business Insider Australia Packer told shareholders : * The middle class in China now number 300 million, equal to the population of the USA * And by 2030 China is expected to have 1.4 billion middle class consumers compared to 365 million in the USA and 414 million in Western Europe * The Chinese like to spend their money on travel in style staying at five star hotels, buying high end retail * 80 per cent of Chinese travelling outside the country for the first time head for a casino * By 2015 China will account for 20 per cent of the global luxury market. * In 2012, Chinese tourists spent US$102 billion on international tourism, making it the number one outbound tourist market in the world. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter Multinationals Are Brawling Over This Aussie Cheese Maker, Thanks To The Boom In Asiaís Dairy Market Read more posts on Business Insider Australia ª
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. President Barack Obama (L) applauds after announcing his nomination of Janet Yellen (R) to head the Federal Reserve at the White House in Washington, October 9, 2013.All we get from the FOMC today is a single statement. There will be no press conference, and no updated forecasts. Thus, market participants will be parsing every sentence of the statement, due out at 2 PM ET, to see how the views of the Federal Reserve's monetary policymaking body have changed since its mid-September decision that shocked Wall Street and caught markets off guard. At that meeting, the FOMC elected to refrain from tapering the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program, citing both inadequate improvement in economic data since its June meeting and the looming fiscal showdown in Washington, D.C. "We have never heard investors as angry as the day after the Fed decided to not taper its asset buying program,"†said BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris. "Some investors argue that it was a deliberate attempt to introduce volatility into the market. Others said Fed credibility is shot." The government shutdown and debt ceiling debate that ensued caused economists at BofA Merrill Lynch and SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale to slash their GDP growth forecasts for Q3 and Q4 (BAML cut its Q1 2014 forecast as well). In light of the damage the shutdown is said to have likely caused the U.S. economy, the decision not to taper in September now seems justified in the minds of many market participants, and expectations for the first tapering of QE have been pushed out to 2014. "Most agree that the Fed did the right thing by skipping tapering," says George Goncalves, head of rates research at Nomura. As one of his clients said to him, "Imagine if they tapered, where stocks and bonds would be now, given the weak backdrop and never-ending fiscal fights." That brings us to this week's meeting, at the conclusion of which on Wednesday afternoon the only thing investors will get to look at is the FOMC statement. "Just because the Fed is unlikely to taper at the October FOMC meeting does not mean the October FOMC meeting will pass quietly into the night," warn Morgan Stanley interest rate strategists Matthew Hornbach and Guneet Dhingra. "The market should focus on how the Fed changes the official statement because it could send important signals about future policy actions (or lack thereof)." So, the main question is: will the statement come across as hawkish, or dovish? "There is no risk of the 30 October FOMC surprising on the hawkish side," asserts Vincent Chaigneau, global head of rates and FX strategy at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale. "Our central expectation is 'no change' on all†counts: rates, asset purchases, rate &amp; QE guidance,†and even on their current economic†assessment," add SocGen fixed income strategists Jorge Garayo and Marc-Henri Thoumin. "Interestingly, our economists believe the language is going to be skewed to the dovish side, with the main risk being a tweak in the assessment of the economic conditions." Goldman Sachs economists Sven Jari Stehn and Jan Hatzius, like their SocGen counterparts, believe the FOMC will modify the language addressing the economy in its statement, saying they "expect two small changes to the outlook paragraph." "First, it appears likely that the committee would want to acknowledge the softer labor market data," write Stehn and Hatzius in a note to clients. "For example, the committee could state that labor market indicators have improved only 'on balance.' Second, the statement might reflect the uncertainty introduced by the government shutdown and debt ceiling fight ...†For example, the committee could add that 'the recent fiscal debates have raised uncertainty around the near-term outlook' to its statement that fiscal policy is restraining growth." The Goldman economists suggest an even more subtle tweak the FOMC could make in Wednesday's statement that does not concern the language surrounding the economy: "For example, the committee could change the phrase 'in judging when to moderate the pace of asset purchasesÖ' into 'in determining the appropriate future pace of asset purchasesÖ.'," they write. In short, much of Wall Street is expecting the FOMC to strike a deliberately dovish tone. "Markets are now abuzz that a dovish FOMC statement could lead to interpretations of tapering being taken off the table completely until late Q1-14," says SocGen strategist Kenneth Broux. "If that does end up being the case, the greenback will face further selling pressure and 10y yields could test 2.40%." But what if that doesn't end up being the case? Steven Englander,†global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi, thinks a hawkish tilt is actually the most likely scenario, if only slightly. "The baseline view that the FOMC does as little as possible seems both correct and advisable," he writes in a note to clients. "Given how the market has shifted in its expectations, the room for the FOMC to surprise on the dovish side may be limited. Nor does it seem likely that they want to roller coaster the market yet again by putting tapering on the agenda on a faster track than the market is now pricing in.†However, it seems to us slightly more likely that they try and keep tapering on the agenda without explicit timing, and that may be more hawkish than what is now expected." Alan Ruskin, managing director and global head of G-10 FX at Deutsche Bank, goes even further: he calls a hawkish FOMC statement "more or less inevitable" and advises clients to pay attention to the language on financial conditions, which have eased since the September FOMC meeting. "Last time, they said, 'The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market'," he writes in a note. "This time they will have to at least acknowledge the tentative improvement." BofA Merrill Lynch economist Michael Hanson, one of the few on the Street to correctly predict the Fed's September decision, is already looking past the statement to the minutes of the meeting, which will be released November 20. "As the 'framework' for tapering that Chairman Bernanke laid out in the June press conference no longer appears valid, we expect an in-depth discussion of the economic factors that might warrant tapering, and how the Committee could improve communications around both asset purchases and the exit strategy," Hanson writes in a note. "But we donít anticipate any resolution to these issues at the October meeting." ISI vice chairman Krishna Guha, a former New York Fed official who served as a senior adviser to New York Fed president and FOMC voting member Bill Dudley as recently as early September, agrees that the minutes "will be much more interesting than the statement, since they will provide more color regarding the extent to which the committee is troubled by the substantial shift outwards in market QE expectations and the risk of being trapped in 'QE infinity' if the data does not cooperate in the coming months." Finally, two outcomes of today's meeting that strategists say are very low-probability events, but can't be ruled out completely: The Fed will release the statement from the FOMC's October meeting on Wednesday at 2 PM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ª
REUTERS/Stephen Lam A barge built with four levels of shipping containers is seen at Pier 1 at Treasure Island in San Francisco, California October 28, 2013.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - How badly does Google want to keep under wraps a mysterious project taking shape on a barge in San Francisco Bay? Badly enough to require U.S. government officials to sign confidentiality agreements. At least one Coast Guard employee has had to sign a non-disclosure agreement with the Internet giant, said¬†Barry Bena, a U.S. Coast Guard spokesman. Another person who would only identify himself as an inspector for a¬†California government agency had to do the same. Moored in the shadow of the Bay Bridge off of Treasure Island, a former military base, the nondescript barge is stacked several stories high with white shipping containers, and sprouts what appear to be antennas on top. The hulking structure, half shrouded in scaffolding, has stirred intense speculation in the Bay Area since reports of its existence surfaced late last week. Technology website CNET theorized that the vessel might be a floating data center that will house banks of computers. Local TV station KPIX said the barge is intended to serve as a floating retail store for Google's "Glass"wearable computer device - although its external appearance, at least thus far, doesn't suggest such a purpose. Adding to the mystery, a second similar barge was recently spotted in Portland, Maine, and is also registered toBy and Large LLC, according to local media reports. The company itself is keeping mum, refusing even to acknowledge its affiliation with the vessels. Secrecy is a standard business practice in Silicon Valley, where technology companies such as Apple Inc go to¬†great lengths to keep their latest gadgets under wraps and a constellation of blogs compete to reveal highly prized details. But the concealment effort surrounding the barge is in another league. Chain-link fences and security guards encircle a pier and a couple of nearby buildings on the island, which sits between San Francisco and Oakland. A California state inspector, who said he had business in the hangar-like Building 3 where some of the early construction took place, told Reuters he had to surrender his mobile phone and sign a confidentiality agreement in order to enter. Bob Jessup, a construction company superintendent who works in a building across the street, said Google spent the past year working on the project. He said they fenced off a wide area and brought in at least 40 welders a day, who worked around the clock and refused to say a word. "They wouldn't give up any of the information," Jessup said. "It was a phenomenal production. None of them would tell us anything."REUTERS/Stephen LamA barge built with four levels of shipping containers is seen at Pier 1 at Treasure Island in San Francisco, California October 28, 2013. He said they worked on the inside and the outside of the shipping containers, outfitting them with electronics - "very hush hush" - and then loaded them onto the barge with a crane. They put sides on the containers, with glass windows in some of them. They had to weld them very precisely so they could stack, Jessup recounted. Jessup said he could not imagine that Google would try to use the floating vessel as a retail outlet. "Who's going¬†to want to climb up in there?" he asked. "It's really ugly." The vessel is registered to a company called By and Large LLC, and some nearby property on Treasure Island has been subleased to the same firm. Representatives of the firm could not be reached for comment. Larry Goldzband, the executive director of the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission, told Reuters his agency has had several meetings with Google officials about the barge in recent months. Yet the company provided little information other than telling him that the vessel will be used for "general technology purposes," he said. Google "could not give us a specific plan of any kind," not even whether they intended the barge to move or stay in one place, Goldzband said. If the barge remains in place for an extended period of time after its construction is completed, it will require a permit from the BCDC, he said. "We've asked counsel to get us as much information as soon as they can, so that we can continue the discussion," Goldzband said, referring to Google's law firm. (Reporting by Ronnie Cohen and Alexei Oreskovic; Editing by Edwin Chan, Jonathan Weber and Lisa Shumaker)
AP(Reuters) - When¬†Janet Yellen became president of the¬†Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco¬†in June 2004, a massive real estate bubble was building in the vast nine-state area that it oversees. Her staff alerted her that banks were overinvesting in speculative commercial real estate at a time when housing prices in the region were ballooning. But as chief regulator in the Federal Reserve's largest district, Yellen conveyed two starkly different messages. In¬†public¬†remarks across the Western region's nine states, she downplayed risks that were building in the financial sector, reporting positive economic signs even as warning signals began to emerge. Behind the scenes at the Fed, she contends that she and her staff were "pleading with Washington" to issue supervisory guidance that would enable bank examiners to take a tougher line on risky real estate lending. Yellen, who was nominated earlier in October to be the next chair of¬†the U.S. central bank, played a little-examined role at the Fed in expressing unease about what she dubbed the "600-pound gorilla" - her reference at a Fed meeting in June 2007 to the real estate bubble and signs it could turn into a bust. When the bust came it led directly to the financial crisis. The difference between her¬†public¬†remarks and internal Fed role could draw scrutiny when the¬†Senate Banking Committee¬†holds a hearing on her nomination in mid-November. Yellen declined to comment for this article when contacted through the Fed. She certainly had a front row seat on the real estate bubble. Yellen's region included three of the four states hardest hit by foreclosures -¬†Nevada,¬†Arizona¬†and¬†California. The same states also led the nation in the percentage of consumer bankruptcies. Eight banks supervised by her team failed, the second-highest number among the Fed's 12 regional banks. A big culprit was unchecked investments in real estate, including speculative land development loans. But Yellen confronted the limits of quietly leaning on Washington for corrective action. As she later told a panel probing the roots of the crisis, she felt one Fed action - an advisory opinion in 2007 that asked banks to control commercial real estate lending - was worthless. One could "rip it up and throw it in the garbage can," she said. "It wasn't a tool that was of any use to us in controlling this risk." Yellen, 67, has been credited with seeing signs of the crisis before many other Fed officials. When she landed the regional Fed job after teaching at the¬†University of California, Berkeley, housing prices were climbing to alarming levels. In Los Angeles and¬†San Diego, home prices more than doubled between the beginning of 2000 and when Yellen took on the job in the summer of 2004, according to Standard &amp; Poor's/Case-Shiller index data. In¬†Las Vegas, they jumped 50 percent in the previous year alone. And in¬†San Francisco, prices had risen nearly 40 percent since the dot-com crash of 2000-2001. The 54 banks under the¬†San Francisco Fed's supervision were leveraging too much of their capital in real estate, Yellen later observed. The¬†San Francisco Fed¬†kept thick case files on the banks it supervised; she described reviewing a grocery cart full of records when she first came on the job. But regulatory policy was set by the central bank's board in Washington, and the role of the regional Fed banks was to enforce it. Yellen later told the financial crisis panel that in dealing with the Fed's board, she privately urged clear guidance. "As worried as we were, we never simply went into banks and said, 'We insist you've got to have a higher capital requirement.' Did we have the power to do that? I think we felt we did not," she told the commission. Stephen Hoffman, the officer in charge of bank supervision at the¬†San Francisco Fed¬†during Yellen's tenure and now a managing director at consulting firm¬†Promontory Financial Group, corroborated Yellen's account. "Was she going in and pounding on the table somewhere? No. But she was clearly making people aware that things were building and that there was a risk there, that if things went wrong there could have been significant challenges," he said. The Fed did not issue an advisory to banks about commercial loans until January 2007 and it stopped short of a full-fledged order. By then, recalled¬†Bruce Norris, president of¬†California¬†real estate investment firm The¬†Norris Group, some experts were questioning if regulators were asleep on the job. "Yellen had a lot of company," he told Reuters. "I just could never figure out why they weren't more concerned until it was too late." If a crisis was looming, Yellen gave little hint of it as she traveled around her district speaking to banking and business groups. She reassured audiences that there were nuanced but optimistic signs even as recession closed in. In 2004, the new president told risk managers in¬†San Francisco¬†that closer supervision had "made our financial system far more resilient to shocks." In¬†Phoenix¬†that year, she reported "more positive signs in the economy." She flagged real estate as a concern in March 2005, telling a banking group in¬†Hawaii¬†that her staff was examining commercial lending and was concerned about the "easing of credit standards and terms on loans" for home mortgages. But Yellen ended optimistically, concluding that "we don't think widespread problems are likely" and that "industry conditions in many respects are stronger now than they've ever been." By October 2005, real estate experts debated whether the Fed needed to intervene to control the surging "bubble" in home prices by raising interest rates. Yellen said her staff had begun to realize by then that "there might well be a bubble." But as she concluded in an October 2005 speech, "the arguments against trying to deflate a bubble outweigh those in favor of it." "My bottom line is that monetary policy should react to rising prices for houses or other assets only insofar as they affect the central bank's goal variables - output, employment, and inflation," she said. Yellen's views have not changed dramatically. Earlier this year, she expressed a "strong preference" to use regulation as the main defense against bubbles. But she no longer unequivocally rules out the use of monetary policy. U.S. home prices peaked in July 2006. In¬†California, the median price of a previously owned home reached $556,430 in 2006, about nine times the annual median income; the national median price was just $221,900, or about four times median income. Yellen, however, still saw cause for optimism. In March 2006, she spoke via satellite to Australian economists and noted that "overall the economy has shown considerable resilience." At that point, the economy was buoyant. After a hit from Hurricane Katrina in late 2005, growth spiked to a 4.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter, though it slipped back to 1.3 percent over the next three months. The unemployment rate in March stood at a low 4.7 percent, with muted price pressures. Yellen emphasized that a housing boom reversal "could have a very restrictive impact." But she concluded optimistically: "While we face a great deal of uncertainty, the economy appears to be approaching a highly desirable glide path." A month later, Yellen noted that Bay area home prices were six times higher than they were in 1982. She urged monitoring of what she termed "highlights and shadows" in forecasts. In a 2006 speech to bankers in¬†California's agricultural belt, she encouraged banks to reach out to immigrants and other underserved populations, touting programs like one that encouraged home ownership for low-income families. A few years later, the farming area would be particularly hard hit by mortgage foreclosures. But it wasn't until early 2007 that the national housing market began crashing. That March, prices and sales recorded their steepest drops since the savings and loan scandal in 1989. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics, later pinpointed the beginning of¬†California's recession as May 2007. The entire nation would tip into recession in December that year. Home price declines were not the only warning signs. In February 2007,¬†HSBC Group, one of the world's largest banks, said it would book a bad debt charge of $10.6 billion because of a big spike in delinquencies on subprime loans. Four months later, two hedge funds operated by Bear Stearns warned of major losses, and both collapsed within weeks. When¬†France's largest bank, BNP-Paribas, froze assets on three funds with big exposure to the U.S. mortgage market in August 2007, global central bankers realized markets were at risk of freezing up. But when the Fed's monetary policy panel met in June 2007, officials generally felt the economy was weathering the storm despite Yellen's concerns about housing. "In terms of risks to the outlook for growth, I still feel the presence of a 600-pound gorilla in the room, and that is the housing sector," she said, according to the transcript of that meeting, adding: "The risk for further significant deterioration in the housing market, with house prices falling and mortgage delinquencies rising further, causes me appreciable angst." At the time, Fed Chairman¬†Ben Bernanke¬†was playing down the systemic risk of weakening real estate prices. Worried about inflation risks, Fed officials stood pat at the meeting, unanimously voting to hold interest rates steady, and they did the same at the August 7 meeting. Yellen was a non-voting participant at the two meetings. Within three days, however, as the BNP-Paribas events roiled financial markets, officials held an emergency conference call to discuss strains building in credit markets and announced they were ready to provide liquidity to banks. At their next scheduled meeting in September, they slashed overnight rates by a steep half of a percentage point, the first move in a dramatic series that took them to near zero by the end of 2008. In an October 2008 speech, Yellen tackled head-on the question of how the Fed missed the warning signs. She described a miscalculation in the interplay of "key features of the financial system." Under questioning by Republicans in 2010, after Obama nominated her to be Fed vice chair, Yellen said she and other regulators failed to "connect the dots" between loose lending practices and a overpriced housing market. Senator¬†Richard Shelby¬†of¬†Alabama¬†asked about her region's "breakdown of regulatory oversight." When Yellen at first defended the¬†San Francisco Fed's supervision as "careful and appropriate," Shelby shot back, calling it "lax and inappropriate." She ended by citing lessons learned. "What we have learned in hindsight is it was very hard for all of the regulators involved to take away the punch bowl in a timely way." (Reporting by Marilyn W. Thompson and Alister Bull in Washington with Ann Saphir in¬†San Francisco; Additional reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Tim Ahmann, Dan Burns and Tim Dobbyn)
en.wikipedia.orgWe've been saying lately: It feels like the market is on autopilot. Every time there's a dip, markets turn green. Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danBTIG) puts some stats in his latest nightly note that show just how rare the current run is. ¬†You may have already noticed it, but the S&amp;P 500 rose today, the 13th time in the last 15 sessions it has done so (small and midcaps cannot make the same claim). This has happened before of course -- most recently on September 18 and before that, July 22 of this year -- but going back to 1960, a run such as this has happened less than 1% of the time. Yes it‚Äôs happened 8 times during the current recovery (S&amp;P rose 17 out of 20 days in December 2010) but during the previous expansion, the S&amp;P was able to muster a 13/15 gain just once, in September 2003. And if you can believe this, while it happened a bunch in the nonstop year of 1995, it didn‚Äôt happen once during 1996-March 2000. Not once. What does that mean, perhaps in light of Larry Fink's comments today? We‚Äôll leave that for another evening.
After the financial collapse, the U.S. faced the problem of how to stimulate the economy. The Fed had reduced interest rates to basically zero, and so it was forced to use additional, quasi-experimental tools to keep pumping the economy. And these measures have had limited, and somewhat unpredictable, effects. Meanwhile, on the fiscal stimulus front, virtually no extra spending was available following the Recovery Act due to politics. Both of those issues are always going to be there in some way going forward. There's no getting around politics, even in a climate that might be more favorable to spending money. In a fascinating speech last week at Johns Hopkins (via Matthew Klein), former Obama economic advisor Christy Romer proposes a totally different framework for stimulus. Essentially we lean on fiscal stimulus more, but we set it up so that it's permanently flexible ... and thus more like monetary policy. So when the economy goes to crap, payroll taxes automatically drop and other extra benefits automatically rise. And when the economy recovers, payroll taxes begin to rise and other benefits are pulled back. Basically, counter-cyclical fiscal policy is just built into the law. She says: The most obvious way around the problem caused by the zero lower bound is to use the other main tool in the government‚Äôs arsenal to deal with recessions‚Äîthat is, fiscal policy. If we cannot spur spending and recovery by lowering interest rates, because they are already at zero, we can do it by temporarily lowering taxes and increasing government spending. However, as someone who played a role in crafting the Recovery Act, the fiscal stimulus passed in February 2009, I am acutely aware of how hard it is to get adequate fiscal stimulus through Congress and out into the economy in a timely fashion‚Äîeven in the midst of a terrible economic crisis. But fiscal stimulus does work. Study after study has been done on the Recovery Act and the impacts of fiscal stimulus more generally. Though the studies find that some fiscal actions are more effective than others, almost all conclude that tax cuts and spending increases do help spur the economy in the near term. If the fact that normal interest rates are now lower means that we will be hitting the zero lower bound more frequently, we may want to consider ways to use fiscal stimulus faster and more effectively. You may be surprised to hear that I am a supporter of some form of balanced budget amendment. The fiscal stalemate and irresponsibility in Washington simply has to stop if we are going to remain an economic superpower. But within a framework of fiscal responsibility, such as a balanced budget amendment, it would be possible and, I think, sensible to build in more fiscal fire-fighting power. We could set up a system that automatically cuts tax rates and increases unemployment benefits and food stamps when the economy weakens. This would get us fiscal stimulus quickly when the economy needs it. To balance out this automatic fiscal expansion, we could require automatic debt reduction in particularly good years. Such a new fiscal policy framework could get us the macroeconomic stability we want, with fiscal responsibility, despite the existence of the zero lower bound. Romer is far from the first to go in this direction. But her direct perspective of having been in the trenches trying to save the economy while dealing with politics makes her contribution invaluable. Obviously this would require some major changes in Washington, but as a way of thinking about how to solve the economic problems while being mindful of what's realistic in Washington, Romer is worth listening to. Read the full speech here.
Andrey Bayda/Shutterstock Welp, there it is. Another peripheral economy emerges from recession in the Eurozone. This time it's Spain. From CNBC: Spain's economy emerged from a two-year recession in the third quarter, according to preliminary data released on Wednesday. Spain's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 0.1 percent in the third quarter, the data released by the country's statistics agency showed, in line with forecasts by analysts polled by Reuters. As with all this stuff, it remains obvious that these economies are sick and that these growth rates are horrible. But you have to start somewhere.
Flickr via keoni101World markets continue to feel like they're on autopilot and that nothing can go wrong. Gains are being seen everywhere today. Asian equities had a big session, with Japan gaining 1.2% and China rising 1.48%. European markets are higher. Germany is up 0.5% and Italy is up 0.3%. And US futures are modestly higher. Later in the day today we get the ADP Jobs report (8:15 ET), which will give us a look at private payroll growth for October. There's no Non-Farm Payrolls report this week due to shutdown-related scheduling changes. So we'll get that a week from Friday. This afternoon we get the latest decision from the FOMC. The expectation is that they will change nothing.
