Wikimedia CommonsKyudoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Sunday the government would decide on tax cuts in autumn to encourage companies to boost capital expenditure as part of sweeping reforms to revive the economy from nearly two decades of stagnation. The government will also work on legislation to scrap regulations hampering corporate research and investment and secure passage in parliament in autumn, he said. "We'd like to decide on bold tax cuts for capital expenditure in autumn," Abe told public broadcaster NHK. The measures will add to a series of steps the government unveiled in a draft of its growth strategy last week, such as setting up special economic zones to attract foreign business and raising incomes by 3 percent annually. The growth strategy is the "Third Arrow" in Abe's prescription to reverse deflation, which also includes hyper-easy monetary policy and big government spending. The first part of Abe's growth strategy, to be finalized on Friday, failed to impress markets that saw it as lacking specifics. That helped push down Japanese equities to two-month lows on Friday. Abe said his government would lay out the second part of his growth strategy in autumn, to include the tax cuts, when parliament reconvenes after an upper house election on July 21. "We will make that parliament session one in which we'll implement our growth strategies," he said. On recent market turbulence and sharp falls in Tokyo share prices, Abe said he would not comment on day-to-day market moves, but stressed that his policy measures were already leading to improvements in output and job conditions. (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Ron Popeski) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
BAMLChina's National Bureau of Statistics has released its latest inflation stats, and consumer and producer prices came in cooler than expected. "The lower than expected CPI in May was mainly driven by an unusually large sequential decline in vegetable prices," note Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "Though falling inflation might trigger concerns about weaker-than-expected growth and deflation risk, the low inflation will give policymakers more room to maintain accommodative monetary and fiscal policies." Lu attributed some of the low inflation to weak external demand as reflected by China's weak export numbers.
Janet YellenBen Bernanke's term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve ends on January 31, 2014.† While he could stick around for another term, most Fed-watchers think that's unlikely. They also think the frontrunner to replace Bernanke is fellow dove and current Vice Chair Janet Yellen. Should that happen, financial market participants and economists may have to start paying attention to a report that usually goes overlooked. "The BLSí Job Openings and Labor Market Turnover Survey (JOLTS) data are... released on Tuesday morning, and while we have interest in what these data show, this report has typically not been a marketmoving release either," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. "This could change over time, however, as Fed officials (such as Vice Chair Yellen) have cited such data as an additional source of labor market information." Head to Calculated Risk for more on JOLTS.
Beer drinkers, rejoice! Economist Mark Perry tweeted this great chart of the number of breweries in America. Going in the right direction. Brewers Association
Two interesting stats on hedge fund exposure to the market via BofA Merrill Lynch analysts†Stephen Suttmeier,†Jue Xiong, and†MacNeil Curry: In their Hedge Fund Quarterly Report, the BAML analysts write: Based on the quarterly 13F filings and estimated short positions of the equity holdings of 895 funds, we estimate that hedge funds reduced cash holdings to the 2Q07 trough of 4.3%, while raising net exposure to the 2Q07 peak of 59% in 1Q13. Meanwhile, dollar notional net exposure rose by 11% to $463bn notional in 1Q13 ñ setting a new record. The bullish positioning indicates that risk appetite is back to the peak set in 2007.  Gross exposure rose by 12% to $1280bn notional in 1Q13. Percentage-wise, gross exposure increased to about 160%. When including ETF positions the gross exposure increases to 180%.  Note: Our estimates are based on analyses of hedge fund equity holdings only and do not include derivatives, which are potentially a larger source of exposure and leverage; readings are best used as a gauge, rather than a cardinal measure of exposure levels. The orange bars on the chart below show net exposure, back to its previous peak: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, LionShares There's more. According to the report, "At of the end of 1Q13, hedge funds owned 5.0% of the Russell 3000 float shares, second only to the 2Q08 peak of 5.1%." The chart below illustrates that: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, LionShares So, what are hedge funds exposed to? Consumer discretionary, information technology, and financials, although they pared net exposure to IT and financials in the first quarter. Consumer staples, while accounting for a relatively small portion of total exposure, saw the second-largest increase in weighting from the fourth quarter of 2012, behind only consumer discretionary names. The table below breaks it all down. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg, LionShares
REUTERS/Anders Wiklund/ScanpixNew York-based banker Christopher O'Neill married Princess Madeleine of Sweden¬†on Saturday. The wedding ceremony was held¬†at the Royal Palace chapel in Stockholm. The guest list included European royals, industry titans, and New York socialites.¬†
If you're looking for proof that Japan's precarious economic situation is leaving a mark on its society at large, look no further. There's a pop group that is completely dedicated to watching, and singing about, how their markets are doing, and they've become a sensation. Their name is†Machikado Keiki Japan ó which roughly means†Economic Conditions on the Streets of Japan ó and since their debut single on April 7th, the group of four Japanese girls has been singing about the impact of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's economic policies on the people of Japan, Japan Times reports. The length of their skirts even rises and falls with the dramatic moves of the Nikkei. When it's up, their skirts are up and when it's down, they wear longer dresses. Machikado Keiki Japan's first single was called "Abeno Mix" (see what they did there?) and the lyrics read:†ìFix the yenís appreciation. Quantitative easing. Donít forget public investment,î a line in the dance-pop tune goes. ìMonetary easing. Construction bonds. Letís just revise the Bank of Japan Law.î None of the girls have a degree in economics. From Japan Times: The groupís fans ó who not surprisingly are 95 percent male, from high school to their 50s ó have special chants that they perform during the songís interlude. ìThey yell out economic terms during our concerts, something like Shinzo Abe! Monetary policy! Private investment!î Mori said. ìEconomics are often just about the mood of the people, which is something intangible,î Sakura, 20, pointed out... The young ladies are eager to see the economy get on a roll, although they have yet to decide what their costumes will look like if the Nikkei tops 15,000. Pretty wild, huh? Check out one of their videos below ó or get more info about Machikado Keiki Japan at Japan Times. 
The Nigerian Stock ExchangeThe BRIC stock markets (Brazil, Russia, India, and China) have had a rough year. Only, India is in the black, but it's barely above breakeven. Indeed, this year has been great for the developed markets like Japan and the U.S. But a couple of the frontier markets have stolen the show. "These so-called ‚Äúemerging markets of the future‚Äù have enjoyed strong growth from low base effects, abundant natural and human resources, the availability of easy gains from market reforms and injections of technology into relatively low-wage economies," said emerging markets expert Mark Mobius this week. Here's a roundup of the year-to-date returns of the major world markets via Bespoke Investment Group: Bespoke Investment Group
REUTERS/Handout/ Mexico tax officeBy many measures, Americans should be feeling flush. The†Federal Reserve†reports that total household wealth in America hit an all-time high in the first quarter, to $70.4 trillion. That's even higher than $66.8 trillion in the roaring days of 2007óand nearly 50 percent higher than the down-and-out recession trough of $54.1 trillion in 2009. The stock market, despite some recent slippage, is still close to all-time highs, filling up pension plans and stock-based pay. And housing prices are up double digits in many part of the country, adding trillions of dollars to the wealth of home-owning Americans. Hooray, we're rich again! Or not. Part of the reason Americans aren't feeling all that wealth has to do with inflation and population growth. According to Moody's Analytics, that $70 trillion is still more than 10 percent below the 2007 peak when adjusted for inflation. And that peak wealth in 2013 is spread over more Americans than in 2000.Average household wealth was $539,500 at the end of last yearó37 percent below where it was in 2007, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Another reason Americans aren't feeling the wealth is the fundamental difference between income and assets. Unemployment remains stubbornly high at 7.6 percent and broader income growth remains weak. Wealth is one thing. But incomeó"what's in your wallet"óis another. One other factor is the reduced power of the wealth effect. Wealth effect theory states that every dollar in stock market wealth adds 2 cents to spending. Every dollar of added housing wealth is supposed to add 10 cents to consumer spending. Yet both wealth effects have been underwhelming. Americans can't cash in on their rising housing prices as much as they used to because credit is tighter, home equity loans are tougher to get and even with the price increases, many Americans are still underwater on their homes. The wealth effect from stocks has been highly concentrated. And that leads to the biggest reason for the elusive wealth effectóthe distribution of the wealth gains. The bulk of the recent increase in American wealth has been from the stock market. Of the recent gains in total household wealth, $1.5 trillion of the gains came from the stock market and $784 billion came from from rising house prices, according to the Fed. The top 5 percent of Americans hold 80 percent of stocks, according to research from Ed Wolff at NYU. So housing wealth matters more to most Americans than stock prices. And homes have yet to recover as much as stocks. Which explains why American wealth may have hit an all-time highóbut Americans as a whole don't feel quite so wealthy. óBy CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter† †
Here's an interesting chart for the chartists by chart guru Robert Sluymer, RBC Capital's top technical analyst. "The S&amp;P futures have reacted almost ìtoo perfectlyî to key technical levels," said Sluymer pointing to some recent moves. For what it's worth, check it out. RBC Capital Markets
Flickr via loudestnoiseWhether it's the latest iGadget or a hot new car, as consumers, we're always scrambling for dibs on the "next big thing" in stores. But what if we put that money toward stock in the companies behind our favorite products instead? That's a question recently explored by¬†the Online Trading Academy. With the benefit of hindsight, their team has taken a look back in time to see what might have happened if we'd ditched the supermarket and invested in the stock market.
The simplest way to value stocks or the stock market is to take its price and divide it by earnings (i.e. P/E). There are many ways to apply the P/E.¬† For the stock market, strategists often take the price of the index and divide it by the index's earnings.  In his June monthly chartbook, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker considers the stock price against expected earnings (i.e. forward P/E). Then he compares that ratio to the stock's average forward P/E in the past five years. Then Parker saw how many stocks were trading above its average historical forward P/E.¬† That's what's charted below. Simply put, this chart shows that more than half of the stocks in the stock market are trading above their own average valuations. In other words, the stock market appears to be broadly expensive. Morgan Stanley
Flickr/europedistrictMay monthly data reported this past week was dominated by yet another tepid jobs report of +175,000 with a slight increase in the unemployment rate due to more people entering the labor force. Average hourly earnings barely increased, so real earnings probably fell slightly for the month. The ISM reported that manufacturing contracted slightly, which services expanded at slightly better rate. Auto sales increased slightly for the month, but have been flat over a 6 month period. April factory orders also increased, but have also been flat for a 6 month period. Consumer credit increased. In the rear view mirror, in the first quarter productivity increased, and unit labor costs fell sharply but only partially reversing a huge spike in the fourth quarter due to income being shifted forward into that quarter.  Let's start this week's look at the high frequency weekly indicators by focusing on employment metrics, which have become decidedly mixed: Employment metrics American Staffing AssociationIndex Initial jobless claims Tax Withholding In the last month, the ASA has deteriorated to being negative compared with last year, and had its worst comparison yet this week. After having a great 20-day comparison last week, this week tax withholding had its worst YoY comparison in several months. Initial claims remain within their recent range of between 325,000 to 375,000. Transport Railroad transport from the AAR Shipping transport Rail transport has had four negative weeks in the last several months, but this week was positive. ¬†The Harpex index has flattened after improving slowly from its January 1 low of 352. The Baltic Dry Index remains above its recent low. Consumer spending Gallup's YoY comparisons remain extremely positive, as they have been for the last half a year. ¬†The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012, while Johnson Redbook was generally below +3%. This week both were in the upper part of those ranges. Housing metrics Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012. This weeks's YoY increase made a new 6 year record.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. ¬†In the last several months the comparisons have completely stalled.  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association: Refinancing applications had their worst week in almost 6 months, due to higher interest rates, but purchase applications continue their slightly rising trend established earlier this year. Interest rates and credit spreads Interest rates for corporate bonds, although rising strongly in the last month, have generally been falling since being just above 6% two years ago in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. On the other hand,¬†Treasuries have returned in the last three weeks to their 2% high established in late 2011, compared with their low of 1.47% in July 2012. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012, so spreads are still a positive, and are only .01% above their 12 month low. Money supply M1 M2 Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and has generally been easing off since. ¬†This week's YoY reading increased sharply for the second week in a row. ¬†Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. ¬†Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. It has increased slightly in the last few months and has stabilized since. Oil prices and usage The price of a gallon of gas, after declining sharply in March and April, rose again in May. The 4 week average for gas usage remained negative after two positive YoY months several months ago. Bank lending rates The TED spread is still near the low end of its 3 year range. ¬†LIBOR remains close to a 3 year low. JoC ECRI Commodity prices After several weeks of more positive signs, last week we returned to the pattern of gradual deterioration that began in February. This week most indicators remain positive and there were fewer negatives.  Temp staffing is becoming a larger concern as it declined again and remains below last year's rate. Also negative this week were mortgage refinancing and treasury bonds, reflecting the bond selloff. Real estate loans, commodities, and shipping were neutral. Gas usage remains negative but may continue to reflect increased efficiency. Gas prices increased sharply but we haven't moved into a constrictive price range yet. After having their best week in months last week, this week tax withholding had its worst comparison in months. Averaged out the two weeks are lukewarm.  The biggest positive remains very strong consumer spending. Positives included house prices, YoY purchase mortgage applications, money supply, and overnight bank rates. The spread between corporate and treasury bonds contracted. Weekly jobless claims improved. Rail had a very good week. It has been decidedly mixed over the last few months.  Last week I said that for me to be sold that the data is actually rolling over, I would want to see a sustained increase in jobless claims and a sustained deterioration in consumer spending. That wasn't happening as of last week, and it certainly didn't happen this week either. The economy still seems to be moving forward - but in first gear.  Have a nice weekend.
The phrase ‚Äúthis time is different‚Äù doesn‚Äôt usually spark very positive reactions. But I don‚Äôt care because there‚Äôs one thing about the market these days that makes me think that something is strange when compared to previous bond market sell-offs. If you follow me on twitter you will have noticed that lately I have been talking a lot about asset swaps (ASW). This is a pretty technical concept but I will try to be as straightforward as possible. If you are still reading this then you probably know that in the fixed income market we have two broad groups of instruments ‚Äì cash bonds and swaps. In theory, their yields (prices) should be moving more or less in a parallel fashion because they are interest rates instruments. In other words, you can bet on interest rates going lower by either buying bonds or receiving interest rate swaps (IRS). The difference between those two instruments is called the asset swap and it tends to move for the following main reasons: I have learnt to pay a close attention to moves in ASWs, just like I very closely monitor moves in cross currency basis because they can reveal pretty significant market developments. An ASW can tighten, i.e. bond outperforms the swap (e.g. bond yields drops by 10bp and IRS for the same maturity by 7bp) or widen. In core markets, tightening of ASW has been historically connected with higher aversion to risk. When problems arise, investors would very much rather own, say, US Treasuries than have a contract with a bank to exchange some cash flows. Chart below shows the 10y ASW (the higher the number, the more expensive the bond vs swap) in the US against the EMBIG spread. As you can see, the correlation is pretty significant.  Now, what happens in developed markets does not usually work the same way in emerging markets. Indeed, periods of risk aversion were generally associated with significant widening of ASW in emerging markets. The rationale is simple ‚Äì let‚Äôs dump emerging bonds because the credit risk is going up. Having an interest exposure via a swap with JP Morgan becomes more valuable than buying government bonds of governments of Mexico, Hungary or Malaysia. Simple heuristic. And this brings me to the ‚Äúthis time is different‚Äù proposition. As you may have noticed we are experiencing the end of days for government bond markets. Well, we‚Äôre not really but people like Bill Gross want to make you think like that. EPFR data is showing significant outflows from bond funds investing in emerging government bond markets. The last time we saw such big outflows was in September 2011. However, unlike in September 2011 when ASW totally exploded, in the recent weeks EM ASWs have actually¬†tightened¬†and considerably so. Just to give you an example ‚Äì ASW in the 10y segment of the South African government bonds are at the tightest level they‚Äôve ever been. South Africa ‚Äì the country whose economy is in a downfall, whose currency has sold off dramatically and where the social tensions are at levels unseen in years. To be sure, the bonds have sold off too but nowhere near as much as IRS. I can find a few explanations for that but the most important conclusion is that real money investors (so asset managers rather than hedge funds) have¬†not¬†been selling government bond markets to a large extent. They have sold some and shifted others to more defensive places, they probably hedged their currency exposures but they have¬†not¬†sold their bonds. Why? Perhaps because they don‚Äôt believe Bill Gross, thinking the scare will pass (this argument seems to be supported by Pawel Morski in one of his latest¬†posts). Or perhaps because they know the market is not able to absorb the potential flow anyway. At the same time, the hedge funds seem to be willing to exploit the recent change in the global mood and are pushing IRS higher. This then stops out model accounts (CTAs, aka the scum of the earth), which had been running humongous receiver positions in bellies of various curves assuming the Fed would stay put forever (or at least 3-5 years). Meanwhile, it seems like the tide has turned a bit and the convexity of the US curve is shifting. That‚Äôs why I was pointing out earlier today this tweet¬†from Business Insider‚Äôs Matt Boesler. All in all, I don‚Äôt want to make this post too technical but this is the first EM bond ‚Äúcrisis‚Äù since I have been in the industry when local bonds in emerging markets have so far been outperforming IRS and ASW have been tightening. And while I think I understand the reasons behind that this is not a sustainable situation, in my opinion. In fact, I strongly believe that something has to give ‚Äì either the real money guys are in a denial or the hedge funds have jumped on the tapering bandwagon too early. Either way, the EM curves are pricing something that is almost impossible to come true, in my view.
Instagram/apoorvauniqueEditor's note: ¬†Last summer, one of our interns put together a great post on the ways Wall Street interns make themselves appear busy all day every summer.¬† Since the season has officially started we've decided to share this with you again.¬† As Wall Street interns settle into their summer routines, things can get a bit dull. There just isn't a constant stream of work, so they need to find creative ways to make the time pass. With websites like Facebook and Twitter blocked at banks, the strategies that college kids usually use to waste time are lost. That means they need to get creative. We're here to help. Here's a list of ways to make five o'clock come faster, while looking engaged and busy.
The Internet Movie DatabaseIt's not as exciting as a Bond movie.There has been an uproar over the past 36 hours after two news organizations reported that nine of the country's biggest technology companies are partnering with the government in a massive spying program in which the FBI and National Security Agency have been given "direct access" to the companies' "central servers" and allowed to monitor any user at any time. This direct access, the initial reports implied, allows the government to follow the communications of any of the companies' hundreds of millions of users in real time, with no legal oversight. One of the stories quoted a career intelligence officer as saying that this surveillance program was so powerful that, ‚ÄúThey quite literally can watch your ideas form as you type.‚Äù The impression these stories created was that Google, Facebook, Apple, Yahoo, Microsoft, and other companies had voluntarily opened their servers to government spies and allowed the intelligence agencies to do whatever they wanted.¬† Importantly, every company in the stories immediately denied that they had given the government "direct access" to their servers. The companies confirmed, as they have many times in the past, that they provide specific information to government investigators in response to specific requests ‚Äî when they are required to do so by law. But they emphatically denied that they they had opened their servers to the government. Most of the companies also said that they had never heard of the spying program, PRISM, that they were supposedly partnered with. Such is the general fear of privacy violations by the big tech companies that, upon hearing these denials, many people accused the companies of lying. Others parsed their denials, looking for ways to square the carefully worded language with the assertions in the news stories. Still others focused their skepticism on the document upon which the assertion that the NSA had direct access to the companies' servers was based, which struck many people as misleading. And now, finally, thanks to a New York Times article by Claire Cain Miller, we have some more details on what is actually going on between the government and the tech companies. These details explain where the "direct access to servers" assertion came from. And at the same time, the details vindicate the tech companies' vehement denials. Importantly, the details also make clear that the government does NOT have the ability to snoop on any Facebook, Google, etc. user in real time with no legal oversight. To understand how the government and the tech companies are actually working together, you first need to understand how any basic data request works. To wit: The government requests a bunch of data from a company (telephone company, Internet company, etc.). The company's lawyers review the request, pushing back if they think it's unlawful or overly broad. If/when the lawyers determine that the request is legal, they decide how to give the data to the government. This transfer of information can happen in one of three basic ways: 1) Paper, which is manually delivered. 2) Electronic files like PDFs or spreadsheets, which are sent electronically. 3) Electronic files that are stored on a server, to which access is provided. Importantly, all three of these methods of information transfer are used in the civilian world, too. And in recent years, with the rise of "cloud storage," the third method has become convenient and popular. (Think Dropbox ‚Äî the company that allows you to save files to the cloud and give your friends access to them.) Even narrow requests for electronic communications (email, instant messages, file transfers, etc.) tend to produce massive amounts of data. So delivering this data electronically is vastly more convenient than printing it out on paper ‚Äî for both the company fulfilling the request AND the government investigators. And "delivering" it by storing it on a server and giving the government access instead of sending the files via email or FTP is even more convenient. (The data is going to live on a "server" somewhere anyway. It doesn't really matter where the server is.) According to Claire Cain Miller's article, what is going on between the government and the technology companies is basically discussions about how the companies will provide the specific information the government requests. Importantly, the transfer of this information appears to follow the normal procedure: According to Miller, in deciding how to facilitate the fulfillment of these requests, some of the companies have had discussions with the government about creating a storage server that the government has access to ‚Äî a "dropbox" of sorts. Importantly, any information placed on this server would still be reviewed by the companies' lawyers. And the information placed on these servers is not, say, "all the information generated by all Facebook users every day" (Facebook has explicitly said this.) Rather, it is likely much narrower requests for information about specific users, all of which have to be legal under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Given the nature of the communications that take place on Facebook, Google, etc., it's easy to imagine that sometimes the government will request real-time access to the activity streams of specific users. This would be analogous to requesting a tap on someone's phone line. And the companies have presumably had discussions with the government about how best to provide this information. So that's what appears to be going on between the government and the tech companies. The companies are fulfilling their legal obligations to provide data to the government in response to legal requests. They are also discussing with the government how best to fulfill these requests while also protecting the privacy of their users. The companies are "cooperating" with the government, but only in the sense that a person asked to do something by a police officer is "cooperating" with the police officer. What the companies are NOT¬†doing is: Given the recent revelations about how much data the government is collecting under its intelligence programs, it certainly makes sense to discuss the whether current laws are striking the right balance between privacy and security. But that's a very different discussion than whether the big tech companies have sold out billions of users by voluntarily participating in a global spying program.
Now here are some of the other important coincident indicators filling out our view of where we are now: Other news included:  This month's report can be filed under the category of "positive, but not nearly good enough," which basically describes the entire last 3 years. Most of the positive indicators outside of the headline number actually just take back last month's declines. The only - slight - silver lining in the ongoing losses in manufacturing jobs is that we don't rely on those any more for a functioning economy.  There's nothing to get excited about in this report, and while it is mainly positive, there are some warning signs that the metrics are stalling.
Now here are some of the other important coincident indicators filling out our view of where we are now: Other news included:  This month's report can be filed under the category of "positive, but not nearly good enough," which basically describes the entire last 3 years. Most of the positive indicators outside of the headline number actually just take back last month's declines. The only - slight - silver lining in the ongoing losses in manufacturing jobs is that we don't rely on those any more for a functioning economy.  There's nothing to get excited about in this report, and while it is mainly positive, there are some warning signs that the metrics are stalling.
REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin STANDING in front of a bank of display screens in Krasnodar, Alexander Barsukov, an executive at the Russian grocery chain Magnit, can see that a hypermarket in Nizhnekamsk, a town of 230,000 people 1,900km (1,200 miles) away, is running low on "Group A" products--ones such as bread and milk that account for 20% of stock but 80% of sales. Mr Barsukov has the store manager notified to restock the shelves; a "control call" will follow up in 40 minutes. The point is to "catch mistakes fast," he says. It is this combination of advanced IT systems and efficient logistics that has propelled Magnit to the top of the Russian food-retail industry, a fast-growing, $300-billion-a-year market that is now Europe's largest. In April, for the first time in its 15-year history, Magnit bested its competitors by posting $4.3 billion in quarterly sales. Long the underdog, Magnit has become an investors' favourite: its share price has nearly doubled over the past 12 months. The company's success is largely an expression of the obsessive attention to detail of its 45-year-old founder and chief executive, Sergei Galitsky. He has made his $8-billion personal fortune by catering to the needs of price-sensitive shoppers in the country's regions. That makes him not only the rare Russian oligarch whose wealth has nothing to do with natural resources, but also the only one who does not make his home in Moscow or in one of Europe's fancier cities but in Krasnodar, a regional capital in south-western Russia. That food retailing is an unglamorous low-margin business that requires constant attention may have helped Magnit avoid the unwelcome intrusions of rapacious Russian bureaucrats. For his focus on smaller, less prosperous markets, Mr Galitsky is often compared to Sam Walton, the late founder of Walmart, who built a business empire selling to budget-minded Americans. Yet in one way Magnit has beaten Walmart, at least on its own turf. The American giant opened an exploratory office in Russia in 2008, only to pull out of the country two years later without opening any stores. Mr Galitsky has his roots in logistics--or what Justin Leverenz of Oppenheimer Funds (which owns around 4% of Magnit and is its largest minority shareholder) calls the vitally important but "unsexy back end" of the retail business. The Rubik's Cube challenge of moving goods around a huge and unforgiving country, says Mr Galitsky, suits his personality of always wanting to "make things a bit better, a bit more perfect." In the 1990s he started out as a shuttle trader, importing cosmetics and cleaning products from Dubai. Later he and his partners became the sole regional distributors for Procter &amp; Gamble. In 1998, at the height of Russia's financial crisis, he opened his first retail location. Magnit grew organically, with Mr Galitsky opening up one new store at a time and building up the company's in-house IT system and logistics network at each stage of growth. As Mikhail Terentiev of Otkritie Capital says, that meant Magnit has had "no need to catch up with its size" even as it opened new and bigger stores. In its early years Magnit largely stayed out of Moscow and St Petersburg. Instead it expanded in the provinces, where sites were plentiful, modern retail was often nonexistent, and the lack of competitors meant it was relatively easy to develop presence and loyalty. This strategy contrasts with that of Magnit's largest competitor, the X5 group, owned by a banking magnate, Mikhail Fridman. Over the past decade X5 has gone after consumers in Russia's largest cities, where incomes may be higher, but attractive locations are hard to find and competition is tight. At the same time, X5 sought to grow through mergers and acquisitions, which may have pleased investors for much of the mid-2000s but allowed inefficiency to build up in its operations. By 2010, when X5 bought the Kopeika chain, adding 700 outlets and 20% to its size, it was struggling to manage ordering and distribution across its network of stores. Natalia Smirnova of Deutsche Bank says X5 failed to consolidate its portfolio of brands, and is now left with "a bunch of separate chains that never actually integrated." Among other things, that means X5's IT systems are disjointed or even nonexistent--some of its stores do not have bar codes on their shelves. Magnit, in contrast, has had its tills hooked up to its distribution centres for a decade. Magnit is also rolling out more nuanced uses of technology. After executives noticed that cashiers were getting sick in winter months, Magnit put temperature sensors near the exits of its hypermarkets that give warning if it is too cold at the checkouts. Air-quality monitors, meanwhile, check for bacteria near the meat aisle and tell store managers if it needs cleaning. Although it has an attractive and growing consumer market, Russia can be an unforgiving place for retailers. The country is notable for its huge distances, low population density and horrible roads. Options for outsourcing logistics are scarce, so like Zambeef (see earlier story) Magnit has had no choice but to do much of the work itself. It has a fleet of almost 4,500 lorries, making it Russia's largest shipping company. Despite rising wages, the average Russian consumer still puts 40% of the household budget towards food costs, double the EU average. That makes shoppers highly price-sensitive. Mr Galitsky says that when Magnit lowered the price of bananas by one rouble ($0.03), it sold 100 tonnes more each day. Then again, the chain's focus on everyday basics is helping to insulate Magnit from Russia's current slowdown. Magnit still has plenty of room to grow. It has just 6% of the Russian food market, far less than, for example, Tesco's 30% share in Britain. Modern grocers have only about half of Russia's food-retailing sales; open-air markets and neighbourhood produkty shops make up the rest. Mr Galitsky says he wants to have 17,150 shops by 2018, up from around 7,100 today. One day Magnit will have to think about other revenue streams, whether from online ordering, loyalty cards or supplementary businesses such as credit and insurance. It will also need to expand its non-food offerings--now less than 10% of its business--and do more to make shopping in its stores enjoyable. But those decisions are five years off, if not more. Mr Galitsky is a football fan and owns a local team, FC Krasnodar. He has invested in a gleaming new youth-football academy to develop a new generation of players for the squad. In football, as in retailing, Mr Galitsky favours organic growth: he has no interest in buying high-priced stars; rather, his dream is to field a championship team made up of youngsters who came up through his academy. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
We‚Äôre finally starting to see the small investor chase equity returns. ¬†And they‚Äôre just in time for it all after a 150% rally. ¬†According to the most recent AAII investor allocation survey individual investors allocated their portfolios towards the highest equity weighting since September 2007. ¬†Meanwhile, bond allocations are close to the post-crisis lows and well off the 2009 highs when fear peaked Here‚Äôs more via AAII: ‚ÄúEquity allocations nearly hit an six-year high last month, according to the May AAII Asset Allocation survey. Cash allocations, meanwhile, fell to a level not seen since 2010. Stock and stock fund allocations rose 3.5 percentage points to 65.2%. This was the largest allocation to equities since September 2007. It was also the fourth time in five months that stock and stock fund allocations were above their historical average of 60%. Bond and bond fund allocations declined 1.6 percentage points to 18.1%. This was just the second time in the past 13 months with a fixed-income allocation below 19%. Even with the decline, bond and bond fund allocations were above their historical average of 16% for the 47th consecutive month. Cash allocations fell 1.8 percentage points to 16.7%. Since hitting an 18-month high of 22.8% in March, cash allocations have declined by a cumulative 6.1 percentage points. May‚Äôs allocation was the smallest since November 2010. May was the 18th consecutive month with a cash allocation below its historical average of 24%.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Investment Research: PragCap
ReutersEarly Saturday, China posted trade figures that were massively below expectations. Export growth of 1% was far below the 14.7% in the previous month. What happened? Did the economy suddenly come off the rails? No. Basically the old numbers were a sham. From BofA/ML's Weijan Hu, Ting Lu: In ‚ÄúThe secrets of arbitrage and China‚Äôs inflated trade data‚Äù published on 10 May, we argued that ‚Äúexport growth in Jan-April 2013 was just around 5.0%, a far cry from the headline growth at 17.3%.‚Äù Export growth in May confirms our estimates that China‚Äôs ‚Äútrue‚Äù export growth so far this year could just be lower single digit. In that report, we list three evidences for inflated export growth caused by hot money inflows: exports to HK, exports to bonded area and exports of high unit-value goods such as IC products. In May, all of them slowed down sharply, suggesting these usual channels for hot money inflows were hit heavily by the regulatory storm in May. Export growth to HK slumped to 7.7% yoy from 57.2% in April. Export growth to bonded area and IC products also dropped to 45.8% and 99.0% yoy from 249.4% and 286.8%, respectively. Basically, there's a lot of faux trade that happens, solely for the purpose of companies getting outside cash into the country, circumventing capital controls, which are designed to prevent a flood of money. One way companies have been gaming the system is by "exporting" to Hong Kong. These exports aren't real trade, just efforts to move goods offshore and move cash onshore. So China is cracking down on that, either the practice, or the inclusion in the statistics. So the numbers are unimpressive, but not indicative of total collapse.
The post-crisis era has seen a lot of hype around two areas of the US economy: Manufacturing (there's been tons of talk about a manufacturing renaissance) and oil and gas extraction. Both are legitimately interesting. Neither are big job creators, as yesterday's jobs report reminded us. First let's look at oil and gas mining. The industry really employs very few people. Less than 200K people are in the oil and gas extraction business. FRED And on a month over month basis, just 500 or so new jobs were created in May. FRED So while oil and gas is a big exciting story, it's not directly a big source of new jobs. Manufacturing looks much worse. The sector has actually shed jobs in each of the last three months. FRED If there is a manufacturing renaissance in the US, then it's about robots, not humans.
One of our favorite charts to look at from the latest jobs report: The massive difference in the unemployment rate between those who do and don't have a college degree. The blue line is the unemployment rate for those with a Bachelor's Degree or higher. Red line is high school graduates who didn't graduate from college. While the gap is massive, it is true that the rate for the high school graduates has come down significantly. FRED
ReutersChina on Saturday reported a sharp slowdown in exports in May compared to the previous month while imports unexpectedly dropped, as the world's second largest economy grapples with slowing growth and sluggish overseas demand. Overseas shipments rose just one percent to $182.8 billion last month, far lower than 14.7 percent recorded in April, customs authorities said in a statement. It also missed a medium forecast of 5.6 percent expansion in a Dow Jones Newswires' poll of economists. Imports dropped 0.3 percent to $162.3 billion, said the statement, down from a rise of 16.8 percent in April and well below the economists' median forecast of a five percent increase. Trade surplus stood at $20.4 billion last month, it said, widening marginally from the previous month. The disappointing performance was due to "a slowdown in the domestic economy, sluggish foreign demand, companies' high costs, the appreciation in the yuan's real value and a worsening trade environment", customs said. It was also a result of a crackdown on misreporting by importers and exporters, it added. They may have overstated their business to seek to evade Chinese government controls on capital movements and channel funds into the country, he said. Two-way trade between Hong Kong and the Futian Bonded Area, in the nearby Chinese city of Shenzhen, soared by "an extremely abnormal rate" of six times in the first quarter of the year, state broadcaster China Central Television reported Saturday. A truck carrying the same batch of electronic products crossed the border 54 times in 11 days in April, each time logged onto the customs' record as a new shipment, it said. The world's second-largest economy registered 7.8 percent growth in 2012, its slowest rate in 13 years. The government in April announced a surprisingly weak expansion rate of 7.7 percent for the first quarter, dashing hopes that growth was poised to accelerate in 2013 after showing strength at the end of last year. More recent economic indicators also failed to improve the outlook, with manufacturing activities in the country coming in at a contracting eight-month low of 49.2, according to a survey by HSBC this week. A figure below 50 indicates a contraction. "Growth in exports to all major developed economies slowed... suggesting a recovery in the global economy is yet to be strong," Tang Jianwei, a Shanghai-based economist with the Bank of Communications, told AFP. "Domestic demand has continued to be slack, affecting imports of commodities and raw materials." He also noted that rising trade disputes between China and major trade partners have had a "rather big negative impact" on the country's imports and exports. On Tuesday the European Commission imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of Chinese solar panels. Beijing responded immediately with an announcement of an anti-dumping probe into European wine, widening a row that has already involved telecom equipment, chemicals and seamless pipes. The world's top exporter is also embroiled in trade disputes concerning other products with countries including the United States and Japan. ANZ Bank analysts said the prospects for China's exports looked "grim" due to trade frictions and a strong Chinese currency, which has gained almost 20 percent against the yen this year. "We believe China's loss of competitiveness relatively to ASEAN and Japan will gradually show up in China's export data in the following months, which will have dire consequences to China's already weak job markets," said Liu Ligang and Zhou Hao in a research note. But Tang said the monthly change in trade data is unlikely to prompt the government to take any immediate measures. "The Chinese leadership is much more tolerant of slower economic growth than in the past. They want to focus on reforms," he said. Chinese leaders have said expansion will slow in the next stage of the nation's development from the near-double-digit yearly rises of recent decades, as they try to retool the economy to emphasise consumer demand as the key growth driver, rather than investment and exports. The government has set its economic growth target for this year at 7.5 percent. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
