
Letís return to the question of how much investors should pay for growth. Since 1995, Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S has been compiling analystsí consensus short-term earnings growth (STEG) expectations over the next 12 months (52 weeks since 2005) for the S&amp;P 500. Data are also available for long-term growth (LTEG) expectations over the next five years. The latter series peaked at a record 18.7% during August 2000, just when the Tech bubble burst. It then declined to a low of 9.4% during May 2009. At the end of May, it was 10.9%. We can compute a PEG ratio for the S&amp;P 500 using the forward P/E and dividing it by LTEG. This ratio recently bottomed at 0.93 during the week of November 24, 2011. It is now back up to 1.30. Is that too high? Not really: It is back to the average of this series since 1995. Given that analystsí long-term growth expectations are clearly optimistically biased, think of this average as the ìnormalizedî fair value of the PEG. In other words, the P/E is just about where it should be in our Rational Exuberance scenario, to which we assign a 60% subjective probability. P/Es exceeding say 15 would be more consistent with our Irrational Exuberance scenario (30%). †Ed Yardeni Today's Morning Briefing: Pegging PEG. (1) The expansion is slow and old, and could last another four years. (2) How much should investors pay for slow but prolonged growth? (3) Pessimistic professor turns optimistic on next four years. (4) Running on fumes or on pent-up demand? (5) PEG is at normalized fair value. (6) The trend growth rate for earnings is 7%. (7) Forward earnings still rising to record highs. (8) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Industrials. (More for subscribers.)
The rate of inflation has also been coming down, yet another reason not to tighten too soon.† The Fedís favorite inflation indicator, the PCE deflator, has gone up only 1.1% from a year earlier.† Furthermore, we think that Bernanke did not have in mind a quick 50-basis point rise in bond rates that would wreak havoc on the economy, and may do something to rectify that at next weekís press conference following the regularly-scheduled FOMC meeting.† That would be in keeping with the Fedís past history of recalibrating its statements when they have resulted in unintended consequences. The problem is that stocks will not be helped by any hints that the Fed will not pull back on its purchase program as soon as investors believe.† Not only does the domestic economy remain soft, but the global economy continues to slow down as well.† The World Bank has now followed the IMF in reducing its estimate for global growth.† Japanís easy money policy as well as Chinaís falling imports has hit the economies of emerging market nations.† It sees a deeper than expected recession in Europe and a slowdown in some emerging markets.† Industrial commodity prices have been declining and a large number of emerging nation stock markets have taken nasty tumbles.† In addition emerging nationís currencies have started to weaken, and, ominously, a couple of them have already taken steps to tighten monetary policy. As for the U.S., the so-called economic acceleration that†is supposedly taking place is far from evident in the numbers.† Although the payroll employment number for May was higher than expected, it was still well below the average of the prior six months.† In addition, both average weekly earnings and hours worked were flat, a negative sign for income growth in the period ahead.† Corporate hiring plans still remain weak.† Similarly, the perceived strength in consumer spending is also a case of wishful thinking.† The latest monthly report shows declines in consumer spending of 0.2% and disposable income of 0.1% along with a savings rate of only 2.5%.† Combined with the lack of growth in disposable income, wages, hours worked and hiring, the outlook for consumer spending remains tepid at best.† Also adding to the economic malaise is the lowest reading in the ISM manufacturing index since June 2009 and weakness in the majority regional of†ISM and Fed regions. All in all, we think that economic growth will remain too sluggish for the Fed to cut its bond buying program as early as investors believe.† However, we think that rather than reigniting the upward trend in the market, the focus of investors will shift to the weak economy and the disappointing earnings that are likely in the second half.† The guidance being issued by an unusually large number of corporations already points in that direction. In our view there is a good chance that the market high for the year has already been made.
flickr/lmgadelhaWhile everyone focuses on the plight of unpaid interns, MBA interns are making out nicely. The average hourly pay for MBAs is $22.97 an hour,¬†and that gets significantly higher for top schools. John Byrne at Poets &amp; Quants¬†compiled a list of average monthly intern pay for top schools. The winners were Columbia and the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business with an $8,000 median monthly salary. Depending on where you go, the number gets even higher. The average consulting intern gets $10,500. There's a reason these companies pay so much. It's a great way to get the inside track to hiring top students. Some 48% of Booth graduates end up taking a job at the place they interned the previous summer.¬† Here are the schools that come out on top:¬† Poets&Quants
Historian Michael Beschloss just tweeted this picture of the United States Capitol dome under construction during the Civil War. The building in the foreground, Beschloss says, is the Trinity Episcopal Church, which was demolished in 1936. Wikipedia has more on the history of the Capitol building here. You can follow Michael Beschloss here.
BILL GROSS: 'It's Important For Investors To Remember Why They Own Bonds In The First Place' (PIMCO) Despite the recent bond fund carnage, PIMCO's Bill Gross†think investors need to remember why the own bonds and remember that they should have a flexible fixed income strategy. "Itís important for investors to remember the reasons they own bonds in the first place ñ namely for the potential for the preservation of capital, income and growth, relative steadiness and typically low to negative correlations with equities. These needs ñ which will only become more urgent as millions of baby boomers head to retirement over the next decade and a half ñ are long term, regardless of what markets are doing today. So fixed income should always have a place in a portfolio. Still, there are ways to navigate challenging markets without feeling stuck. One is to expand your investment universe by going global. Here at PIMCO we like to say that there is no ìbond market,î but rather ìa market of bonds.î So, you should prize flexibility in your fixed income manager or core bond strategy. "Finally, be patient. Times are challenging, to be sure, but PIMCO has been successfully investing through more than four decades of market and economic cycles, which gives us some perspective, as well as the confidence that weíre going to be around to fight for the next 40 years. We certainly hope our clients take some comfort in that." How To Find The Right Fund-Manager Consultant For Your Clients (The Wall Street Journal) Finding the right fund manager for a client's portfolio is crucial. In a new column for the Wall Street Journal, financial advisor Karen Harding writes that often advisors will use consultants to track down the right managers.† But before hiring a consultant advisors need to go over a few key things.1. Is the consultant "objective and unbiased." 2. How much experience does the advisor have? 3. Do they understand your client base. Investors Stage An Exodus From Emerging Markets As Equities Suffer Collateral Damage (Bank of America) Bond funds saw $14.5 billion in outflows in the week ending June 12. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett also highlighted the bond redemption in emerging market assets. He called it an "exodus from [emerging markets] assets" with $9 billion in redemptions from EM debt and equity funds. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global BOB JANJUAH: A 25-50% Bear Market Is Coming (Nomura) Nomura's Bob Janjuah thinks there will be a Fed tapering and that it will be gentle. He also thinks the taper won't depend on the strength of the economy. Instead he thinks it will be because the Fed will want to avoid creating an "excessive leverage driven asset bubble." Janjuah also doesn't expect markets to heed the Fed's message in time and stands by his call for a -25% to -50% bear market in late 2013 or early 2014.† "We can certainly see a dip or two between now and the final top/the final turn. But it may take until 2014 (Q1?) before we get the true onset of a major -25% to -50% bear market in stocks. We also need to be cognizant of the Abe/BoJ developments. Along with the Fed, ëJapaní is one of the two major global risk reward drivers. The ECB response to (core) deflation and the German elections, and weakening Chinese &amp; EM growth and the indebtedness of China &amp; EM, will also matter a great deal." JIM O'NEILL: The Love Affair With Bonds Could Soon End  (Bloomberg) Jim O'Neill thinks a Fed taper will cause turbulence in financial markets. He also doesn't think it would be "a stretch" to see 10-year Treasury yields at 5%.† In a Bloomberg View column, he wrote: "A return to normality eventually implies a benchmark 10-year Treasury yield of 4 percent or more. It wonít happen all at once, but thatís where weíre heading. With yields at roughly 2.2 percent, thereís a long way to go. This transition will mark a recovery of the equity culture and the cooling of investorsí protracted love affair with bonds."
Reuters says this is a herdsman driving his cows, sheep, and goats to their summer pastures in Altay Prefecture, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. That's a mouthful. But it's a pretty cool picture. REUTERS
Firefighters somehow saved this house from the Black Forest fire in Black Forest, Colorado.¬†The fire has already destroyed 360 houses. It is the most destructive fire in Colorado history. REUTERS / Rick Wilking
Embattled jailbird and ex-Phillies star Lenny Dykstra is expected to be released from a California prison Sunday, the Philadelphia Inquirer reports. Dykstra is 15 months into a three-year sentence for grand theft auto charges and filing a false financial report. Dykstra, dubbed "Nails" for his tenacity on the field, played ball for the Mets and the Phillies, leading the former to the 1986 World Series. After a drunk driving incident and a few injuries, he retired in 1996 and started a car wash business. Then things got weird. He¬†got into trading¬†and became something of a celebrity stock picker. He launched the ill-fated Players Club, a magazine for high-minded athletes. The enterprise took him under¬†to much ridicule. In 2009 he filed for bankruptcy after owing millions to banks, real estate pros, law firms, and private jet companies. His home¬†‚Äî¬†which was Wayne Gretzky's¬†$17.5 million mansion by the way ‚Äî went to auction. He ended up living in his car. Ever the badass, Nails told his creditors to "bring it on, bros." But things went from bad to worse for Dykstra. His convictions included: a car finance scam, lewd conduct, and assault with a deadly weapon. Then there was the grand theft auto and fraud that finally landed him behind bars. He faced up to 20 years but agreed to a plea deal. As the icing on top, a federal judge tacked on 6 1/2 months to his sentence for bankruptcy fraud. Apparently, he had been selling or hiding assets belonging to the bankruptcy estate (to the tune of $400,000). Now it seems as though Nails' luck has finally turned. After 15 months behind bars, we wish Dykstra the best in his future endeavors. Like Christopher Frankie, Dykstra's biographer, told the Inquirer, "People in this country really love a comeback story."
flickr/IvanWalsh.comInvestors took a little break from risk today, headed into the weekend. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Flickr/401(K) 2012It seems like whenever lottery winners make headlines years after they cash in, it's never for good news. Divorces, lawsuits, the occasional murder¬†‚Äî¬†big time bank accounts can mean big time life problems. Money corrupts. And now you can just blame science. The New York Times' Eduardo Porter reports on a new study out of Harvard and the University of Utah that suggests money actually changes the way we think, weakening our moral compass.¬† From the Times: The researchers performed a suite of experiments on several hundred undergraduates. First they exposed some to phrases like ‚Äúshe spends money liberally‚Äù or pictures that would make them think of money, and others to images and phrases that had nothing to do with the stuff. Then they made them answer questions to flesh out whether their morals would flag in the presence of temptation, and how they articulated the behavior to themselves. Participants coached to think about money demonstrated weaker ethics in the questionnaire. Moreover, the students reasoned through the questions via cost-benefit analysis, eschewing the kind of morality that gets in the way of pragmatic thinking. For instance, they were more likely to answer that they would filch a ream of paper from the university‚Äôs copying room. They were more likely to lie for a financial gain and explain it to themselves as ‚Äúprimarily a business decision.‚Äù There you have it.
Employees at Bank of America were given cash bonuses and gifts for meeting quotas of mortgage holders sent into foreclosure, claims Simone Gordon, a former employee who has filed a lawsuit in Boston. Bloomberg reports that Bank of America allegedly improperly disqualified applicants to the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúWe were regularly drilled that it was our job to maximize fees for the bank by fostering and extending delay of the HAMP modification process by any means we could,‚Äù Gordon said. Managers instructed staff to ‚Äúdelay modifications by telling homeowners who called in that their documents were ‚Äòunder review,‚Äô when in fact, there had been no review,‚Äù she said. The bank has denied the plaintiffs‚Äô allegations. Bank of America's attorney has said that these characterizations of their loan practices are "false." The bank unsuccessfully tried to dismiss these claims in 2011. From Bloomberg: Another former employee, Theresa Terrelonge, said loan officers were given restaurant gift cards and $25 cash awards for denying loan applications. The incentives moved workers to improperly reject applicants, Terrelonge said in a May 15 statement. ‚ÄúI witnessed employees and managers change and falsify information in the systems of record, and remove documents from homeowners‚Äô files to make the account appear ineligible for a loan modification,‚Äù said Terrelonge, a loan servicing representative. This allowed managers to meet quotas for closed cases, she said. Loan officers that put at least 10 customers into foreclosure got $500 bonuses. Bank of America has already spent $45 billion on claims stemming from the foreclosure crisis, we'll see how this one goes.
Peter Tuchman started out on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange as a teletypist for Cowen &amp; Co. in 1985.¬† Within a year he became a floor broker. Whenever there's a big market day, chances are you'll see his photo on the front page. He's got that memorable look, often embodying the mood of the headline. ¬† ¬†"I could be the down 500 look, or the up 500 look," he tells us.Some people have even compared his looks to Albert Einstein. And then there's the big personality, the hot sauce business and the superstitions ‚Äî all in 60 seconds. Produced ¬†by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Tighter liquidity conditions and minimal support from policymakers, coupled with weakness in external demand, pose a threat to the country's growth trajectory, according to Zhiwei Zhang, chief China economist at the investment bank. Nomura has assigned a 30 percent probability to the scenario unfolding, noting that its current base case is for growth to slow to 7.4 percent in the third quarter and 7.2 percent in the fourth quarter. (Read More: This China Downturn May Be the 'Most Drawn-Out') "Official total social financing has tumbled in recent months. We believe the series of policy tightening measures applied to the shadow banking sector in the past three months has reached a critical mass, such that deleveraging in the banking sector is happening," said Zhang. "Liquidity tightening can be very damaging to a highly leveraged economy. Many local government financing vehicles rely on new debt issuance to pay the interest on their outstanding debt because they are operating-cash-flow negative," he added. Total social financing, a broad measure of liquidity in the economy, fell to 1.2 trillion yuan ($195 billion) in May from 1.7 trillion yuan in April and 2.5 trillion yuan in March, according to Nomura. Henry Paulson, Chairman of the Paulson Institute and Former U.S. Treasury Secretary said China needs to make significant changes to its economic model in order to continue to be successful. As financing costs rise, it will make it difficult for local governments to sustain their projects, which in turn will weigh on fixed asset investment in the coming months, Zhang said. And, with policymakers appearing to be more tolerant of lower growth rates, he believes it is unlikely the government will step in with stimulus. Last weekend, for example, Premier Li Keqiang said current economic growth was within a "reasonable range" in spite of a recent slew of disappointing economic indicators including trade data for May, which, showed exports growing just 1 percent from a year earlier and imports sliding 0.3 percent. (Read More: China Data Highlights Weak Economy, Remedies in Focus) Weakness in external demand is the third factor that could limit growth in the mainland, Zhang said. "Emerging markets face downside risks as the potential Fed exit from quantitative easing has led to capital outflows from these economies. China's exports depend increasingly on emerging markets, hence a slowdown in these economies poses a risk to China's growth outlook," he said. Over the course of the second quarter, investors have become more wary about the outlook for China's economy, with key manufacturing and export sectors increasingly exhibiting signs of weakness. This had led to a slew of downgrades by banks, with Morgan Stanley the latest to lower its annual growth forecast for China to 7.4 percent this week. China's official target for the year is 7.5 percent. 
U.S. stocks are going nowhere but down today. The S&amp;P 500 is now trading at 1625, down 0.7% from yesterday's close and 15 points off this morning's high of 1640. The dollar-yen exchange rate, which has been closely correlated with the S&amp;P 500, tanked earlier today, briefly falling below •94 to a low of •93.98 as the yen strengthened. However, it's since stabilized around •94.20. Stocks continue to fall, nonetheless. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is rising and, at 2.14%, †is now only 1 basis point lower from yesterday's close. Gold (up 0.7% at $1387 an ounce) and oil (up 1.3% at $97.99 a barrel) are both trading sideways this afternoon. The chart below shows today's move in S&amp;P 500 futures. FINVIZ.com
Mortgage rates have been climbing for five straight weeks, and the latest data from the Mortgage Banker's Association shows that the average 30-year fixed rate is now at 4.15%, up from 3.59% in the first week of May.¬† Meanwhile, the MBA's refinancings index is down 36% from its peak at the beginning of May. The rise in mortgage rates has been driven by concerns about when the Federal Reserve will begin to slow its $85-billion-a-month bond purchase program, which is designed to keep interest rates low. Those fears have sparked a sell-off in the Treasury market, which has caused yields on fixed income instruments of all shapes and sizes ‚Äì including mortgages ‚Äì to rise. Obviously, the Fed doesn't want a rapid rise in rates. But how worried should the Fed be about the impact of tapering fears on mortgage rates, specifically? "Not very," says Ed Stansfield, chief property economist at Capital Economics. "The rise in mortgage interest rates has the potential to generate a hiatus in housing sales and starts over the summer," Stansfield wrote in a note to clients. "At the margins, the rise also adds to the case for expecting the housing recovery to slow later this year. But mortgage rates are still too low to pose a serious threat to the recovery." Remember, mortgage rates have only returned to levels seen in 2011 and early 2012.¬† Moreover, the purchase applications index was "essentially unchanged from its average in the month leading up to the trough in mortgage interest rates." Of course there is a lag in between rising mortgage rates and mortgage demand. So, the Fed will be watching. Business Insider
In part thanks to the fallout from the financial crisis, consumers are starting to cotton on to the fact that there is no ìset it and forget itî switch to their investment portfolios. The majority of investors recently surveyed by Charles Schwab said that even though they may trust their financial advisor, they still check in from time to time to be sure they are working in their best interest. Of investors who say they are actively engaged in investing, 72% check up on their their investments at least once a month. And of those, half make changes according to their financial and personal life situation. It's a positive sign, considering the insidiousness of 401(k) and financial advisory fees. But we are far from having 100% total engagement, even for investors who have plenty of assets to worry about. Charles Schwab asked more than 1,000 professionals with at least $250,000 in investible assets whether they take a hands-on approach to investing. The majority (60%) said they are engaged, but another 40% admitted they're into the hands-off approach. Why? Only one-third of less-engaged investors said it's worth their time to be actively involved in their investments, and 20% automatically defer to their financial planner or advisor. That's not exactly a recipe for success. "If you have a professional financial advisor, don't assume that you should check your investments any less frequently," says financial planner Dan Caplinger. "Advisors won't necessarily contact you as often as you'd like, and they may not pay attention to the things that are most important to you. Keeping abreast of your own finances is crucial even if you've hired people to help you." Don't get us wrong. We're not saying people should learn to day trade on their lunch break (you may cyberstalk Warren Buffet but trust us ó you're no match for the pros). Following the ups and downs of the market on CNBC will get you nowhere either. By the time you've heard the news, it's already too late to act on it, and chances are it will only distract you from your long-term goals. The simpler your investment style, the less you'll need to micromanage. The closest you can get these days to a low-maintenance strategy is relying on a low-cost index fund, an investment vehicle that consistently beats out actively managed portfolios. Following up with your advisor a couple times per year, adjusting your investments as your life situation changes, and educating yourself about the cost of your investments along the way are just three simple ways to ensure your portfolio is working for you and not against you.
Real 10-year yields in the U.S. are 150 basis points lower than where they should be, according to this chart from Guggenheim. The University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index ‚Äî which¬†dropped to 82.7 from¬†84.5 in May ‚Äî usually correlates with TIPS yields.  That is, up until the onset of the Fed's QE program. Bond purchases¬†have been keeping real yields lower than they should be, despite generally rising consumer confidence. From Guggenheim: The correlation broke down, however, in 4Q2011, as a result of the Federal Reserve‚Äôs asset purchase program. The yield on 10-year Treasuries would be roughly 150 basis points higher than it is today if the market was not being distorted by Ponzi (uneconomic) buying. The chart below shows the correlation between consumer confidence and real yields. Guggenheim Until recently yields were negative, meaning that investors were paying the U.S. government for the dubious honor of holding its debt.
Instagram/sanfransamMost people have a favorite watering hole, but how many can say they've gotten drunk at the most famous bars in America? Derek Hembree and Clint Lanier are college buddies who decided to travel around the U.S. to discover the best saloons, pubs, and dives across the country. They published their findings in a book,¬†Bucket List Bars. Each bar has a story, from¬†Al Capone's favorite speakeasy to the setting of the greatest party ever thrown. If you're a true bar aficionado, it's worth paging through the more than 70 drinking locations mentioned in the book. We spoke with the bar-hopping duo to find out which were their absolute favorites.
There are lots of reasons for Americans to use less oil.† They'll improve the environment. If it involves driving less, they'll save lives. And in the long run, they'll save money. But a collective reduction in fuel use is not yet enough to put a long-term dent in global oil prices. † Here's a chart from AllianceBernstein's Bob Brackett charting crude prices (red) versus U.S. oil demand (green óas measured by petroleum supplied). The green line goes down. The red line does not: Bob Brackett/AllianceBernstein Brackett says this shows "a price elasticity imposed on top of a longer trend." That larger trend: U.S. oil demand has peaked: We never see a return to peak demand of the mid-2000s. We have passed "peak oil" demand for the U.S. by more than 2 million barrels per day. The large shift as oil prices spiked was structural, especially for non-transport use (i.e., residual†into power). For transports, it was partly structural (driving less) but also secular (efficiency gains). Rather, oil remains a global commodity whose prices will be determined by demand from all over. Like China, for instance. Here's Brackett's from a note a couple weeks ago on this: Our forecast for China's oil demand growth remains above consensus estimates, consistent with our long-term view on price (which, as†we wrote earlier this week is bullish óed). Based on our analysis of vehicle growth in China and likely improvement in fuel efficiency, we expect oil demand will increase to 12.9mmbpd by 2018. This remains 0.9mmbpd†above estimates from the IEA and is a further reason we remain constructive long term on oil demand and oil price. Overall we expect China's oil elasticity to remain at about 0.7x GDP over the next 5 years. Our expectations for paying less at the pump should probably be the thing that more closely tracks U.S. demand.
REUTERS/Reuters StaffAs the market speculates on when the Fed will begin to slow its quantitative easing program, former Goldman Sachs Asset Management chairman Jim O'Neill isn't alone in believing a taper would mean turbulence for financial markets. But for O'Neill, it would also "not be a stretch" to see 5% yields on the 10-year Treasury, reports Bloomberg. Given the 10-year's current 2.11% yield, that would imply a big sell-off in the bond market. O'Neill talked about that†ó†and his prediction for a bond crash ó†in his†Bloomberg View column†earlier this week: A return to normality eventually implies a benchmark 10-year Treasury†yield†of 4 percent or more. It wonít happen all at once, but thatís where weíre heading. With yields at roughly 2.2 percent, thereís a long way to go. This transition will mark a recovery of the equity culture and the cooling of investorsí protracted love affair with bonds. Investors are already pulling money out of bonds and emerging markets†like crazy. O'Neill goes on: High-yield complex municipal bonds and emerging-market bonds are quite likely to suffer a bit more than U.S. Treasuries when the moment comes. The same probably goes for gold (though you might think it has suffered enough in recent months). I wouldnít mind betting that much-unloved peripheral European bonds will end up being a better thing to own when this happens -- along with various reasonably valued equity markets, of course. O'Neill believes that once the "love affair" with bonds subsides, investors will fall back in love with equities, even if they too feel a pang from the taper. Read the rest of O'Neill's column at Bloomberg View &gt;
The dollar-yen exchange rate has in recent months become the most closely watched currency pair in the world. Today, the yen is surging against the dollar. As the chart below shows, the S&amp;P 500 has tracked movements in the dollar-yen exchange rate pretty closely since late 2012, when it became increasingly clear that Japan was about to launch an epic monetary and fiscal stimulus program called "Abenomics." Japan has done just that ñ in April, it formally announced the largest central bank bond-buying program relative to the size of its economy in history ñ which has caused global markets to rally in anticipation of the significant additional liquidity that will be added to financial markets as a result. Since Japan has become the new provider of marginal liquidity to global markets, the dollar-yen exchange rate has become an essential yardstick for global market sentiment. That's why when the dollar strengthens against the yen, the S&amp;P 500 tends to rally. Conversely, when the dollar weakens against the yen, it typically coincides with weakness in U.S. stocks. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
You know things are real in bond land, when Bond God Bill Gross writes his second letter in a month. As interest rates spike, and people talk about a bond market bear market, the likes of which we haven't seen in a long time, the PIMCO chief just wrote up a short Q&amp;A titled Which Way For Bonds: Mapping A Path Forward. Here is it below the dotted line. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Finally, be patient. Times are challenging, to be sure, but PIMCO has been successfully investing through more than four decades of market and economic cycles, which gives us some perspective, as well as¬†the confidence that we‚Äôre going to be around to fight for the next 40 years. We certainly hope our clients take some comfort in that.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFed taper, or when the Fed will begin to slow its $85 billion asset purchase program intended to lower long-term interest rates, is all the buzz in markets these days. In a new note, Bob Janjuah, Nomura's uber-bearish strategist writes that the taper will happen but that it will be "gentle".  He also writes that it won't have anything to do with the strength of the economy or wage inflation. "The Fed also knows that it was held at least partially responsible for creating and blowing up the bubble that burst spectacularly upon us all in 2007/2008. But very importantly, the Fed now has explicit and pretty much full responsibility for regulation of the banking and financial sector... "This means first and foremost that while growth, inflation and unemployment all matter a great deal, the Fed cannot now either allow, or be perceived to allow, the creation of any kind of excessive leverage driven speculative (asset) bubbles which, if they collapse, go on to threaten the financial stability of the US. Imagine if this Fed were to allow a major asset bubble to blow up and then burst anytime soon (say within the next two or three years). This time round Congress and the people of the US would be able to place the entire blame on the Fed ‚Äì probably with some justification ‚Äì and, if the fallout approached anything like that seen in 2008, then it would mean, in my view, the end of the Fed as we currently know it... "So for me, ‚Äòtapering‚Äô is going to happen. It will be gentle, it will be well telegraphed, and the key will be to avoid a major shock to the real economy. But the Fed is NOT going to taper because the economy is too strong or because we have sustained core (wage) inflation, or because we have full employment - none of these conditions will be seen for some years to come. Rather, I feel that the Fed is going to taper because it is getting very fearful that it is creating a number of significant and dangerous leverage driven speculative bubbles that could threaten the financial stability of the US. In central bank speak, the Fed has likely come to the point where it feels the costs now outweigh the benefits of more policy." But he doesn't expect markets to heed the Fed's message. In fact Janjuah thinks a delayed market reaction could¬† see a few dips before the final market turn that could see a -25% to -50% bear market in late 2013 or early 2014. He also thinks cash will become King again. "We can certainly see a dip or two between now and the final top/the final turn. But it may take until 2014 (Q1?) before we get the true onset of a major -25% to -50% bear market in stocks. We also need to be cognizant of the Abe/BoJ developments. Along with the Fed, ‚ÄòJapan‚Äô is one of the two major global risk reward drivers. The ECB response to (core) deflation and the German elections, and weakening Chinese &amp; EM growth and the indebtedness of China &amp; EM, will also matter a great deal. "As of today, my best guess is at least one major dip around Q2/Q3 (we may be in the middle of it now) as we seek more clarity around all of these drivers. My initial line in the sand for this dip is around S&amp;P at 1530 and my major line is at S&amp;P at 1450. A weekly close below 1450 S&amp;P, in particular, would be extremely bearish. But I expect at least one more major buying of the dip come (late) Q3/Q4.I would not be surprised if we saw the S&amp;P not just back up in the high 1600s, but perhaps even a 100 points higher (close to 1800!) before the next major bear market begins."
NanexNatural gas volume disappearing in January ahead of supply announcement.Thomson Reuters has been giving elite traders a 2 second advantage on the bi-monthly Consumer Confidence index, a key number for traders. In the past few days, that revelation has angered a lot of people on Wall Street. A two second advantage may not seem like a lot of time to a human, but to a robot, with the right (read: fastest) connection to a stock exchange, it's plenty of time to spray out thousands of orders and (most likely) cancel them. That impacts price. Suddenly, the market thinks that a given ETF, equity ‚Äî whatever you're trading ‚Äî is really in demand. But it's not. When it happens incredibly fast (like, in a second) it can be like a tsunami that rises and then disappears. Until the correct price is found, what all of that does is simply create a mess ‚Äî a sort of high speed chaos that can only be seen clearly in milliseconds but can send ripples throughout the market as the tsunami dies down.
FINVIZ.comJapanese yen surges against the U.S. dollar in Friday trading.U.S. stocks peaked this morning around 10 minutes after the release of worse-than-expected consumer confidence numbers from the University of Michigan survey. Since then, the S&amp;P 500 has fallen to levels around 1628 from 1641, and is now down 0.5% on the day. Meanwhile, the dollar-yen exchange rate just took a vicious break through ¬•95 to the downside as the yen strengthens, unwinding the world's hottest currency trade. Right now, it's trading just off its lows near ¬•94.15. The strengthening of the yen is adding to a sense of "risk-off" this morning and putting further pressure on stocks. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 4 basis points lower to 2.11%.
APA spokesperson for former UK prime minister Tony Blair has denied rumors that his client is having an affair with Wendi Deng, the Chinese-American business woman at the start of divorce proceedings with media mogul Rupert Murdoch. When asked by the Hollywood Reporter to comment on the rumored affair, the spokesperson said: "If you are asking if they are having an affair, the answer is no." Deng's divorce from Murdoch was announced just yesterday, but already a series of wild rumors have begun to swirl. Robert Peston, the BBC business editor close to the Murdochs, has alluded to a "jaw dropping" reason for the divorce, and Gawker's John Koblin noticed yesterday that people appeared to be searching for "Wendi Deng Tony Blair Affair" on Google. Koblin reasoned that perhaps people were searching for a 2012 article by Murdoch biographer Michael Wolff that detailed Deng and Blair's close, yet platonic, relationship, entitled "Tony Blair and the Murdochs: a family affair" ó an article where the comments are closed due to "legal reasons." Wolff himself is now having a little fun with the rumors and retweeting those who point out the very present-tense nature of the Blair affair denial. Blair's relationship with the Murdoch family has been relatively controversial already ó despite playing down his closeness to the family for years, in 2011 it was revealed that Blair was close enough to be godfather to one of Deng's daughters. Blair is not expected to make a statement himself, the Hollywood Reporter reports.
It was another insane week for asset managers. After huge redemptions from bond funds last week ‚Äì during which investors pulled the most money in a single week from Treasury funds ever ‚Äì the onslaught of outflows continues. In the week ended June 12, bond funds as a whole saw $14.5 billion in redemptions, the second-largest weekly outflow from the asset class ever ‚Äì for the second straight week in a row. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett calls it "bond fund carnage," writing in a note to clients that a "record $27 billion in 2 weeks shows complete washout in fixed income." Hartnett also flags an "exodus from [emerging markets] assets" ‚Äì emerging market debt and equity funds saw $9 billion in redemptions, the third largest weekly outflow on record ‚Äì and calls the $9 billion of redemptions across global equity funds this week "collateral damage ... on big 'risk-off' trade." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Below is a complete breakdown of this week's fund flows, via BAML: Flows by Asset Class Bonds: $14.5bn outflows (second largest on record for second straight week) Equities: $8.5bn outflows (largest in 9 months) ($4.6bn via ETFs) Commodities: $0.4bn outflows (18 straight weeks = longest on record) Flows by Fixed Income Sector $6.5 outflows from HY bond funds (2nd largest ever) $2.5 outflows from EM debt (2nd largest ever) $1.5bn outflows from govt/tsy funds $1.7bn outflows from munis (largest in 2013)  51 straight weeks into floating-rate debt ($1.5bn) Flows by Equity Region $6.4bn outflows from EM equity funds (largest since Aug'11) Our EM Flow Trading Rule will give a contrarian "buy" signal if we see another¬†$8-10bn outflows next week or $11-12bn over nxt 2 weeks. Current 4w outflows = 1.9% of AUM ("buy" threshold is 3.0%) Record outflows from real estate funds ($2.0bn) (but outflows dominated by IFGL and IYR ETF's) Small inflows to Europe ($0.2bn) and Japan ($0.3bn) The chart below shows that there may be scope for further outflows from emerging market assets in the coming weeks, which would trigger the first contrarian "buy" signal in BofA's emerging markets flow trading model in over two years. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global
Screenshot via Bloomberg TV2013 started with stocks going higher. But sometime in May global interest rates begin to rise and the Japanese stock market began to fall.† Since then we've pretty much seen a rout in emerging market stocks, currency weakness, volatility in Japanese government bonds and concerns about both the Fed taper and the effectiveness of Japan's aggressive monetary policy stance.† In this environment David Rosenberg highlights "10 nagging concerns." Click here to see the charts &gt;&gt;
One goes by the name of the ‚Äúintelligence community‚Äù and its epicenter is the National Security Agency within the Defense Department. If we trusted that it reasonably balanced its snooping on Americans with our nation‚Äôs security needs, and that our elected representatives effectively oversaw that balance, there would be little cause for concern. We would not worry that the information so gathered might be misused to harass individuals, thereby chilling free speech or democratic debate, or that some future government might use it to intimidate critics and opponents. We would feel confident, in other words, that despite the scale and secrecy of the operation, our privacy, civil liberties, and democracy were nonetheless adequately protected. But the NSA has so much power, and oversight of it is so thin, that we have every reason to be concerned. The fact that its technological reach is vast, its resources almost limitless, and its operations are shrouded in secrecy, make it difficult for a handful of elected representatives to effectively monitor even a tiny fraction of what it does. And every new revelation of its clandestine ‚Äúrequests‚Äù for companies to hand over information about our personal lives and communications further undermines our trust. To the contrary, the NSA seems to be literally out of control. The second center of unaccountable power goes by the name of Wall Street and is centered in the largest banks there. If we trusted that market forces kept them in check and that they did not exercise inordinate influence over Congress and the executive branch, we would have no basis for concern. We wouldn‚Äôt worry that the Street‚Äôs financial power would be misused to fix markets, profit from insider information, or make irresponsible bets that imperiled the rest of us. We could be confident that despite the size and scope of the giant banks, our economy and everyone who depends on it were nonetheless adequately protected.¬† But those banks are now so large (much larger than they were when they almost melted down five years ago), have such a monopolistic grip on our financial system, and exercise so much power over Washington, that we have cause for concern. The fact that not a single Wall Street executive has been held legally accountable for the excesses that almost brought the economy to its knees five years ago and continues to burden millions of Americans, that even the Attorney General confesses the biggest banks are ‚Äútoo big to jail,‚Äù that the big banks continue to make irresponsible bets (such as those resulting in JP Morgan Chase‚Äôs $6 billion ‚ÄúLondon Whale‚Äù loss), and that the Street has effectively eviscerated much of the Dodd-Frank legislation intended to rein in its excesses and avoid another meltdown and bailout, all offer evidence that the Street is still dangerously out of control.¬† It is rare in these harshly partisan times for the political left and right to agree on much of anything. But the reason, I think, both are worried about the encroachments of the NSA on the privacy and civil liberties of Americans, as well as the depredations of ‚Äútoo big to fail or jail‚Äù Wall Street banks on our economy, is fundamentally the same: It is this toxic combination of inordinate power and lack of accountability that renders both of them dangerous, threatening our basic values and institutions.¬† That neither Republicans nor Democrats have done much of anything to effectively rein in these two centers of unaccountable power suggests that, if there is ever to be a viable third party in America, it will may borne of the ill-fated consequences.¬† Read more posts on Contributor ¬ª
REUTERS/Mike StoneMichigan fans cheer before the start of the NCAA football game between the University of Alabama and the University of Michigan at the Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas September 1, 2012. The preliminary results from the University of Michigan's June consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 82.7 from May's 84.5 reading. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 92.1 from 98.0. the economic outlook sub-index, on the other hand, increased to 76.7 from 75.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead ticked up to 3.2% from 3.1%, while inflation expectations five years ahead rose to 3.0% from 2.9%.
Lewis was speaking at an¬†AFR lunch, where the the¬†Money Ball¬†author mentioned the first time he saw a¬†room full of naked baseball players, and Schwarzenegger is here raising awareness for climate change. At the lunch yesterday Lewis also described how he thinks he inadvertently caused the sub-prime crisis by¬†making bond trading seem like such a cool job in his book¬†Liar‚Äôs Poker. Now read:¬†Liar‚Äôs Poker Author Reckons He Inadvertently Created The Subprime Crisis Read more posts on Business Insider Australia ¬ª
Out on the golf course, I've overheard some of the game‚Äôs greatest myths. How about: ‚ÄùWatch out, I just bought a set of clubs like the ones Tiger Woods uses.‚Äù Allow me to do some myth busting: Tiger doesn't actually show up to play ‚Äî you still have to do that yourself. Or, ‚ÄúHit it harder, son, it will go further.‚Äù Nope. If it did, all baseball players would be great golfers. Myths endure even though they fly in face of logic, yet people still believe them. The same pitfall plagues¬†retirement planning. For many, it‚Äôs easier to believe in myths than to face reality. But it‚Äôs not good to stick your head in the sand, so let‚Äôs do some more myth busting there as well: You can‚Äôt rely on myths, not to improve your golf game and certainly not to improve your¬†retirement outlook. But with planning and focus, you can be well on your way to achieving the retirement of your dreams. Scott Holsopple¬†is the president of¬†Smart401k, offering easy-to-use, cost-effective 401(k) advice and solutions for the everyday investor. His advice has been featured on various news outlets, including FOX Business, USA Today and The Wall Street Journal. This post originally appeared at U.S. News and World Report.
Lavish 60th birthday bashes are still a hot trend in the private equity and hedge fund world.¬† Page Six reports that hedge funder Thomas Kempner, Jr., who runs Davidson Kempner Capital Management, celebrated his birthday on Wednesday night at the Museum of Natural History complete with a Billy Joel concert. Joel played for the audience of financial heavy-hitters, which included Dan Loeb and Blackstone's Tony James, for an hour and a half, the report said. ¬†The Post estimates that the performance costs up to $2 million.¬† In 2011, Apollo Management's Leon Black celebrated his 60th with a huge bash in the Hamptons. The guest list included Julian Robertson, Michael Milken, Lloyd Blankfein and Steve Schwarzman. ¬†At his party,¬†Elton John gave an hour-and-a-half performance that cost at least $1 million, according to Dealbook.¬† The trend really goes back before the financial crisis with private equity billionaire Steve Schwarzman's 60th birthday celebration. Back in 2007, Schwarzman celebrated the occasion with a party at the Seventh Regiment Armory¬†on Park Avenue, Dealbook reported. ¬†His guest list included big names such as ¬†Donald and Melania Trump, Maria Bartiromo and Barbara Walters. ¬†Musician Rod Stewart headlined the event.¬† According to the Post, Joel played "Allentown" for Kempner's guests. Here's the music video. ¬† 
Wikimedia CommonsRobert J. Shiller has predicted two crises, but his belief in the financial sector has not been shaken. The leading U.S. economist recently sat down with Credit Suisse to discuss the risks of todayís financial system and why he still believes in capitalismís good side. Credit Suisse: You were one of the only economists in the world to predict the end to both the housing and the dotcom bubbles. Still, your new book is something of a love letter to the financial sector. How do you reconcile the two? Robert J. Shiller:†The word ìfinanceî comes from the Latin ìfinisî ñ objective or goal. Thatís what innovations in the financial sector are for. They motivate people to work together, efficiently and constructively, toward a common goal. A major part of the progress made throughout history has been due to the innovative capacity of the financial world. CS: For example? RS:†The invention of the corporation allowed clever minds to establish a company together on the basis of an idea. And the company can continue to exist after the original owners have left. The ìlimited liabilityî concept, which came a little later, guarantees that personal risk is limited to the share invested in a company. That is fundamental. If a person were liable with all of his assets, every individual share could mean ruin. As a consequence, there would be virtually no capital in the markets.† CS: Not all financial innovations have such a positive impact. RS: When theyíre first experimented with, many instruments are viewed with skepticism ñ including the above ideas of shared ownership in a corporation or limited liability. If the results were good, the instruments were quickly copied. That is the history of progress. Our financial instruments are now used around the world, which is one sign of their success. CS: The Economist recently called you a Cassandra ñ someone who foresees disaster, but finds no one willing to listen ñ as well as a Pangloss, Voltaireís radical optimist. There are many people today who are much more critical about the financial sector than you are. RS:†As Jesus said, ìIt is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.î The history of criticizing finance is a long one. Most of the worldís religions value generosity as a human virtue. Finance, however, also recognizes the egotistical side of human nature. This presents potential for conflict. CS: Is this the main cause of the current crisis? RS:†The crisis is the result of different factors. Worst of all was the widespread perception in the U.S. that housing prices could not fall. So there was no reason to worry about a speculative bubble, and the authorities and central banks did little. This is something that we can fix, and to some extent, have already done. CS: In your opinion, have too many new regulations already been introduced? RS:†Regulation is difficult to quantify. The prevailing political climate could actually lead to the suppression of innovation in the financial system because of the fear of further crises ñ because we are no longer willing to take on risk. I think itís important that governments not simply issue regulations on their own, but that businesses participate in the process, for example, in the development of regulations by professional associations. They tend to view the problems a great deal more concretely than the people in Congress do.† CS: What are the risks that you currently recognize in this area? RS:†The crisis has been going on for a long time now ñ it began six years ago. Many economies are still struggling today. Similar to the current crisis, the Great Depression in the 30s began with a financial crisis and ñ as absurd as it sounds ñ things did not improve until World War II, which acted as an economic stimulus. Many countries are currently caught up in their austerity policies and almost overdoing the cost cutting. We may well be experiencing an extended period of low growth. Iím also concerned that inequality will grow even more over the next few years. CS: What are the signs of this? RS:†Median household income in the U.S. is already falling. That is a dramatic sign. CS: You consider the social balance to be in danger? RS:†It is imperative that we remain an inclusive society, where every one of us has opportunity and a sense of belonging. Differences in wealth are better tolerated under those circumstances. A dramatic example: Joseph Stalin believed that he could use the anger of the simple farmers against the kulaks, the wealthier farmers, to his advantage. But the simple farmers did not want to shoot the kulaks. Why? Some of them were their friends. Society has to remain mixed. Everyone has to be included. CS: You want to use financial instruments to contribute to a ìgood society,î a better world. That sounds, diplomatically speaking, rather bold. RS:†Not at all. During the last two years, many innovations in the sector have served to support the ìgood society.î Social impact bonds in the U.K., for example. Letís take the Peterborough Prison in northern London, which has extremely high rate of recidivism. The non-profit organization Social Finance reached an agreement with the government for a payment of £6 million if recidivism declines to a clearly defined level within a certain period of time. Social Finance then issued a bond. Using the capital raised, measures were taken with the goal of reducing recidivism. If the goal is met, the £6 million will be distributed to investors. That is a private solution to a public problem. There are numerous other examples. CS: Traditional theories of economics assume a rational, utility-maximizing person. One who is not necessarily interested in ìgood society.î RS:†Decades ago, the economist Kenneth E. Boulding showed how far removed we are from homo oeconomicus. People are much more dependent upon each other than the pure utility function would indicate. Generosity also seems to be an inborn trait, as Ernst Fehr at the University of Zurich has shown. People are generous and kind to people who they perceive as such. We want a society that reflects the golden rule: ìDo unto others as you would have them do unto you.î Of course, people arenít always good, but when generosity is fostered, they become better. Financial instruments can help with this, too. CS: What is your own contribution to the ìgood societyî? RS:†I have educated at least 3,000 finance students. I hope that they are doing their jobs well and responsibly. I have never preached ìgreed is goodî like some colleagues. That existed even before Gordon Gecko, the prototypical representative of ìWall Streetî in the film of the same name. I tell my students: ìFollow your passion but be aware of your responsibilities in society.î CS: You have been teaching at Yale University since the 80s. How have the students changed? RS:†I have the feeling that they have become more capitalistic. When I started, the students were radically anti-business, and held demonstrations. That has to some extent reemerged lately. When banks come on campus to recruit students, there are sometimes protests again. CS:†What advice do you give students? I can only respond with a banality. They should be true to themselves and realize their dreams. I wrote books as a child ñ I enjoyed doing that. Daniel Kahneman, who won a Nobel Prize, recently stopped by and talked about how difficult it was for him to write a book. It is a hobby for me. When I watch television, I am bored. When I write, I am happy. That is my niche in this world. Interview has been edited and condensed.
May U.S. industrial production data are out. Industrial production was flat in May after contracting a revised-up 0.4% in April. Economists were looking for a 0.2% rise. Manufacturing production posted a 0.1% rise in May, in line with expectations, after declining 0.4% the month before. Capacity utilization fell to 77.6% from 77.7% last month. Economists predicted 77.8%. Below is the full text from the release: The production of consumer goods edged down 0.1 percent in May after having declined 0.7 percent in April; the index in May was 1.2 percent higher than its level of a year earlier. The production of durable consumer goods moved up 0.2 percent in May, and the output of nondurables slid 0.1 percent. Among consumer durables, the indexes for automotive products; home electronics; and appliances, furniture, and carpeting moved up, while the index for miscellaneous goods decreased. The production of non-energy nondurables edged down 0.1 percent; losses in the indexes for foods and tobacco and for paper products outweighed gains in the production of clothing and of chemical products. After having fallen 3.1 percent in April, the output of consumer energy products declined 0.2 percent further in May; a decrease in sales by utilities to residences more than offset an increase in the production of fuels. After having declined 0.3 percent in April, the output of business equipment edged up 0.2 percent in May and was 3.3 percent above its year-earlier level. The index for transit equipment increased 0.5 percent in May, primarily as a result of an increase in the production of medium and heavy trucks, and the index for information processing equipment rose 1.2 percent, with the gain concentrated in the output of electrical instruments. Widespread declines among the components of industrial and other equipment resulted in a decrease of 0.3 percent for that market group. The output of defense and space equipment decreased 0.7 percent in May; the index last posted a gain in December 2012. Among nonindustrial supplies, the production of construction supplies moved down 0.2 percent in May following decreases of 1.2 percent in both March and April; output in May was 2.6 percent above its level of a year earlier. After having fallen 0.9 percent in April, the production of business supplies declined 0.3 percent in May and stood 0.7 percent below its year-earlier level. The production of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector advanced 0.2 percent in May and was 2.1 percent above its level of a year earlier. All major components of materials posted gains in May. The output of durable materials edged up 0.1 percent, as increases in the indexes for consumer parts and equipment parts were nearly offset by a decline in the index for other durable materials. Following four months of losses, the production of nondurable materials increased 0.4 percent in May. Among its major subcategories, both textile materials and chemical materials recorded gains while paper materials was unchanged. The output of energy materials edged up 0.1 percent to post its fifth consecutive monthly increase. Manufacturing output moved up 0.1 percent in May after having declined 0.3 percent in March and 0.4 percent in April. The index in May was 1.7 percent above its year-earlier level but was little changed, on net, since the turn of the year. The factory operating rate held steady in May at 75.8 percent, a rate 2.9 percentage points below its long-run average. The output of durable goods advanced 0.2 percent in May and stood 2.9 percent above its year-earlier level. Among its major components, the largest gains were posted by wood products and by computer and electronic products, each of which increased 1.1 percent, and the largest losses were recorded in primary metals and in furniture and related products, each of which fell about 1 percent. Capacity utilization for durable goods manufacturing was unchanged at 75.9 percent, a rate 1.1 percentage points below its long-run average. The production of nondurable goods edged up 0.1 percent in May after having declined in March and April. Among nondurables, the index for apparel and leather posted the largest gain, 3.1 percent, which partially offset its losses in the previous two months. The output of most of the other major components of nondurable manufacturing moved up in May; only the index for food, beverage, and tobacco products fell, and the index for paper was unchanged. Capacity utilization for nondurables held steady at 77.3 percent, a rate 3.4 percentage points below its long-run average. Production for non-NAICS manufacturing industries (publishing and logging) decreased 0.4 percent in May for a sixth consecutive monthly decline; the index was 9.4 percent below its year-earlier level. In May, production at mines advanced 0.7 percent following an increase of 1.1 percent in April. The gain in May reflected a large increase in coal mining. The operating rate for mining rose 0.3 percentage point to 88.2 percent, a rate 0.9 percentage point above its long-run average. The production index for electric and natural gas utilities decreased, and the operating rate for utilities declined 1.4 percentage points to 77.3 percent, a rate 8.9 percentage points below its long-run average. Capacity utilization rates in May for industries grouped by stage of process were as follows: At the crude stage, utilization increased 0.4 percentage point to 86.9 percent, a rate 0.6 percentage point above its long-run average; at the primary and semifinished stages, utilization declined 0.4 percentage point to 75.5 percent, a rate 5.5 percentage points below its long-run average; and at the finished stage, utilization edged down 0.1 percentage point to 75.8 percent, a rate 1.3 percentage points lower than its long-run average.  The Federal Reserve Board issued its annual revision to the index of industrial production (IP) and the related measures of capacity utilization on March 22, 2013. The revised IP indexes incorporated detailed data from the 2011 Annual Survey of Manufactures, conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. Annual data from the U.S. Geological Survey regarding metallic and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels) for 2012 were also incorporated. The update included revisions to the monthly indicator and to seasonal factors for each industry. In addition, the estimation methods for some series have changed. Modifications to the methods for estimating the output of an industry affected the index from 1972 to the present. Capacity and capacity utilization were revised to incorporate data through the fourth quarter of 2012 from the Census Bureau's Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity, which covers manufacturing, along with new data on capacity from the U.S. Geological Survey, the Department of Energy, and other organizations. The revision is available on the Board's website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17. Note.¬†The statistics in this release cover output, capacity, and capacity utilization in the U.S. industrial sector, which is defined by the Federal Reserve to comprise manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. Mining is defined as all industries in sector 21 of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS); electric and gas utilities are those in NAICS sectors 2211 and 2212. Manufacturing comprises NAICS manufacturing industries (sector 31-33) plus the logging industry and the newspaper, periodical, book, and directory publishing industries. Logging and publishing are classified elsewhere in NAICS (under agriculture and information respectively), but historically they were considered to be manufacturing and were included in the industrial sector under the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system. In December 2002 the Federal Reserve reclassified all its industrial output data from the SIC system to NAICS. Click here for the full release &gt;
 U.S. Air Force/Technical Sgt. Cecilio RicardoUnited State Cyber CommandAwesome story from Lauren LaCapra at Reuters. At the end of this month, the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, The SEC, The Department of Homeland Security and major Wall Street Banks will simulate a cyber attack in a drill called Quantum Dawn 2. Wall Street did something like this for the first time back in 2011, and to participate, around 40 firms paid from $1,000-$10,000 to participate, (depending on their size). The first Quantum Dawn simulated armed gunmen running around lower Manhattan "trying to get access to exchanges and just trying to blow things up," said†said Karl Schimmeck, vice president of financial services operations at SIFMA, the trade group that organizes the simulation. However, this one will be different. From Reuters: During the exercise, which runs from 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in New York, participants will receive blasts of vague and confusing information about what appears to be a hacker attack on fake trading and information platforms that are not plugged into actual markets. The participants may see ìlatency,î or unusual slowness, in trading, or viruses trying to invade the systems. They will also have to call one another to figure out whatís going on. Then the Quantum Dawn drill will pause to allow executives to make decisions: should they slow down trading? Use different routing mechanisms to exchanges to get orders filled but avoid threats? When the process begins again, it will fast forward in ìwarp speedî to a new situation later in the day where conditions have worsened or changed. ìOur SIFMA command center at some point will run an escalation process,î said Schimmeck, an ex-Marine. ìOur members will say, ëWe think we see a threat out there, this is something multiple firms are dealing with.í We will facilitate a conference call where we share what we know, have our regulators participate and see if we can understand a threat, deal with a threat and then do a shared analysis so that no one is working on their own.î And in case you're wondering óno, Schimmeck does not know how the simulation got the name Quantum Dawn.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookDetroit's got problems.¬† Friday morning, the city's emergency financial manager unveiled unprecedented restructuring measures that will involve painful cuts to creditors and retirees alike.¬† Earlier this year, the city ¬†topped the list of Forbes' 'most miserable cities' list this year. The city's finances had to be taken over by the state of Michigan. And former mayor Kwame Kilpatrick is likely going to jail for a long, long time. But we're banking on the city getting its act together ‚Äî and it's not just because things can't get any worse. We've put together 25 signs Detroit is on the mend. Here's the summary: Hear us out.

Thousands of companies work closely with U.S. national security agencies by swapping sensitive trade information for benefits including access to classified intelligence, four people familiar with the process told Michale Riley of Bloomberg. The sources said the information is used not only to defend the nation but also to help the NSA hack the computers of U.S. adversaries. The reports sheds light on the remarkably close relationship between private technology and finance companies and the government. In exchange for their cooperation, leaders of companies are given classified information or¬†warnings about threats that could affect their bottom line (such as serious cyebrattacks and who is behind them). In one instance, according to one of the sources,¬†Google co-founder¬†Sergey Brin was given a¬†temporary classified clearance to see¬†highly sensitive government intelligence linking a cyberattack on the tech giant to a specific unit of¬†China‚Äôs military. The report raises questions about¬†how much and what kind of information¬†is given to the government by companies, especially in light of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden's¬†revelation¬†that¬†the government gives America's tech giants orders that "serve as one-time blanket approvals for data acquisition and surveillance on selected foreign targets for periods of as long as a year." One source said that¬†U.S. telecoms voluntarily provide intelligence agencies with access to facilities and data offshore that would require a judge‚Äôs order if it were done in the U.S. Riley writes that the extensive cooperation "is legal and reaches deeply into many aspects of everyday life," but receives little scrutiny. The companies are reportedly¬†guaranteed immunity¬†from civil actions resulting from the exchanges. Experts say that lawmakers seeking oversight over the highly-technical programs are in over their heads. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what makes this issue of oversight so challenging,‚Äù¬†Jacob Olcott, a former cybersecurity assistant for Senator John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV) and¬†now a principal at Good Harbor Security Risk Management. ‚ÄúYou have a situation where the technology and technical policy is far outpacing the background and expertise of most elected members of Congress or their staffs."
After much consideration, I think I'm fine with the U.S. government collecting my phone records (subject to certain conditions, as spelled out below). I'm not certain†about this yet. If you make some great points about why I shouldn't be fine with this, I might reconsider. But, for now, I'm ready to tell the National Security Agency to carry on. Why? Because now that I've heard some examples about how the NSA might use my phone records (and yours) to prevent another terrorist attack or national security threat--i.e., for good--I'm willing to sacrifice a bit of privacy to help them do that. I described one example of this here. This example is a scenario in which the NSA gets a tip that someone in America is planning a terrorist attack and is getting calls about it from a mastermind in Yemen. †These calls from and to Yemen are going to throwaway phones, with a different phone used each time. And they're happening just before the planned attack, so there's no time to go through a standard call-record sub-poena process. After getting the approval of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act court, the NSA searches its massive database for calls made between the U.S. and Yemen. And it discovers that there were two calls made from the same area to a number that they're tracking in Yemen. Using this and other information, the NSA figures out who is making the calls. And, if other evidence warrants, they arrest this person before the attack. Having lived through 9/11, the Boston massacre, the Lockerbie bombing, and other terrorist attacks that hit close to home, I'd be happy to have the NSA use my phone records that way if that might help prevent more such attacks. (Nothing will prevent ALL attacks--I'm not delusional about that). As long as the NSA doesn't use my phone records in other ways, or mistakenly conclude from my phone records that I am a†terrorist, I'm okay with this. And if the NSA does happen to conclude that I am a terrorist, I would hope that the rest of the U.S. legal system would kick in and allow me to defend myself against that conclusion. Yes, this is where it gets sticky. And this is where I think we need some changes. The secrecy of the FISA court, as well as the fuzzy laws and ethics around what the government can do to suspected terrorists, might allow the government to "indefinitely detain" me or drone me or otherwise ruin my life because of their mistake. And that would certainly be a bummer. It's worth noting, though, that the government occasionally also comes to mistaken conclusions about other people it suspects of crimes, and that, sometimes, even with the full checks-and-balances of the regular U.S. legal system, these mistakes lead to innocent people getting locked up or killed. And it's worth noting that standard domestic surveillance and investigations can also be conducted in secret, just like FISA investigations. Once the FBI gets a warrant, they can tap your phone and my phone without telling us. They can secretly gather evidence to present to a grand jury in secret and use the evidence to persuade the grand jury that we should be indicted--all without our knowing that we are even under investigation. Only later, if we are indicted, will we learn that we were being surveilled. And if the FBI eventually decides not to indict us, we might never know. In short, there's plenty of secrecy in the full-blown U.S. legal system, too. And it's certainly not perfect in terms of always prosecuting only the guilty and protecting the innocent. But the checks and balances in the U.S. legal system do allow you to defend yourself in court once you have been accused. And they also, arguably, create a higher hurdle for the government to demonstrate "probable cause," in part because the judge who issues a warrant will know that his or her decision will be scrutinized. Grand juries do, occasionally, refuse to issue indictments. And judges do, occasionally, toss bad cases out of court. And all of those things do provide more protection for individual citizens, who are otherwise usually woefully outgunned by the power and resources of the government. So adding more oversight and transparency to the process by which the NSA gathers data, what data it gathers, and how it uses this data, would seem to be wise. And so would adding more ability for suspected terrorists to legally defend themselves. That's my current thinking. I'm okay with the NSA collecting my phone records, provided they can't use them for any purpose other than the one described above: Data mining to look for specific communication patterns that suggest a possible national threat. I would also like to see FISA court decisions be subjected to the same checks and balances that govern the rest of the U.S. legal system. And I think even suspected terrorists should be presumed innocent until they are proven guilty. If these additional checks and balances on the NSA and FISA slightly reduce the country's ability to protect itself against terrorist attacks, I can live with that. These checks and balances reduce the government's ability to put ordinary criminals in jail, but as a society, we have decided that this tradeoff is worthwhile. And I think it is worthwhile. Avoiding prosecuting some innocent people for crimes they didn't commit is worth allowing some actual criminals to go free. So, go ahead and take my phone records, NSA. Please use them responsibly and wisely, as described above. And please keep protecting the country as well as you have since 9/11. And Congress, please get cracking on providing more oversight and transparency around the FISA court system, as well as basic legal rights for the accused.† SEE ALSO: If You're Still Freaking Out About The Government Grabbing Your Phone Records, Calm Down And Read This...
REUTERS/Gary CameronUS equity markets had a bit of a Hilsenrally yesterday afternoon. A Hilsenrally is when WSJ reporter Jon Hilsenrath reports something about how the Fed is leaning dovish (towards loose policy) and markets shoot up, because of the belief that Hilsenrath is expertly sourced within the Fed, and thus is word is basically the word of the Fed. But if you actually look at the story, it's not only not that significant, it's almost worrisome. Here's the nut: Federal Reserve officials have been trying to convince investors for weeks not to overreact when the central bank starts pulling back on its $85 billion-per-month bond-buying program. An adjustment in the program wonít mean that it will end all at once, officials say, and even more importantly it wonít mean that the Fed is anywhere near raising short-term interest rates. That bolded line was interpreted as just meaning the Fed isn't close to raising short-term interest rates, and that's what goosed the market. But that was well known. The real point of the story is to convey that the Fed has a communications problem, because apparently some investors think there's a connection between pulling back on QE and raising rates. The problem stems from the fact that the Fed is currently engaged in two forms of monetary stimulus. The first is QE: Bond buying, which theoretically reduces yields, and injects liquidity into markets. The second form of easing is communications-based. That's the "Evans Rule" which stipulates that there won't be any sort of rate increase at least until unemployment hits 6.5%. The beauty of the second form of easing is that the communication angle is very clear. You know the Fed's targets, and the Fed doesn't have to say anything to make it clear. But the QE part has always been a head scratcher. The Fed wants to see considerable improvement in the labor market, but nobody knows what that means. Is 150,000 new jobs per month enough required to begin tapering bond purchases? Is 175,000 enough? Nobody really knows. And because people don't understand the communication of the QE part, the Fed is worried that a misunderstanding is bleeding into the rate rise Evan's Rule part, which is why this Hilsenrath article was necessary. A prime Bernanke innovation has been the use of communication as a strong form of Fed easing. But there are still wrinkles that need to be ironed out. At the next Fed meeting watch for Bernanke to try fixing this.
REUTERS/ISNA/Mehdi GhassemiGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
At the top of Business Insider today, we showed a huge wave. Business Insider That wave isn't just a dramatic image (although that's nice). It represents a popular metaphor to explain what's happening in markets. After the Fed launched Quantitative Easing post-crisis, there was a huge liquidity wave that rushed towards emerging markets in search of higher yields. Now the view is that the tide is coming out, and the water is rushing in other directions. The liquidity is coming back to developed markets, leaving emerging markets increasingly parched (hence the decline in emerging market assets lately). The situation can be explained in two charts. The first chart is real interest rates in the United States, which have been surging lately. FRED Higher real interest rates are appealing to investors, because it implies a higher ability to get a return in said economy and/or currency. Suddenly US assets are appealing because of these higher real interest rates. And emerging markets? James von Simson posted this chart showing the huge outflows from emerging market funds last week. The worst outflows in years. The water is rushing in the other direction. BofA
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderVia Calculated Risk, two key datapoints are coming out today: ‚Ä¢ At 9:15 AM, The Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for May. The consensus is for a 0.2% increase in Industrial Production, and for Capacity Utilization to increase to 77.9%.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 9:55 AM, the Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (preliminary for June). The consensus is for a reading of 84.5, unchanged from May. Funny thing about the latter one. That's the survey that's at the center of all this controversy about traders getting early access to data. Will be interesting to watch the charts after words to see if markets made a move a nano-second before the official release.
In the wake of the financial crisis, aggressive easing by developed market central banks unleashed a flood of liquidity and investment money that went flowing towards emerging markets in pursuit of higher yields. Now rates are rising again in the developed world, and emerging market assets (by they equities, bonds, or currencies) have been getting clubbed. Morgan Stanley has a big new report on emerging markets, and the risk of the "tide" coming back out, i.e. all that liquidity leaving these markets, leaving them vulnerable. But who is the most vulnerable? In this big slide, Morgan Stanley looks at which countries are most exposed to what's known in the biz as a "Sudden Stop" a severe reversal of investment flows, which can lead to a country losing access to much needed dollars and market access. In the right column are the main criteria they use to rank countries' vulnerability. 
IMBDB / Warner Bros.The Perfect StormMorgan Stanley has a new big report on emerging markets (which have been getting hammered lately) titled: "What If The Tide Goes Out?" asking how bad things could get for these markets, and which ones are most exposed to the downside. The "tide" is a useful image here for analysts. After the crisis, as the US and other developed markets eased, a huge wall of liquidity rushed forth, looking for higher yields, and attractive investments abroad. Now with rates rising in the developed world, and seemingly better investment opportunities back home, it may be time for the tide to go back out, leaving the developing world parched. The paper is deep, and we'll probably be drawing on it in future posts, but one paragraph really explains the unique situation for emerging markets right now. Our long-held view has been that we should expect a strong structural drag on EM growth. The combination of a structural drag and a deteriorating risk-reward from using cyclical policy tools has generated a weak recovery. On the other side of the economic globe, the Fed‚Äôs assessment of when to taper its asset purchases, end them, and finally start to end monetary accommodation is best viewed as an exogenous tightening of EM policy. Indeed, the volatility following the Fed‚Äôs move to a data-dependent path for tapering has acted as a wake-up call to investors to assess these risks. There you have it. Structural weakness in many of these markets (some of it owing to maturity) combined with Fed tightening, and bam, the massive tide begins going the other way.
Machikado Keiki JapanTo get an idea of how Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, is faring in his quest to lift his country out of two decades of stagnation, look no further than the skirts of the girl group Machikado Keiki Japan. The band, whose name translates roughly as "street corner economic conditions", became a bellwether for the health of the world's third biggest economy earlier this year when they promised to shorten their skirts every time the country's stock market made significant gains. The four-member group's novel economic indicator has raised a few eyebrows ‚Äì not least because one of the members is a 16-year-old schoolgirl ‚Äì but there is no faulting their interest in the fortunes of the Nikkei 225 stock index. Their debut single, Abeno Mix ‚Äì complete with unlikely singalong references to quantitative easing and construction bonds ‚Äì takes its cue from Abenomics, an ambitious programme of fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and structural reforms that its chief architect believes will lift Japan out of 20 years of deflationary purgatory. Six months into the experiment, Abe's vision is taking shape. The Tokyo stock exchange has risen around 50%, while the yen has fallen about 25% against the US dollar since late last year, to the relief of hard-pressed exporters. This week the government said the economy had grown at an annualised rate of 4.1% during the first quarter, while rising exports and solid private consumption prompted the Bank of Japan to raise its assessment of the economy for the sixth straight month. "Japan has taken the right steps so far, which is unusual for a Japanese government, and this is being reflected in the mood of optimism and support levels for Abe," said Martin Schulz, chief economist at the Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo. As world leaders prepare to meet at the G8 summit in Northern Ireland next week, Abenomics is attracting interest from other developed economies battered by austerity. France's socialist president, Francois Hollande, conceded during a visit to Tokyo last weekend that Abe's focus on growth held lessons for European leaders obsessed with belt-tightening. Abe's growth-led strategy and fight against deflation, Hollande said, was "good news for Europe, because in Europe we also have to give priority to growth". Abe's early success has enriched investors and brought relief to exporters, but workers say they have yet to feel the benefits. "The economy is doing okay under Abe," said Toshio Watanabe, a "salaryman" in his early 50s who was taking a cigarette break with colleagues in the Tokyo business district of Hamamatsucho. "But I don't think we've reached the point where we can say things have definitely improved. All I can say now is that the weak yen has made it more expensive for me to go on a foreign holiday." His colleague, Takeshi Tomoda, believes that most Japanese back Abe's mission. But having known nothing but deflation all his working life, Tomoda's optimism is tinged with caution. "Japanese people tend not to get carried away, they always harbour doubts," he said. "People who are about to retire probably don't worry about the economy too much, but for my generation it's an urgent problem. I've already resigned myself to the fact that I won't get a pension anywhere near as big as my parents', if I get one at all." Economists agree that Abe's experiment will fail if his aim falters with the "third arrow" of economic revival: structural reform. He has yet to flesh out how he intends to bring more women into the job market, help a shrinking workforce support the country's rapidly ageing population, and overcome strong opposition from the country's powerful farming lobby to agricultural liberalisation. "Structural reform is the area in which he could get into trouble," Schulz said. "That is why everyone is taking this so seriously. This is Japan's last chance to get it right before it finds itself at the edge of a very steep cliff." Koichi Nakano, a political science professor at Sophia University in Tokyo, says Abenomics will only have succeeded if it narrows the growing gap between rich and poor in one of the world's wealthiest societies. The last time corporate profits made significant gains, in the mid 2000s, coincided with the rise of low-paid contract workers and larger numbers of people falling into poverty, Nakano said. "Abenomics is mesmerising financiers with opportunities for quick profits, but it's not going to solve Japan's economic woes," Nakano said. "Bigger profits for financial institutions isn't the same as helping ordinary workers. Abe hasn't concocted a magic potion to solve the economic woes of our time." Dramatic fluctuations in the Nikkei stock average in recent weeks have played havoc with Machikado's hemlines, which become longer whenever share prices falter. Only time will tell what form the finished article takes: a boom-years miniskirt, or the knee-length look of deflation. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
But there is one sense in which even the monetarist position is amenable to fiscal stimulus, and it is this. A belief of the market monetarists is that if NGDP level targeting were properly embraced, then the awful outcomes characteristic of a Great Recession ‚Äî a slowdown of NGDP growth, calamitous falls in asset prices, the disintegration of usable collateral ‚Äî would be avoided in the first place... As such, the very impetus for using fiscal policy to stabilise the economy and accelerate the recovery would be unnecessary...The monetarists therefore wouldn‚Äôt be inconsistent if they were to say: Sure, keep fiscal stabilisation policy at the ready in case we fail. We just don‚Äôt think it will be necessary. If it does turn out to be necessary, well, go for it. Okay, but not all fiscal policy is equal. Fiscal policy geared toward large government spending programs is likely to be rife with corruption, inefficient government planning, future distortionary taxes, and a ratcheting up of government intervention in the economy. So I will pass on this type of fiscal policy. Fiscal policy, however, that largely avoids these problems and directly addresses the real issue behind the aggregated demand shortfall--an excess demand for safe, money-like assets--I will endorse. And that form of fiscal policy is a helicopter drop, a government program that gives money directly to households. The Fed would finance it and the Treasury Department would deliver it to each household. This idea is not new. It was originally suggested by Milton Friedman and recently discussed by the conservative AEI. So it should have appeal across both parties. Here is how I would operationalize this policy. First, the Fed adopts a NGDP level target. Doing so would better anchor nominal spending and income expectations and therefore minimize the chance of ever entering a liquidity-trap. In other words, if the public believes the Fed will do whatever it takes to maintain a stable growth path for NGDP, then they would have no need to panic and hoard liquid assets in the first place when an adverse economic shock hits. Second, the Fed and Treasury sign an agreement that should a liquidity trap emerge anyhow and knock NGDP off its targeted path, they would then quickly work together to implement a helicopter drop. The Fed would provide the funding and the Treasury Department would provide the logistical support to deliver the funds to households. Once NGDP returned to its targeted path the helicopter drop would end and the Fed would implement policy using normal open market operations. If the public understood this plan, it would further stabilize NGDP expectations and make it unlikely a helicopter drop would ever be needed. This two-tier approach to NGDP level targeting should create a foolproof way to avoid liquidity traps. It should also reduce asset boom-bust cycles since NGDP targets avoid destablizing responses to supply shocks that often fuel swings in asset prices. This approach is consistent with Milton Friedman's vision of monetary policy, would impose a monetary policy rule, and provide a solid long-run nominal anchor. Finally, per Cardiff Garcia's request it would satisfy both fiscalists and monetarists. What is there not to like about it? P.S. I would be glad to submit this proposal to Representative Kevin Brady for consideration in his centennial commission on monetary policy. It would be great to see Congress discuss reforming the Fed along these lines.
More signs of muddle through here as weekly rail traffic comes in pretty stagnant again. ¬†This week‚Äôs intermodal reading was 2.5% year over year which brings the 12 week moving average to 1.64%. ¬†That‚Äôs the lowest level since the first week of January and clearly not a sign of a robust economy. Here‚Äôs more via AAR: ‚ÄúThe Association of American Railroads (AAR) reported mixed traffic for the week ending June 8, 2013, with total U.S. weekly carloads of 278,249 carloads, down 2.8 percent compared with the same week last year. Intermodal volume for the week totaled 252,641 units, up 2.5 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. traffic for the week was 530,890 carloads and intermodal units, down 0.3 percent compared with the same week last year. Five of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, led by petroleum and petroleum products, up 27.8 percent. Commodities showing a decrease compared with the same week last year included grain, down 22.5 percent. For the first 23 weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 6,359,429 carloads, down 1.7 percent from the same point last year, and 5,513,692 intermodal units, up 4 percent from last year. Total U.S. traffic for the first 23 weeks of 2013 was 11,873,121 carloads and intermodal units, up 0.9 percent from last year.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Investment Research: 
Grand Canyon Adventure: River At RiskOn Thursday, Japan plunged over 6%. On Friday, Japan had a very weak comeback, with the Nikkei gaining less than 2%. This weak bounce came after minutes from a May Bank of Japan meeting, which indicated that a member opposed the pace of aggressive monetary easing. This speaks to the big worry in Japan, that the Bank of Japan will lack the resolve to ease for as hard and long as need be. Meanwhile, markets are mostly quiet. Germany is higher. Italy is flat. US futures are a tad lower.
