AP Photo/Farah Abdi WarsamehWelcome to Bitcoinistan!Libertarians love Bitcoin. About 44% of the online crypto-currency's users self-identify as Libertarians. They love the fact that it's not controlled by a government or central bank ‚Äî so no online Fed can "print" more of it and inflate our way out of trouble. They love that it's decentralized; it's the currency of The People, not The Man. They love that it's "mined," a bit like gold, because that makes it a bit like the gold standard, which libertarians think real currencies ought to be tied to. They love that Bitcoin isn't taxed, so you can hide your income from the government if you want to. They love the way its value reflects pure supply and demand, and not a value forced into the system by regulation or monopoly. And they love that it's fairly lawless ‚Äî it's difficult to enforce rules (other than the rules of the market) when everyone in the market is anonymous. So the Bitcoin experience gives us a glimpse of Libertarian paradise: What life would be like with as little government interference as possible, in a market free of burdensome laws and taxes. Unfortunately, that experience looks like a total nightmare. It's characterized by radical instability, chaos, the rise of a boss-class of criminals who assassinate people they don't like, and a mass handover of wealth to a minority even smaller than the 1% that currently lauds it in the United States. If Bitcoin was a country ‚Äî Bitcoinistan? ‚Äî it would be like Somalia. Consider: Currently, for ordinary people, cash and credit work just fine. While some mainstream businesses do take Bitcoin, there is no compelling reason ‚Äî yet ‚Äî for ordinary people to use it. If you're a criminal, however, there are very compelling reasons to use it: you can transfer vast sums of cash completely anonymously. Cash transfers are a real problem for criminals. When you can't use bank accounts, lugging around vast sums of cash gets old pretty quickly. Bitcoin solves that. So Bitcoin is very, very empowering for criminals. Given that Bitcoin is good for criminals, it should not be surprising that those criminals are targeting other Bitcoin users for thefts. The most spectacular theft so far is the Sheep Marketplace robbery, in which one hacker appears to have emptied a massive Bitcoin marketplace of up to $220 million in Bitcoins. Note that Sheep Marketplace was basically a trading post for drug dealers. Bitcoin exchange and account thefts are very common. Here's a potted history of recent Bitcoin capers. The most shocking thing about the indictment of the Silk Road operator Ross Ulbricht was not the amount of money in Bitcoin he controlled (about $28 million). Rather, it was the fact that when other drug dealers ripped him off, he didn't put it down as the price of doing business. Instead, he is accused of hiring a hitman to murder six people he believed had stolen from him. Ulbricht was a Libertarian. In other words, there will be laws in the Bitcoin Libertarian paradise: And the people with the most Bitcoins will decide what that law is, when it should be applied, and how "justice" will be meted out. In Bitcoinistan, the sentence for non-violent financial crimes includes the death penalty, apparently. There have always been people engaging in murder for hire, using old-fashioned cash. But the operator of this Bitcoin website seems to believe that Bitcoin creates enough anonymity to allow assassination to take place "at scale" (to borrow the parlance of the tech startup world). He wants to destroy "all governments, everywhere." Bitcoincharts This chart (above) tells you all you need to know. One day you're rich, when Bitcoin approaches $1,200; the next day half your wealth is wiped out as it plummets to $700. Bitcoin isn't backed by any government's bonds or central bank gold. It's literally an asset without an underlying asset. So its price is determined entirely by its flows. Bitcoinistan makes the Weimar Republic look sedate. Even if you could live with the crime, the instability makes transactions wildly unfair to the party on the downside. Libertarians don't care about inequality, of course. They see it as a reflection of individuals' natural talents, and as an incentive to work harder. But even the most hardcore free marketeer ought to blanche at the incredible level of inequality already endemic to Bitcoin. Just 47 individuals own nearly one-third of all Bitcoins. About 927 people control half the entire currency. There are just over 1 million Bitcoin holders ‚Äî the vast majority of them own mere crumbs. A study from Cornell has claimed that if Bitcoin miners cooperate, they could end up controlling most Bitcoins and thus control the currency's price. The cartel could beggar or enrich all Bitcoin holders overnight, depending on how they trade it. That kind of thing just doesn't happen with the dollar. When you have a normal bank account with cash in it, you're almost guaranteed not to lose the money. The bank can burn to the ground, be robbed or even go out of business and because of federal deposit insurance you'll always get your money back. You can't "lose" U.S. dollars if they're parked in a checking account. Not so with Bitcoin. If you're ever unlucky or careless with your Bitcoin wallet, you're completely screwed: Sure, the entire Bitcoin economy is not run by criminals. But still, there is a price to pay for the freedom and anonymity that Bitcoin provides, and the price is a lack of enforceable laws that benefit the most ruthless. The Libertarian Bitcoin dream is an interesting idea, but you wouldn't want to live there.
Cormorant fishing on China's Li River is all but dying out. Fisherman set out with domesticated cormorants, a seabird, on bamboo rafts before sunrise and often in the early evening. These birds prey on fish. But the fishermen tie threads around the necks of the cormorants to prevent them from swallowing the fish they catch. Once the threads are set, the fishermen begin chanting on their boats to prompt the birds to dive down and retrieve the fish. They control their birds with long poles Unable to compete with modern fishing, cormorant fishing on the river Li is now largely practiced for tourists. "Wild China", a documentary series produced by BBC and CCTV, has an exceptional segment on this 1,300-year old fishing technique, which is also practiced in Japan. Here's a look at how cormorant fishing works: Reuters AP Photo / Xinhua, Zhou Hua AP Photo/Greg Baker BBCWorldWide via YouTube China Photos/Getty Images) China Photos/Getty Images EUTERS/Mark Ralston 
APHere's something you don't see every day on budget matters. About 20 minutes apart Tuesday evening, President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) both released statements hailing the budget deal reached Tuesday¬†as a positive first step toward avoiding governing by crisis. The deal sets discretionary spending caps about halfway between the desired levels from the House and Senate budgets over the next two years, while replacing parts of the sequester with targeted cuts and non-tax revenue.¬† "Because it‚Äôs the first budget that leaders of both parties have agreed to in a few years, the American people should not have to endure the pain of another government shutdown for the next two years," Obama said in a statement Tuesday evening."This agreement doesn‚Äôt include everything I‚Äôd like ‚Äî and I know many Republicans feel the same way. That‚Äôs the nature of compromise. But it‚Äôs a good sign that Democrats and Republicans in Congress were able to come together and break the cycle of short-sighted, crisis-driven decision-making to get this done. That‚Äôs the way the American people expect Washington to work. I want to thank Senator Murray, Congressman Ryan and all the other leaders who helped forge this bipartisan agreement. And I want to call on Members of Congress from both parties to take the next step and actually pass a budget based on this agreement so I can sign it into law and our economy can continue growing and creating jobs without more Washington headwinds." In a statement released shortly before Obama's on Tuesday, Boehner echoed Obama in saying that though the deal wasn't perfect, it represented a positive step forward.¬† "While modest in scale, this agreement represents a positive step forward by replacing one-time spending cuts with permanent reforms to mandatory spending programs that will produce real, lasting savings," Boehner said. This framework is consistent with sequester replacement legislation passed by the House in 2012.¬† It would also help to further reduce the deficit without tax hikes that would hurt our economy. Lastly, this agreement would help protect important national security priorities."
General Motors announced this morning that Mary Barra, its head of product, will succeed Dan Akerson as CEO, making her the first woman to take charge of an automaker. It's clear that while the industry is still dominated by male leadership, women have made progress over the past few decades, says Dr. Marina von Neumann Whitman. In the 1980s, Whitman was vice president and group executive of Public Affairs for GM. That made her the highest-ranking female in the industry at the time ‚Äî the Mary Barra of thirty years ago. The women didn't know each other during their mutual years at GM; Whitman said that when she left about 20 years ago, Barra was junior enough that they wouldn't have interacted. But Whitman "really couldn't be more delighted" by her selection, she said in an interview. (They've since met, but don't know one another well.) The choice of a woman shows GM "is pioneering again," she said in an interview with Business Insider, explaining that when she and two other women were given high-ranking positions, "GM really was at that time ahead of the other auto companies." The upside of Barra's selection over tough competitors goes beyond gender, Whitman argued. Barra is a GM insider, "one of us." Barra started there when she was 18 and worked her way up from a job inspecting fender panels. That's an encouraging change from bringing in outsiders to take charge. Current CEO Dan Akerson, for example, came from private equity management firm The Carlyle Group. Marina v.N. WhitmanDr. Marina von Neumann Whitman was one of the first high-ranking female executives in the auto industry.Asked if the lack of women in the industry can be attributed to the lack of female engineers, Whitman pointed out that automaker CEOs usually come from the finance side of the business, a pattern Barra has broken. She is "only the second engineer who's made it to the top of GM" in the post-World War II era, Whitman said. (The other was Bob Stempel, who was fired in 1992 after a two year stint.) Whitman is now a professor of public policy at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and professor of business administration at the Stephen M. Ross School of Business Administration, at the University of Michigan. She hesitated to say Barra's promotion will help women in the industry, noting "it's gotta do some good," if only to give women a "goal to strive for." But she's sure it will help General Motors. In two years heading up product development, Barra has overseen the launches of a bunch of terrific cars, and sales have risen accordingly. "They've got good design," Whitman said, "and they're learning where the world is going."
APIn early October, Patrick Lamanske of Champaign, Ill., works with Amanda Ziemnisky, right, of the Champaign Urbana Public Health District office in Champaign to try to sign his wife, Ping Lamanske, left, up for health care coverage through the Affordable Care Act.There's big news in Washington DC today: Democratic and Republican leaders have agreed on a budget to avert a government shutdown come next year. Not only have they agreed on a budget, the deal actually undoes nearly half of the sequestration spending cuts. That means there will be less shutdown-related uncertainty and less austerity than we otherwise might have expected. And for that we can thank (in part) the disastrous Obamacare launch. Because Obamacare has rolled out terribly, Obama's approval ratings are in the toilet. This is a very welcome turn of events for the Republican party, which just over a month ago was in the toilet itself approval-wise. Republicans now have a good hand to play going into next November, and the only way they could obviously screw it up is by doing something stupid like shutting down the government again. So it appears that Republicans are content now to just not rock the boat and get to the next election which they hope will be a big one for them thanks to Obamacare. That's great news for the US economy. As we wrote yesterday, 2014 could finally be the year for the US economy. The economic data is starting to gather steam, and there's no major event risk to torpedo that. Whatever tail risk there was related to the budget now appears to be gone.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJeffrey GundlachDoubleLine CEO Jeff Gundlach just finished his latest webcast. During the call, he discussed Fed stimulus, which he thinks will be around longer than most foresee due to low inflation rates. Gundlach also said that while relaxation in lending standards has people worried about corporate bonds ‚Äî and that this could come back to haunt the market in the future ‚Äî it isn't a problem for now, as corporate profitability remains so high. He also sees emerging market bonds outperforming high yield in the future, given recent underperformance of the former versus the latter. All of Gundlach's theses are born out of a macro framework which he communicates in his eye-opening, hand-picked collection of charts on debts, spending, employment, inflation, stocks, bonds, and other critical global macro indicators.
via Sushi NakazawaSushi NakazawaIn July, New York Times restaurant critic Pete Wells surprised foodies everywhere when he¬†knocked iconic Upper East Side restaurant Daniel¬†down from four stars to three after finding that servers treated famous guests differently from unknown ones (he still raved about the food). The move left the city ‚Äî¬†one of the fine dining meccas of the world ‚Äî¬†with just five restaurants¬†with four-star reviews from The New York Times. Today, however, the acclaimed critic handed 10 stars to Sushi Nakazawa, a small sushi bar in the West Village opened by an acolyte of famed Japanese sushi chef Jiro Ono (the subject of¬†the documentary "Jiro Dreams of Sushi.") "[Nakazawa]¬†picked up a palmful of rice and began to serve one of the four most enjoyable and eye-opening sushi meals I have ever eaten," Wells wrote. "I had the other three at Sushi Nakazawa over the next few weeks." New York City once again has six four-star restaurants. They are: Del Posto: Mario Batali, Joe Bastianich, and Lidia Bastianich's upscale Italian restaurant near the High Line got four stars from Sam Sifton in October 2010. He declared: "Del Posto‚Äôs is a pleasure that lasts." The five-course dinner menu is $115 per person. Eleven Madison Park:¬†Critic Frank Bruni granted four stars to Eleven Madison Park in August 2009. Restaurateur Danny Meyer sold the restaurant to chef Daniel Humm in 2011, and The Times has yet to revisit. The dinner tasting menu is $195 per person. Jean Georges: Bruni visited¬†Jean-Georges Vongerichten's eponymous restaurant in 2006 and found it to be a notch above any of the other restaurants in Vongerichten's empire, writing, "while the food at Jean Georges may no longer be novel, it still thrills, and this restaurant still presents an experience unlike others around town." The three-course dinner tasting menu is $118 per person. Le Bernardin: In May 2012, Wells assigned four stars to Eric Ripert's midtown east restaurant, writing, "no other restaurant in the city makes the simple cooking of fish (and the fish at Le Bernardin is cooked simply, when it is cooked at all) seem so ripe with opportunities for excitement." The four-course dinner tasting menu costs $130 per person. Per Se: Wells gave a top rating to chef Thomas Keller's restaurant at the Time Warner Center in October 2011, calling it "the best restaurant in New York City." The prix fixe dinner menu costs $295 per person. Sushi Nakazawa: Wells adored his meals at the 10-seat sushi restaurant in the West Village. His December 2013 review of the 21-course sushi dinner said, "The moment-to-moment joys of eating one mouthful of sushi after another can merge into a blur of fish bliss. But almost everything Mr. Nakazawa cups in his hands and places in front of you is an event on its own."¬†The Omakase menu costs $150 per person at the sushi bar and $120 per person in the dining room.¬†
APSen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) have reached an agreement on a budget deal that would avert a repeat of October's government shutdown.† Murray and Ryan chair the Senate and House budget committees and are the lead negotiators for their parties on the agreement. The†mini-bargain ó the "Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013" ó sets discretionary spending levels a little above $1 trillion for the next two years, while repealing and replacing some cuts of sequestration. In fiscal year 2014, spending is set at $1.012 trillion, which sits about halfway between the proposed levels of the House and Senate budgets. Current law under sequestration calls for caps of $967 billion. The legislation provides†$63 billion in sequester relief over two years, which is split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. This is offset by targeted spending cuts and non-tax revenues that total $85 billion. Ryan and Murray said that the deal reduces the deficit between $20 and $23 billion. Murray said that the†deal includes an additional $6 billion in revenue from additional federal worker pension contributions. Military employees take the same hit in the deal. The preliminary agreement still has to pass both chambers of Congress before Jan. 15 to avoid another shutdown. Over the past two days, conservative opposition has ramped up†to the prospect of the deal because of its proposed higher-spending levels, signaling that the legislation could face some trouble passing the House of Representatives. Ryan, however, said that he expects the legislation to pass the House by a "healthy vote." He said that the House leadership team is "supportive of this." House Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor both applauded the deal in statements Tuesday night. "While modest in scale, this agreement represents a positive step forward by replacing one-time spending cuts with permanent reforms to mandatory spending programs that will produce real, lasting savings," Boehner said in a statement. President Barack Obama also praised the deal. "This agreement doesnít include everything Iíd like ó and I know many Republicans feel the same way. Thatís the nature of compromise," Obama said.  "But itís a good sign that Democrats and Republicans in Congress were able to come together and break the cycle of short-sighted, crisis-driven decision-making to get this done. Thatís the way the American people expect Washington to work. I want to thank Senator Murray, Congressman Ryan and all the other leaders who helped forge this bipartisan agreement. And I want to call on Members of Congress from both parties to take the next step and actually pass a budget based on this agreement so I can sign it into law and our economy can continue growing and creating jobs without more Washington headwinds."
REUTERS/Johannes EiseleFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Key Steps To Building A Diversified Portfolio (Servo Wealth Management)  There are two steps investors must take when building a diversified portfolio, writes Eric Nelson of Servo Wealth Management. 1. Know that risk and returns are related 2. Figure out which risks have reaped the greatest rewards and if that is in line with the portfolio's objective.¬† "Taking additional risk with stocks by tilting to smaller and more value-oriented companies has been richly rewarded with significantly higher returns.¬† Better yet, small value stocks have provided helpful diversification benefits while not exhibiting vastly greater losses during the worst market periods.¬† The same cannot be said for bonds.¬† 'Reaching for yield' by holding the most speculative and highest-yielding junk bonds has not resulted in the same increase in returns.¬† Worse yet, during the most painful market periods, riskier bonds tend to experience precipitous declines and behave more like stocks than fixed income.¬† "Enlightened investors know that not all investment risks are worth taking.¬† They avoid all but the highest-quality and safest bonds, instead focusing on stocks and smaller and more value-oriented companies in particular for additional expected returns (and risk)." Advisors Need To Prepare For These Five Major Changes That Are Coming To Advisory Industry (Investment News)  Five forces are shaping the financial advisory industry, according to Robert Sofia, chief operating office of Platinum Advisor Strategies, an online consulting firm to financial advisors.¬† 1. Consolidation - In the face of falling revenues and declining profit margins, the industry is beginning to consolidate. 2. Generation shift - There's a generational shift underway from baby boomers to Generation X and Y, and advisors need to be prepared for this. 3. Automation - Many tech-savvy investors, including high net worth clients, will move from traditional advisor to low-cost online platforms. 4. Regulation - The industry is becoming more regulated and there is "an industrywide fiduciary standard is coming." 5. Compensation - "Advisers and small broker-dealers are being squeezed by volatile markets and are racing each other to the bottom, cutting commissions, which have decreased on an annual basis." Sofia thinks advisors need to recognize and adapt to these five trends or risk failure.  UBS Hires Duo From Merrill Lynch That Managed $275 Million (The Wall Street Journal) Jason Taraszki and Jay Arbetter, who managed $275 million in clients assets have joined UBS, from Merrill Lynch's retail brokerage arm, reports Corrie Driebusch at The Wall Street Journal. Taraszki and Arbetter generated over $2 million in fees and commissions annually while at Merrill Lynch. The duo that specializes in private portfolio management will join the Texas office. 'Everyone Is Bullish' Is Not A Reason To Sell Stocks (Bank of America)  Bank of America's Savita Subramanian has an S&amp;P 500 2014 price target of 2,000. That implies a price return of about 11%, which is less than in 2013, but "our view is still higher than the consensus view on Wall Street," Subramanian said. The notion that "everyone is bullish‚Äîit‚Äôs time to sell" is misguided, said Subramanian. She argued that stocks are fairly if not undervalued by most measurements. "Markets have settled into what has generally been a sweet spot for equities: low but rising rates, low inflation and a pickup in economic growth. We believe we are on the road to normalcy and that U.S. equity markets should continue to climb higher." Investors Aren't Displaying The Signs That Have Historically Marked Stock Market Peaks (LPL Financial)  "Investors are not currently displaying signs of optimism that have historically marked a peak for stocks," writes Jeff Kleintop of LPL Financial. There are three sentiment indicators to look at when one considers if the stock market is at its peaks. 1. A hot mergers and acquisition markets suggests that the stock market could be overheated. 2. IPOs tend to surge in the run up to market peaks. 3. Individual investors tend to flood into the stock market, though this isn't considered "a sign of a market peak until it reaches extremes." These three sentiment indicators are not flashing warning signs just yet, writes Kleintop.
Jiro Dreams of SushiDaisuke Nakazawa, the apprentice of Jiro Ono (the subject of the documentary "Jiro Dreams of Sushi"), opened a restaurant in the West Village back in August. Almost immediately, the reviews for Sushi Nakazawa were glowing, with critics and early diners calling it the best sushi restaurant in New York City. The New York Times restaurant critic Pete Wells recently tried the food at the 10-seat sushi bar, and gave it a raving four-star review¬†‚Äî a rarity for the paper. "He picked up a palmful of rice and began to serve one of the four most enjoyable and eye-opening sushi meals I have ever eaten," Wells said. "I had the other three at Sushi Nakazawa over the next few weeks." So what made the food so special for Wells, one of the toughest food critics around? Each of the 21 sushi dishes served during each meal was not only delicious, but highly memorable. Wells explained in his review: I remember precisely the dull luster of Mr. Nakazawa‚Äôs mackerel and the way its initial firmness gave way to a minor-key note of pickled fish and a major-key richness that kept building the longer I chewed. I can feel the warmth of just-poached blue shrimp from the South Pacific islands of New Caledonia, which had a flavor that was deep, clean and delicate at the same time. I can tell you about the burning-leaf smell of skipjack smoked over smoldering hay until it becomes a softer, aquatic version of aged Italian speck. This is huge for Nakazawa,¬†who appeared in the Jiro documentary as the senior apprentice who spent three months attempting to master tamagoyaki, a famous Japanese omelet dish.¬†He immigrated to Seattle after the 2011 Japanese earthquake, and then again to New York City once¬†New York restaurateur Alessandro Borgognone tracked him down in 2012 and convinced him to open a restaurant. And now with Wells' glowing review, expect it to be a whole lot harder to try Nakazawa's sushi as he joins the ranks of the five other four-star restaurants in the city.¬† The price of the Omakase menu at Sushi Nakazawa is $150 per person at the sushi bar or $120 per person in the dining room.¬†
Here's a great chart (courtesy of Rafat Ali) of the 2013 European Union Industrial R&amp;D Scoreboard. It shows the world's top 50 companies ranked by their total research &amp; development investment (in euros). The top R&amp;D investor is the German carmaker Volkswagen (‚Ç¨9.5 billion, $13 billion), which moved up from third place last year. Five U.S. companies made it to the top 10: Microsoft, Intel, Merck, Johnson &amp; Johnson, and Pfizer. Overall the U.S. had 36 companies among the top 100 R&amp;D investors, the EU had 28, and Japan had 22. Check it out:IRI
ReutersThe FT's Tracy Alloway reports today†that†the U.S. Patent Office has published a filing from JP Morgan regarding a payment service that some have some are saying bares a striking resemblance to Bitcoin. But the filing is actually a renewal of a patent first filed in 1999 †ó meaning it significantly predates that digital currency's breakout success. But even if you were still inclined to dig into the patent itself, you'd discover that there are really very few similarities between Bitcoin and JP Morgan's system.† The system is basically a form of repackaging the electronic credits you already use to pay for stuff online. The only new wrinkle is a†Payment Portal Processor that will be tied to a †digital wallet that can hold your electronic credits. The "PPP," as its referred to in the patent, will be able to "store miles, coupons, sweepstakes or other marketing incentives associated with use of the accounts linked to the PPP."†It will also†"[enrich] the consumer e-commerce experience by eliminating the tedious process of tilling [sic] out lengthy payment and shipping fields as this is done automatically." This, in turn, will help merchants, "since research indicates that most e-commerce purchases are abandoned at the [point of sale] due to consumers' unwillingness to complete lengthy forms or provide personal credit card numbers.†Furthermore, the automatic form filling features of the PPP enhanced Wallet reduces shipping errors, as the 'ship to' address is automatically filled in, eliminating manual entry errors." Under JP Morgan's system, your account will still be tied to your credit or debit cards, and your payments will still be processed by the same Electronic Funds Transfer network used to process payments today. Bitcoin, on the other hand, relies on peer-to-peer exchanges, meaning it's completely decentralized. And it uses souped-up encryption, which makes both parties in a transaction anonymous and makes the entire system difficult to hack. JP Morgan's system does†nothing for security enhancement. To authenticate the payment from the user, a bank can require, "†a software certification, an encrypted PIN, or the mother's maiden name of the consumer."† JP Morgan's system wants to turn this:USPTOInto this ó but there is nothing truly novel about all the other boxes you see:USPTO We've reached out to Denis O'Leary, the first name on the patent, for comment, but have not received a response. In short, we don't really know what if anything JPMorgan is thinking with this patent or if they end up rolling it out at all (mot patents go nowhere). And there was more evidence that this patent was collecting dust somewhere and some lawyer believed it might be a good idea to re-file: for instance, the patent references "Netscape Navigator" and "Palm Pilot." † Whatever this ended up looking like, it wasn't Bitcoin.
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiDoubleLine CEO Jeff Gundlach hosted one of his popular webcasts this afternoon in which he discussed¬†"the economy, the markets and his outlook for what he believes may be the best investment strategies and sector allocations for the DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund and Core Fixed Income Fund." The webcast is titled "Something for Nothing." Below is a summary of the call. 4:23:¬†Gundlach says one reason perhaps risk markets have been supported in 2013 is shrinking deficits while Federal Reserve bond buying has remained constant. 4:30:¬†Gundlach has been talking mostly about Obamacare for the first 15 minutes of the call. He is concerned. 4:41:¬†Gundlach notes the first increase in household debt in Q3 2013 in years, says those who expect economic growth to plateau at higher levels in 2014 probably need that development to hold steady. 4:46:¬†Gundlach says the unemployment rate would be 9.3% if those who dropped out of the labor force for reasons other than demographics since the crisis were still in the labor force. 4:48: Gundlach notes that the unemployment rate for those without high school diplomas has been falling in line with the decline in unemployment for college graduates. 4:51: Gundlach says a lot of people are getting worried about covenant-lite loans and other relaxation of lending standards in the corporate bond market. He says this will come back to haunt us at some point, but not as long as corporate profitability stays this high. 4:55: Gundlach says Fed stimulus will be with us longer than people think because there is no inflation. 4:58: Gundlach doesn't think it's right to favor high-yield bonds over dollar-denominated emerging market bonds, given recent EM underperformance. 4:59:¬†If rates go higher, Gundlach thinks the pension community is going to be a buyer. 5:02: Gundlach says a basket of Asian currencies seems to be a good short-term leading indicator of U.S. interest rates. When Asian currencies weaken, usually rates rise. 5:04: Gundlach says from a long-term perspective, there isn't a compelling case for EM equities relative to U.S. equities. 5:21: "One of the problems with this whole Japanese thing is that Mr. Abe is losing his popularity."‚ÄîGundlach 5:28: Gundlach is bullish on non-agency mortgages. 5:28:¬†Gundlach says Bitcoin is just a wild, speculative rocket-shot to the moon, and it's living in a world of its own just based on speculation. 5:29: Gundlach says he thinks there is causality between the rise in real estate prices and the decline in gold prices.
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettChoristers of St Paul's Cathedral practice in the choir stalls of the cathedral in the City of London, December 9, 2013.Stocks pulled back a bit today on little news. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Last week Twitter rolled out an improvement to one of its marketing features to help advertisers to better target its 230 million+ users. The new addition helps advertisers do a better job of reaching users who have previously displayed interest in their products based on web-browsing histories. Twitter‚Äôs massive base of users and improving monetization has hedge funds and independent analysts thinking that revenue will grow at a much quicker pace than Wall Street does. The sell-side analysts that make up the Wall Street consensus have been notorious for underestimating the growth rates of social media companies. ¬†The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. You can share your own estimates as well by visiting¬†www.estimize.com. Estimize As displayed above the consensus from Estimize has been more accurate in forecasting Linked In‚Äôs (LNKD) earnings-per-share 6 out of the past 7 quarters. Over the same timeframe Estimize has been more accurate every single time in predicting Linked In‚Äôs revenue. Estimize The table for Facebook (FB) tells a similar story. The community consensus from Estimize has been more accurate in forecasting EPS 4/7 times and more accurate on revenue 6/7 times. So why can‚Äôt Wall Street get social media right? Part of the problem is a misalignment of incentives, the primary motivation of a sell side analyst is NOT to be accurate. The accuracy of Wall Street earnings expectations are crippled by a ‚Äúdon‚Äôt stray from the herd‚Äù mentality. As long as they keep their estimates in-line with one another, then no one can be singled out for poor performance. They face a bias where accuracy is sacrificed for job security. That‚Äôs why we launched Estimize where analysts can share their earnings estimates publically or pseudonymously and compete to be the best. By crowdsourcing earnings estimates the Estimize community has built a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street. Rankings and confidence ratings for each user are calculated through algorithms developed by our deep quantitative research which look at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. Here is what our community is expecting from Twitter‚Äôs FQ4‚Äô13 earnings report in mid-January. Estimize The verdict from our community is that Twitter will experience accelerated quarter over quarter revenue growth this period. The Estimize consensus which was extremely accurate in predicting revenue last quarter is expecting Twitter to report FQ4‚Äô13 earnings of $212.65M while Wall Street is forecasting $208.06. The Estimize community is predicting continued quarter over quarter growth throughout the next 6 months while Wall Street is expecting a revenue decline in FQ1‚Äô14. The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. In this case because of the difference in expectations we are seeing a much larger delta than usual for revenue in that quarter.¬†¬†For more information about alpha generating strategies utilizing the Estimize data set to find pre-earnings drift opportunities check out our¬†whitepaper. Estimize The analyst with the highest confidence rating for next month‚Äôs report is princebhojwani who is ranked 35th overall among 3328 contributing analysts. princebhojwani is expecting -3c EPS and $212.00M revenue which is very much in-line with the Estimize community consensus. Our community seems to agree that like other social media companies this year, Twitter will exceed the Wall Street expectations. If Twitter can continue to improve the effectiveness of advertising to its 230 million+ users we can only expect its revenue to continue to grow. Get access to estimates for Twitter published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers, and register to create your own estimates by heading over to Estimize now.
Nick GrahamWhat would you call an event if you took 60,000 A-Type personalities, threw them in a city that†is 80 degrees in December, put $3B dollars of art on the wall for sale, got every known (and†unknown) corporate sponsor to throw massive parties that everyone wants to get into, and terrible†traffic ñ all spread over 18 different fairs and god-knows-how-many galleries. Well, youíd call it Miami Art Basel. Like a giant squid, Art Basel extends its inky tentacles of commercialism and throbbing trendiness†over 6 days into what seems the wonderful madness of everything that is happening NOW - not†just in the Art world, but also in Furniture, Cooking, Fashion, Architecture and any other lifestyle†industry that isnít bolted down. Itís a melting pot of contemporary culture, a seething cauldron of†unabashed capitalism that, to the outside world, seems selfish and self-important, but to me was†highly amusing and, most of the time, great. I had a chance to see friends like artist Damien Hirst, whom Iíve known for 15 years, and who†continues to amaze me with his resilience in such a shallow and fleeting market. Jay Jopling†was there, the Prime Minister of the London art scene and the host of the hottest ticket in town†with his White Cube party.  I also had a chance to meet and give a ìBecause He Canî pocket†square to artist Marina Ambromovic, who I think is truly a superstar and one of the most creative†performance and visual artists around. I got a chance to chat to Richard Meier the architect and†show him my Mad-for-Dots bracelet which he was fascinated with, and whom I am sending one to†as a long overdue Christmas present.  Then there was Steven Tyler from Aerosmith in-line at the†Dom Perignon/Jeff Koons party looking as confused about the cryptic procedure of getting inside,†finally passing the black draped PR girls hunched over their glowing iPads, looking up the names†of the chosen few. And then of course there was Kanye West, who I didnít see but Iím sure he†was there; he is as culturally pervasive as a cold at an elementary school. Nick GrahamOf course, not be outdone, I had to throw my hat (or 4 Santa Hats to be exact) in the ring of†the marketing cacophony. After being denied by the City of Miami a permit to launch a human†cannonball flying 70 MPH over the White Cube party, I opted to bring in 4 of my Polka Dot†Santas, who are part of a Christmas promotion for my new Mens collection.  Like some Dadaist†Icelandic joke, they roamed around Miami in a 1965 Camaro convertible, stopping traffic†wherever they went, and eventually ending up running into a pack of strippers on bicycles†promoting a strip club in gold lame bikinis. The Santas were more than happy to have sit on them†sit on their lap, and like a proud father, I smiled and took in the moment of co-branding where†marketing initiatives collide and, in the words of David Blaine, magic is made. And what about the ìArt?î Well, there was a lot of it, some good, some not so good. Nothing†in particular stood out, but then again Miami Art Basel and all its satellites are the ìArtî.  The†paintings and sculptures merely serve as the backdrop for the global culture of jet-setting†Russian Oligarchs, French industrialists, New York hedge-fund masters of the universe, and Kim†Kardashian look-alikes that roam the world for the next big thing.†Miami Art Basel is like Burning Man with corporate sponsors. Having been to both, the difference†between Burning Man and Miami Art Basel is that even though both freely promote creativity,†Burning Man shuns the commercialization of it. Miami embraces it like caviar clinging to a†cracker, like a Louis Vuitton purse hanging like a remora off the arm of a tall beauty, wearing a†dress so short and heels as high as the jet stream of the private plane that got her there. All in all I enjoyed it, and when I go back next year, Iíll be sure to bring a human cannonball to†stir things up. And yes Iíll invite the Santas back, because Iím sure the strippers will have missed†them.
The U.S. stock market has spent much of 2013 blowing past its all-time highs, which is great for... about half of Americans. According to a recent Gallup poll, just 52% of Americans are personally or jointly (with a spouse) invested in stocks, the lowest level since at least 1998. The fact is, this bull market has been lucrative for Wall Street, but with wage and employment figures still lagging behind, Main Street has yet to catch up on the good times. The gap between the two has only further entrenched inequality, with almost 75% of American wealth owned by the top 10%. Take a look at this chart from Bank of America's Michael Hartnett overlaying the labor force participation rate with stocks and bond returns. BAML
Today, the Volcker Rule is officially the law of the land, and it could actually change Wall Street where it matters ó its culture. Since the end of the financial crisis, regulators have been devising a way to stop Wall Street from making massive, risky bets with money that should be flowing through the global economy, making the wheels turn. From the beginning, Volcker was hated. Bankers fought it, regulators slogged through it, and its name-sake ó former Federal Reserve Chair Paul Volcker ó maintained that it would only go as far as absolutely necessary.† Now that the rules are here, here's what they actually mean. Banks will have to set up internal compliance programs and monitor their trading. What that's supposed to prevent is another massive 'London Whale' $6.2 billion trading blow up, like the one at JP Morgan last year. What happened was, a few traders were working on a portfolio of the bank's own money, and for months they hid losses from their superiors as the loss grew and grew. When all of this was discovered (at around the $2 billion mark), JP Morgan executives said that the portfolio was meant to "hedge", or counter risk, in the bank's other activities. Regardless it violated a Wall Street rule, it lost money. So the Volcker Rule addresses portfolio hedging. It allows it but only in the event that the hedge is "designed to reduce, and demonstrably reduces or significantly mitigates, specific, identifiable risks of individual or aggregated positions of the banking entity." This will have to be clear in trading reports. Banks will also have limits on securities they can hold in order to engage in market making (procuring securities quickly) for their clients. The exception to this limit will be on sovereign bonds. Remember the Euro crisis? That's what this exemption speaks to. In the event that a sovereign country is about to go down, banks will be able to quickly buy and sell their bonds and keep the market liquid. This was a huge concern for banks, countries and regulators. Banks will also be prohibited from owning more than 3% of hedge funds or private equity firms that do not have these restrictions. Now, the glue the holds all this together is what the Volcker rule does to compensation ó how banks make it rain on bankers. This is what could change culture, because the main reason why Wall Street has such a "hard time being ethical" (in the words of one former banker) is because it is a culture that handsomely rewards risk ó and risk sometimes means stepping over the line. The Volcker Rules prohibits banks operating in the U.S. (so this goes for foreign banks too) from compensating traders for risky behavior. As Ben Bernanke said aptly, the success of this rule will depend on bank supervisors, but taking the reward from risk could very well make an impact on Wall Street's culture. As yet, it is unknown how much money this could cost individual banks. Some say billions. What is known, though, is that this rule wasn't written to save their businesses. It was written to protect the larger system, and to mitigate the cost of risk to the U.S. taxpayer. The business of Wall Street will have to take a back seat to that. The rule goes into effect on April 1st, 2014 and compliance should be in place at banks by the summer of 2015.
DistillerMikael Mossberg and Brent Stiefel eyed the drink menu at Canon, a bar in Seattle that bills itself as "the western hemisphere's largest spirit collection." It's the kind of place where it's easier to get demoralized than drunk. So Mossberg, a "whiskey appreciator for the last few years," figured it was time to make good on an idea he had been kicking around. "If you don't have the expert level of knowledge," Mossberg told Business Insider, "How do you choose?" So began Distiller, a new web-based whiskey discovery platform. The company, which has been in development since May and today moved from beta to version one, is geared toward anyone looking for the right bottle of whiskey ‚Äî the connoisseur, the dabbler, even the gift-giver. The interface is pretty simple. Just answer a few preliminary questions about what you're looking for and Distiller's algorithm does the rest. It feels almost like a throwback startup. Booze Google. But Mossberg says existing whiskey-finding web products leave a lot to be desired. Maybe they have a lousy mobile interface, are focused more on the social grandstanding of "checking in" than the quality liquid itself, or they just straight up aren't accurate. We're in something of the whiskey Renaissance right now. The craft distillery boom is adding more options to liquor store shelves and barroom menus. Mossberg figured there was room for another whiskey aggregator in the mix. "To me the idea really started when I was trying to expand my palate," Mossberg said. "I would often find myself at a bar or store, and that's pretty daunting." Distiller guides users through a set of filters asking about mood, personal knowledge, and budget, before presenting them with personalized bottle recommendations.¬† So how does Distiller cobble knowledge together? It employs a "tasting table" of whiskey professionals ‚Äî authors, bloggers, bar owners, restaurateurs ‚Äî to give notes. Mossberg calls them his "Iron Chefs of whiskey." He's got American whiskey experts, ones for Scotch, world whiskey, bourbon, etc. Each bottle gets rated and reviewed in person, Mossberg says, so as to not use brand-influenced distiller's notes or content that's already out there. Distiller then takes the notes from the tasting table and pumps it through an algorithm that organizes by flavor point, availability, popularity, price, and more. "Each step takes into consideration what you're looking for," explains Mossberg. Currently Distiller has about 150 reviewed bottles, with plans to get up to 500 next year. Between high prices and the elitist culture, "There can be a really high barrier to entry for learning a lot about whiskey," Mossberg says.¬†"The future to us is to create a one-stop shop, be all end all whiskey discovery hub." That future includes an iPhone app, currently pending approval. And more bottles. In terms of, you know, making money, Mossberg says they have a few ideas for down the road (Stiefel's media/entertainment/VC firm Votiv is Distiller's current backer). For now, it's all about upping the user base. Distiller is hoping those users will create a Distiller profile, which allows them to save and track recommendations and amass a digital whiskey collection. That's shareable via Facebook and Twitter, of course. "Who we're going after is a wide range of people who want to learn about craft distilleries, people who are really discovering for the first time, and people who have been long-time appreciators of whiskey," Mossberg said. "There's an endless supply of new things to try." Here's how it works. DistillerIt's holiday time, so I made this one a gift. DistillerAppreciator. Why not. DistillerOff the charts scared me, so "pretty adventurous" it is. DistillerIf it's a gift for a good friend, not a great friend. Drumroll.... DistillerThe coolest part is the flavor profile chart. Distiller
GlenCooper/flickr As Bitcoin is a decentralized monetary system, it has a certain appeal to hardcore libertarian types who'd prefer to keep their money out of the government's sight and reach. But maintaining this kind of financial anonymity isn't entirely straightforward. Bitcoin exchanges, where you buy and sell Bitcoin, are often paired to your bank account in order to convert your money to Bitcoin as you buy it. And your bank account is obviously tied to your identity. Let's go through two different methods for taking your stores of wealth off the grid. 1. Cash deposits through LocalBitcoins.com. LocalBitcoins is a service that connects people seeking to buy Bitcoin with those looking to sell, and vice versa. For those looking to anonymously buy it, simply selected a trusted vendor from the list of people able to sell you the amount of Bitcoin you want. They'll provide you with banking information and you make a cash deposit into their account. Once the transaction's confirmed, you'll usually receive your Bitcoins in a matter of minutes. Here's an example. If I want $100 in Bitcoins, I search for people able to accommodate that amount as a cash deposit. Here's what the search results look like: Screenshot I'd probably use the first vendor, as his feedback shows over 100 completed transactions and a 100% positive rating. The description lists Wells Fargo as this person's bank, so at this point I'd go to a Wells Fargo with $100 cash and make a deposit into the vendor's account. As soon as it's confirmed, I have anonymously acquired Bitcoins in my LocalBitcoins account. 2. Use a Bitcoin tumbler. If you already have Bitcoins that you want to anonymize, you'd probably want to use a Bitcoin tumbler. Here's a scaled-down version of the idea behind them. If you and I each put 500 pennies in a jar and shake it up, we can then remove 500 pennies each without knowing whose were initially whose. Bitcoin tumblers facilitate groups of people anonymously pooling their Bitcoins, mixing them up, and redistributing them back to the group, usually minus a small fee for the service. The most popular tumbler seems to be BitcoinFog, which you can read more about here.
This past weekend Bitcoin crashed and fell below $600. Today? It's rocketed past $1,000 again. From Clark Moody: Clark Moody
APSTOCKHOLM (Reuters) - When one of the biggest private education firms in Sweden went bankrupt earlier this year, it left 11,000 students in the lurch and made Stockholm rethink its pioneering market reform of the state schools system. School shutdowns and deteriorating results have taken the shine off an education model admired and emulated around the world, in Britain in particular. "I think we have had too much blind faith in that more private schools would guarantee greater educational quality," said Tomas TobÈ, head of the parliament's education committee and spokesman on education for the ruling Moderate party. In a country with the fastest growing economic inequality of any OECD nation, basic aspects of the deregulated school market are now being re-considered, raising questions over private sector involvement in other areas like health. Two-decades into its free-market experiment, about a quarter of once staunchly Socialist Sweden's secondary school students now attend publically-funded but privately run schools, almost twice the global average. Nearly half of those study at schools fully or partly owned by private equity firms. Ahead of elections next year, politicians of all stripes are questioning the role of such firms, accused of putting profits first with practices like letting students decide when they have learned enough and keeping no record of their grades. The opposition Green Party - like the Moderates long-time supporters of privately run schools but now backing the clamp-down - issued a public apology in a Swedish daily last month headlined "Forgive us, our policy led our schools astray". CAUTIONARY TALE In the early 1990's, parents were given tax-funded vouchers to pay for a school of their choice. Private schools were allowed for the first time and could even turn a profit. Britain has taken on board many feature of the system, although it has stopped short of allowing publically-funded schools to make a profit, and Swedish school corporations have expanded as far afield as India. This year's demise of JB Education, owned by Danish private equity firm Axcel, was the biggest, but not the only bankruptcy in Sweden's reformed education sector. It stripped almost 1,000 staff of their jobs and left more than 1 billion crowns ($150 million) of debts, mainly to banks and suppliers, as well as abandoning its students. "I was furious," said Margarete Grugel, 56, whose 16-year-old daughter Tina had one week left of her first term of a hair styling course at the JB school in Jonkoping when it folded. "Tina was absolutely shattered by it." Axcel acknowledges mistakes were made. "Of course we could have been better at managing the schools," senior communication advisor Joachim Sperling said. "Many of the schools were in bad shape and even though we knew that from the start, we did not manage to deal with the challenges in due time." It is a cautionary tale in a market estimated to have been worth more than $400 billion worldwide in a 2010 report by the International Finance Corporation. With annual turnover in Sweden of roughly 20 billion crowns ($3 billion), according to a recent parliamentary study, education should be an attractive prospect. But while some of the early players sold quickly at a profit, nowadays it is no cash cow. One in four secondary schools is lossmaking and since 2008, the risk of insolvency has shot up 188 percent and is 25 percent above the average for Swedish corporations, said UC, a business and credit information firm. "Few sectors can show as bad figures as this," it said. Part of the problem stems from demographics, with overall secondary school numbers in sharp decline since 2008 and unlikely to recover to the past peak for a generation or more. A lax regulatory environment is also to blame. Sweden replaced one of the world's most tightly regulated school systems with one of the most deregulated, leading to scandals like the 2011 case of the convicted pedophile who set up several schools quite legally. "I've often said it's been easier to start an independent school than set up a hot-dog stand," said Eva-Lis Siren, head of Lararforbundet, Sweden's biggest teachers union. "In the push toward freedom of choice, one lost sight of quality control." CORPORATE WORLD The private schools brought in many practices once found exclusively in the corporate world, such as performance-based bonuses for staff and advertising in Stockholm's subway system, while competition has put teachers under pressure to award higher grades and market their schools. The idea that private equity firms and large corporations would run hundreds of schools was a far cry from the individual, locally-run schools envisaged at the start. "This was something that was not ... even considered in one's wildest dreams," said Staffan Lundh, who handled school issues in the prime minister's office at the time and now leads evaluation at the National Agency for Education (NAE). While it is difficult to say how, or even whether, private involvement and falling standards are linked, the NAE says there are indications the market-driven reforms have contributed to widen the gaps in school performances. The Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) benchmark Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) study paints a bleak picture, with Sweden now ranking below Russia in maths. A quarter of 15-year-old boys cannot understand a basic factual text, said Anna Ekstrom, head of the NAE, while an NAE study last year showed a growing gap between students, with more and more failing to qualify for secondary education. "In my mind, this no longer only pertains to Sweden's position as a knowledge-based nation, but also to our democratic development," Ekstrom said. Part of the problem stems from introducing choice. As the best students flock to certain schools, standards suffer at the schools they leave behind. Quality is also an issue. Last year, Sweden's Schools Inspectorate said JB was not doing enough to ensure quality and help students achieve more than passing grades. It also criticized Praktiska Sverige AB, which runs schools for almost 5,000 students, for the number of temporary teachers without educational degrees and lack of access to adequate libraries and school nurses. It closed one Praktiska Sverige-run school and demanded it address shortcomings at all its more than 30 other schools by early 2014. Praktiska says the criticism is based on outdated information and that it is considering a legal appeal. SCHOOL INC. Housed among the stately buildings in the banking heartland of central Stockholm are the offices of EQT, one of Northern Europe's leading private equity firms with about 20 billion euros ($27 billion) in raised capital. EQT owns Sweden's biggest school corporation, AcadeMedia, which has almost 50,000 youngsters in its schools and pre-schools. Other private equity firms such as FSN Capital, The Riverside Company, TA Associates and Bure Equity, as well as Investor AB, the investment vehicle of the Wallenberg family, own all or parts of school chains. AcadeMedia runs a modest, 390 million crown profit on a turnover of about 5 billion crowns. It does not have the same high-profile quality issues that afflicted JB, but it recognizes a hardening regulatory environment. "I think we are in a phase where the good ones are being separated from the bad ones," AcadeMedia Chief Executive Marcus Stromberg said. "I think we will see a continued consolidation of the sector. I sincerely hope we won't see any more bankruptcies, but you can't guarantee it." Centre-right School Minister Jan Bjorklund will early next year propose legislation to parliament forcing operators to run schools for a minimum period, likely to be 10 years. The legislation, backed by the centre-right government and opposition Social Democrats, will not apply to existing owners but in time is likely to squeeze out private equity players, who tend to have 5-7 year investment horizons. "I can be completely honest and say that this requirement is aimed squarely at the private equity firms," said Ibrahim Baylan, an MP and Social Democrat educational spokesman. Rules on financial staying power and quality, such as access to libraries and counseling, are also being strengthened. Harry Klagsbrun, a partner at EQT and a board member at AcadeMedia, says the focus on private equity and the length of ownership of schools makes little sense. "You can own a business forever but still make very short-sighted decisions, or fail to make decisions that are beneficial in the long term," he said. "And you can own a company five years and really build it for the future." Few Swedish politicians harbor any ideas of going back to the old system that gave parents and kids little choice. But a GP/Sifo poll of 1,000 people this year showed 58 percent broadly in favor of forbidding profits in tax-financed areas such as education. In the wake of the furor over schools, many are questioning how much free market is too much. School minister Bjorklund, leader of the second biggest party in the four-party coalition government, has said private equity owners should also be forbidden within the healthcare sector, including care of the elderly. The mother of former JB student Tina will vote with her feet when her son starts secondary school. "I don't want him to go to an independent school," she said. "Because you never really know what kind of finances the school has." (Edited by Simon Robinson and Philippa Fletcher)
Bloomberg TVSavita SubramanianThis summer, Bank of America's Savita Subramanian became one of the most bullish forecasters on Wall Street by raising her S&amp;P price target to 1,750. The market, as it turned out, was even more bullish than that (the S&amp;P is currently past 1,800). Looking toward 2014, Subramanian once again has a very bullish call ó 2,000. "We believe the Standard and Poor's 500 Index will rise to 2,000 by the end of 2014, which implies a price return of about 11%," Subramanian said. "While that gain would be less than in 2013, our view is still higher than the consensus view on Wall Street." Her target assumes $118 in EPS. At the bank's 2014 global forecast press conference, Subramaniam tried to debunk the bear case. "Everyone is bullishóitís time to sell" is misguided. Stocks, she said, are fairly if not undervalued by most measurements. "Take note that allocations to equities (53%) are lower than the benchmark (65%)," she said. "As for the Federal Reserve, we believe tapering, accompanied by a growing economy, would actually benefit cyclical stocks." Subramanian's macro strategist colleagues basically echoed the sentiment that the taper is already priced in to the market. Subramanian recommended buying technology, industrial, and energy stocks, while avoiding more "bond-like" stocks in telecom and utilities. She also said investors would be wise to avoid the consumer discretionary sector, which "could be hurt by rising rates." "Markets have settled into what has generally been a sweet spot for equities: low but rising rates, low inflation and a pickup in economic growth," she said. "We believe we are on the road to normalcy and that U.S. equity markets should continue to climb higher." Here's a look at the equity risk premium, which remains above average suggesting better returns in stocks relative to bonds. BAML
ChartGirl BOOKS!¬† POSTERS &amp; PRINTS!¬† APPAREL &amp; HOMEGOODS! Did I miss something? Email me your gift suggestions for chart lovers. Chartgirl at chartgirl dot com.¬† Follow me on¬†Twitter! Sign up to get ChartGirl charts by¬†email.
¬†If you wanted to profit from the opportunity of a lifetime, then you should have invested in the Keely Motor Company.¬†¬†¬† Unfortunately, the company no longer exists since Keely died in 1898. While Keely managed to make himself a rich man, his investors did not share the same fate. Nonetheless, the story of his perpetual motion machine will surely fascinate you. H2O EXTRACTS GAS AND ATTRACTS MONEY Born in Philadelphia on September 3, 1837, John Ernst Worrell Keely worked¬† various jobs as a young man, as a member of a theatrical orchestra, a painter, a carpenter, a carnival barker, and as a mechanic.¬† Then in 1872, he announced the discovery of a machine that could revolutionize the world. He said he had discovered a new physical force that could produce phenomenal power, never before heard of. Keely proposed to use the power of atoms in water to create perpetual motion.¬† Since water covers more of the earth than land, the fuel for his machine would be cheap and readily available for all of mankind to benefit from. Keely‚Äôs basic¬† idea, as he explained it to his awed listeners, was that atoms were in constant vibration, so all you had to do was to harness and channel the random vibrations of the atoms within water and you could produce unlimited energy. If you could get atoms to vibrate in unison, you could use their ‚Äúetheric force‚Äù to run any motor of any size. To promote his discovery, Keely went on a speaking tour to share his great discovery with the world.¬† At each engagement, someone in the audience would ask ‚ÄúHow did you come to this great discovery?‚Äù¬†¬†¬† Keely would explain to the audience that the revelation had hit him while he was playing a few notes on the violin.¬† The notes on the instrument had set in motion harmonic vibrations, and in a moment of serendipitous inspiration, he had realized that the vibrations of atoms could be used to create energy just as the vibration of notes could be used to create music that could soothe the beast. Keely‚Äôs next stop was New York where he invited potential investors to the plush hotel he was staying at on Fifth Avenue. There, in his expansive suite with velvet chairs, chandeliers and extravagant mirrors, Keely explained his invention to potential investors while serving them delicacies to eat and liquor and champagne to savor and imbibe. Bankers, businessmen, engineers, lawyers, and other rich investors went to the hotel to invest in the sensation of the century.¬† Soon after, with his first investment of $1 million in hand, he formed the Keely Motor Company.¬† The corporation quickly grew to $5 million in capitalization.¬† His investors wondered why the name of John Ernst Worrell Keely shouldn‚Äôt stand alongside that of Thomas Alva Edison and Alexander Graham Bell in the pantheon of great American inventors. ETHERIC DISINTEGRATION Keely impressed potential investors with phrases such as ‚Äúquadruple negative harmonics,‚Äù ‚Äúetheric disintegration,‚Äù and ‚Äúatomic triplets‚Äù when he revealed his ideas to eager listeners.¬†¬† Through the ‚Äúliberator‚Äù which was a system of highly sensitive tuning forces, Keely would unleash the secret powers of the universe through his ‚Äúhydro-pneumatic, pulsating vacuum energy‚Äù to solve the world‚Äôs energy problems forever. Keely demonstrated his machine to his guests, using his powers of prestidigitation to pour water into his vacuum engine and demonstrate his device.¬† After a little bit, the engine gurgled, then rumbled, then came alive, providing a pressure of 50,000 psi to the amazed onlookers. As The New York Times wrote on June 11, 1875, the "generator" was reported to be about 3 feet¬† in size, made of Austrian gunmetal in one piece, and held about ten or twelve gallons of water. Its inside was made up of cylindrical chambers connected by pipes and fitted with stopcocks and valves. The "receiver" or "reservoir" was about forty inches long by six inches in diameter and connected to the "generator" by a one inch diameter pipe. Keely claimed that his apparatus would generate his "vapor" from water solely by mechanical means without using any chemicals and claimed that it could produce 2,000 psi in five seconds. Whenever Keely demonstrated one of his machines, he would provide an elaborate explanation of how the engine worked, as illustrated by one of Keely‚Äôs exercises in eloquent embellishment from The New York Times on June 7, 1885: ‚ÄúIt is an elaboration of interatomic ether by vibration. The atomic ether vibrates all around the molecules of matter. There is a magnetic force attached to it at the same time, and it assimilates with the molecular atomic aggregations - that is, assimilates with a certain attractive force that it is hard to tell what it is. I call it a vibratory negative. It doesn't act like a magnet drawing metals toward it. There is a certain magnetic effect about it that causes it to adhere by vibratory rotation to different forms of matter - that is the molecular, atomic, etheric, and ether-etheric. The impulse is given by metallic impulses, the rotary power that is formed by etheric vibration - that is the force that holds it in position.‚Äù Even if you didn‚Äôt understand Keely‚Äôs theories, he had demonstrated to potential investors that his machine actually worked. What else mattered? Global Financial DataA VIBRATING DEMONSTRATION On November 10, 1874, Keely demonstrated the first full-scale version of his miracle machine at his laboratory at 1422 North Twentieth Street in Philadelphia, which he called the ‚Äúetheric generator,‚Äù later to be called a ‚Äúvibratory-generator.‚Äù The motor obtained its power from ‚Äúintermolecular vibrations of ether‚Äù which allowed him to create a machine which he finally named the ‚Äúhydro-pneumatic pulsating vacuo-motor engine.‚Äù The press simply called it a perpetual motion machine, though Keely never referred to it as such.¬† Investors and shareholders happily took the long trek to his factory in Philadelphia where he gladly demonstrated the current version of his hydro-pneumatic pulsating vacuo-motor engine to visitors. One spectator at a Keely demonstration described the power of the machine. "Great ropes were torn apart, iron bars broken in two or twisted out of shape, bullets discharged through twelve inch planks, by a force which could not be determined."¬† Keely often used a harmonica, violin, flute, zither or pitch pipe to activate his machines. With the prospect of investing in the greatest invention of all time, shareholders were eager to be part of the Keely Motor Co.¬† The company showed no profits and paid no dividends because Keely invested all of his capital and proceeds in developing mankind‚Äôs greatest source of energy. During the 1880s and 1890s, other inventions came into use, Bell‚Äôs telephone, Edison‚Äôs electric lights and automobiles, but Keely continued to work on perfecting his wonder of the ages. When Keely was asked when he planned to apply to the Patent Office for his machine, he told his investors that he wasn‚Äôt going to file a patent lest the secrets of his motor be unveiled and others could steal his ideas. The best thing, he told shareholders, was to keep every aspect of his invention secret until the etheric forces could be unleashed in a machine that made money for the company‚Äôs investors. Otherwise, some unscrupulous and dishonest pirate could study his designs and introduce a machine similar to his, reducing the company‚Äôs profits. Keely would occasionally need new capital to continue developing and refine his machine. After all, in the later stages of development, the machine was becoming even more complex and required even more capital.¬† Keely would call a board meeting, where the board would vote to issue more shares and raise additional capital.¬† Old shareholders would purchase additional shares, and new investors would get the opportunity to share in the creation of the world‚Äôs first perpetual motion machine.¬† Even John Jacob Astor invested in the Keely Motor Co. CONDUCTOR OF MUSIC, ELECTRICITY, AND STOCK One of Keely‚Äôs biggest supporters was a widow by the name of Mrs. Clara Jessup Bloomfield-Moore, who not only invested $100,000 in the Keely Motor Co., but provided Keely with $2000 a month for personal expenses.¬† When others began to lose faith in Keely because of the inevitable delays, Clara would invest more money and urge others to do the same. Ms. Bloomfield-Moore even wrote articles for prominent magazines of the day, praising Keely and his invention, saying that Keely‚Äôs etheric force was ‚Äúlike the sun behind the clouds, the source of all light though itself unseen. It is the latent basis of all human knowledge‚Ä¶‚Äù Whenever there were doubts that his engine would finally come to fruition, Keely would unveil his newest advancement in tapping the forces of nature. At one demonstration, he showed investors the ‚Äúshifting resonator‚Äù which carried seven different kinds of vibration, each ‚Äúbeing capable of infinitesimal division.‚Äù Keely would set the whole contraption going in a variety of ways; sometimes by playing a few notes on his violin, a zither, a harmonica, or even an ordinary tuning fork. Whatever the method, etheric force came forth, starting the motor and impressing the investors. The stock went public on the New York Stock Exchange in January 1890, the greatest place for venture capital in the United States. The stock traded steadily during the 1890s, neither shooting up in a bubble nor collapsing. With no profits and no dividends, there was no reason for the stock to skyrocket until the etheric vibrations were turned into a money-making machine for the company‚Äôs shareholders. Global Financial Data Unfortunately, there were scientists who were skeptical of Keely‚Äôs claims. In 1884, the Scientific American ran an article stating that everything Keely had done could be replicated using compressed air.¬† Was some hidden source of compressed air the secret of Keely‚Äôs wonder machine and not the etheric force he theorized about?¬† Keely dismissed these ‚Äúscientists‚Äù as petty and envious men.¬† Hadn‚Äôt others scoffed at the steamship, the telephone, the telegraph and the electric light?¬† When Mrs. Bloomfield-Moore suggested that he share his secrets with Thomas Edison and Nikola Tesla to improve the prestige of the company, Keely refused to tell anyone about his creation.¬† He didn‚Äôt need others to validate his invention, he asserted. DISINTERGRATION OF PROFITS If Keely wasn‚Äôt the greatest inventor of the nineteenth century, he was probably a greater escape artist other than Houdini.¬† For over 25 years, from 1872 to 1898, Keely was able to convince investors that a workable machine that could make his investors millions would be available next year. Edison, Bell and Tesla produced real results; Keely produced promises.¬† Despite law suits from his own company to reveal his secrets, inquiries by scientists, exposes by the Scientific American, pressure from Mrs. Clara Jessup Bloomfield-Moore, and even a court order that landed him in jail for three days for contempt of court, Keely was always able to wiggle out of the demands for a marketable machine.¬† Every year, from 1872 to 1898, Keely was able to introduce a new variation on his engine to impress shareholders and potential investors with his ‚Äúvaporic gun‚Äù or "hydro-pneumatic-pulsating-vacu-engine".¬† The only thing Keely could not delay was a visit from the grim reaper. On November 18, 1898, Keely died, twenty-six years after his company had been founded.¬† The company had never made a profit, never paid a dividend, and never even released a product. With Keely dead, investors were worried. Since there was no patent, no blueprints, no marketable machine, had Keely‚Äôs great discovery died with him? Was mankind to suffer because the grim reaper had come too early? Keely‚Äôs most ardent supporter, Mrs. Bloomfield-Moore died soon after, and her son, Clarence Moore, wanted to find out whether Keely had been a scientific genius or a scam artist.¬† Moore rented the building that had housed Keely‚Äôs laboratory, hired two famous electrical engineers from the University of Pennsylvania and prowled through the building.¬† The engineers didn‚Äôt find the "Hydro-Pneumo-Pulsating-Vacuo-Motor", the "Compound Disintegrator" or the "Sympathetic Negative Attractor" because much of Keely‚Äôs machinery had been taken away by Keely‚Äôs supporters and investors who thought they might be able to replicate his magic.¬† In the basement, however, they found a large cast iron hollow sphere, which had apparently been a reservoir for compressed air. Global Financial DataThe Philadelphia Press did an expose of Keely on January 19, 1899. The newspaper reported that the sphere was carefully hidden in the cellar floor beneath Keely's workrooms. False ceilings and floors had been ripped up to reveal mechanical belts and linkages to a silent water motor in the basement two floors below the laboratory. A system of pneumatic switches under the floor boards could be used to turn machinery on and off.¬† This plan was provided in The New York Journal as illustrated below. Scientists seized upon the discovery to discredit Keely and claim that the Scientific American had been correct.¬† Perhaps Keely had pressed a control with his foot when he played the violin?¬† Supporters of Keely thought the revelations were lies that came from an embittered son who was angry at his mother who hadn‚Äôt left her money to him. Nevertheless, his supporters maintained, if only Keely had lived a few more years, the world could have enjoyed another Industrial Revolution once Keely‚Äôs wonder machine solved mankind‚Äôs energy problems forever. In the 115 years since Keely passed away, no other scientist has been able to replicate his discoveries. Was John Keely a Nikola Tesla whose inventions were ignored, or a Bernard Madoff who cheated foolish investors out of their money? Was Keely a scientist or a scam artist? Was Keely a professor of perfidy and postponement or the lone discoverer of the universe‚Äôs unknown secrets?¬†¬† You be the judge.¬†
Bank of AmericaBank of America Merrill Lynch's David Woo made headlines last week by lending credibility to Bitcoin. But now the foreign exchange specialist is out with an even more bullish call on the U.S. economy at large. "The U.S. is in the strongest economic position in 20 years," Woo said at BAML's global research press conference today. "The U.S. will be the biggest drive of global markets in 2014, as it moves further ahead of other economies in the global business cycle," he said. Woo's team created a "new country ranking of relative economic strengths" that weighs a country's unemployment rate, current account, and fiscal balance. Woo calls the new ranking system REBALANCE. What he found is that, under REBALANCE, the U.S. is the strongest economy in the world. Check out the current rankings: BAML The U.S. is in its strongest economic position since 2000. The U.S. was ranked dead last in the ranking just three years ago, but has since moved to first (Chart 2).  Woo says this is all the more impressive because it isn't easy to improve REBALANCE's three underlying metrics all at once. This phenomenon is marked by the gray bars in Chart 3. BAML "The strength of the U.S. economy will drive the dollar, U.S. interest rates and U.S. interest rates volatility upward, setting the general direction for the rest of the global rates and currencies markets," Woo said.
Bloomberg TVJefferies strategist David Zervos trolls the haters in his latest note to clients: The employment data last week was certainly strong enough for the Fed to move ahead with a taper at the upcoming FOMC meeting. A 7% unemployment rate with a RISING participation rate and a 200K handle on payrolls is about as good as we could have wished for. And the most beautiful part of the data release was that it was yet another one of those "OMG QE works" moments for the hater community. At this point I wonder how the haters can still look at themselves in the mirror. In any case, the inflation side of the equation has certainly not been as exuberant. Those on the Committee who have bought into this "secular stagnation" concept, and thus believe there exists a large amount of potential growth which must be uncorked as we head into a sustainable recovery, will still not be eager to withdraw stimulus. In addition, if one starts to dig deeper into the employment data, it's very easy to find reasons to be dubious of the purported strength of the numbers. For example, the employment-to-population ratio remains depressed; the civilian labor force has actually contracted in the past year; and the new job adds are not coming in "high-quality" industries. The good news associated with QE's working does have some blemishes, and there is a very reasonable argument to be made that our 7% unemployment number is a bit worse than it appears. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub &gt;
AP Photo/John DurickaJustice Potter Stewart, who wrote the majority opinion in the Hayes case.Human Rights Watch (HRW) recently revealed that many federal drug defendants are bullied into pleading guilty, and it turns out the Supreme Court has specifically said it is acceptable for prosecutors to threaten defendants in order to avoid a trial. After HRW released its report, I spoke to Georgia State University criminal law professor Russell Covey about the negative implications of plea bargaining which he said provides a "huge incentive" for even innocent defendants to plead guilty. One problem with plea agreements is that prosecutors often threaten to tack on additional charges if people don't plead guilty. In 1978 the Supreme Court specifically ruled that prosecutors could make such threats, Covey pointed out. That case involved a Kentucky man named Paul Lewis Hayes who was indicted for "uttering a forged instrument in the amount of $88.30" which carried a two- to 10-year prison sentence. The prosecutor offered to recommend a five-year sentence if he agreed to plead guilty. But the prosecutor threatened to charge Hayes under the Kentucky Habitual Criminal Act (a "three strikes and you're out" law) if Hayes didn't "save the court the inconvenience and necessity of a trial," according to court documents. Hayes ‚Äî who had two other felony convictions ‚Äî didn't take the deal. He got life in prison. The case went all the way up to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that the prosecutor hadn't violated Hayes' Constitutional rights. "The thing that's really outrageous about that case is that it went to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court affirmed the sentence as not violating any Constitutional right of the defendant," Covey told me. Here's what Justice Potter Stewart said in the majority opinion: The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is not violated when a state prosecutor carries out a threat made during plea negotiations to have the accused reindicted on more serious charges on which he is plainly subject to prosecution if he does not plead guilty to the offense with which he was originally charged. This Court has accepted as constitutionally legitimate the simple reality that the prosecutor's interest at the bargaining table is to persuade the defendant to forgo his right to plead not guilty, and in pursuing that course here the prosecutor did not exceed constitutional bounds By siding with the prosecution, the Supreme Court missed a huge chance to make the criminal justice system more fair, the late Harvard Law professor William Stuntz wrote in 2005. The Supreme Court could have ruled that prosecutors can't threaten charges that they don't ever apply in reality, Stuntz wrote. "That holding would have spared Paul Hayes a life sentence for petty theft plus two prior felony convictions," Stuntz wrote in a Harvard Public Law Working Paper. "It would have spared many thousands of defendants guilty pleas produced by what amounts to legalized extortion. It probably would have spared some innocent defendants criminal convictions."
REUTERS/Adam HungerOwnership of Bitcoin appears to be highly lopsided. This has long been a source of consternation in the Bitcoin community, and people like the FT's Izabella Kaminska have written extensively about the implications of this apparent cartel on prices ‚Äî basically, they get to dictate them, and the rest of us are just price takers.¬† Now Finnish entrepreneur¬†Risto Pietil√§, an active member of on Bitcointalk.org, has offered an estimate of just how severe this ownership imbalance could be. He based his calculations on data from Bitcoinrichlist.com, which has trawled through Bitcoin's master ledger ‚Äî the Blockchain ‚Äî to offer a rough guide to distribution as well as activity on Bitcoin exchanges.  We ran the calculations by Martti Malmi, one of Bitcoin's earliest developers, and he agreed they were basically sound. "The order of magnitude seems right," he said in an email to BI. So, as of Dec. 3., using a price of $1,000 (which is basically where we are now), and assuming 12 million Bitcoins in circulation, here's the breakdown: 47 individuals own 28.9% of the approximately 12 million Bitcoins in existence so far. Another 880 own 21.5%, meaning 927 people control half of the entire market cap of the digital currency. Another 10,000 individuals control about a quarter. And the rest of us (around a million of us) get the crumbs (500,000 are out of circulation, whether through government seizure or people losing their passwords). ¬†¬† Rob Wile/Business Insider, data from Risto Pietil√§ And here's what that means in terms of ownership: those same 47 people each own at least $10 million-worth of Bitcoins. The mean net worth may be much higher. Another 880 individuals each own at least $1 million-worth of Bitcoin. About a million people own $10,000 or less worth.¬† Rob Wile/Business Insider, data via Risto Pietil√§ Bitcoin is anonymous, so we don't know who all the 47 individuals are ‚Äî though some, like the Winklevoss twins and Roger Ver, have publicly identified themselves. Bottom line: Bitcoin has made a fraction of people very rich. And then there's the rest of us.
General Motors announced today that Mary Barra will replace Dan Akerson as CEO, making her the first woman to lead not just the company, but any automaker. Even before her promotion from head of product development, Barra was the highest-ranking woman in the industry, according to Forbes. Sadly, learning that didn't surprise me. In a year and a half of covering the auto beat full-time, I've never had a meeting with a high-ranking woman. As evidence, that fact is anecdotal but telling. No media contact at any car company, to the best of my recollection, has ever asked me to sit down with a female executive. I've never asked to meet with one, either. That's because the auto industry is dominated, to a remarkable extent, by men. In GM's press release announcing the leadership change, Barra's photo is next to those of six men.† When Ford announced some changes of its own in November, no women were pictured in that release. Nissan's media website includes 50 executive biographies, only three of which are for women. Volkswagen is run by a male CEO and an eight-man board of management. There's one woman on BMW's nine-person Board of Management. So if you want to talk to someone with high-level knowledge of the industry, you almost always want to speak with a man. The GM bailout by the federal government is officially over, and the automaker has been cranking out excellent cars in the past few years. With Barra at the helm, GM is poised to continue that success. Hopefully, I can get a meeting to discuss it with her.
"The big story this year is not the US spending sequester, the China slowdown or the ongoing European recession," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ethan Harris back in May. "The big story is inflation, or more precisely, the lack thereof." Seven months later, the lack of inflation is still arguably the big story. "Inflation continues to surprise to the downside," said St. Louis Fed President James Bullard on Monday. Low inflation seems to be a pretty good reason for the Federal Reserve to keep its foot on the monetary stimulus gas pedal. However, low inflation isn't strictly a U.S. phenomenon. All around the world, inflation has been much more benign than forecasted by economists. Bloomberg LP Chief Economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart of how expectations for inflation have come down everywhere (excluding the Middle East.) @M_McDonough
It isn't a flattering portrayal, necessarily. In "The Wolf of Wall Street," Martin Scorsese's upcoming adaptation of a book about criminal excess in finance, Daniel Porush is an executive at Stratton Oakmont. It's a hedonistic, morally bankrupt business, and in the book and the movie, Porush (played by Jonah Hill in the movie) is a ringleader. The real Daniel Porush told Mother Jones that he takes issue with some of "Wolf of Wall Street's" scenes ó namely that they didn't happen. From Mother Jones: Porush says he never heard anyone at the firm refer to Belfort as the "wolf." And while sex was nearly as integrated into office life as the scams that made the firm's owners millions, Porush strongly denies a long-established piece of Stratton lore detailed in the book, and dramatized in the film adaptation: that brokers became so debauched that Belfort was forced to issue a memo declaring the office a "f**k-free zone" from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. on workdays. Porush also takes issue with the massive office party, complete with dwarf throwing and a monkey on roller skates: "There was never a chimpanzee in the office," Porush maintains. "There were no animals in the office ... I would also never abuse an animal in any way." And while Porush admits the firm hired little people to attend and mingle at at least one party, "we never abused [or threw] the midgets in the office; we were friendly to them," he emphasizes. "There was no physical abuse." Porush did, however, once tell a trader to shape up, or he'd eat the trader's goldfish. When the trader's performance wasn't up to snuff, Porush ate the goldfish as promised. So there's that.
APAn emerging budget deal being brokered by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) found more conservative opposition on Tuesday, as two more conservative groups came out against the deal. A little more than an hour aprt, Americans for Prosperity and FreedomWorks both slammed its proposed higher spending levels in separate statements.† The groups' opposition came one day after Heritage Action and some key conservative commentators voiced their opposition, in what is becoming a growing issue on the right.† "Right now Congress is making backroom deals to increase spending and the deficit to over a trillion dollars a year, which we canít afford. They promised to cut spending, but instead are trying to spend even more!" AFP wrote in a letter to supporters. "We need your help to stop this now. Tell them to keep their promise to stop overspending, and honor the spending limits set by the Budget Control Act of 2011. Any spending higher than that is a broken promise." FreedomWorks said it would "key vote" on the issue, based only on media reports of the deal.† "Itís disingenuous for Republicans to surrender the only real spending reforms accomplished under the Obama Administration, and call that a deal," CEO Matt Kibbe said in a statement. "Immediate spending and revenue hikes without long-term reforms to spending and entitlement programs isnít a deal, itís just another manufactured, govern-by-crisis shakedown." Together, Heritage Action, AFP, and FreedomWorks are three significant conservative groups that†have come out and bashed the deal, which congressional†aides have suggested for more than a week†is close†to being completed. Details of the deal remain murky, as both Ryan and Murray keep their cards close to their vests. But congressional aides say†that the mini-bargain would set discretionary spending levels a little above $1 trillion for the next two years, while repealing and replacing some cuts of sequestration.† The higher discretionary spending levels ó spending on programs that have to be reauthorized by Congress every year ó are the source of the emerging conservative opposition. Conservatives argue that while imperfect, sequestration has been the only effective check against the Obama administration's spending.† "Heritage Action cannot support a budget deal that would increase spending in the near-term for promises of woefully inadequate long-term reductions," the organization said in a statement on Monday. "While imperfect, the sequester has proven to be an effective tool in forcing Congress to reduce discretionary spending, and a gimmicky, spend-now-cut-later deal will take our nation in the wrong direction." Last week, three respected conservative members of the House ó†Mick Mulvaney (S.C.), Jim Jordan (Ohio) and Steve Scalise (La.) sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor urging them to bring a "clean" continuing resolution to the floor that would fund the government at the $967 billion level under sequestration.† As of last Thursday,†according to Politico, the letter only had 19 signatures. And many Republican defense hawks oppose a "clean" CR, saying that the defense cuts under sequestration are harmful to national security. But the three conservative members spearheading the effort, plus groups like these three, are the types who wield considerable influence within the House Republican caucus. The Club for Growth, another influential conservative group, did not respond to a request for comment on the deal. The self-imposed deadline for a budget deal is Friday, though that's a "soft" marker.†The government runs out of funding Jan. 15, after which the government would shut down again.†Still, the best option for Ryan and Murray is to fast-track the bill through the House before it leaves for holiday recess Friday, and through the Senate before it skips town next week. Congressional aides say that would minimize the prospects of building conservative opposition. The emerging deal also has its Democratic opponents, including those who think that an extension of benefits to the long-term unemployed should be extended.
Fortunately, investors are not currently displaying signs of optimism that have historically marked a peak for stocks. When we look at sentiment, we focus most of our attention on the actions taken by market participants, rather than how they respond to surveys. A few key measures include: quiet mergers &amp; acquisitions (M&amp;A) activity, the lack of a surge in initial public offerings (IPOs), and only a very recent uptick in inflows into funds that invest in U.S. stocks. M&amp;A Activity Remains QuietA hot market for mergers and acquisitions has often been a sign of an overheated stock market as confident corporate executives seek to aggressively expand their businesses. The most recent example can be seen in the run-up in deals that took place in the mid-2000s that foreshadowed the 2007 peak in the stock market [Figure 1]. In addition, M&amp;A deal premiumsóthe amount offered above the pre-deal priceóremain around 25%, in line with the 10-year average. LPL Financial IPO Activity Is Not SurgingIPOs tend to soar leading up to market peaks when confident investors are eager to snatch up the shares in the newly public companies, as we saw in 1999 and the mid-2000s [Figure 2]. Currently, global IPO activity is not showing signs of heating up. LPL Financial Individual Investors Have Not Been Aggressive BuyersWhile not always a sign of a market peak until it reaches extremes, a pickup in money coming into the stock market from individual investors is a sign of improving confidence. Net inflows to funds that invest in U.S. stocks have been weak and only recently posted two months of back-to-back inflowsóan occurrence not seen since early 2011. As presented in the Weekly Market Commentary from November 13, 2013 entitled Chasing Returns, investors tend to follow moves in the five-year rolling return for the stock market, which turned sharply positive with a double-digit margin over bonds about a month ago, helping to sustain the recent trend of inflows. We may be quite some time away from an extreme in the appetite of the individual investor for stocks. LPL Financial Currently these sentiment indicators, among others, are not waving any cautionary flags for investors despite the strong stock market performance in 2013 and since the low of nearly five years ago. However, we will continue to watch these indicators as a sign of rising risk in the market.
Dell Inc./FlickrWomen may make up nearly 50% of the workforce, but many of the most¬†powerful and influential companies in the U.S. have yet to make meaningful moves to advance women into top leadership positions.¬† For eight consecutive years, there has been no significant uptick in corporate board seats held by women in the Fortune 500, reports a new study by Catalyst, the nonprofit¬†research organization. "The rate of growth of women on boards is glacial. It's simply unacceptable," Daniel F. Akerson, CEO of General Motors, said to the audience at a recent gathering of the Women's Forum of New York at the New York Stock Exchange. For its part, GM has several women installed on its board and recently tapped Mary Barra to be its next and first-ever female CEO.¬†"If you're a senior executive, put it right at the CEO's table," said¬†Akerson. In 2013, 922 board seats were held by women, compared to 4,524 seats held by men. That means women held just 16.9% of these influential positions this year, which barely budged from the 16.6% they held in 2012.  The low representation of women on boards has been and continues to be a major problem in the U.S., says Catalyst.¬†Today, less than one-fifth of big companies have at least 25% of women on their boards. The lack of progress for women in these leadership positions may affect how well companies perform,¬†since¬†studies¬†show that Fortune 500 companies with the highest percentage of women board members financially outperform firms with the lowest percentage. Despite this performance advantage, however, there¬†are still 48 companies on the Fortune 500 with zero women on their boards, according to data provided by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which looked at board members as of June 30, 2013. The list below, provided by Catalyst, reveals the biggest companies in the U.S. with no women on their boards: INTL FCStoneTotal Board Seats: 11Industry: Finance and Insurance CHSTotal Board Seats: 17Industry: Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing SupervaluTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Retail Trade PBF EnergyTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Manufacturing (Nondurable Goods) HollyFrontierTotal Board Seats: 11Industry: Manufacturing (Nondurable Goods) National Oilwell VarcoTotal Board Seats: 8Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; GoldTotal Board Seats: 15Industry: Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction Global PartnersTotal Board Seats: 8Industry: Wholesale Trade Energy Transfer EquityTotal Board Seats: 6Industry: Retail Trade Icahn EnterprisesTotal Board Seats: 7Industry: Management of Companies and Enterprises AramarkTotal Board Seats: 3Industry: Accommodations and Food Services Navistar InternationalTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) Chesapeake EnergyTotal Board Seats: 8Industry: Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction EOG ResourcesTotal Board Seats: 7Industry: Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction Las Vegas SandsTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Accommodations and Food Services First DataTotal Board Seats: 4Industry: Finance and Insurance Leucadia NationalTotal Board Seats: 13Industry: Management of Companies and Enterprises Caesars EntertainmentTotal Board Seats: 11Industry: Accommodations and Food Services Sonic AutomotiveTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Retail Trade Cameron InternationalTotal Board Seats: 11Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) Republic ServicesTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Administrative &amp; Support, Waste Management &amp; Remediation Services HD SupplyTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Wholesale Trade Spectrum Group InternationalTotal Board Seats: 7Industry: Administrative &amp; Support, Waste Management &amp; Remediation Services CharterTotal Board Seats: 11Industry: Information Fidelity National FinancialTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Finance and Insurance Precision CastpartsTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) VisteonTotal Board Seats: 7Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) Core-Mark HoldingTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Wholesale Trade JardenTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Wholesale Trade NuStar EnergyTotal Board Seats: 6Industry: Manufacturing (Nondurable Goods) Level 3 CommunicationsTotal Board Seats: 15Industry: Information EMCOR GroupTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Construction CC Media HoldingsTotal Board Seats: 13Industry: Information NetAppTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) SeaboardTotal Board Seats: 5Industry: Finance and Insurance CF Industries HoldingsTotal Board Seats: 8Industry: Manufacturing (Nondurable Goods) General CableTotal Board Seats: 6Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) Shaw GroupTotal Board Seats: 8Industry: Construction ExpeditorsTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Transportation and Warehousing Fidelity National Information ServicesTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Information Live NationTotal Board Seats: 10Industry: Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation Joy GlobalTotal Board Seats: 8Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) MRC Global Total Board Seats: 12Industry: Wholesale Trade Susser HoldingsTotal Board Seats: 6Industry: Retail Trade AvayaTotal Board Seats: 7Industry: Manufacturing (Durable Goods) MetroPCS CommunicationsTotal Board Seats: 6Industry: Information YRC WorldwideTotal Board Seats: 9Industry: Transportation and Warehousing Nash-FinchTotal Board Seats: 6Industry: Wholesale Trade **In an earlier version of this post, we incorrectly listed L-3 Communications and HCA Holdings, who had female board members before the cutoff date, but wasn't represented in the SEC filings used for this list.
Suspected Chinese hackers have systematically targeted diplomats working within foreign ministries in European countries, reports Nicole Perlroth of The New York Times. The hackers were hoping to find out how those ministers viewed the U.S. ahead of a key 2011 G20 finance meeting in Paris, according to a FireEye report Perlroth read. What's interesting, though, is yet again the hackers used target-specific spear phishing attacks to breach the diplomats' computers: The attackers sent their targets emails with a link that claimed to contain naked photos of Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, wife of former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. Once clicked, attackers were able to gain a foothold into their targetsí computer networks, though investigators said they were unable to see which files the attackers had taken. As a former super model, Carla Bruni has several revealing images floating around the cyber ether, and made headlines when prints of those images sold at auction for big bucks. Needless to say, the diplomats took the bait. Whether they made good on their promise or not, the hackers were able†surreptitiously†to steal information from infected computers. Spear phishing attacks usually come in the form of an official-looking email that contains a link. The link directs the user to a website containing malware, or the link itself contains an auto-exec file which deploys malware the moment the user clicks. They are the most commonly used and researched form of security breach companies and governments have to mitigate. Spearphishing is user activated and so requires no expensive or risky use of software backdoors or brute force attacks. Often, upon closer inspection of the email address, users can usually identify that the sender is an imposter.
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov A view shows the Skolkovo Hypercube, the first constructed building of the Skolkovo Innovation Center, in Moscow, September 18, 2012.The view from the roof of the seven-story, mesh- and LED-covered†Hypercube building is one of modern-day Russia, where just 110 billionaires control 35 percent of the household wealth. Immediately to the south is a golf course built by President Vladimir Putin's ìfavorite oligarch,î Roman Abramovich (net worth $10.2 billion), who reportedly owns a residence in the neighboring village along with Suleiman Kerimov (net worth $7.1 billion) and Brooklyn Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov (net worth $13 billion). The Hypercube is the first building of the Skolkovo ìinnovation cityî at the edge of Moscow. While the Kremlin-connected billionaires next door all made fortunes off Russia's natural resources, the implicit goal of the Skolkovo innovation hub is to move the country's economy away from oil and oligarchs by jump-starting the tech startup industry. Allegations of corruption, construction delays, and political conflicts have plagued the project, but it has nevertheless continued to amass resident companies and further investment. But the jury is out on whether Skolkovo will be able to stimulate Russia's entrepreneurial environmentóand justify an estimated $5.4 billion in government spending. From the start, Skolkovo was trumpeted as Russia's answer to Silicon Valley. Soon after he started the project on New Year's Eve 2009, then-President Dmitry Medvedev jetted off to the actual Silicon Valley to schmooze with Steve Jobs and Arnold Schwarzenegger, then governor of California. Medvedev also visited Cisco, which signed an agreement to invest $100 million of venture capital in Skolkovo. IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Nokia Siemens Networks, and others later signed agreements, too, while MIT signed up to advise on the creation of the Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology (Skoltech). In some ways, Skolkovo is eerily reminiscent of Soviet utopian city-building projects. Plans for the 1,000-acre site include a technopark; a cultural center; research clusters for five strategic industries (IT, biomedical, energy, nuclear, space and telecommunications); 50 research and development centers; a hospital; a school; and apartments, townhouses, and offices where an estimated 30,000 people will live and work. Besides the Hypercube, only the foundations of the technopark building and the carcass of†the Matryoshka office buildingówhich will feature an eight-story atrium in the shape of a Russian nesting dollóhave been built so far. Already, though, the 1,000-plus Skolkovo resident companies don't have to pay any income tax, value-added tax, or property tax for 10 years, as long as they remain under certain limits on revenues and profits. REUTERS/Natalia Kolesnikova/Pool Russia's President Vladimir Putin (R) speaks with First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev (L) at a session of the Council for National Projects in Moscow's Kremlin on March 7, 2007. Skolkovo has in the past seemed like a typical pet project of Medvedev's: reform-minded, jumped up on economic modernization rhetoric, but producing little in the way of actual results. After Medvedev exited the presidency for the premiershipótrading places with Putin a second timeóthe future of Skolkovo was cast into doubt. Putin, who shares none of Medvedev's love for tech gadgets and innovation talk, overturned his predecessor's order for state companies to contribute $910 million to Skoltech, vetoed a law exempting Skolkovo from obtaining state planning permits, and nixed Medvedev's plan to host the Group of Eight summit there in 2014. Political analyst and former Kremlin adviser Gleb Pavlovsky said the prime minister's liberal Kremlin faction is now on the defensive, and as a result, Skolkovo doesn't have the backing of any ìincontrovertible patronî and is suffering from the lack of a clear concept. ìNo one understands its purpose. It's not supported by the Russian Academy of Sciences or by any universities, regional governments, or big corporations,î Pavlovsky said. ìIt's just a big intrigue from the past Medvedev epoch.î Others see it as a step in the right direction, including Skoltech vice president for institutional and resource development Alexei Sitnikov, who is familiar with the real Silicon Valley from previous jobs at Stanford University. ìWhen Medvedev created it, it was his project, but it wasn't a toy project,î Sitnikov said. ìSkolkovo was and remains a very high-necessity project, one of the projects that have to be created to move the economy off the oil track.î In February, investigators opened a criminal embezzlement case investigating two managers at the Skolkovo Foundation (which oversees the project), and in April they raised allegations that the foundation's vice president illegally paid opposition State Duma deputy Ilya Ponomaryov, one of the project's unofficial authors, $750,000 for lectures and research work. A raid of the Skolkovo offices for the latter case accidentally ensnared Intel head of global programs Dusty Robbins, who flew back to the U.S. after he was released, skipping a planned meeting with Skolkovo's head, the oligarch Viktor Vekselberg. (Intel did not respond to requests for comment.) Deputy Prime Minister Vladislav SurkovóSkolkovo's unofficial curator and the former ìgray cardinalî behind the Kremlin's ideological strategyóresigned abruptly after publicly criticizing the investigation into the project. Many saw his apparent ouster as confirmation that the investigation was related to a political attack on Medvedev's faction by rival elites. The turmoil continued in October, when the prosecutor general's office said that Skolkovo management had not exercised ìproper controlî over spending, arguing that the foundation had contracted for services at inflated prices and suggesting that grant money had been embezzled through ìshadow financial schemes.î But now it appears many of the accusations against Skolkovo were overblown. In August, the embezzlement case against the two managers was closed (one was charged with the less serious offense of abuse of authority). A court ruled that Ponomaryov received only $300,000 from Skolkovo. And in November, the prosecutor general announced that Skolkovo Foundation had addressed the violations it found and withdrew its accusations. ìSkolkovo is one of the unfortunately few government projects that are in fact very clean in terms of corruption,î Ponomaryov said. The Russian government's funding of Skolkovo comes at the same time that the Russian Academy of Sciences has been losing assets and funding. Notably, opposition politician Boris Nemtsov estimated in a report this year that more than half of the Sochi Winter Olympics' $51 billion price tag is being lost to embezzlement and kickbacks, such as those detailed by whistle-blowing contractor Valery Morozov, who said he had to give a presidential official 12 percent of a reconstruction contract. (A former Skolkovo employee who asked not to be named said that, although corruption on the part of individuals within the foundation was possible, for the most part the staff was highly professional.) Although the next seven years of Skolkovoís existence have now been underwritten, it's debatable whether the project will be able to stimulate Russia's tech startup industry and justify a new infusion of $3.8 billion in government money. Recent legislation has only increased the tax burden on small businesses, which Russian entrepreneurs often cite, along with kickbacks, as the main obstacle they face. Eduard Kanalosh, chief investment officer of the Skolkovo Foundation, said Skolkovo is ìspeeding upî the formation of the tech sphere and venture market. But according to entrepreneur and blogger Anton Nossik, the government's approach of handing out tax-exempt money to selected startups is ìvery wrong.î ìRather than a serious institutional approach, such as passing laws that would give businesses the incentive to innovate, you're just gambling that some participants in your project will succeed,î he said. Boris Kagarlitsky, director of the Institute of Globalization Studies and a leading left-wing activist, said the government is ìthrowing money awayî on companies that would be pursuing innovative projects even without the benefits. He noted that the government's funding of Skolkovo comes at the same time that the Russian Academy of Sciences has been losing assets and funding. ìIts first purpose is as a PR project, and the second purpose is that it's specially thought up to bleed Russian science, take money out of it, and siphon it off to Skolkovo clients,î Kagarlitsky said. For now, Skolkovo continues to grow, with more than 1,000 resident companies. One of them is Aerob, which produces surveillance drones and has been contracted to work on projects for customers including the Defense Ministry. General director Andrei Mamontov said legal investigations won't derail resident companies' work and will only strengthen spending oversight at Skolkovo. But while Mamontov remains nonchalant, his mother still worries whenever a Skolkovo scandal hits the news. ìMy mom sometimes calls me and asks, ëAndrei, what happened there? They didn't take you to the police station, did they?í And I say, ëMama, everything's normal. We're working just the same as always.í î
Cormorant fishing on China's Li River is all but dying out. Fisherman set out with domesticated cormorants, a seabird, on bamboo rafts before sunrise and often in the early evening. These birds prey on fish. But the fishermen tie threads around the necks of the cormorants to prevent them from swallowing the fish they catch. Once the threads are set, the fishermen begin chanting on their boats to prompt the birds to dive down and retrieve the fish. They control their birds with long poles Unable to compete with modern fishing, cormorant fishing on the river Li is now largely practiced for tourists. "Wild China", a documentary series produced by BBC and CCTV, has an exceptional segment on this 1,300-year old fishing technique, which is also practiced in Japan. Here's a look at how cormorant fishing works: Reuters AP Photo / Xinhua, Zhou Hua AP Photo/Greg Baker BBCWorldWide via YouTube China Photos/Getty Images) China Photos/Getty Images EUTERS/Mark Ralston 
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.Most of the Wall Street commentary on "tapering" of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program has been a discussion of when it's most likely to happen. Following the release of the November jobs report last Friday, strategists at TD Securities are now pretty convinced that the first tapering announcement will come from the January FOMC meeting. "The question going forward is how well the curve is positioned for QE tapering at the January 28-29 FOMC meeting, and we believe the answer relies on the magnitude of the taper," says TD strategist Gennadiy Goldberg. In a note to clients, Goldberg examines three options the Fed has for announcing tapering at the January meeting: TD Baseline: $15B Taper (Split $10B UST, $5B MBS) With economic data since the October government shutdown continuing to show measurable strengthening, we believe the market has gradually adjusted for the possibility of a January taper. In fact, the long end of the curve‚Äôs reluctance to sell off further following Friday‚Äôs strong payroll report is a case in point. The 3% level on 10s and 4% level on 30s should prove strong resistances in the near-term, suggesting that while the long end of the curve is properly positioned for tapering as yields remain near September highs, the belly of the curve may need to adjust further. The belly was substantially cheaper heading into an expected tapering announcement in September, with the 2s5s10s fly trading at 0bp ahead of the September FOMC. While the Fed‚Äôs intention to signal increased forward guidance may have had a hand in keeping 5yr yields relatively contained (2s5s10s fly is currently at -17bp), we believe there may be more adjustment to come in the belly. We expect long-end yields to languish near September highs in the event of a January tapering announcement, with belly underperformance helping to flatten the 5s30s curve toward 230bp. Alternate Scenario #1: $10B Taper ($5B UST, $5B MBS) A $10B tapering would represent the Fed under-delivering relative to market expectations, potentially signaling a slower pace of QE wind down as it undertakes a more cautious approach to exiting QE. The curve would likely bull flatten in this scenario as 5s richen further on the curve as the long-end readjusts for a slower wind down of QE purchases (pricing in a higher absolute level of purchases before the program ends). This scenario could drive 5s back toward the post-September yield lows of 1.25% as 30s rally toward October lows of 3.60%, leaving the 5s30s curve trading closer to 225bp. Alternate Scenario #2: $20B Taper ($10B UST, $10B MBS) The Fed‚Äôs recent rhetoric suggests that the QE unwind could occur relatively quickly as the Fed is anxious to get away from QE and return to a forward guidance-based approach. Nevertheless, Fed‚Äôs Bullard and Lacker suggested on Monday that the Fed should undertake a cautious approach to tapering. We therefore expect the market to see a $20B tapering as relatively aggressive, likely leading to further selling on the long-end of the curve as the market attempts a break through 3% on 10s and 4% on 30s. It is worth noting that the curve steepening under this scenario could be more substantial if the more aggressive cut is accompanied by extended forward guidance, helping contain some of the selloff in the curve belly. We expect 5s to cheapen modestly in this eventuality as the 5s30s curve steepens back to a fresh post-Twist high of 260bp. Expect to see more like this in the coming days and weeks, especially if, as is mostly expected, the Fed refrains from announcing a tapering at the December FOMC meeting next week.
Faena Miami Beach Lloyd Blankfein and private equity tycoon Leon Black are among those said to have purchased a spot in a new $1 billion Miami luxury condominium development, Bloomberg Businessweek's Katya Kazakina reports. ¬† Faena Miami Beach is an 18-story ocean condominium featuring 47 residences ranging from $3 million to $50 million, the report said. The development won't be complete until December 2014. It looks like it's a hot spot. On Faena's website there are only seven units that are still listed. ¬† We've included some renderings in the slides that follow. ¬†
Today, the Volcker Rule is officially the law of the land, and it could actually change Wall Street where it matters ó its culture. Since the end of the financial crisis, regulators have been devising a way to stop Wall Street from making massive, risky bets with money that should be flowing through the global economy, making the wheels turn. From the beginning, Volcker was hated. Bankers fought it, regulators slogged through it, and its name-sake ó former Federal Reserve Chair Paul Volcker ó maintained that it would only go as far as absolutely necessary.† Now that the rules are here, here's what they actually mean. Banks will have to set up internal compliance programs and monitor their trading. What that's supposed to prevent is another massive 'London Whale' $6.2 billion trading blow up, like the one at JP Morgan last year. What happened was, a few traders were working on a portfolio of the bank's own money, and for months they hid losses from their superiors as the loss grew and grew. When all of this was discovered (at around the $2 billion mark), JP Morgan executives said that the portfolio was meant to "hedge", or counter risk, in the bank's other activities. Regardless it violated a Wall Street rule, it lost money. So the Volcker Rule addresses portfolio hedging. It allows it but only in the event that the hedge is "designed to reduce, and demonstrably reduces or significantly mitigates, specific, identifiable risks of individual or aggregated positions of the banking entity." This will have to be clear in trading reports. Banks will also have limits on securities they can hold in order to engage in market making (procuring securities quickly) for their clients. The exception to this limit will be on sovereign bonds. Remember the Euro crisis? That's what this exemption speaks to. In the event that a sovereign country is about to go down, banks will be able to quickly buy and sell their bonds and keep the market liquid. This was a huge concern for banks, countries and regulators. Banks will also be prohibited from owning more than 3% of hedge funds or private equity firms that do not have these restrictions. Now, the glue the holds all this together is what the Volcker rule does to compensation ó how banks make it rain on bankers. This is what could change culture, because the main reason why Wall Street has such a "hard time being ethical" (in the words of one former banker) is because it is a culture that handsomely rewards risk ó and risk sometimes means stepping over the line. The Volcker Rules prohibits banks operating in the U.S. (so this goes for foreign banks too) from compensating traders for risky behavior. As Ben Bernanke said aptly, the success of this rule will depend on bank supervisors, but taking the reward from risk could very well make an impact on Wall Street's culture. As yet, it is unknown how much money this could cost individual banks. Some say billions. What is known, though, is that this rule wasn't written to save their businesses. It was written to protect the larger system, and to mitigate the cost of risk to the U.S. taxpayer. The business of Wall Street will have to take a back seat to that. The rule goes into effect on April 1st, 2014 and compliance should be in place at banks by the summer of 2015.
It seems like everyone wants to chime in with their opinions on Bitcoin ‚Äì "It's a scam," or "It's the future," etc. ‚Äì but Apple has so far maintained its famous silence when it comes to the anonymous digital currency that's got heads turned across industries. This post from TechCrunch calls attention to how Apple has thus far treated Bitcoin-related apps when they're submitted for App Store approval. In short, not well. Coinbase and Gliph are two higher-profile companies dealing in Bitcoin ‚Äì Coinbase is a Bitcoin exchange for buying and selling the digital currency, and Gliph, a mobile payments app set up to handle Bitcoin transactions. The Coinbase app was removed from the App Store entirely and Apple requested that Gliph get rid of its app's Bitcoin functionality, despite letting it operate unencumbered for the previous seven months. So even though Apple hasn't explicitly stated it won't allow Bitcoin apps, its behavior certainly sends a clear message. This is not to say that Apple will¬†always reject Bitcoin apps, but that Apple is simply protecting itself from legal repercussions until regulators can come to some sort of consensus on how to treat the digital currency. Here are the salient details from the TechCrunch post: The rejection, [Gliph CEO Rob] Banagale¬†notes, was based largely off of section 22.1 of Apple‚Äôs App Store review guidelines. The rule states that ‚Äúapps must comply with all legal requirements in any location where they are made available to users. It is the developer‚Äôs obligation to understand and conform to all local laws.‚Äù Bitcoin is not illegal, but it is also not legally recognized by governments as a currency. This gray area is what is leading Apple to reject Bitcoin-transaction apps.
General Motors announced today that Mary Barra will succeed Dan Akerson as the company's first female CEO. The 30-year GM veteran has spent the last few years as executive vice president of global product development and senior vice president for global product development. There, she was "responsible for the design, engineering, program management and quality of General Motors vehicles around the world," according to her GM bio. That makes her an excellent choice to lead the automaker, because in the past few years GM has produced a ton of outstanding vehicles, with a visible uptick in sales. In an email, Kelly Blue Book Senior Analyst Alec Gutierrez wrote "in November, GM saw sales improved by more than 13 percent, thanks in large part to a host of new introductions and redesigns that have caught the attention of consumers." KBB President Jared Rowe wrote that "GM is in more than capable hands, as we've seen some of the best products released under Mary Barra, who has helped to oversee the development of their vehicles on a global scale." So let's run through some of those successes. The clearest example is the resurgence of Cadillac in the past decade, which has really accelerated over the past two years. This year, the formerly defunct luxury brand brought out two all-new models, the ATS and XTS sedans, and introduced a new generation of the CTS. All three look great and are selling nicely, and the CTS was named Motor Trend's Car of the Year, one of the more prestigious awards in the industry. General MotorsThe Cadillac CTS was named Motor Trend's Car of the Year for 2013.Chevrolet has been killing it too. It gave the aging Impala a makeover and produced a car that really impressed us. In July, Consumer Reports named the Impala the best sedan on the market right now,†giving it a 95/100 rating (the Tesla Model S got a higher score, but is classified as a luxury hatchback). Then there's the Corvette. It's gorgeous, and it's relatively affordable (starting at $51,000). The car gets surprisingly excellent gas mileage. It's the new benchmark for sports cars. Even Buick has put good cars on the road of late. Named Best Value Luxury Brand for 2013 by Kelley Blue Book, it introduced three models at the New York International Auto Show. We've said that one of those, the Regal GS (Gran Sport), "might actually be a car for young people." And if Buick doesn't catch on in the U.S., it's still the top luxury brand in China, the world's largest auto market. GM has big eyes for China, and has done a good job tweaking its products to help them sell there. When it saw that Chinese executives were buying minivans to use for business on the road, it built a luxury version of its Buick GL8 minivan, driving 2011 sales up 28% over 2010 for that model. Cadillac is pushing its largest sedan, the XTS, in the Chinese market, where car owners spend more time in the backseat being chauffeured than their American counterparts. It may make some changes to improve rear legroom in the ATS and CTS, Jim Vurpillat, the brand's strategic development director, said in an October interview. Of course, GM hasn't had a perfect record. We liked the Volt but weren't blown away, and the automaker announced this month that it's pulling Chevy out of Europe. But overall, we've been impressed by what GM has produced in the past few years, so putting the head of product at the top of the company looks like a good move.
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonThe Bureau of Labor Statistics has released its October Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS). US companies had 3.925 million jobs openings in October, up from 3.883 million in September. This was a bit higher than the 3.898 million openings estimated by economists. During the month, 4.509 million people were hired, down from 4.632 million the month prior. Also, 4.249 million were separated from their jobs. The quit rate was unchanged at 1.7%. "Job openings, separations, and hirings continue to move sideways," said UBS's Sam Coffin ahead of the report. "Labor market turnover does not appear to have picked up significantly, suggesting continued labor market strains. (For the most part, employees cling to the jobs they have, although the quits rate has risen somewhat.)"
In 2010, a trio of the world‚Äôs wealthiest individuals set out to encourage their peers to donate at least half of their wealth to charity through a campaign called The Giving Pledge. Three years later, The Giving Pledge‚Äôs founders Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett have obtained the support of just 5 percent of the world‚Äôs billionaires. Reasons for the low take-up?  International cultural disparities, aversion to the spotlight, emerging family dynasties and distaste for what has been criticized as ‚Äúa PR stunt‚Äù, may all be factors at play, say experts. As of July 2013, 114 billionaires had signed The Giving Pledge. These individuals come primarily from the US, with 11 percent coming from nine other countries including the UK, India, Germany South Africa and Australia. High-profile names include Russian mining magnate Vladimir Potanin, Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg and British Virgin boss Richard Branson. Heavyweight philanthropists they may be, but 114 equates to only 5.2% of the global population of 2,170 billionaires ‚Äì as estimated by the recently published UBS and Wealth-X Billionaire Census ‚Äì which by most standards seems a paltry subscription rate. And taking into account all of the campaigning efforts of three of the planet‚Äôs most powerful people, it seems bafflingly low. The lack of signatories seems stranger still, given that the pledge does not legally or contractually oblige them to make donations. All signatories need do is pledge publicly to donate at least half of their wealth to a charity of their choice either during their lifetime or upon death. They don‚Äôt even have to write a personal ‚ÄúPledge Letter‚Äù if they don‚Äôt want to (although many have). According to the company website, The Giving Pledge merely ‚Äúencourages open conversation about philanthropy and does not involve direct appeals, pooling money or requirements to support a particular cause or organization. Pledge signatories come together throughout the year to discuss challenges, successes and failures, as well as how to be smarter about giving.‚Äù Three years into the campaign and The Giving Pledge does not disclose how much has been raised, donated or what its targets are. However, with combined assets of around US$504 billion, the commitments made by the current participants could amount to at least US$252 billion donated to philanthropic causes, although none are contractually obliged to do so. A representative from The Giving Pledge did not return calls for comment. The lack of participants could be down to the fact that, to date, the campaign has focused more on growing awareness than actively raising funds, pointed out Maya Prabhu, executive director of philanthropy services at UK private bank Coutts. ‚ÄúThe Giving Pledge has served to elevate the profile of philanthropy in different parts of the world where philanthropy is not so openly discussed, even though it might be widely practiced,‚Äù she said. She added that while making a public statement about philanthropy is always positive, strictly speaking the statement in legal terms is meaningless. ‚ÄúIt is true that pledgers are under no legal obligation to give and over a lifetime a lot can happen ‚Äì indeed, they may no longer be billionaires in a few year‚Äôs time,‚Äù Prabhu commented.It may be for this very reason that critics have argued that the campaign is more of a publicity stunt than a serious attempt to efficiently tackle the world‚Äôs problems. Many high-profile ultra-wealthy individuals have refused to sign. The late Apple founder Steve Jobs did not sign the pledge and during his life would not comment why. French billionaires Arnaud Lagard√®re and Liliane Bettencourt were both reportedly approached and asked to join, but refused, declining to comment to local press. One philanthropy consultant, who did not want to be named, reasoned: ‚ÄúFor some, whilst it may be their intention to give most of their wealth away, they may be concerned about making a public statement, uncomfortable with discussing their wealth and its purpose on a world stage. They may also be concerned that something could go wrong with their business, making them unable to meet the pledge.‚Äù Another factor is cultural differences. As the cornerstone of modern philanthropy and a constitutional republic, the US has an open attitude to speaking about giving. But this is not necessarily the case in the emerging markets. In 2010, Buffett and the Gates held a dinner in China to invite 50 billionaires to join the pledge, but they came away without a single signature. This may be explained as a culture clash, said Sonu Shivdasani, a philanthropist and founder of Six Senses Spa and Soneva Group. China‚Äôs billionaires are at a different stage in their wealth cycle and their money is frequently tied up with businesses and family dynasties, he pointed out. And many wealthy Chinese individuals may shy away from addressing social problems directly for fear of stepping on the toes of the state. He said: ‚ÄúIt is a pity that it didn‚Äôt work out in China, I suspect that the way it was handled and cultural sensitivity might have been responsible for its failure rather than the wealthy Chinese entrepreneur‚Äôs disposition towards charity.‚Äù But it is not for want of generosity amongst the ultra rich. According to the Wealth-X and UBS Billionaire Census, in the last three years, billionaires have donated a total of US$69 billion, equivalent to US$32 million per billionaire. The US remains the country with the largest number of billionaire donors, ahead of China, the UK, Russia and Canada. But contrary to popular opinion, most billionaires‚Äô preferred causes are not those concerned with solving the world‚Äôs problems, but giving back to their Alma Maters. Education remains the top cause for major giving across the world‚Äôs billionaires, said Wealth-X. Notable gifts from billionaires this year include those from Michael Bloomberg, who donated US$350 million to John Hopkins University, Charlie Munger, who pledged US$110 million to the University of Michigan, and Samuel Yin, who donated US$100 million to the Tang Prize Foundation. Through their foundation and work on malaria cures in the third world, Bill and Melinda Gates are the poster couple for health causes. Perhaps this sits at odds with how many billionaires want to allocate their munificence. Advocates of The Giving Pledge insist that the main purpose of the campaign is to create a ripple effect across the world, which it has done. ‚ÄúBy giving publically, we are able to inspire and educate others to give more of themselves,‚Äù said Jenny Santi, a Singapore-based advisor on ultra high net worth (UHNW) philanthropy, who is currently helping Academy Award winner Goldie Hawn expand her foundation to Asia. ‚ÄúI have had clients tell me that the reason they started their own charitable projects is that they read about what Bill Gates is doing, and were inspired to do the same.‚Äù The Giving Pledge has also driven some to find alternative ways to help solve the world‚Äôs problems. For example, John D. Coors, of the brewing family, this year founded One Thousand and One Voices, an investor group composed of the world‚Äôs most influential families. He plans to deploy US$300 million in private equity funds in regions in sub-Saharan Africa, followed by Latin America, South East Asia and Eastern Europe. ‚ÄúOur model is sufficiently patient to accelerate prosperity in developing markets, addressing a major shortcoming of traditional private equity as well as impact investment funds operating today,‚Äù he said in a statement. And not every problem will have the same solution, pointed out Prabhu. No wonder that some individuals would prefer to give their wealth in different ways. ‚ÄúDifferent causes demand different ways of giving. Some charitable causes suit grant funding better while in some situations, social investment is the best way to give. Now is an exciting time to be a philanthropist as there are so many choices available.‚Äù And of course, any step towards galvanizing others to the betterment of human kind must be given the benefit of the doubt. Santi said: ‚ÄúIf charitable projects are flawed, I think we should spend less time criticizing them and spend more time coming up with alternatives, or proactive solutions. Today, for example, it took me only three minutes to make an online donation to victims of Typhoon Yolanda. Sometimes we forget how little we have to do to make a difference.‚Äù
This morning, world leaders gathered to pay tribute to South African president and freedom fighter, Nelson Mandela. However when the current president, Jacob Zuma ‚Äî also a member of Mandela's party ‚Äî took the stage, the crowd booed. Nelson Mandela will take more than just an incredible legacy of fighting for justice with him to the grave, he will take with him a country's moral center and a major source of legitimacy for the party he lead, the African National Congress (ANC). It's a tenuous situation. The ANC was the political force that brought South Africa out of apartheid, and Mandela's involvement started in 1944, when he was in his mid-20s. He helped found the ANC Youth League, which was officially adopted by the ANC in 1949. In 1952 he was elected volunteer-in-chief of the 1952 Defiance Campaign, which had him traveling around the country organizing resistance to apartheid rule until the party was forced to go underground. It was decades before Mandela was elected to the South African presidency in 1994. In that time, he had a long, violent journey with the ANC behind him. The party, in turn, even after Mandela left office, enjoyed the dominance that came from his abiding legacy and the ability to claim him as one of its own. But there have been many indications that the ANC has abused that political dominance and that the people of South Africa need little excuse to turn their backs on Mandela's party. According to the country's national statistic service, South Africa's unemployment rate is at 25.6%. It's a violent country, and on top of all of that, the ANC's leadership has shown signs of deep corruption. South African President Jacob Zuma, an ANC leader, is currently involved in what The Guardian called "one of the biggest corruption scandals in democratic South Africa." Reports indicated that Zuma had spent millions in taxpayer money on his lavish estate (with swimming pool) Nkandla. Last month a leading South African newspaper, the Mail &amp; Guardian, published a cartoon depicting South Zuma floating on a pile of cash. Another Mail &amp; Guardian cartoon shows Zuma milking a cow into a bucket labeled Nkandla. It's just one prime example of why South Africans are sick of the party, and why the ANC's rule now faces credible threats in South Africa's upcoming 2014 elections. Japanese bank Nomura believes the party's share of the vote could fall below 60% for the first time in its history, down to the mid 50s. One threat to the ANC came from within. Julius Malema, the populist-sounding leader of the new Economic Freedom Fighters party, was a former ANC youth leader. And he has a shot, according to some analysts. Another opposition party with a rich anti-apartheid legacy, Angang, has also formed in time for the elections. It is lead by a former colleague and friend of slain freedom fighter Steven Biko, Mamphela Ramphele. Then there's the ANC's main opposition, the Democratic Alliance. All of these parties are gaining steam. And without the force of Mandela's continued support pushing the ANC ahead, in time, they will catch up to the ANC ‚Äî the party Mandela helped to lead to victory.
REUTERS/ Carlos BarriaA woman shops in a Louis Vuitton store during Vogue's 4th Fashion's Night Out: Shopping Night with Celebrities in downtown Shanghai, September 7, 2012.Overnight China released a string of economic data that showed fixed asset investment growth slowed and industrial production softened as retail sales exploded higher than expectations.† Retail sales climbed 13.7% year-over-year in November, from 13.3% in October.† In real terms it surged to 11.8% on the year, from 11.2% the previous month. The number was largely driven by sales of goods, with catering sales staying flat. Economists attribute the jump in retail sales to the "amazing online sales on Chinaís Singlesí Day (11 November) ñ the equivalent of Cyber Monday in the US," writes Wei Yao Societe Generale. Bank of America's Ting Lu also points out that retail stores also offered strong discounts at the time to compete with online retailers.† Chinese consumers spent a record $5.7 billion in sales at Alibaba, China's largest e-commerce company. This compares with $1.9 billion that American consumers spent online during Black Friday. Here's a quick breakdown of retail sales: Yao thinks that if this was driven by a one-off event, then December retail sales should return to the trend growth of 13.3% YoY, seen before November.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonSallie Krawcheck, the former president of the Global Wealth & Investment Management division of Bank of America2014 may be the year in which investing fundamentally changes. Baby Boomers are marching into retirement, thereby beginning to liquidate their investments; thus the profile of the ìtypical investorî is changing. For example, although women are still referred to as a ìniche marketî by the wealth management industry (yes, seriously), it is estimated that by 2030, they will control some two-thirds of US wealth. And at the same time, Millennials are entering their prime earning (and thus investing) years. The changes driven by these demographic shifts will be far-reaching. An example: as a rule, todayís investors compartmentalize their money. They have their investment money, which is slated to earn the highest return, and they have the money that they give away every year to charitable organizations. These pools are separate. (It is worth noting that, regardless of the underlying goals of this investing approach, many in this generation have failed to achieve their goals of being well prepared for retirement.) And so this is changing, as the opportunity to express oneís values ñ be they social, environmental or political ñ will not remain compartmentalized going forward. The ability to amplify oneís impact, by expressing oneís values through investment dollars, is becoming mainstream. The differences in approach by categories of investors are stark: about half of affluent women report to be interested in environmentally or socially responsible investments, as compared to just one-third of men. As for Millennials, 90% of todayís MBAs are willing to exchange some financial benefits for a strong commitment to social good, according to Ourtime.org. And 79% of Millennials seek to work at a company that is socially responsible, according to CatchAFire. In other words, if this group buys their shoes at Toms, their glasses at Warby Parker, they drive a hybrid, they look to work at companies whose values align with theirsÖ.are they really going to pass up the very powerful opportunity to have their investments also express their values? Certainly this is good thing for the causes that will benefit, driving significantly more capital ñ and thus more opportunity ñ to them. And it can be a good thing for governments, many of which are groaning under deficits, which can ultimately limit what they can accomplish on this front. But it is also GREAT for Wall Street. For years and years, the central message of Wall Street has been that its goal is to deliver relative outperformance to investors. Billions of dollars are poured into this undertaking year after year. But for the industry as a whole, this is (by definition) not achievable, as the sum of the industryís investment performance equals market performance less fees. On mainstream Wall Street, investing for impact has been eschewed as a niche market, not the stuff of serious investors. But there is no clear reason why those companies that are ìdoing the right thingî for the environment should underperform over time, for example; and there is a great deal of research that shows that those companies that are more inclusive in their treatment of their workforce outperform over time. If, on the other hand, traditional Wall Street does not broaden its mandate to include a more modern approach to investing, it will continue to lose share. Women live on average six to eight years longer than men; they rank Wall Street at the very bottom of the industries that serve them; and, today, some 70% of women change their Financial Advisor within a year of widowhood. Thus, this represents an opportunity for Wall Street to move away from its tired value proposition and to engage the next wave of investors on topics that matter to them. It is a great thing for Wall Street.
AP PhotoANC president and presidential candidate Jacob Zuma, center, reacts, before addressing supporters during an ANC rally in Johannesburg, South Africa, Sunday, April 19, 2009. Tens of thousands had gathered for the ANC's last major rally before Wednesday's presidential elections. To the right is Winnie Mandela, the former wife of former South African President, Nelson Mandela. (AP Photo/Jerome Delay)The crowd at Nelson Mandela's tribute booed South Africa's current president, Jacob Zuma, as he took the stage to have his say this morning. For those around the world paying close attention to the proceedings, it was a fleeting glimpse at the massive failures of the ruling¬† African National Congress (ANC)‚Äî the party Nelson Mandela championed during his life. Mandela will take more than just an incredible legacy of fighting for justice with him to the grave, he will take with him a country's moral center and a major source of legitimacy for the party he lead, the ANC. The ANC was the political force that brought South Africa out of apartheid, and Mandela's involvement started in 1944, when he was in his mid-20s. He helped found the ANC Youth League, which was officially adopted by the ANC in 1949. In 1952 he was elected volunteer-in-chief of the 1952 Defiance Campaign, which had him traveling around the country organizing resistance to apartheid rule until the party was forced to go underground. It was decades before Mandela was elected to the South African presidency in 1994. In that time, he had a long, violent journey with the ANC behind him. The party, in turn, even after Mandela left office, enjoyed the dominance that came from his abiding legacy and the ability to claim him as one of its own. But there have been many indications that the ANC has abused that political dominance and that the people of South Africa need little excuse to turn their backs on Mandela's party. According to the country's national statistic service, South Africa's unemployment rate is at 25.6%. It's a violent country, and on top of all of that, the ANC's leadership has shown signs of deep corruption. South African President Jacob Zuma, an ANC leader, is currently involved in what The Guardian called "one of the biggest corruption scandals in democratic South Africa." Reports indicated that Zuma had spent millions in taxpayer money on his lavish estate (with swimming pool) Nkandla. Last month a leading South African newspaper, the Mail &amp; Guardian, published a cartoon depicting South Zuma floating on a pile of cash. Another Mail &amp; Guardian cartoon shows Zuma milking a cow into a bucket labeled Nkandla. It's just one prime example of why South Africans are sick of the party, and why the ANC's rule now faces credible threats in South Africa's upcoming 2014 elections. Japanese bank Nomura believes the party's share of the vote could fall below 60% for the first time in its history, down to the mid 50s. One threat the ANC came from within. Julius Malema, the populist-sounding leader of the new Economic Freedom Fighters party, was a former ANC youth leader. And he has a shot, according to some analysts. Another opposition party with a rich anti-apartheid legacy, Angang, has also formed in time for the elections. It is lead by a former colleague and friend of slain freedom fighter Steven Biko, Mamphela Ramphele. Then there's the ANC's main opposition, the Democratic Alliance. All of these parties are gaining steam. And without the force of Mandela's continued support pushing the ANC ahead, in time, they will catch up to the ANC ‚Äî the party Mandela helped to lead to victory. ¬† According to the country's national statistic service, South Africa's unemployment rate is at 25.6%. It's a violent country, and on top of all of that, the ANC's leadership has shown signs of deep corruption. South African President Jacob Zuma, an ANC leader, is currently involved in what The Guardian called "one of the biggest corruption scandals in democratic South Africa." Reports indicated that Zuma had spent millions in taxpayer money on his lavish estate (with swimming pool) Nkandla. Last month a leading South African newspaper, the Mail &amp; Guardian, published a cartoon depicting South Zuma floating on a pile of cash. Another Mail &amp; Guardian cartoon shows Zuma milking a cow into a bucket labeled Nkandla. It's just one prime example of why South Africans are sick of the party, and why the ANC's rule now faces credible threats in South Africa's upcoming 2014 elections. Japanese bank Nomura believes the party's share of the vote could fall below 60% for the first time in its history, down to the mid 50s. One threat the ANC came from within. Julius Malema, the populist-sounding leader of the new Economic Freedom Fighters party, was a former ANC youth leader. And he has a shot, according to some analysts. Another opposition party with a rich anti-apartheid legacy, Angang, has also formed in time for the elections. It is lead by a former colleague and friend of slain freedom fighter Steven Biko, Mamphela Ramphele. Then there's the ANC's main opposition, the Democratic Alliance. All of these parties are gaining steam. And without the force of Mandela's continued support pushing the ANC ahead, in time, they will catch up to the ANC ‚Äî the party Mandela helped to lead to victory.
ThinkorswimGold futures on the left, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures on the right.Gold and bonds are rallying strongly today while stocks sink into the red. Right now, the yellow metal is trading at $1263 an ounce, up 2.3% from yesterday. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.4%, and the yield on the 10-year note is trading just below 2.80%, down 4 basis points from Monday's close. S&amp;P 500 futures are trading at 1804, down 0.3%. If today's gains hold through to the close, it will mark the third straight session in the green for gold and Treasuries, which both fell over several sessions going into last Friday's November nonfarm payrolls release.
Citi ResearchWe've all seen this chart before. It's corporate profits as a percentage of GDP. The implication is that record high profit margins are an anomaly thanks to too few workers working too many hours for too little pay. Stock market bears warn margins are doomed to revert to some long-term average. And ultimately, this is also supposed to translate into collapsing earnings, which would cause stocks to tank. However, stocks and are not the economy. And Citi's Tobias Levkovich takes issue with those who compare stock market measures to U.S. economic measures. "Market cap to GDP measures also miss out on the growing impact of foreign earnings from non-US GDP sources making that approach far less useful as well," wrote Levkovich in his weekly note to clients. "Because corporate profit as a proportion of GDP is at a 65-year record high, there is a legitimate view that margins are so stretched that they can only go down." "[B]ut this ignores the earnings growth coming out of S&amp;P 500 constituents from international sources that may have been produced internationally and do not even enter the US GDP calculation," he added. "Similarly, high margins also reflect sales outside the US that were produced outside the US even though the profits accrue to US entities (which may not be repatriated and thus tax rates are much lower). As a side note, both the national income account profit margin data and the GDP figures include privately held companies that are not represented in the S&amp;P market cap, but that issue never gets addressed by the critics." Profit margin bulls acknowledge that margins are historically high, and most agree that there will be some give back especially if there's a recession. However, all margin bulls agree that margins are on a secular upswing thanks to increasing overseas exposure among other things.
Barra is currently the company's global head of product development. She first jointed GM at age 18, according to Forbes. She will succeed Dan Akerson, who was appointed by the Obama administration in 2009 to help shepherd the automaker through its bankruptcy. Yesterday, Treasury announced it had sold its last stake in the company for a $10.5 billion loss. She will also be the first female CEO among all major automakers (a woman currently runs Smart). Akerson seemed to foreshadow the move in September when he said,†ìSomeday, there will be a Detroit Three thatís run by a car gal. I actually believe that.î† Barra earned her bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Kettering University ó formerly the General Motors Institute ó in Flint, Mich. She also holds an MBA from Stanford. She's 51. Barra grew up in Waterford, a suburb of Detroit. Her father worked for 39 years as a GM die maker. She appears to be on Twitter, though has not Tweeted since April. FULL STATEMENT: DETROIT ñ†General Motors today announced that Dan Akerson, who guided todayís GM to record profits and dramatic improvement in vehicle quality while closing the chapter on government ownership in the company, will step down as chairman and CEO on Jan. 15, 2014. Mary Barra, 51, executive vice president, Global Product Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain, was elected by the Board of Directors to become the next CEO of the company.† Barra will also join the GM Board.† Akerson, 65, pull ahead his succession plan by several months after his wife was recently diagnosed with an advanced stage of cancer. The Board also named Theodore (Tim) Solso to succeed Akerson as Chairman.† Solso, 66, is the former chairman and CEO of Cummins, Inc., and has been a member of the GM Board since June 2012. ìI will leave with great satisfaction in what we have accomplished, great optimism over what is ahead and great pride that we are restoring General Motors as Americaís standard bearer in the global auto industry,î† Akerson said in a message to employees. With 33 years of experience at GM, Barra has risen through a series of manufacturing, engineering, and senior staff positions. †She is a leader in the companyís ongoing turnaround, revitalizing GMís product development process resulting in the launch of critically acclaimed new products while delivering record product quality ratings and higher customer satisfaction. ìWith an amazing portfolio of cars and trucks and the strongest financial performance in our recent history, this is an exciting time at todayís GM,î said Barra. ìIím honored to lead the best team in the business and to keep our momentum at full speed.î Dan Ammann, 41, executive vice president and chief financial officer, was named company president and will assume responsibility for managing the companyís regional operations around the world.† The global Chevrolet and Cadillac brand organizations and GM Financial will also report to Ammann. Ammann joined GM in 2010 where his first assignment was to manage GMís initial public offering. As CFO, he has led a transformation of GMís finance operations into a world-class organization.† He also led the strategy to rebuild the companyís captive finance capability through the successful establishment and growth of GM Financial. ìWe have a significant opportunity to further integrate and optimize our operations to deliver even better results,î said Ammann.† ìWhile we have made good progress, we still have much work ahead of us to realize GMís full potential.î Ammann will retain CFO responsibilities at least through the release of the companyís fourth quarter and full-year 2013 results in early February 2014.† His replacement as CFO will be named later. Mark Reuss, 50, executive vice president and president, North America, will replace Barra as executive vice president, Global Product Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain.† Under Reussí watch, GMís North America region has produced consistent profits and improved margins during a product renaissance that includes the launch of award-winning cars and trucks such as the Cadillac ATS, Chevrolet Corvette, Impala and Silverado pickup. ìThe driverís seat of designing and engineering the strongest product line up in GMís history is the best seat to have,î said Reuss.† ìWeíre going to keep the pedal down on GMís product resurgence and keep winning new customers.î Alan Batey, currently senior vice president, Global Chevrolet and U.S. Sales and Marketing, will replace Reuss and is named Executive Vice President and President, North America.† Batey, 50, joined GMís Vauxhall operation in 1979 and held several sales, service and marketing positions around the world.† In his current position, he has developed the Chevrolet brandís Find New Roads advertising campaign and has overseen a sweeping upgrade of retail sales and service operations at hundreds of U.S. dealerships. ìNorth America is the foundation of the GM turnaround story and Iím honored to help continue what Mark started,î said Batey.† ìWe remain committed to delivering the worldís best retail experience to match the worldís best cars and trucks.î The company also announced that Steve Girsky, 51, vice chairman, Corporate Strategy, Business Development and Global Product Planning, will move to a senior advisor role until leaving the company in April 2014.† He will remain on the GM Board of Directors. Girsky led GMís turnaround plan for Europe that has put that regionís operations back on a path to profitability.† He has also put GMís OnStar unit at the forefront of in-vehicle connectivity and helped create GM Ventures to speed the commercialization of new technologies in GM vehicles. ìI share Danís pride for what the company has accomplished and his sense of optimism for a bright future,î said Girsky.† ìThis team is united in its commitment to building on the foundation that we have established.î Under Akersonís leadership, GM made swift progress as the company transformed from being majority owned by U.S. Treasury to being publicly traded and investment grade rated. ìMy goals as CEO were to put the customer at the center of every decision we make, to position GM for long term success and to make GM a company that America can be proud of again,î Akerson said.† ìWe are well down that path, and Iím certain that our new team will keep us moving in that direction.î Akerson was named GM Chairman and CEO on September 1, 2010.† He joined GM in 2009 as a member of its Board of Directors.† Since the companyís November 2010 Initial Public Offering, GM has recorded 15 consecutive quarters of profitability, has earned this year the best overall initial vehicle quality scores of any auto manufacturer, and has re-invested nearly $9 billion and created or retained more than 25,000 jobs at its U.S plants.
After spending much of the morning moving sideways, U.S. futures have taken an ugly turn for the worse. Dow futures are down 43 points. S&amp;P futures are down 4 points. With economic data getting stronger, economists have increasingly raised the probability that the Federal Reserve may begin tapering its quantitative easing program. Some strategists have warned that an earlier than expected taper would be bearish for stock in the near-term as it would represent the removal of liquidity from the financial markets. Here's a look at Dow futures this morning via FinViz. FinViz
Dr. Ed's BlogEuropean stock markets rallied smartly during the summer and fall, but have started to flag recently. The region‚Äôs leading indicators, which are compiled by the OECD, continued to rebound impressively during October. The region‚Äôs purchasing managers have also been upbeat in recent months. However, the hard data on orders and production remain surprisingly comatose. For example, German orders fell 2.2% during October and German output dropped 1.2% during the month. There‚Äôs been an uptrend in both in recent months, but they are barely back to where they were in 2010. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: A Short Worry List. (1) The other side of the pond. (2) Thinking about the downside in London. (3) Seven trouble spots. (4) Tapering could be troublesome for housing and EMEs. (5) Central bankers fighting deflation, which isn‚Äôt all bad. (6) More mischief from Washington? (7) If Obamacare is so depressing, why is confidence rising? (8) Europe‚Äôs hard data still looks soft. (9) Is Abenomics losing its mojo? (10) Geopolitical risk is always out there somewhere. (11) Too many underinvested bulls? (More for subscribers.)

REUTERS/ Kai PfaffenbachA street vendor offers buttons with pictures of Nelson Mandela outside the house where Mandela resided in when he lived in the township of Soweto December 9, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.¬†
(Reuters) - High-end yoga-wear retailer Lululemon Athletica Inc &lt;LULU.O&gt; named¬†Lauren Potdevin¬†as its chief executive and¬†said founder Chip¬†Wilson will step down as non-executive chairman. Lululemon has been looking for a new CEO since June, when Christine Day said she would step down once a replacement was found. Potdevin will take over in January 2014 from Day, who was behind Lulu's blistering growth rate and its transition from yummy mummy niche to broader, multi-sport appeal. Potdevin joins from TOMS Shoes and has earlier worked with Burton Snowboards and LVMH. The¬†Vancouver-based company was hit with a U.S. lawsuit in July, accusing it of defrauding shareholders by hiding defects in yoga pants whose sheerness led to a recall, and concealing talks that led to the sudden departure of its chief executive. Lululemon, which recalled its¬†popular black luon yoga pants¬†in March because they were too see-through, recently also faced new customer complaints that some products were too susceptible to pilling - the small, unsightly balls of fibers that form on fabric from wear and tear. Wilson, who founded the company in 1998 and owns 8.84 percent shares according to Reuters data, is known to court controversy. He caused a furor last month when he said Lululemon products were wrong for certain body shapes. In the past, Wilson said he chose the name "Lululemon" because L is not in the Japanese vocabulary. "It's funny to watch them try to say it," he said in a 2004 profile in the National Post Business magazine. Michael Casey, a former Starbucks &lt;SBUX.O&gt; executive and lead director of Lululemon's board for the past six years, will take over as chairman. Lululemon shares, which have fallen about 15 percent since Day announced her intention to quit the company, closed at $70.34 on Monday on the Nasdaq. (Reporting by Rohit T. K. and Chris Peters in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane)
REUTERS/Tomas BravoChicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel looks on during a dialogue with Mexico City Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera (not pictured) after signing the 'Forging A Global Cities Economic Partnership' pact in Mexico City November 14, 2013.Chicago's image as 'city that works' threatened by looming pension crisis CHICAGO (AP) ó It's not the vision of a world-class city that Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel typically likes to portray. More teachers losing their jobs, thousands fewer police and firefighters on duty, less frequent trash collection and miles of potholed roads going unrepaired ó all as property taxes soar. But that's the scenario Emanuel and others have said could befall the nation's third-largest city if the state Legislature ó which passed a landmark measure last week to address Illinois' severe public pension shortfall ó doesn't deal with Chicago's own multibillion-dollar pension problem. The economic capital of Illinois and the Midwest, Chicago holds the dubious distinction of having the worst-funded public pension system of any major U.S. city. It's a crisis that's putting in peril Chicago's reputation as "the city that works," and its vision of being a modern transportation hub in the midst of a high-tech boom. "Chicago sticks out for all the wrong reasons," said Rachel Barkley, a municipal credit analyst at Morningstar Inc., referring to a public pension system that is only 35 percent funded, compared to New York's 60 percent and San Francisco's 88 percent. It's raising the question: Which version of itself will Chicago become? Just raising taxes, which could cause businesses to leave, or cutting services, which would penalize residents, won't be enough, said Michael Pagano, dean of the College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs at the University of Illinois at Chicago. "I don't think either one is even a possibility," he said. "Everybody's going to have to give something." Chicago's pension funds for city workers, police officers and firefighters are about $19.5 billion short of what's needed to meet its current obligations. The shortfall amounts to about $7,100 per Chicago resident. That's nearly eight times the per person cost of the unfunded pension liability in Detroit, a city that saw its population plummet in the years before it went into bankruptcy earlier this year. Add in the unfunded liability for Chicago teacher pensions, and the total shortfall jumps to about $27 billion. City officials say the shortfall is due largely to investment losses during recent economic downturns, to workers and retirees living longer and to increases in benefits. The city's annual contributions to the funds, set by state statute, also were well below what was necessary for meeting its obligations, according to a Morningstar analysis. Under state statute, those contributions are now scheduled to more than double next year, to about $1.07 billion. Emanuel, a former White House chief of staff who is up for re-election in 2015, says the increase is about equal to the annual cost of having 4,300 police officers on the beat or resurfacing 16,000 city blocks. If the city doesn't cut services and pension benefits aren't changed, he says, the annual payment would require a 150 percent hike in property taxes ó an increase he calls "unacceptable." Chicago Public Schools' payment to the pension fund for Chicago teachers also is slated to increase next year, from $196 million last year to $600 million. Emanuel wants the Legislature, which must approve any changes to pension benefits, to raise the retirement age and cut cost-of-living increases, as it did for the state pension system. "The pension crisis is not truly solved until relief is brought to Chicago and all of the other local governments across our state that are standing on the brink of a fiscal cliff because of our pension liabilities," he said after lawmakers approved the state changes last week. Senate President John Cullerton, a Chicago Democrat, said he wants to take up the issue "as soon as we can when we come back next year." Lawmakers are next scheduled to meet at the Capitol in Springfield in late January. Jesse Sharkey, vice president of the Chicago Teachers Union, said the union fully expects a bill that will solve the problem "on the backs of working people." He warned the Legislature should prepare for protests on the scale of those in Wisconsin in 2011, when thousands of union members camped out in the state Capitol to protest Republican Gov. Scott Walker's attempts to effectively end collective bargaining for most state workers. "There's no way this attack isn't coming, and we're gearing up for it," Sharkey said. Emanuel isn't backing down either. He says reducing the city's and the Chicago Public Schools' payments to the pension funds is particularly critical for the school system, which closed dozens of schools this fall, in part because of budget problems. "I don't want the cost as it relates to pensions to crowd out the future of the city of Chicago, which is our children," he told a group of executives during a recent Bloomberg Business Summit. ____ Associated Press writer Kerry Lester in Springfield, Ill., contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
I am glad (and sad) to say that the Balance Sheet Recession in the USA appears to be over. ¬†Yesterday‚Äôs Z.1 report from the Fed confirmed that households have indeed begun releveraging. ¬†Household debt showed its first year over year gains (on a quarterly basis) in Q3 since the crisis began. ¬† The end of the BSR arrived just about on time. ¬†Several years ago I predicted¬†that the Balance Sheet Recession would likely end sometime in 2013 or so. This is a good sign. ¬†But¬†we‚Äôre by no means back to levels where we were. ¬†On the other hand, growth is growth. ¬†The economy rarely grows without private sector debt accumulation so this is a sign that balance sheets are normalizing. ¬† It‚Äôs also a sign that the tapering can begin without worry of imploding the markets. ¬†The private sector is really starting to run with the baton here so we shouldn‚Äôt be terrified of the government stepping back some of its extraordinary measures here. FRED
The chief executives of McDonald's and Starbucks earn more than $9,200 an hour, which is at least 1,000 times the hourly wages of their sales associates, according to a new report by the personal finance website NerdWallet. The report highlights fast food and retail companies with some of the biggest gaps between CEO pay and hourly wages paid to associates. McDonald's, Starbucks and Dollar General top the list, followed by Gap, TJ Maxx, Target, Wal-Mart, CVS Caremark, Best Buy and AT&amp;T Wireless. NerdWallet Out of those 10 companies, median CEO pay on an hourly basis was calculated as $7,334, compared to $8.73 for sales associates. NerdWallet reviewed 100 companies for the report and selected the 10 that had the highest annual CEO pay to compare the disparities. CEO pay was calculated by dividing each chief executive's total compensation (as reported in the company's annual proxy statement) by 60 hours a week times 50 weeks per year. Sales associates' wage information was obtained from Glassdoor.com. The NerdWallet study comes as employees of fast food and retail chains have been staging a series of demonstrations and strikes demanding better pay.†
Margin CallWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. regulators are set on Tuesday to approve a rule to rein in risky trading by banks, a crucial part of their efforts to reform Wall Street and prevent another costly taxpayer bailout. The¬†Volcker¬†rule, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman¬†Paul¬†Volcker, who championed the reform, prohibits banks from betting on financial markets with their own money, a practice known as proprietary trading. The rule, which has now mushroomed into 800 pages, will also bar them from owning more than 3 percent of hedge funds or private equity funds. The final version of the crackdown is expected to be tougher than when it was proposed two years ago, after JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's $6 billion loss in 2012 - nicknamed the¬†London¬†Whale after the bank's huge positions - highlighted the perils of speculative trading. Banks worry the rule will erode profits, and make it harder to engage in businesses that are exempt under the law such as hedging against market risks, facilitating client trading - or market-making - and security underwriting. "The challenge is to prevent the impermissible activities, while promoting the underwriting, the market making, everything that everyone regards as important to financial markets," said¬†Robert Maxant, a partner at Deloitte &amp; Touche. The rule is one of the most hotly debated parts of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform act, aimed at preventing the taxpayer bailouts of large investment banks that happened during the 2007-2009 credit collapse. The three U.S. bank regulators, as well as the¬†Securities and Exchange Commission¬†and the¬†Commodity Futures Trading Commission, will unveil details of the final rule at 9.30 a.m. (1430 GMT). They are then expected to adopt the rule later in the day, although some officials are expected to dissent to the way the final rule is crafted. The rule could cost the largest investment banks billions in revenues, and lawyers will be poring over the details of the text to find any weaknesses that would enable them to sue regulators and get the courts to strike down the rule. Banks will particularly focus on how strict the requirements are for them to prove that any risky positions they take on are on behalf of clients. In market making, for instance, they have inventories of shares or other securities in order to quickly satisfy client orders, but banks fear new limits on how long they can hold these may make it harder to stock up. Banks are also worried regulators will clip their wings when it comes to entering risky positions to mitigate financial risk arising in their business, so-called risk hedging. This can still be done when there is a direct connection to the underlying risk, but banks are used to doing this in multiple and often loosely defined ways - so-called portfolio hedging - and fear this will no longer be allowed. JPMorgan initially explained its¬†London¬†Whale trades as portfolio hedges and regulators have since made it clear the final rule will render such trades impossible. While the narrowing of the¬†Volcker¬†rule trading exemptions is expected to bite, banks have already wound down their proprietary trading since the crisis. Morgan Stanley in January 2011 said it would spin off its proprietary trading unit¬†Process Driven Trading, which had 60 employees around the world. Goldman Sachs Group Inc¬†said it had shut down two proprietary trading desks, one known as GSPS and another that did global macro trading, by February 2011. And Citigroup said it had shuttered a money-losing proprietary group that had traded stocks. (Additional reporting by David Henry in New York; Editing by¬†Karey Van Hall¬†and Tim Dobbyn)
Despite some signs of improvement here and there, actual numbers from Greece continue to be horrible. #Greece industrial production -5.2% in Oct, since Apr 2008 had only four positive YoY readings pic.twitter.com/3XdwFxDzFA
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWarren Buffett recently met with a group of MBA students. A student asked him what shaped his political views (Buffett is a Democrat). The famous investor offered a great thought experiment, which helped him think through the kind of world he wants to live in. In it he characterizes something he calls the "Ovarian Lottery": My political views were formed by this process.† Just imagine that it is 24 hours before you are born. A genie comes and says to you in the womb, ìYou look like an extraordinarily responsible, intelligent, potential human being. [You're] going to emerge in 24 hours and it is an enormous responsibility I am going to assign to you ó determination of the political, economic and social system into which you are going to emerge. You set the rules, any political system, democracy, parliamentary, anything you wish ó you can set the economic structure, communistic, capitalistic, set anything in motion and I guarantee you that when you emerge this world will exist for you, your children and grandchildren.  Whatís the catch? One catch ó just before you emerge you have to go through a huge bucket with 7 billion slips, one for each human. Dip your hand in and that is what you get ó you could be born intelligent or not intelligent, born healthy or disabled, born black or white, born in the US or in Bangladesh, etc. You have no idea which slip you will get. Not knowing which slip you are going to get, how would you design the world? Do you want men to push around females? Itís a 50/50 chance you get female. If you think about the political world, you want a system that gets what people want. You want more and more output because youíll have more wealth to share around.  The US is a great system, turns out $50,000 GDP per capita, 6 times the amount when I was born in just one lifetime. But not knowing what slip you get, you want a system that once it produces output, you donít want anyone to be left behind. You want to incentivize the top performers, donít want equality in results, but do want something that those who get the bad tickets still have a decent life. You also donít want fear in peopleís minds ó fear of lack of money in old age, fear of cost of health care.† I call this the ìOvarian Lottery.î  My sisters didnít get the same ticket. Expectations for them were that they would marry well, or if they work, would work as a nurse, teacher, etc. If you are designing the world knowing 50/50 male or female, you donít want this type of world for women ó you could get female. Design your world this way; this should be your philosophy. I look at Forbes 400, look at their figures and see how itís gone up in the last 30 years. Americans at the bottom are also improving, and that is great, but we donít want that degree of inequality. Only governments can correct that. Right way to look at it is the standpoint of how you would view the world if you didnít know who you would be. If youíre not willing to gamble with your slip out of 100 random slips, you are lucky! The top 1% of 7 billion people. Everyone is wired differently. You canít say you do everything yourself. We all have teachers, and people before us who led us to where we are. We canít let people fall too far behind. You all definitely got good slips. Even if you don't buy Buffett's idea that only government can alleviate certain forms of inequality, one thing that's great about Buffett is his appreciation of luck, and the realization that he won a lottery ticket by dint of his birth. So many of our elites can't stop talking about how hard they worked, or the importance of taking risk and all that. Buffett readily acknowledges that he had incredible fortune from the moment he was born. At the same event, Warren Buffett also explained why he thought George W. Bush uttered the greatest economic statement of all time.
The Federal Reserve released the Q3 2013 Flow of Funds report today:¬†Flow of Funds.According to the Fed, household net worth increased in Q3 compared to Q2, and is at a new record. Net worth peaked at $69.1 trillion in Q3 2007, and then net worth fell to $55.7 trillion in Q1 2009 (a loss of $13.4 trillion). Household net worth was at $77.3 trillion in Q3 2013 (up $21.6 trillion from the trough in Q1 2009).The Fed estimated that the value of household real estate increased to $19.0 trillion in Q3 2013. The value of household real estate is still $3.6 trillion below the peak in early 2006. This is the Households and Nonprofit net worth as a percent of GDP.¬† Although household net worth is at a record high,¬†as a percent of GDP it¬†is still below the peaks in 2000 (stock bubble) and 2006 (housing bubble).This includes real estate and financial assets (stocks, bonds, pension reserves, deposits, etc) net of liabilities (mostly mortgages). Note that this does NOT include public debt obligations. Click the charts to enlargeCalculated RiskThis ratio was increasing gradually since the mid-'70s, and then we saw the stock market and housing bubbles. The ratio has been trending up and increased again¬†in Q3 with both stock and real estate prices increasing. This graph shows homeowner percent equity since 1952.¬†Household percent equity (as measured by the Fed) collapsed when house prices fell sharply in 2007 and 2008.¬†In Q3 2013, household percent equity (of household real estate) was at 50.7% ‚Äî up from Q2, and the highest since Q2 2007. This was because of both an increase in house prices in Q3 (the Fed uses CoreLogic) and a reduction in mortgage debt.¬†Note: About¬†30.3% of owner-occupied households¬†had no mortgage debt as of April 2010. So the approximately 52+ million households with mortgages have far less than 50.7% equity ‚Äî and millions have negative equity. Calculated RiskThe third graph shows household real estate assets and mortgage debt as a percent of GDP.¬†Mortgage debt¬†increased by¬†$10.0¬†billion in Q3.¬† (Still declined as percent of GDP.)¬† This is the first increase in mortgage debt since Q1 2008.Mortgage debt has now declined by $1.32 trillion from the peak. Studies suggest most of the decline in debt has been because of foreclosures (or short sales), but some of the decline is from homeowners paying down debt (sometimes so they can refinance at better rates).The value of real estate, as a percent of GDP, was up¬†in Q3 (as house prices increased), but¬†still close to the average¬†of the last 30 years (excluding bubble). However household mortgage debt, as a percent of GDP, is still historically¬†high, suggesting¬†a little¬†more deleveraging ahead for certain households.
Dick Swanson / U.S. National ArchivesGood morning. It's extremely quiet in the world of markets as we're in a little bit of a lull, waiting for the Fed while very little economic data is coming out. US futures are essentially flat. Europe is flat. Asia didn't do anything. That's it.
BEIJING (Reuters) -¬†China's industrial output rose 10.0 percent in November from a year earlier, slightly below market expectations, while retail sales were up a stronger-than-expected 13.7 percent, the¬†National Bureau of Statistics¬†said on Tuesday. Fixed-asset investment, an important driver of economic activity, climbed 19.9 percent in the first 11 months from the same period last year, the bureau said. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast industrial output to rise 10.1 percent and retail sales to rise 13.3 percent. Fixed-asset investment for the January-November period was seen up 20 percent. (Reporting by¬†China¬†Economics Team; Editing by John Mair)
