How well is†Apple Inc.†(NASDAQ:AAPL) actually performing? Asymcoís Horace Dediu recently took a†close look†at Appleís finances and used two popular valuation methods to deliver a verdict on the iPhone makerís overall worth. First, Dediu calculated Appleís price-to-earnings ratio (P/E ratio) by using Appleís earnings per share figures from the last 12 months. According to Dediu, Apple has a P/E ratio of 13.3. In comparison, rival mobile operating system maker†Google Inc.†(NASDAQ:GOOG) has a P/E ratio of 29;†Microsoft Corp.(NASDAQ:MSFT) has a P/E ratio of 13.7, and Korea-based†Samsung Electronics†(SSNLF.PK) has a P/E ratio of 11. On the other hand, profit-lacking†Amazon.com Inc.†(NASDAQ:AMZN) has a P/E ratio of 1270. As noted by Dediu, Appleís P/E of 13.3 suggests that an investor who bought one share of Apple stock could expect to recoup that initial investment with earnings from the company over a period of 13.3 years. Any earnings after this period would be ìprofitî for the investor. However, the analyst pointed out that P/E ratios are actually poor indicators of a companyís true value. Dediu noted,†ìA company can defer income (as Apple and Microsoft do), it can invest earnings (as Amazon does) and can otherwise avoid declaring it since itís taxable.î For this reason, Dediu believes that the enterprise value to free cash flow ratio (EV/FCF) is a much more reliable indicator of a companyís overall value. As Dediu reports, enterprise value ìis not a matter of opinion but a factî ó it includes debt in the value calculation and ìexcludes cash which is a measure of past performance.î Similarly, free cash flow only includes operating cash flow after capital expenditures have been subtracted. Although both ratios are supposed to give investors an idea of how well a company is performing, Dediu notes that the ratios can be ìdeceptiveî in certain situations. For example, ìIf a company has minimal cash and declares all free cash flow as earnings then the ratios are the same.î However, Appleís P/E and EV/FCF ratios differ quite significantly. According to Dediu, Apple has an EV/FCF ratio of 7.54, nearly half of what its P/E ratio is calculated to be. In other words, the market appears to indicate that Apple actually has ì7 more years of current profitability and not 13.î This puts the Cupertino, California-based company even further ahead of its four major tech rivals. So why is there so much confusion about Appleís valuation? Dediu noted that investors may be thrown off by Appleís revenue deferrals. According to the analyst, ìWe had similar confusion when the company was deferring most of its iPhone revenue.î Hereís how Apple has traded over the past week.  Follow Nathanael on Twitter†@ArnoldEtan_WSCS
Tesla's stock has been getting crushed lately in the wake of three separate incidents where a Model S has caught on fire, but one of those owners has taken to the company blog to defend¬†Tesla and vowed he would "buy another one in a heartbeat." Just two days after his car caught fire in Smyrna, Tennessee ‚Äî the third Model S fire in the past six weeks ‚Äî Dr. Juris Shibayama explained the circumstances behind the fire and echoed the company's continued claims that the fires are resulting from accidents and not spontaneous. Driving about 70 miles per hour behind a truck, Shibayama hit a three-pronged trailer hitch in the middle of the road that he was unable to avoid in time. He continued: About 30-45 seconds later, there was a warning on the dashboard display saying, "Car needs service. Car may not restart." I continued to drive, hoping to get home. About one minute later, the message on the dashboard display read, "Please pull over safely. Car is shutting down." I was able to fully control the car the entire time and safely pulled off the left shoulder on the side of the road. I got out of the car, and started to get all my belongings out. About 5-10 seconds after getting out of the car, smoke started to come from the front underbody of the car. I walked away from the vehicle to a distance of about 100 yards. More smoke started to come out of the bottom of the car, and about two minutes after I walked away, the front of the car caught on fire. The owner wrote that he was completely uninjured and was never anywhere close to flames because they never reached the cabin.¬† "While driving after I hit the object until I pulled over, the car performed perfectly, and it was a totally controlled situation," he wrote. " ...¬†This experience does not in any way make me think that the Tesla Model S is an unsafe car. I would buy another one in a heartbeat." Before this latest incident¬†back in October,¬†a Model S caught fire in Mexico after it crashed through a concrete wall and into a tree; another caught fire after colliding with a large metallic object. "For consumers concerned about fire risk, there should be absolutely zero doubt that it is safer to power a car with a battery than a large tank of highly flammable liquid," Musk wrote after those incidents.
Alex Davies / Business InsiderSome interesting thoughts here from BofA quant strategist Savita Subramanian on what will work, investment-wise, during the next market cycle. Her basic argument: ever since the tech bubble, the leaders have been credit-reliant companies, and consumer-oriented companies whose business models are predicated on cheap credit. In the next leg, the winners will be companies with strong balance sheets (like tech) who don't need low interest rates to thrive. Since the Tech Bubble, highly levered companies, credit-driven sectors, low quality and smaller capitalized stocksóall of which thrive on access to inexpensive capitaló dramatically outperformed the market until the Financial Crisis ñ and generally resumed their upward trends since 2009. Stocks with exposure to US consumption also generally outperformed as low interest rates stimulated consumers to spend rather than to save. And valuing companies on equity value óstock price-based valuation measures ó generally yielded superior backtest results than valuing companies on firm or enterprise value because equity-based valuation measures inadvertently rewarded companies with higher debt burdens. In short, leverage was rewarded and liquidity was penalized. But we caution investors that these results may not be representative and could be simply an artifact of the "one regime" market we have been in since our data began. ... For the next cycle, just do the oppositeAt an asset level, we believe bonds with prices inversely related to rates, could suffer, whereas equities ó in particular, beneficiaries of rising rates such as Tech and Industrials ó are likely to fare better in an increasing interest rate backdrop. Larger companies with strong balance sheets require less capital to survive, and could outperform smaller or more leveraged companies with limited access to inexpensive capital. Higher quality companies (by earnings volatility) that have seen little to no multiple expansion during the past 10-20 years of hyper-stimulus could re-rate higher, whereas companies with volatile earnings that have sold at persistent premiums could experience multiple compression, in our view
On Tuesday, I had my first chance to get behind the wheel of the Tesla Model S. A few hours after my drive, the automaker issued a less than perfect earnings report, driving its stock down more than 12%. I couldn't care less about what the stock does. It doesn't matter. As long as Tesla keeps making cars this amazing, it will succeed, because lots of people a) want the best car on the market, and b) can afford it. The best part of my job is that I get to drive all sorts of excellent new cars. Regrettably, I've become a bit jaded. It takes nicer features and more horsepower to impress me than it did when I started out. But when traffic finally moved out of my way on the West Side Highway and I hit the pedal on the Model S, the acceleration knocked an involuntary smile onto my face. It was a short drive, but thrilling. The car I tested came with the P85 battery pack, the most powerful available. It had basically every option you can order, for a total price of $108,770 (before a $7,500 federal tax credit). The Model S is silent and comfortable in traffic. It's a beast on the open road. It seats seven. It looks great, inside and out (though it could use cup holders in the backseat). The massive center console screen, while not quite on par with the iPad and possibly distracting, may be the best of its kind in the auto industry today. The car is safe, scoring top marks from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). It can catch on fire if you crash it through a concrete wall and into a tree, but the driver in Mexico who did that walked away without serious injury. I'm not alone in my praise. Consumer Reports called the Model S the best car it has ever tested. Motor Trend, Automobile Magazine, and Yahoo! Autos named it the car of the year in 2012. I've never met an auto journalist who didn't love driving it. I have heard only two real criticisms of the Model S. Let's address them.¬† There's no doubt about it, the Model S is a luxury car. Elon Musk promises to build an "affordable" $35,000 car in a few years. I hope he does. But that doesn't impact the Model S. Its base price ranges from $62,500 to $83,570 (after a $7,500 federal tax credit), so it's not a car everyone can buy. Not everyone can afford cars from Mercedes-Benz or BMW, either. That doesn't mean those automakers aren't successful. It's expensive, but worth every penny. It's true, you can't just hop in the Model S and drive across the country, or even from Boston to Washington, D.C. Tesla's supercharger stations take half an hour to recharge a battery, still less convenient than filling a gas tank in a few minutes. For the foreseeable future, limited range will be an issue for electric cars. But when I look at all the upsides of the electric sedan, it's a small sacrifice. If you really need to drive from LA to New York, rent a car. You can pay for it with the money you'll save on gas (filling up the battery at a supercharger station is free for Tesla owners, forever). Tesla has built a car that is more innovative and exciting than anything I've ever driven. The price is high but totally fair. Forget the ups and downs of the stock market: If a company builds something this good and is competently run (and it is), it will succeed.
Twitter/John C. KellyJohn C. KellyA Morgan Stanley private wealth manager is being accused of secretly filming three different women he was having sex with, The New York Daily News reports. John C. Kelly, a graduate of prestigious Williams College, was arraigned in Manhattan criminal court Friday night. He's been charged with¬†three felony counts of unlawful surveillance in the second degree and faces a maximum of 12 years in prison, according to the Daily News. ‚ÄúIn this case, the defendant videotaped three unrelated women while they were performing sexual acts on him in his home,‚Äù prosecutor Siobhan Carthy reportedly said during the arraignment.¬† Kelly's lawyer, Robert Gottlieb, meanwhile said that his client had "an exemplary background" and no prior arrests. Kelly has been with Morgan Stanley for almost a decade, the Daily News reported. Before going to Williams, he attended the elite Brunswick School in Greenwich, Conn., according to his Google+ profile.
AP Photo/Charles DharapakPresident Obama nominates Janet Yellen to chair the Federal Reserve.Since mid-September, when former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers withdrew his name from consideration to replace Ben Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve next year, market participants have become increasingly interested in the policy views of current Fed vice-chair Janet Yellen, who is now set to take the reins at the central bank when Bernanke's term expires in January. One item in particular has become the center of attention for those trying to figure out how a Yellen Fed will be different: the "optimal control" approach to monetary policymaking, as outlined by Yellen in a series of speeches last year. Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan, sums up the idea succinctly in a recent report: "This approach starts with a forecast for the economy, and then solves a large-scale macroeconomic model to find the path of the funds rate that minimizes the deviation of inflation and unemployment from their respective targets." The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) targets an annual inflation rate of 2% over the long run and an unemployment rate of 6% (the latter number an estimate of the economy's "natural" unemployment rate). Under the optimal control approach, the central bank would then use a model to calculate the optimal path of short-term interest rates in order to hit these targets. As long as unemployment is further away from the target level than inflation, then monetary policymakers would keep interest rates low in an attempt to correct this, even if it means inflation runs slightly above target for a while. Yellen illustrated the concept in a November 2012 speech. Here's the paragraph explaining how it would work, with relevant charts shown below: To derive a path for the federal funds rate consistent with the Committeeís enunciated longer-run goals and balanced approach, I assume that monetary policy aims to minimize the deviations of inflation from 2 percent and the deviations of the unemployment rate from 6 percent, with equal weight on both objectives. In computing the best, or "optimal policy," path for the federal funds rate to achieve these objectives, I will assume that the public fully anticipates that the FOMC will follow this optimal plan and is able to assess its effect on the economy. The blue lines with triangles labeled ìOptimal policyî show the resulting paths. The optimal policy to implement this ìbalanced approachî to minimizing deviations from the inflation and unemployment goals involves keeping the federal funds rate close to zero until early 2016, about two quarters longer than in the illustrative baseline, and keeping the federal funds rate below the baseline path through 2018. This highly accommodative policy path generates a faster reduction in unemployment than in the baseline, while inflation slightly overshoots the Committeeís 2 percent objective for several years. Federal Reserve The upshot of a Yellen Fed employing an optimal control strategy is simply the notion that the central bank would take a more aggressive stance toward fighting above-target unemployment, implying lower short-term rates for longer. Many believe such a policy shift could become the hallmark of her tenure at the helm of the central bank. "These paths serve as crucial internal benchmarks to [Yellen's] thinking," says Vincent Reinhart, chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley. Goldman Sachs economists also cite optimal control as one of the reasons they doesn't foresee rate hikes until 2016. Yet, as Wall Street economists also acknowledge, just because Yellen seems to be a fan of optimal control, that doesn't necessarily mean it becomes the de facto approach. "While optimal control exercises can be informative, such analyses hinge on the selection of a specific macroeconomic model as well as a set of simplifying assumptions that may be quite unrealistic," said Yellen herself in an April 2012 speech.†"I therefore consider it imprudent to place too much weight†on the policy prescriptions obtained from these methods, so I simultaneously consider other approaches for gauging the appropriate stance of monetary policy." JPMorganJPMorgan's Feroli argues that the FOMC already employs the optimal control approach to some extent in a note to clients: Optimal†control†policies are not, per se, a Yellen innovation. At each FOMC meeting the Fed staff prepare the "Bluebook," which presents various policy alternatives. Since at least 2005 -- and intermittently even earlier going back to the 1990s -- the Bluebook has presented the†optimal†policy path of the funds rate. An example of such a Bluebook†optimal†policy exhibit is in the chart pasted below, which is from the latest publicly available Bluebook, from the December 2007 FOMC meeting. Technical documentation can be found†here. This†optimal†policy prepared by the staff uses the same loss function that Yellen used in her speeches: the squared errors of the inflation and unemployment rate from their targets, as well as the square of the quarterly change in the funds rate. The important point is that it would be incorrect to think of this as the "Yellen optimal control policy,"†but rather a long-standing product of the Fed's forecasting staff. And even if Yellen tries to move FOMC policymaking further in this direction, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale chief U.S. economist Aneta Markowska argues she would likely have trouble doing so. "Yellen would probably face strong resistance from other FOMC members and would have a hard time building consensus around such a radical view," writes Markowska in a note. "Given the Fedís projections that the economy will be operating near full capacity by late 2016, guiding toward zero rates at that time would be incredibly risky: it could cause excessive risk taking or even worse, dislocate long-term inflation expectations, ultimately forcing a more aggressive tightening scenario. Given this dynamic, we suspect that forward guidance has been stretched to a limit and any further attempts to push down on the short-end of the curve could simply cause dislocations at the long-end." Furthermore, the optimal control approach doesn't really account for the risk of asset bubbles caused by overly-stimulative Fed policy, something to which Steven Englander, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Citi, believes much of the FOMC is still highly attentive. "A number of clients have expressed concern about financial markets under a policy path that stays so aggressive for so long," he writes in a recent note. "Even if everything is correctly specified in the model, the risk is that investors take this policy as a 'westward-ho' for risk taking. Fed funds at zero for many years could stimulate another round of bidding up asset prices and another set of bubble related issues." "The suspicion is that in the event, the Fed will pursue more cautious policy to avert another bubble," Englander continues. "Bottom line is that investors believe that financial stability is somewhere in the Fed's true objective function even if does not seem to play a big role in their optimal control simulations. It actually should be read as a compliment to the Fed."†
REUTERS/Adnan AbidiThe biggest story in India these days continues to be the May 2014 elections and what they could mean for India's economy which is growing at its slowest pace in a decade. Naturally analysts have been weighing in on the elections. But a Goldman Sachs note titled¬† 'Modi-fying our view: raise India to Marketweight,' which references Indian prime¬†ministerial hopeful Narendra Modi, is kicking up a storm in India.¬† The note by Sachs' Timothy Moe and his team cites six key reasons for this change. But it is the first reason: "optimism over political change, led by BJP‚Äôs prime ministerial candidate Mr. Modi, is dominating economic concerns," that sparked the outrage. Moe argues that Modi and his Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), the opposition party at the moment, have in the past focused on infrastructure and capital spending and that "a BJP-led government may be beneficial for the investment demand pick up, in our view." Here's more from Moe and his team: "Currently, the macro challenges that India faces in terms of external and fiscal imbalances, high inflation and tight monetary policy are being dominated by expectations of political change, specifically that the BJP- led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) could prevail in the next parliamentary elections that are due by May 2014. "Equity investors tend to view the BJP as business-friendly, and the BJP‚Äôs prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi (the current chief minister of Gujarat) as an agent of change. Current polls show Mr. Modi and the BJP as faring well in the five upcoming state elections, which are considered lead indicators for the general election next year. Even though the actual general election outcome is uncertain, the market could trade this favorably over the next 2 quarters, which argues for modifying our stance." Commerce minister Anand Sharma, who is a member of India's Congress party that is part of the ruling coalition, told reporters the note was "inappropriate and objectionable." Here's his reaction (via The Economic Times): "We don't need this kind of daily certification or assurance. We are a self confident nation. We surely would not be entertaining prescriptions when it comes to Indian democracy from those who are totally disconnected. We have more than 800 million voters, any prescription would be insulting their collective wisdom and they should refrain from that.¬† "...These reports could also be colored, influenced, and these are most inappropriate and objectionable. Goldman Sachs has come out in defense of the report (via DNA India):  "Our Asia Pacific Portfolio Strategy report... contains no political bias nor any political opinion by Goldman Sachs or its analysts. It simply notes that investor sentiment is being influenced by party politics. We stand by that assertion and by our research." In case you were wondering, here are the other five reasons Moe and his team upgraded their view on India.
Bitcoin is having another huge day. It's almost at $400. Earlier this week, it was around $250. So how high could it go? There's a private fund called the Bitcoin Investment Trust being sold through Second Market. They have a presentation making the case for why Bitcoin could potentially go much, much higher. Here's the nut slide, which basically makes the argument that if Bitcoin becomes as big as other money-related entities, the current price will be nothing. Bitcoin Investment Trust Without getting into a big Bitcoin debate here, there is some weird stuff going on. For example, the comparisons to PayPal and Western Unions are comparing the market caps of companies to the value of an outstanding commodity. The comparisons to gold or the total monetary base of Turkey might theoretically be more apt? We really don't know. Check out the full presentation here &gt;
Thursday morning we were struck by the fact that Bitcoin had surged to $300. Friday we were stunned by Bitcoin spiking to $350. This morning? It's closing in on $400. Astounding. Here's a one-year chart from Clarkmoody.com: Clarkmoody
If you're like me, you've always imagined the Titanic as an unfathomably huge ship ‚Äî a relic of an age in which shipping of all kinds was vastly more important and grander than it is today. That's why this image tweeted by James Sexton is so arresting.¬† The image, Sexton says, juxtaposes the Titanic with a modern cruise liner. It certainly puts things in perspective. Titanic to scale in front of a modern passenger ship pic.twitter.com/dudXVoozLp
Michael VahrenweldNew York-based photographer Michael Vahrenwald has an eye for the eerie. In his travels he's collected pictures of once-majestic bank buildings far removed for their former glory. From McDonalds' to churches, these spaces have been repurposed for the everyday needs of the neighborhoods around them. It's all captured in a series called "The People's Trust." And check out more of Vahrenwald's awesome work here.
Caldwell BankerOnce you've made your millions, it's time to start investing in real estate. Move to California if you're looking for some of the most desirable and expensive properties on the market. According to Coldwell Banker's annual Home Listing Report, the five most expensive housing markets in the U.S. are all in California, and 13 California markets made it into the top 25.  That's thanks in part to tech companies headquartered everywhere from Cupertino to Los Gatos, and celebrities who flock to the west coast. The Home Listing Report compared the cost of¬†a four-bedroom, two-bathroom home in over 1,900 markets and 52,000 listings around the U.S. While the average for such a home was¬†$301,414, the most expensive markets easily crept into the millions.¬†
Rolls-RoyceThe Arizona desert is not the landscape usually associated with Rolls-Royce cars, but it turns out it's a great place to put one to the test. Last week, I made the cross-country trek to get behind the wheel of the Wraith, the sleek coupe that also happens to be the most powerful car ever to come from the ultra-luxury brand. It was wonderful. But for all its excellent, effortless performance, the Wraith is a bit alienating. There's no option to change gears yourself, no Sport mode you can select to ramp up the RPM and hear it roar. The car uses GPS to select gears before hitting hard turns, so you never feel the engine at work. Once you accept that even behind the wheel, you're kind of a passenger, you'll love the Wraith. The V12 engine sends you from 0 to 60 mph in 4.4 seconds. You close the doors via buttons. Fancy umbrellas pop out of surprising places. The roof emulates a star-filled sky. You can propel yourself down a desert highway and feel like you're on your couch. The Wraith starts for $284,900; the car we drove runs for $372,324. Full Disclosure: Rolls-Royce paid for our travel and lodging expenses to drive the Wraith.
One month left, December Level 1 candidates! How are things going? I remember this all too clearly when I took my first CFA exam back in December 2009 (unluckily for me, 300 Hours still wasn't around then). The stress, anxiety and constant studying has started to tire me down, especially with a full time job. It doesn't help that the final month is all where the knowledge gets properly tested and things get more intense! In the interest of brevity, here are 8 concise pointers to take note on to utilise your last month effectively to maximise your chances of passing the exams. #1 - Are you on schedule with your study plan? Follow the 1 month game plan, this is what every candidate should be doing now. #2 - You NEED to master ethics. Here are some helpful tips on how to do that. #3 - Knowledge is an advantage for the CFA exams. Learn from others' mistakes, get the latest CFA Results Analysis for a detailed topic-by-topic breakdown of all the historical Level 1 performances, Minimum Passing Scores, and what you should watch out for. #4 - Study effectively, this means higher absorption and understanding of the material per unit of time. Try out different study places and observe your ability to focus, stick to the ones that you can concentrate best, switch to something new once you get tired of it for a boost. #5 - Boost your motivation - devise an incentive and reward system that works for you. #6 - Take good care of yourself. Eat nutritiously to nurture concentration and cut out processed, sugary food. Take the occasional break, catch up with friends or go for a run - these reduce stress and you'll come back refreshed and raring to go! Most importantly, improve your sleep quality to make up for more intense study sessions. #7 - Do practice exams like crazy, preferably timed to simulate exam conditions. How many is enough? A good rule of thumb is to complete for 4-6 sets of practice exams in the last month. #8 - Take a break, have a laugh to take the pressure off! As much as we love to hate the CFA exams, try to be patient when innocent family member or friends try to be encouraging and all will be over soon! If you love a good moan, drop by the 300 Hours Community.¬†
Hugo Chavez's successor, Nicolas Maduro, is getting desperate. Today, he is supposed to announce new measures to reform the Venezuelan economy ‚Äî an economy that, for the last 12 months, has had an average inflation rate of almost 50% and faced shortages of staples like toilet paper. What's worse, is that the 2014 budget the Venezuelan legislature proposed last month basically ignores all those facts, and bases its allocations on an inflation outlook of 26-28%. Meanwhile, there are signs everywhere that Maduro is grasping at any possible shred of political legitimacy he can get his hands on. Last month, he asked the legislature to grant him special powers to combat corruption and economic sabotage. It can't be stressed enough ‚Äî he is no Chavez. So his administration has to compensate. And here are some bizarre ways he's doing it. So yeah, things are getting weird.
Investors are betting big that the company will grow into it's equally jaw-dropping valuation: $22.69 billion at the end of trading on Friday, nearly 20 times its estimated 2014 sales of $1.14 billion, according to analyst projections. Only time will tell if Twitter will live up to that. But here's one hint that it could. Glassdoor put together a chart of pre- and post-IPO approval rating of other tech companies that had hot IPOs. These are ratings from employees. Note Groupon and Zynga. Prior to their IPOs employees didn't think highly of their CEOs. Andrew Mason had a 70% approval, Marc Pincusa 45% approval rating. On the other hand, prior to Facebook's IPO, employees loved Mark Zuckerberg. Dick Costolo's rating is even higher. That's a hopeful sign. The exception is Jeff Weiner. Employees felt lukewarm to him prior to the IPO. But the stock is trading above $200 and they're pretty happy with him now. Glassdoor †
 MPI/Getty ImagesThe stock market continues to set new highs, which is exciting and fun for those of us who own stocks. I own stocks, so I'm certainly enjoying it. I hope stocks continue to charge higher, but I can't find much data to suggest that they will. I only have a vague hope that the Fed will continue to pump air into the balloon and corporations will continue to find ways to cut more costs and grow their already record-high earnings. Meanwhile, every valid valuation measure I look at suggests that stocks are at least 40% overvalued and, therefore, are likely to produce lousy returns over the next 10 years. Which valuation measures suggest the stock market is very overvalued? These, among others: How lousy do these measures suggest stock returns will be over the next decade? About 2.5% per year for the S&amp;P 500 ‚Äî a far cry from the double-digit returns of the past 5 years and the ~10% long-term average. If stocks just park here for a decade and return 2.5% a year through dividends, that wouldn't be particularly traumatic. But stocks rarely "park." They usually boom and bust. So the farther we get away from average valuations, the more the potential for a bust increases. So the higher we go, the less surprised I will be to see the stock market crash.¬† How big a crash could we get? According to the aforementioned valuation measures, and the work of fund manager John Hussman of the Hussman Funds, 40%-55%. A 50% crash would take the S&amp;P 500 below 900 and the DOW below 8,000. Is that going to happen? No one knows. And, just as importantly, no one knows when. (Valuation is unfortunately not helpful in predicting short- or intermediate-term market moves.) But a careful study of history suggests that a crash is increasingly likely and that long-term stock returns from this level are likely to be crappy. I've explained in detail here why I think the odds of a crash are increasing. And I've also explained why, despite this, I'm not selling my stocks. (In short, because I am a long-term investor, I am mentally prepared for a crash, and I am planning to ride out any crash, the same way I did with the 2008-2009 crash. And also because there isn't anything else compelling to invest in.). Here's a chart from Mr. Hussman that lists many of the reasons why he (and I) are bracing for a crash. And, below that chart is an excerpt from Mr. Hussman's latest note, in which he explains the valuation concern in more detail. @HussmanJP And here's the excerpt: Stock Valuations ‚Äì an unrecognized bubble Recently, as part of his book promotion tour, Alan Greenspan has hit the media circuit. His remarks include the assertion that stocks are still attractively valued, based on his estimate of the ‚Äúequity risk premium.‚Äù See¬†Investment, Speculation, Valuation, and Tinker Bell¬†for a full discussion of the Fed Model, ‚Äúequity risk premium‚Äù calculations, and a variety of far more reliable valuation methods that are tightly associated with subsequent S&amp;P 500 total returns. The simple fact is that on metrics that have been reliable throughout history, and even over the past decade, stock market valuations are obscene. Importantly, these same valuation metrics were quite optimistic about prospective market returns at the 2009 low. As a side-note, one should not confuse the message with the messenger here. It‚Äôs no secret that my insistence on stress-testing our return/risk estimation methods against Depression-era data resulted in missed returns in the interim (2009-early 2010), but none of that reflects our valuation metrics, which indicated prospective 10-year S&amp;P 500 total returns in excess of 10% annually at the time. The real concern in 2009 was that even after similar valuations were observed during the Depression, the stock market¬†still¬†went on to lose two-thirds of its value. So I‚Äôm quite open to criticism about my insistence on stress-testing (which I still believe was a fiduciary obligation given the events at the time). But one should be careful in concluding that this removes the ominous implications of present valuations. On the basis of a wide variety of historically reliable fundamentals, we currently estimate 10-year S&amp;P 500 nominal total returns of just 2.5% annually. Notably, the Shiller P/E (S&amp;P 500 divided by the 10-year average of inflation-adjusted earnings) is now at 25. Prior to the late-1990‚Äôs bubble, the only time the Shiller P/E was higher was during three weeks in 1929 that accompanied the extreme peak of the market before stocks crashed. Meanwhile, the price/revenue ratio of the S&amp;P 500 is presently 1.6 ‚Äì a level that is double its pre-bubble norm, and even further above levels historically associated with bear market lows.  We observe similar extremes in other reliable measures that aren‚Äôt dominated by cyclical movements in profit margins. The apparently ‚Äúreasonable‚Äù market valuations based on margin-sensitive fundamentals (e.g. forward operating earnings) implicitly assume that all of history can now be ignored: profit margins will no longer be highly cyclical; margins will no longer vary as the mirror image of deficits in combined household and government savings (see¬†Taking Distortion at Face Value); and they will instead¬†permanently¬†remain more than 70% above their historical norm. Aside from the fact that we can¬†fully¬†explain the present surplus of corporate profits as the mirror image of deficits in the household and government sectors, the other reason to focus on normalized earnings, cyclically-adjusted earnings, revenues, and other ‚Äúsmooth‚Äù fundamentals is simple: they are strikingly accurate guides across history. Another such measure is the ratio of stock market capitalization to nominal GDP, based on Federal Reserve Z.1 Flow of Funds data. Again, the present multiple is about double the historical pre-bubble norm.  While the valuation of the S&amp;P 500 Index itself was higher in 2000, it‚Äôs notable that the overvaluation of the S&amp;P 500 was skewed in 2000 by extreme overvaluation in very large-capitalization stocks, while smaller capitalization stocks were much more reasonably valued. In contrast, we have never in history observed the¬†median¬†stock as overvalued as we observe presently. Indeed, the median price/revenue ratio of stocks in the S&amp;P 500 now exceeds the 2000 peak. Likewise, as Damien Cleusix has observed, if we examine valuations by quartiles (25% of stocks in each bin), the average price/revenue ratio of the two middle quartiles also exceeds the 2000 extreme. For the sake of completeness, I should also note that virtually every ‚Äúovervalued, overbought, overbullish‚Äù syndrome we define is on red alert. I hesitate a bit on this point, because in contrast to nearly a century of market history where these syndromes were reliably associated with deep losses, the emergence of these syndromes since late-2011 has repeatedly been followed by yet further speculation (see the chart in¬†The Road to Easy Street). My impression remains that this is not a permanent change in market dynamics, but simply reflects an anvil that has not yet dropped. So these syndromes have admittedly done us no favors in the more recent period. Still, it remains our job, and our discipline, to view market action within its full historical context. Among the many largely equivalent ways to define an overvalued, overbought, overbullish syndrome, the blue bars on the following chart present one of the many we observe at present: Shiller P/E anywhere above 18 (overvalued), S&amp;P 500 at a 5-year high and at least 8% over its 40-week smoothing (overbought), with bullish sentiment greater than 50% and bearish sentiment less than 20% based on¬†Investors Intelligence¬†figures (overbullish). Notice that we did not observe this particular variant in 2000 because bearish sentiment never fell below 20% in that year. Also, while sentiment data was not available in 1929, we can impute sentiment reasonably on the basis of past price movements. Using imputed sentiment, we can also include 1929 in the set of instances here.  Notice that we‚Äôve observed three instances this year ‚Äì in May, in August, and today. Given the lack of follow-through from recent syndromes, we have to at least¬†allow¬†for the possibility of a further blowoff, as the seduction of quantitative easing has encouraged investors to ignore these conditions. On the economy, the best we can say is that while some widely-followed Fed surveys and Purchasing Managers indices¬† have improved modestly in recent months, the most recent rolling correlation between these measures and actual economic outcomes (employment growth, industrial production) has become even more negative at the same time (see¬†When Economic Data is Worse than Useless). Again, my impression is that this is not a permanent change in economic dynamics, but a temporary effect of distortions from quantitative easing, but it does force us take a more agnostic view of the economy than we might otherwise have. In any event, I continue to believe that it is plausible to expect the S&amp;P 500 to lose 40-55% of its value over the completion of the present cycle, and suspect that whatever further gains the market enjoys from this point will be surrendered in the first few complacent weeks following the market‚Äôs peak. That‚Äôs how it works. If all of this seems like hyperbole, please recall my similar concern at the 2007 peak (see¬†Fair Value ‚Äì 40% Off), and the negative 10-year return projections ‚Äì even on best-case assumptions ‚Äì that we¬†correctly¬†estimated for the S&amp;P 500 in 2000. These numbers relate to the striking gap between present valuation levels and normal historical precedent, not to personal opinion. None of our own challenges in this decidedly unfinished half-cycle relate to our consistent ability to correctly assess long-term investment prospects. We may yet see some amount of further short-term speculation, but already for the median stock, the long-term investment outlook has never been worse. You can read the whole thing here &gt; SEE ALSO: I Think There's A Decent Chance Of A Stock-Market Crash
Nobel prize winning economist Robert Shiller warns investors that his CAPE ratio is not a good tool for timing the market. But it is good at predicting long-term returns. Having said that, everyone still knows from experience that a stretched CAPE ratio preceded the stock market crashes of the dotcom bubble and the credit crisis. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.¬† If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16x, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, the CAPE is at 24.42x. On Friday, John Hussman tweeted this S&amp;P 500 chart that lists all of the warning signs of a crash that we are experiencing now. And there are a lot. At the top is the CAPE. Hussman: "Anatomy of textbook pre-crash bubble. Don't rely on further blowoff, but don't be shocked. Risk dominates. Hold tight." @HussmanJP
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA street vendor displays a souvenir with pictures of Chinese President Xi Jinping (L) and the late Chinese Chairman Mao Zedong to visitors at the Tiananmen Square in Beijing November 8, 2013. BEIJING (Reuters) - China's annual inflation climbed to an eight-month high of 3.2 percent in October as food costs soared, fanning market worries about policy tightening as factory output and investment data pointed to signs of stabilization in the economy. Inflation, which quickened slightly from 3.1 percent in September, was still lower than a median forecast of 3.3 percent in a Reuters poll and was below the official target of 3.5 percent for 2013. "Although the CPI inflation was mainly pushed up by seasonal food demand, it may fuel market concerns that the central bank may tighten monetary conditions," said Li Huiyong, an economist at Shenyin &amp; Wanguo Securities in Shanghai. The People's Bank of China refused to inject liquidity into the money markets during regular open market operations on Thursday, triggering worries it would start a new round of tightening in the next few months, traders said. Data on Friday showed exports rebounded by more than expected in October, adding to signs the economy has found its footing as Beijing prepares its reform agenda for the next decade. But few analysts believe the central bank will rush to tighten policy amid the lingering global uncertainties. The PBOC has said it will maintain its prudent policy-setting with timely fine-tuning to keep the economy on an even keel while warding off inflationary risks. The National Bureau of Statistics said food prices rose 6.5 percent in October from a year earlier, quickening from 6.1 percent in September. China's producer prices fell 1.5 percent last month from a year earlier - the 20th consecutive month of decline - versus a fall of 1.3 percent the previous month, the bureau said. Economists polled by Reuters had expected consumer inflation of 3.3 percent and factory-gate prices to decline 1.4 percent. Month-on-month, consumer prices were up 0.1 percent versus a rise of 0.2 percent expected by economists. Producer prices in October were unchanged from the previous month. NO TIGHTENING SEEN Data from the National Bureau of Statistics also showed China's factory output rose 10.3 percent in October from a year earlier, beating market expectations of 10 percent. Fixed-asset investment, a key driver of economic growth, climbed 20.1 percent in the first 10 months from a year earlier - in line with forecasts. Real estate investment growth rose 19.2 percent, while revenue from property sales rose 32.3 percent. Retail sales, a key gauge of consumption, were up 13.3 percent in October from a year earlier, versus 13.4 percent expected by the market. "Overall, the data showed that economy is stabilizing but there are still many external uncertainties," said Chen Letian, an economist at Rising Securities in Beijing. "We don't expect the central bank to tighten policy sharply, although it may fine-tune policy by targeting market liquidity." A Reuters poll showed annual growth could slow to 7.5 percent in the fourth-quarter of 2013 from 7.8 percent in the previous three months. The full-year growth could be 7.6 percent - the weakest in 14 years - but ahead of the government's target of 7.5 percent. Chinese leaders began a four-day secret meeting on Saturday to set a reform agenda for the next decade as they try to push more sustainable growth after three decades of breakneck expansion. They have pledged to steer the economy away from its dependence on investment and exports to one driven more by consumption, services and innovation, which they consider more sustainable. (Editing by Nick Macfie)
Robert McNallyIs Bitcoin the new gold? Some former gold bugs certainly think so. And its value has skyrocketed in recent months. But many readers at this point are probably wondering ... what exactly is Bitcoin? Robert McNally, an iOS developer at parking payment startup QuickPay, gave the following presentation to last year's Hackers' Conference in Santa Cruz, answering exactly that question.¬† With his kind permission, we have republished it here.¬†
