Last weekend, we described how the lobbying group to promote immigration reform, organized by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, had been caught†trashing President Obama and Obamacare and supporting oil drilling in the Alaska wilderness ó policies that have nothing to do with immigration. Although this behavior was described as business as usual in Washington ó if you want to get something done, you just bribe Senators and Congress-people to vote for it ó some of the donors to Zuckerberg's lobbying group, FWD.us, may not have seen it that way. The way they might have seen it was that their money was being used to support policies and politicians that they disagreed with. Then, this week, the Sierra Club, Move.org, and other organizations announced that they would be pulling their advertising from Facebook as a result of the lobbying group's tactics. And now, Kara Swisher of All Things D reports, two influential Silicon Valley supporters of FWD.us, Tesla founder Elon Musk and Yammer founder David Sacks, have withdrawn their support. Responding to Swisher's story, Om Malik, another influential Silicon Valley journalist and venture capitalist, called on Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer, Kleiner Perkins partner John Doerr, and LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman to follow Musk and Sacks out the door. Yesterday, Jim Breyer, a Facebook board member and venture capitalist at Accel Partners, reiterated his support for the group. But, so far, FWD.us' attempts to defend itself have largely fallen on deaf ears. And it seems that, however well-intentioned the lobbying effort might have been, it is beginning to fall apart. Read Kara Swisher's article here &gt;
REUTERS/Yuri GripasWall Street Journal reporter John Hilsenrath is so plugged in at the Federal Reserve that he has earned the nickname "Fed Wire." Whenever the Fed wants to start sending a new message to Wall Street, the story goes, they call up John Hilsenrath. And then, thanks to Hilsenrath's excellent articles, by the time the actual announcement comes out, it's no big deal, because everyone already knows about it. And now John Hilsenrath is reporting that the Fed has started talking about when and how to end its latest economic stimulus program: Federal Reserve officials have mapped out a strategy for winding down an unprecedented $85 billion-a-month bond-buying program meant to spur the economy‚Äîan effort to preserve flexibility and manage highly unpredictable market expectations. Officials say they plan to reduce the amount of bonds they buy in careful and potentially halting steps, varying their purchases as their confidence about the job market and inflation evolves. The timing on when to start is still being debated. So this is presumably the first step in the event that all of Wall Street has been waiting for... the end of the latest "quantitative easing" program and, thereby, the beginning of the Fed's exit from the massive bond portfolio that it has built up over the past 5 years. Some investors are concerned that, when the Fed starts selling bonds instead of buying them, interest rates will skyrocket (others vehemently disagree). And some of those worried investors, presumably, might conclude that the moment of doom is now upon us. So Hilsenrath makes clear that the Fed is very worried about not spooking the markets: "I don't want to go from wild turkey to cold turkey,"¬†Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said in an interview Friday. "I think we ought to dial it back." Mr. Fisher is part of a contingent of Fed hawks who are wary of the central bank's easy-money policies. The Fed also wants to transmit the message that the withdrawal of stimulus will not necessarily be smooth and steady. Rather, the Fed might tighten policy a bit, then wait to see what happens, then tighten some more. In any event, it seems the big moment is finally upon us. The Fed is finally serious enough about starting its "exit" that it is telling Wall Street to get ready. Read John Hilsenrath's article here &gt;
DoubleLine FundsThis is why you should short Chipotle.One of the most highly anticipated events in finance every year is the exclusive Sohn Investment Conference, which is in its 18th year. Speakers this year included heavy hitters like David Einhorn, Bill Ackman, Jim Chanos, and Kyle Bass. Perhaps the most highly anticipated speaker at the event was bond god Jeff Gundlach, the brilliant mind who nailed his calls on Treasury bonds, natural gas, and most recently Apple. Titled "Investment Cubism 2013," Gundlach's presentation addressed the discrepancy between corporate and main street America, the extraordinarily risky efforts by the Fed, and the heavy debt load accumulated by the U.S. government. All of this was presented in the context of Gundlach's investment themes.† Among other things, he's avoiding gold, avoiding insurance companies, long home price gains, and he's short Chipotle. "I don't believe in any business where all you need to be competitive is a taco truck. These are the must-see charts every investor must consider before making their next move. Thanks to DoubleLine Funds for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Bloomberg TelevisionJP Morgan's Tom LeeJP Morgan's Tom Lee is one of the most accurate strategists on Wall Street, having nailed the S&amp;P 500's path in 2012. In his brand new note to clients, he offers his list of "23 Ideas For The Next 3-6 Months." "Our base case in the short term sees equities higher through the end of 2Q and Cyclicals outperforming (dead cat bounce, 1Q laggards leading in 2Q, etc.)," he wrote. "However, there is a case to be made that Cyclical leadership will likely be a three- to five-year story with Technology, arguably the least consensus, therefore perhaps best positioned" Lee's picks run the gamut from biotech to semiconductors to retail. The group boasts an average 2013 estimated price-to-earnings ratio of 12.3x and an average upside potential to their target prices of 13%. 
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. A New Study Finds That Most Advisors That Practiced In 2008 Suffer From PTSD (Investment News) A new paper from by Bradley Klontz and Sonya Britt of Kansas State University says that most financial advisors from 2008 suffer from post-traumatic stress. "93% of the 56 planners they surveyed bore psychological symptoms consistent with medium to high levels of post-traumatic stress, and 39% experienced severe stress on the level of post-traumatic stress disorder." In Investing, It's Important To Be Different (Advisor Perspectives) Francois Sicart of Tocqueville Asset Management is very wary of investment myths. To differentiate from the crowd he says everyone should 1. Be cautious of theories that "catch the imagination of the investing crowd," including the contributions of respected theoreticians to investment science. 2. Statistics should be used carefully too. Investors should make sure the data is looked at over longer periods of time and that "outperformance is rarely smooth.". 3. Even though "crowds" are vary of volatility there are many opportunities to be found in it. 4. In seeking opportunities in volatility be cautious, and distinguish between "momentum and contrarian." The S&amp;P 500 Is Not The U.S. Economy (Goldman Sachs) The S&amp;P 500 and the U.S. economy are not the same thing. So, even as the U.S. economy trudges along, the stock market has been ripping higher. This is because of the significant global exposure of the companies that make up the S&amp;P 500. Goldman Sachs  Larry Fink Thinks Longevity Is The Defining Challenge Of Our Age (Advisor One) BlackRock's Investor Pulse Survey showed that most investors are anxious about their finances in retirement. 62% of those polled said "they are concerned about having enough income from investments to live comfortably in retirement and 54 percent agreed that 'I'm worried about outliving my savings.'"¬† Speaking at NYU's Stern School of Business BlackRock's Larry Fink said, "longevity is the defining challenge of our age," and added, "a systemic crisis that is threatening not only retirement systems but also our economic futures." Bill Gross Has Called The End Of The 30-Year Bull Market In Bonds (Business Insider) Bond guru Bill Gross has called the end of the 30-year bond bull market. In a tweet he said, the bull market in bonds ended on April 29, 2013. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
AP ImagesWall Street has been buzzing about a†bombshell New York Post story†revealing that some Bloomberg News reporters were using private client information from Bloomberg Terminals to spy on Goldman Sachs employees. This was discovered after an unidentified Bloomberg reporter pointed out that a Goldman partner had not logged into his terminal and asked if he was still employed by the firm, the report said. After Goldman complained, Bloomberg suspended access to this terminal customer data to its reporters. † Business Insider also learned†that Bloomberg News reporters used private information from JPMorgan Bloomberg Terminal users for some of their coverage of the JPMorgan "London Whale" trade, according to sources. Bloomberg LP's CEO and president Daniel Doctoroff has recognized this was a mistake. †He also tapped Steve Ross to the new post of Client Data Compliance Officer.† He sent the following email to employees:† Since our founding more than 30 years ago, the proper safeguarding of customer data has been a central tenet of Bloombergís culture.A Bloomberg client recently raised a concern that Bloomberg News reporters had access to limited customer relationship management data through their use of the Bloomberg terminal. Although we have long made limited customer relationship data available to our journalists, we realize this was a mistake.Having recognized this mistake, we took immediate action. Last month we changed our policy so that all reporters only have access to the same customer relationship data available to our clients.†Additionally, we decided to further centralize our data security efforts by appointing Steve Ross, one of our most senior executives, to the new position of Client Data Compliance Officer.†Steve is responsible for reviewing and, if necessary, enhancing protocols which among other things will continue to ensure that our news operations never have access to confidential customer data.To be clear, the limited customer relationship data previously available to our reporters never included access to our trading, portfolio, monitor, blotter or other related systems or our clients' messages. Moreover, reporters could not see news stories that clients read, or the securities they viewed. Bloomberg has very strict data security policies in place, in addition to significant and rigorous training, processes and protocols. Upon hiring, all Bloomberg employees enter into confidentiality provisions, including Bloomberg News.Client trust is our highest priority and the cornerstone of our business, and we are deeply committed to ensuring the complete integrity and confidentiality of our clients' data in all situations and at all times.Dan
misterbissonI‚Äôve been thinking lately about what we buy when we buy a car, and how to make the best personal financial choices when car buying. Can you buy your personality at the car dealership? From birth, until now, you have been taught that your car is your personality. Are you Ford Tough?¬† GM Patriotic?¬† Audi Sporty? ¬†Toyota Dependable? ¬†Volvo Safe?¬† Mercedes Classy?¬† Lexus Svelte? ¬†BMW Quick?¬† Volkswagon Quirky? ¬†Hyundai Cost-conscious?[1] Without hardly trying, I can conjure a car to match each of those adjectives as quickly as I can type the words. I am here to tell you the shocking news that your car is not your personality, and that instead your car is a transportation tool for moving your physical self from one location to another, via paved roads. The more you purchase your personality at the car dealership, the more you will pay for something you don‚Äôt need, which puts you further from your financial goals. On minimizing merciless fleecing at the car dealership Many of us associate purchasing a car not only with purchasing our personality via a 2-ton consumer transportation device, but also with financial trickery.¬† The latter association is well earned ‚Äì the ‚Äòused-car salesman‚Äô stereotype is no accident. To minimize personal fleecing, the best thing you can do is limit the number of transaction you engage in with your car dealership. When you walk on to the car dealer lot you may think you‚Äôre buying a car. Frequently you‚Äôre simultaneously buying a car, trading in your old car, negotiating a loan, settling on an affordable monthly payment, picking automobile accessories, and discussing dealer warranties and services. You do these transactions once every 5 or 10 or 15 years, whereas your counterpart from the dealership does this multiple times a day.¬† The information and skill disadvantage between you and the car salesman is extraordinary.¬† Each simultaneous transaction presents a fleecing opportunity. My advice: Try to do only one thing at a time. If you need a car loan, try, try, try, to get this loan lined up ahead of time, ideally from your local bank or credit union.¬† If all goes well, you begin your car shopping at the dealership with a known price limit, interest rate, and monthly payment amount.¬† If, at the end of your car purchase the dealer can do better than your bank, so be it.¬† But you can at least leave all of that loan negotiation until the end, separated from price. If you need to trade in your old car, you may find it most efficient and convenient to drop off and pick up a car in the same place, so I can‚Äôt frown too much on the practice, for non-financial reasons.¬† On the other hand, just know that the introduction of another ‚Äòmoving part‚Äô to the transaction allows for another opportunity for your friendly car salesman to dip into your wallet. Car loans ‚Äì Your mortal weakness The most effective way to fleece a car buyer is to focus his attention on the car loan monthly payment, and away from the price of the car or the interest rate on the loan. ‚ÄúHow much can you afford per month?‚Äù asks your friendly car salesman, who has thereby tilted your head back to better expose your throbbing jugular to his surprisingly pointy canines. If you got your loan approval ahead of time at your bank, monthly payment is an irrelevant question that you can ignore. ¬† Ideally, you reviewed a maximum purchase amount, bank loan interest rate, and resultant monthly payment at the bank, away from the charged and scary atmosphere of a car dealership. Even if you need the car dealer‚Äôs loan you should still ignore the monthly payment question while inside the dealership.¬† Focus first, instead, on the overall price of the car.¬† After that is firmly set, you can move your focus to the interest rate of the loan, which reflects the cost of money. At the risk of stating the obvious, if you got the best price possible on the car itself and the interest rate is acceptable, then the monthly payment will be fine.¬† Or it won‚Äôt.¬† But it will be the best you can get.¬† You should know your acceptable car price and interest rate ‚Äì based on your income, and your credit rating and the local cost of money ‚Äì before walking onto the dealer lot. ¬† Please also see upcoming post Car Buying II ‚Äì Thinking About Your Car‚Äôs Price [1] I could go on with the less desirable traits earned by car brands: Are you Peugeot Undependable?¬† Jaguar Pretentious? Fiat Promiscuous?¬† Dodge Plastic?¬† KIA impoverished?¬† Mitsubishi Sub-Prime?
Tesla's meteoric rise in the last ten days has been a surprise to most of Wall Street. In the last 2 days alone the stock is up 40% after a smashing earnings report. The shorts are white-knuckled and praying. The thing is, not every money manager bought into their story. One of those skeptics was Cole Wilcox, CEO of Longboard Asset Management. Based in Phoenix, Wilcox dropped out of school to become a stockbroker and started his first hedge fund when he was 21. He says his firm trades every asset under the sun ó currencies, commodities, what have you óbut what ties them together is that Wilcox is looking for the next big thing. That's why his firm is called Longboard ó he's trying to capture waves. Tesla, he believes, is about to crest. Business Insider ran a slide deck of Longboard's long thesis before Tesla's stock started scaring the bears back to their caves, so we contacted him to get more insight on how he saw what everyone else was missing. His answer was actually pretty simple ó he's been watching the company from the ground for the last ten years, waiting to see if CEO Elon Musk would do the unthinkable and become the man that would take electric vehicles mainstream. "To be able to take an idea that every other company with massive resources óGM, Mercedes ó no one has been able to do, and create a world class product on a pound for pound engineering basis, deliver that to market, create a customer base, a manufacturing base, sales, marketing, and to do that from scratch? You have no idea how difficult that is and the kind of management execution you have to have. You have to be a visionary." Elon Musk, he says, is a visionary and an underestimated marketing whiz. Wall Street, says Wilcox, was reasoning by analogy ó 'because no one else could do it, Musk couldn't do it either. The Street was also paying too much attention to earnings reports, but earnings don't mean as much when a company's trying to grow something completely new. By the time Wall Street's numbers look like a buy, you're in the trade too late. In fact, following Wall Street will always make you an average investor, says Wilcox. Consensus is by definition the average. To generate alpha, you have to do something completely different. If you want to catch a wave before it crests, you have to do what Longboard did ó you have to visit the company, you have to drive the car. Longboard Asset ManagementTesla's factory. Wilcox says the robots pick up parts one at a time and put the cars together like a human hand."Until you get behind the wheel of a Tesla is impossible to understand," Wilcox told Business Insider. The car responds automatically. There's no lag between when you turn the key, fire the engines, and get the wheels going like there is in a gas powered car. It's a completely different driving experience. There is no key, there is no engine to be fired, and the car immediately responds to you commands. He says it's like being in a cockpit of a plane. This isn't to say that Wilcox was putting money on Tesla from the beginning. He didn't buy into the IPO. A lot of things had to happen before would Longboard get into the trade ó before Wilcox would start to believe that Tesla would be the company that would take electric vehicles (EV) mainstream. To succeed, he reasoned, the company needed more than Musk's talent. There were so many things that could go wrong that were beyond management's control that what Tesla really needed was luck. For example, Tesla acquired its 5.3 million square foot factory from Toyota and GM for a rock bottom price of $42 million, with $17 million thrown in for equipment. The New United Motor Manufacturing Inc. (NUMMI) plant had shuttered in 2010, and Musk was there to pick it up. But that isn't what really sold Wilcox. "The point at which I said 'now is the time to be in this trade' was immediately after you got information that showed they executed. They're delivering cars... the marketplace globally is adopting this vehicle on a free market basis... The customers love it, they're buying it. It's like a chemical reaction, once the catalyst has been added it's just going to keep going... it's going to snowball." Wilcox saw that the company was going the way of Apple, designing gorgeous stores in high traffic locations and putting them next to brands like Louis Vuitton. Tesla was branding itself for tastemakers with money looking for the next great driving experience. He bought the company, when he saw that tastemakers bought that Tesla was the experience. "One thing that I know about markets in general is that there's only one winner. There's only one Amazon, one Google... one company is going to have 80% of market share and the rest will be fighting for the other 20%," said Wilcox. "That's what Tesla is going to do, they're setting the pace for what the EV market is going to be... no one's going to buy anything else." So Longboard went in, and it went in big. Wilcox couldn't disclose exact numbers, but his philosophy is that Wall Street gets into too many companies that don't matter in the long run. He'd rather watch and wait than buy something he doesn't believe in ó but when he does believe he makes it count. "I saw a homeless many in NYC staring at a Tesla driving at the street. When a homeless man is drooling over your vehicle you know you've got something." Fair enough.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVHome prices have begun to gather steam. Economists expect prices to rise 8% in 2013. But some are anxious about another housing bubble. Robert Shiller has said that some markets like Las Vegas look frothy. In her new list of four hot housing topics, Bank of America economist Michelle Meyer explains why she doesn't expect a housing bubble this time around. She notes that valuation, price expectations, leverage, and investor speculation do not support the bubble case. "We believe in the housing recovery," wrote Meyer. She elaborates on her skepticism toward a housing bubble, which is just one of four hot housing topics that Meyer thinks investors need to watch.
Flickr/poolieNothing really happened today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,118, +35.8 pts, +0.2%S&amp;P 500: 1,633, +7.0 pts, +0.4%NASDAQ: 3,436, +27.4 pts, +0.8% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
With the cost of tuition exploding higher, student loan delinquency rates on the rise, and wages for college grads going nowhere, young people are increasingly asking themselves if higher education is really worth it. While it's true that the unemployment rate is lower for the those with college degrees, data shows that labor market conditions are rapidly deteriorating for this demographic. Yesterday, we reported on a new eye-opening report from Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius who noted that the labor force participation rate for college-grads was tumbling.¬† This has been giving the appearence that the unemployment rate has been relatively stable. Hatzius took the employment rate as a percentage of the population for college grads and then for those with less than a high school diploma.¬† This provided a picture of the employment rate without having to address the changes in labor force participation rate. "The statement that college graduates are the only group to have seen employment gains also requires qualification," said Hatzius. "It is technically correct, but nevertheless misleading. As shown in Exhibit 3, the employment/population ratio has fallen just as sharply among college graduates as among high school dropouts since 2007; in other words, the growth in the absolute number of employed college graduates has been nowhere near enough to offset the increase in the size of the college-educated population." While Hatzius is mainly concerned with trends since 2007, the chart he provided goes farther back. As you can see since the early 1990's, the employment rate for college graduates has been tumbling while the employment rate for those with less than a high school diploma has trended higher. "The college bubble has popped," tweeted CNBC's John Carney in response to Hatzius' report. Goldman Sachs
Wikimedia Commons/Florian HirzingerThis just in: the U.S. government posted a $112.9 billion budget surplus in April, the highest in five years. Total tax receipts collected during the month were $406.723 billion, up 27.6% from April 2012. Total spending was $293.833 billion, up 13.1% from a year earlier. The numbers were right in line with analysts' consensus estimate for a $112 billion surplus. There is always a spike in revenues in April because of tax season, but this is the biggest April surplus since 2008. The chart below shows 10 years of monthly U.S. budget balances. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
One of the claims high frequency trading advocates make in favor of the practice is that they tighten the spread between the bid (what people are willing to pay for stock) and the ask (what people are willing to sell a stock for). Eric Hunsader, over at Nanex LLC, says that's bunk. The spread between the bid and the ask can fluctuate like crazy in one second, and it can be pretty wide. The reason why academics and regulators can't see this is because they aren't looking close enough. They simply can't afford the data or do not have the systems in place to observe this activity. Additionally, the more noise there is in the market, the more expensive the data is to process. And Hunsader argues that HFT firms make tons of noise. He sent us four Amgen charts from to illustrate this. All of this happened today within 3 minutes at most. This first chart shows actual executed trades in Amgen over 3 minutes. The gray part is the spread of the NBBO (National Best Bid/Offer) the top of the shading is the best ask (lowest selling price from any exchange), and the bottom of the shading is the best bid (highest buying price from any exchange). You'll note that it spread's about 25 cents ó not the tightest in the world by any means. In fact, if the spread were really tight and prices were stable, Hunsader pointed out, this gray would look more like a thin straight line. The dots represent different exchanges (the green ones are dark pools ó cool huh? A lot of those are retail trades.).  You saw how many trades were executed, now here's how many orders were put out over the same period of time. Check out those price swings.  This chart shows Amgen over 1 second when NO trades have been executed and quotes are fluctuating like crazy.  This last chart is chart 3 spread out over 27 seconds. The NBBO is even wilder. Nanex LLC
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderEarlier today, Mark Decambre of the New York Post broke a bombshell story: Reporters at Bloomberg News used private information from Bloomberg terminals to spy on employees at Goldman Sachs. And now it's clear that Bloomberg reporters used private terminal information to report on at least one other firm, too. Wall Street firms pay Bloomberg millions of dollars a year to buy Bloomberg terminal accounts for their employees. Until recently, Bloomberg News reporters with access to these private Bloomberg systems could see when specific Bloomberg clients were logging on and off and various search functions they use. The Post's story revealed that reporters at Bloomberg News used this private information to spy on the activity of individual Goldman partners and use the information they discovered in developing Bloomberg news stories. According to a source at JPMorgan, Bloomberg reporters also secretly used private client information on the terminal while reporting on†JPMorgan's disastrous "London Whale" trade last year. Bloomberg broke the news that a team of JPMorgan traders in London had made a massive bet on credit derivatives ó a bet so big that it was causing distortions in the market. Bloomberg was also the first organization to name the trader responsible for this bet: Bruno Iksil. Later, in a timeline of the Whale scandal, Bloomberg bragged about its leadership on this story: April 5: Bloomberg News is first to report Iksil had roiled markets with CIO positions so large that they were distorting prices. The Wall Street Journal follows with a report that hedge funds are taking positions to bet against JPMorgan. The bank says the CIO hedges structural risks to bring assets and liabilities ìinto better alignment... When news of the Whale trade became public, it encouraged other market participants to bet against JPMorgan, which likely contributed to the firm ultimately losing billions of dollars on the trade. A source within JPMorgan says that the firm believes that, at the very least, Bloomberg News reporters used private login information on the Bloomberg terminal to determine that Bruno Iksil had left JPMorgan. Bloomberg reporters, the source says, accessed private information on the terminal to determine that Iksil had not logged into his Bloomberg account for an unusually long period of time. Then the reporters confronted JPMorgan with this information and asked whether Iksil had left. Iksil wasn't the only one, either. According to the JPMorgan source, Bloomberg reporters would call JPMorgan CIO traders on their home phone numbers or personal cellphones and say, "Hey, I noticed you haven't used your Bloomberg Terminal in a while. Are you still with the bank?" Bankers at JPMorgan expressed frustration with this to multiple Bloomberg reporters, a source said. A Bloomberg spokesperson says he is unaware of any record of any such complaints. The JPMorgan source also said that this has happened in broader instances at the bank and not just with the "London Whale" traders. But the "London Whale" event is when it became apparent to JPMorgan that Bloomberg reporters were using their private client information to spy on them. "They were pretty blatant about saying they noticed if you haven't logged into your Bloomberg or you haven't been trading in a while," a JPMorgan source said. The general sense is that the behavior of these Bloomberg News reporters was outrageous. As one JPMorgan source said, when you buy a Bloomberg Terminal, "You don't think someone's tracking your every move." If you're not already familiar with the Bloomberg Terminal, it's basically a computer that's targeted toward financial professionals so they can message other users, obtain real-time market data, news, and stock quotes among many other functions.  They're pretty much ubiquitous on Wall Street, and a subscription for one costs about $20,000 per year. Considering the amount of data tracked by Bloomberg Terminals, abuse by Bloomberg News could have been even more widespread and insidious. Bloomberg has acknowledged that reporters could see "broad information on which functions users access, such as equities or commodities." A source at Goldman tells us that the firm was dumbfounded and outraged to discover what Bloomberg reporters were doing. The source says that, until recently, Bloomberg News reporters were able to see not just when individual Bloomberg subscribers logged in (and via what device), but what they did while they were logged in. Specifically, the source says, Bloomberg News reporters were able to see:† Our source also said that Bloomberg reporters could see which subscribers read specific news stories, but Bloomberg says this is not the case.† "Limited customer relationship data has long been available to our journalists, and has never included clientsí security-level data, position data, trading data or messages." Bloomberg acknowledged that reporters could see if clients logged in or off, and when, but not from their exact location. †Reporters also could not see news stories or individual equities clients were looking at. †They also could not view their communications. †Reporters could only see general functions clients used in the past week. † It does not take much imagination to see how easily this private information could be used to gain a major edge in financial news reporting and to blindside Bloomberg clients who had no idea their private terminal activity was being recorded and monitored and made visible to the newsroom. Here's one hypothetical example that a source gave us.† By focusing on the terminal activity of a particularly high-profile trader, Bloomberg News reporters might be able to determine what types of information the trader might be researching or monitoring. And the reporters might then be able to use this information to ask questions of other traders and, thus, figure out what the particular trader was doing. The source used legendary trader Steve Cohen of S.A.C. Capital as an example. (Note: We ran this by Bloomberg, and they said this particular example would also be impossible, because reporters would not have been able to see Cohen's searches for individual equities. We do not yet know exactly what search information was visible to reporters, though some Bloomberg terminal search functions are quite specific.) Steve Cohen, the source speculated, presumably has an account with Bloomberg. If so, with a few keystrokes, a Bloomberg reporter would have been able to determine when Steve Cohen was logged on to his Bloomberg account and what information he was looking at. If Steve Cohen seemed particularly interested in the price of, say, Apple stock, then the reporter might reasonably conclude that Steve Cohen was monitoring or thinking about making a trade in Apple stock. And the reporter might then be able to use that information to ask around and figure out exactly what Steve Cohen was up to. A few weeks ago, when Goldman discovered what Bloomberg reporters were doing, the firm complained to Bloomberg. Bloomberg subsequently made it impossible for its reporters to see some of the private information they had been using. "In light of [Goldman's] concern as well as a general heightened sensitivity to data access, we decided to disable journalist access to this customer relationship information for all clients," Bloomberg said in an emailed statement. UPDATE: A few hours after we published this story, Bloomberg forwarded the following email from the President of Bloomberg, LP, Dan Doctoroff. In the email, which was sent to Bloomberg employees, Doctoroff says the firm made a mistake: ----- Original Message -----From: D DOCTOROFF (BLOOMBERG/ 731 LEXIN)At: May 10 2013 16:15:39Since our founding more than 30 years ago, the proper safeguarding of customer data has been a central tenet of Bloombergís culture.A Bloomberg client recently raised a concern that Bloomberg News reporters had access to limited customer relationship management data through their use of the Bloomberg terminal. Although we have long made limited customer relationship data available to our journalists, we realize this was a mistake.Having recognized this mistake, we took immediate action. Last month we changed our policy so that all reporters only have access to the same customer relationship data available to our clients. Additionally, we decided to further centralize our data security efforts by appointing Steve Ross, one of our most senior executives, to the new position of Client Data Compliance Officer. Steve is responsible for reviewing and, if necessary, enhancing protocols which among other things will continue to ensure that our news operations never have access to confidential customer data.To be clear, the limited customer relationship data previously available to our reporters never included access to our trading, portfolio, monitor, blotter or other related systems or our clients' messages. Moreover, reporters could not see news stories that clients read, or the securities they viewed. Bloomberg has very strict data security policies in place, in addition to significant and rigorous training, processes and protocols. Upon hiring, all Bloomberg employees enter into confidentiality provisions, including Bloomberg News.Client trust is our highest priority and the cornerstone of our business, and we are deeply committed to ensuring the complete integrity and confidentiality of our clients' data in all situations and at all times.Dan
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesA Mitt Romney supporter at a campaign rally in Ohio.The Internal Revenue Service admitted Friday to targeting conservative and Tea Party groups with additional scrutiny during the 2012 campaign,†the Associated Press first reported. IRS spokesperson†Lois Lerner said at a conference in Washington that the agency apologized for the special emphasis and scrutiny in applications for tax-exempt status.  According to the AP, she said that organizations containing the words "Tea Party" or "patriot" were targeted for additional review, blaming that on "low-level" workers in Ohio. Here is the full statement the IRS released later: Between 2010 and 2012, the IRS saw the number of applications for section 501(c)(4) status double. As a result, local career employees in Cincinnati sought to centralize work and assign cases to designated employees in an effort to promote consistency and quality.† This approach has worked in other areas. However, the IRS recognizes we should have done a better job of handling the influx of advocacy applications.†  While centralizing cases for consistency made sense, the way we initially centralized them did not.† Mistakes were made initially, but they were in no way due to any political or partisan rationale. We fixed the situation last year and have made significant progress in moving the centralized cases through our system. To date, more than half of the cases have been approved or withdrawn.†  It is important to recognize that all centralized applications received the same, even-handed treatment, and the majority of cases centralized were not based on a specific name. In addition, new procedures also were implemented last year to ensure that these mistakes wonít be made in the future.† The IRS also stresses that our employees - all career civil servants -- will continue to be guided by tax law and not partisan issues. In a conference call later Friday with reporters, the IRS reiterated that it was not engaging in any political attacks by targeting groups with "Tea Party" and "patriot." But it couldn't point to other non-conservative or political-sounding words. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) called for a government-wide review. "Now more than ever we need to send a clear message to the Obama administration that the First Amendment is non-negotiable, and that apologies after an election year are not an sufficient response to what we now know took place at the IRS. This kind of political thuggery has absolutely no place in our politics," McConnell said in a statement. At one point last year, 16 tea party groups joined together in claiming harassment by the IRS, something the agency denied at the time. The IRS said that roughly 75 groups were targeted. One of those groups, the Tea Party Patriots, called on President Barack Obama to apologize and demanded that Congress investigate.† ìThe IRS has demonstrated the most disturbing, illegal and outrageous abuse of government power,î said†Jenny Beth Martin, the group's national coordinator.† ìThis deliberate targeting and harassment of tea party groups reaches a new low in illegal government activity and overreach. It is suspicious that the activity of these ëlow-level workersí was unknown to IRS leadership at the time it occurred. ... We reject a simple apology that does nothing to alleviate the danger of this happening again. Only immediate and public actions on the part of the IRS and the president will suffice. Certain tax-exempt charitable groups can conduct political activities, but it cannot be their primary activity. This post has been updated.
YouTubeCarl Icahn was just on CNBC talking to Scott Wapner about the Dell deal, and Wapner just asked him about Jim Chanos' concerns about the company ó the famous short-seller has made it clear that he's bearish on anything that has to do with the PC business. In fact, he presented his short thesis on hardware company Seagate this week at the Sohn Investment Conference. So it's no surprise that Chanos is short Dell. Wapner played a clip of Chanos on CNBC saying that he has no idea why companies like Silver Lake are even interested in Dell and gave Icahn the chance to respond. "I've been on the other side of him [Chanos] many times and I've made fortunes being against him," said Icahn. "I don't mean this in a derrogatory way, but I don't see Chanos on the Forbes 400 list," he said. Icahn ranks #21 on that list. Icahn went on to say that Dell was more than just a PC company, and that it's made important acqusitions in the software space that will make it a leader in cloud technology. Fair enough, but then again, we know that Chanos loves to short companies that have made a lot of acqusitions. Time will tell who's right. Watch the video below from CNBC: 
REUTERS/Steven LamTesla Motors announced its first-ever quarterly profit on Wednesday. Yesterday, Consumer Reports gave Tesla's Model S its highest score ever for a car in its 2013 review. And the stock has been up over 40% in the last two days.¬† But the company hasn't always had it good. It nearly collapsed during the financial crisis.  A negative review from The New York Times earlier this year prompted CEO Elon Musk to take to Twitter and appear on CNBC and Bloomberg TV to criticize the review. Its stock was battered at the time. Here, we take a look at the company's origins, the drama among its founders, its near collapse, and the development of its Roadster, Model S, and Model X cars.
The EconomistHugh Hendry, manager of the hedge fund Eclectica Asset Management, is out with his first quarter investor letter. ValueWalk has obtained a copy. Like many other big names in the hedge fund world, Eclectica significantly underperformed the S&amp;P 500 in the first quarter of 2013, returning only 3.1% versus the index's 12.0% gains. "There¬†were gains from long positions in consumer staples and¬†Japanese stocks, as well as gains from shorts in industrial¬†commodity related stocks," writes Hendry of the Eclectica's Q1 performance. "In FX, the Fund profited from being¬†long the US dollar." On the other hand, "Offsetting losses came primarily from long¬†positions in commodity futures, spread across gold, oil and¬†softs." Hendry is typically known for his contrarian approach to investing, and has sounded rather bearish in general in recent years.¬†In October, he said he was long gold and short the S&amp;P 500. However, the contents of his new letter seem to be anything but contrarian. Among Eclectica's new bets, some of which were mentioned above: investing in consumer staples, U.S. equities, the U.S. dollar, and Japanese equities. Here's Hendry ‚Äì first on U.S. equities, then on the dollar: An unresolved but pertinent question is whether this price action might mark the start of the next asset bubble? Consider the plight of a conservative investor: concerned about the risks to the global economy and hence cyclical equities; fearful of financial repression in Treasuries; trapped (possibly unfairly) by the prejudice of the ten-year bear market in US dollars; scared that governments may have to haircut his savings account in the bank; and now terrified by the sudden price collapse in gold. It could be argued that for such an investor all roads lead to the safest, least volatile, most liquid consumer non-discretionary blue chips on Wall Street, which provide a 3% dividend income payable in dollars. The second of our major investment themes is the likely durability of the US economy relative to the rest of the world, and the impact this may have on the US dollar. Unlike the rest of the world, America has dealt with the overhang of bad debts from the housing bubble through a vicious house price correction and resulting bust and the recapitalisation of its banking system. Wages have come down sharply relative to Asia, the shale gas boom means energy is now far cheaper as well, and the resulting lower cost base is allowing the US to reclaim market share within the global economy. As such, US real GDP is 3.3% above the pre-crisis high of Q2 2008, whereas the European economy is still languishing 3.1% below the all-time high recorded in Q1 2008. "Perhaps more¬†interesting was another break from recent tradition, as the US¬†dollar proved less negatively correlated to the performance of¬†the stock market," Hendry continues. "It is early to draw anything firm from this, but¬†the sight of the stock market and the dollar rising in tandem¬†looks more like the regime which accompanied the last two¬†dollar bull markets of 1980-85 and 1995-2001." Click here for the full letter &gt;
ShutterstockHey Apple head honchos, we don't care about smart watches, so don't even bother trying.† Watches have been around for over 500 years, surviving wars and tech revolutions. We may have advanced past the technology of the classic mechanical wrist watch, but we're far from trading our OMEGAs for Apples. It doesn't matter that Google, Apple, and Samsung are all rumored to be patenting smart watches that could theoretically threaten the luxury watch market. Brands like A. Lange &amp; Sˆhne, Piaget, Harry Winston and Rolex all continue to excel† and are showing no signs of slowing down despite the potential added competition of the tech giants.† Watch brands understand, along with watch lovers, that strong sales and consumer demand will continue even if smart watches and new technology flood the watch market.† Here's why the classic wrist watch will never die. The Bond effect Since soldiers were first given "Trench Watches" during WWI, the mechanical wrist watch has evolved into a major luxury market. Big brands like Rolex, Cartier, Harry Winston, and A. Lange &amp; Sˆhne are sought out because of the quality of the product, but also because the brand name has a history which suggests affluence, good taste, and a cultured past. ìRolex in the United States is first and foremost a status symbol. Many people want a Rolex for what it says about them rather than for the product itself,î explained Ariel Adams, Editor-In-Chief of aBlogtoRead.com and WorldWatchReport contributor. "And these people want to buy this status for the cheapest price possible." Apart from history and brand recognition, pop culture is a huge factor in a watch's status. It's not uncommon for major brands to secure celebrity endorsements to attract consumers. OMEGAJames Bond wearing an OMEGA Seamaster watch.For instance, there was a 45% increase in consumer interest on WorldWatchReport for the OMEGA Seamaster collection after the James Bond movie "Skyfall," according to Digital Luxury Group. Men scrambled to buy the watch 007 wore not only because the Seamaster was a high-quality product, but because it symbolized an aspirational lifestyle. "Brands make heavy investments in securing the right 'Brand Ambassadors' and event sponsorship," explained Laetitia Hirschy, a WorldWatchReport Project Manager at Digital Luxury Group. "It's to help ensure a maximum of visibility and aspiration from current and potential consumers who 'look up' to these celebrities and associate them to the watch brand they are wearing." And it's not just Hollywood. Thanks to brand ambassadors like Michael Phelps during the 2012 Olympic Games, watch searches skyrocketed on WorldWatchReport. Replace an iPhone, but not a watch Mechanical watches have remained popular through the digital age because of their craftsmanship and superior quality. "We're all extremely attached to our cameras, our phones, our computers, our iPads, and I think there's something charming about owning something analogue," Stephen Puvirent, associate editor of the online watch publication HODINKEE, told us. "I'm going to replace my iPhone sometime in the next few years. But a really high-quality watch I can wear and enjoy on a daily basis." Sony / Columbia Pictures screencapThe interior of Abraham Lincoln's pocket watch.Watch buyers accept that they're paying tens of thousands of dollars for what went into making their watch because they expect it to last. It takes master watchmakers months and sometimes years to create the elaborate interior mechanisms that make mechanical collectors' watches so special, such as a split-second chronograph (two second hands to time different events) and perpetual calendars (which are designed to display the correct date on any given day in the future). "For our collectors, it's something that they admire as a collectible, they see these pieces as art," A. Lange &amp; Sˆhne PR Manager Alexander Haxton told us.† Because watches are of such high-quality, the market for vintage watches has also remained strong. "These things come to you with a story," Pulvirent said. "You may get a vintage diving watch from the 1970s that was actually on the wrist of a professional diver for 20 years by the time it gets to you. I think in our current society, watches offer a unique opportunity to be a part of an extremely long life span of a beautiful object." Watches span generations Never underestimate the power of history and nostalgia.† Watch brands recognize that even if people aren't necessarily wearing watches to tell time, the watch can still be a symbol of something more personal. "I can give my watch to my children and they can give it to one of their children," Pulvirent said. "It's something that works in perpetuity since watches aren't something that needs to be changed constantly." James BassilVan Cleef & Arpels has made watches since 1906.Because it's so common to pass watches down from generation to generation, brands have integrated this into their marketing: Patek Philippe's motto is, ìYou never actually own a Patek Philippe. You merely take care of it for the next generation.î Haxton explains,†"For the people who are buying our watches, it's a collector's item, something they'll be passing down."† Part of our national social consciousness For some people, wearing a watch is a habit they've retained since they were children with their first Mickey Mouse watch. For others, it's a memory of a special graduation or wedding present. "I don't wear my watch to tell time, I wear it because my wife's father gave it to me as a wedding gift," Business Insider Senior Editor Chris C. Anderson said. "It's my way of showing respect to him. I'm a non-watch person who wears a watch." And despite new technology, the luxury watch industry is still going strong. "I don't think the watch industry is going anywhere," Haxton agreed. "There's a lot of newer technology like Apple's smart watch, and of course, everyone has their cellphones. But people are still appreciating watches and have been for awhile, including the younger generations." The classic wrist watch isn't going anywhere.†
Goldman Sachs' Amanda Schneider recently published a big research note examining the implications of foreign exposure among the S&amp;P 500 companies. One area of interest for investors is certainly stocks exposed to Japan, where policymakers are aggressively devaluing their currency in their efforts to stimulate their economy. "US stocks with high sales exposure to Japan have lagged the broad market YTD and suffered downward revisions to consensus earnings estimates," she wrote.¬† "Bank of Japan policy has weakened the yen, creating headwinds for these companies, but may ultimately stimulate Japanese economic growth." Here's a table from Schneider listing the companies most heavily exposed to Japan (note: this list only includes the companies that disclose their sales exposure to Japan): Goldman Sachs
The commodity massacre continues today, and almost nothing is being spared. The U.S. dollar has been rising steadily since yesterday afternoon, which is probably contributing to the weakness. Below is a quick roundup of the damage. Energy: Metals: Softs:
The break of the JPY100 has unleashed the animal spirits. The US dollar is broadly higher and equity markets are finishing the week on a strong note. Bond yields are mostly higher, led by a sharp 9 bp rise in 10-year JGB yields. Indeed, at almost 69 bp, the benchmark 10-year yield is the highest since late February. There are two fundamental themes. The first is that despite signs of slower US growth here in Q2, the US labor market continues to improve. Weekly initial jobless claims and the smoothed 4-week moving average fell to new cyclical lows. There are several influences on the Us stock market, we find that the weekly jobless claims is among the most important high frequency economic reports that tracks the US S&amp;P 500 very closely. This encouraged more talk that the Fed may taper off its purchases of long-term assets sooner than the market currently anticipates, which is late this year. The second is the news reported in Tokyo, after the JPY100 level broke in North American yesterday, that Japanese investors turned buyers of foreign bonds. This is an important signal for the yen bears. They have been selling yen partly in expectation that that is what Japanese investors will do as they are displaced from the local bond market by the BOJ's qualitative and quantitative easing. However, this has not materialized until now. The MOF reported that Japanese investors bought a total of JPY514 bln of foreign bonds in the two weeks that ended May 3. This seemed to some as confirming the talk of good Japanese participation in the US bond auction this week, including yesterday's 30-year sale. That said, the fact last week was thinned by the Golden Week holiday's we suspect the MOF data is more suggestive than indicative of the initiation of FY13 investment allocation decisions. The roughly $5 bln of foreign bond buying over two weeks is small beer in itself, yet a taste of what may be coming. Yet even that assumes that the backing up of JGB yields, and that fact that the bond markets that can absorb Japanese savings in size, i.e., core G7 bonds, are near record low yields and whose credit quality is questionable (many on credit watch). The Financial Times tells us on the front page that the "yen's move through 100 to the dollar sets the stage for export boon". Though it does not quote anyone saying that, it is the inherited wisdom. Earlier today, Japan reports its March current account figures and the reason the largest surplus is a year was reported did have something to do with a weaker yen, but it was not in the trade account, which remained in deficit.†† It was not about the goods market, but the capital market. Despite the lower foreign yields, the depreciation of the yen, boosts the yen-value of the foreign investment flows. The investment income surplus swell to JPY1.71 trillion from JPY1.41 in Feb and JPY1.50 in March 2012. We would go further, as many observers do when it comes to bank lending, the supply side factors are emphasized over demand. The reason that Japanese exports to Europe have been falling is not so much about price of Japanese goods, but the fact that the economy is contracting. Moreover, for nearly 15 years now, the MOF data shows Japanese companies service foreign demand more by local production and less by exports.† Those Japanese-brand cars driven in Europe and the US are largely made locally, not exported from Japan. Finally, we would note that the price of money changes much faster than the price of goods for various good economic reasons. What this means is that one ought not to expect the 14.4% decline in the yen this year to translate into a 14% decline for the price of Japanese goods. Meanwhile, other macro developments have been overshadowed by the heightened talk of Fed tapering and speculation that Japanese savings are about to be exported. There were other developments seem noteworthy. First, following up this week's meeting, the RBA has lowered its inflation outlook and restated that its expects the economy to grow below trend this year.† This shows the there is scope to cut rates further, though we suspect June is too soon. While several banks have passed on the full 25 bp rate to their mortgage rates, one large bank reportedly passed on 27 bp rather than 25. While this seems to have helped weigh on the Australian dollar (approached the $1.00 level, it seems like a little bit of catch-up after not having fully passed on earlier cuts. Second, the UK reported a GBP9.1 bln March merchandise trade deficit. It was largely in line with expectations. There was improvement in the non-EU trade deficit. It fell to GBP3.5 bln from GBP4.2 bln. Export volumes picked up 5%, after falling 1.4% in Feb. Import volumes rose 3.6% after a 0.4% gain in Feb. Sterling was turned back again from the $1.56 area and has now been pushed below $1.54. Sterling is trading below its 20-day moving average for the first time in a couple of weeks. A close below it (~$1.5410), would add to the souring technical tone and signal a test on the $1.5200 area. Third, Italy reported a horrific industrial production report. The 0.8% decline was four times greater than the consensus expected. The intractable political problem has been addressed, at least for the near-to-medium term, but the economic problem remains as powerful as ever. The EC expects the Italian economy to contract 1.3% this year. The OECD says 1.5% and Fitch says 1.8%. We are concerned that even Fitch is erring on the side of optimism. † Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
PIMCO bond investing legend Bill Gross has called the end of the 30-year secular bull market in bonds in a tweet this morning. Gross: The secular 30-yr bull market in bonds likely ended 4/29/2013. PIMCO can help you navigate a likely lower return 2 - 3% future. The chart below is a look at the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield over the past five years. The small back-up in interest rates since April 29 is highlighted on the far right. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The next chart is a zoomed-out look at the 30-year secular bond bull market. The little blip hasn't even shown up on that chart yet. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg In April, PIMCO boosted its holdings of Treasuries to the highest levels in over a year, and Gross said in his May investment letter that Treasuries "are¬†better than the alternative (cash) as long as central banks and dollar reserve countries (China, Japan) continue to participate."
MGMBofA Merrill Lynch equity strategist Michael Hartnett is out with a new note sporting the title "Raging Bull." The lead: "The risk of a melt-up in stocks is high and rising. Positioning, price-action, policy and a range-bound economy can conspire to cause an overshoot." Hartnett points out that "in í09, í10, í11 and í12 there were 9 corrections of +10% in global equity markets," whereas in 2013, there has been no broad correction yet. And while equity returns have been trouncing bond returns over the past few years, "investors remain structurally overweight bonds and underweight equities." This, says Hartnett, "is putting mounting pressure on asset allocators." At the same time, the defensives that have been leading the market rally since November are now starting to underperform versus cyclical names, "suggesting laggards are beginning to be chased by investors." Hartnett has some thoughts on how to position and what to watch for going forward: What to do?†Intra-market breadth is deteriorating, suggesting fewer and fewer stocks are actually contributing to the current rally in global equities (Chart 3). We therefore favor buying calls to position for further upside. With regards to regions and sectors, we have been long US banks, Japan, and EU best of breed, but recognize that unloved China, EU banks and BRIC resources are the more obvious catch-up trades right now. Note that VWO (EM) has outperformed SPY (US) by 253bp since April 15th. We would rent, rather than own these trades. What to watch for a top?†A move in stocks that causes jawboning from Fed. Big upward moves in laggard sectors. Sentiment signals from cash levels (May FMS released next Tuesday) and flows suggesting capitulation (right now our Bull &amp; Bear Index has fallen to 2013 lows). The most likely catalyst to provoke volatility and setbacks to risk assets is hot or frigid data that says the economy is breaking out of its range.† The chart below shows investor positioning in various asset classes relative to history based on results from BAML's global fund manager survey. BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager SurveyClick to enlarge
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonActivist investor Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, made a bullish case for Procter &amp; Gamble at the Sohn Investment Conference this week.† Ackman, whose fund owns more than 27.9 million shares of P&amp;G, called it "one of the great businesses of the world."† Basically, Ackman believes the company is under-earning relative to its intrinsic earnings power. He sees the company's earnings per share growing from $4 to $6. If the company is able to reach this earnings potential of $6 per share, Ackman also†sees the company being able to achieve an intrinsic value of $125 per share in approximately two years.†P&amp;G's stock was last trading above $78.59 per share. In his presentation, Ackman also called out P&amp;G's CEO Bob McDonald for being involved on the boards of 21 other organizations outside of the company. † We've included his presentation in the slides that follow. †Please note, these slides will expire in four weeks of this publication.†
Nanex LLC founder Eric Hunsader presented on High Frequency trading at Wired's Business Conference, and he showed this powerful video of half a second of trading in Johnson &amp; Johnson (h/t HuffPo). We've written about Nanex's powerful technology before, but this is just amazing. The research firm slows down trading by thousandths of a second so you can see how fast and furious these orders are going out. As Hunsader has pointed out time and time again, a lot of these orders will never get filled and were never intended to be. "It's all about gaming the system, gaming networking, knowing how things break," said Hunsader at the conference. It has nothing to do with price or economics. This happens 90,000-100,000 times a day too. So we either enforce the regulation that exists to stop this (it's called Reg NMS and dates back to 2007) or we accept this as our brave new world. Here's the video, and you can check out a video of Hunsader's entire presentation (it's only about 15 minutes) below that.  And Hunsader's full lecture for Wired:  Nanex CEO Eric Hunsader: Flash Trading Detective Work from  WIRED on FORA.tv
Shares of electric car-maker Tesla are soaring again, up 13% this morning. Since it closed at $55.79 on Wednesday, the stock is up over 41%. This comes after stronger-than-expected earnings, robust guidance, and Consumer Reports' highest-ever rating for a car. Here's the 3-day chart from Google Finance: Google Finance
A group of nine student journalists from the Medill National Security Journalism Initiative have created a website as part of a project to report on the US energy security situation. An incredibly interesting article on the site, and written by Dana Ballout, looks at how oil travels around the world on the seas, and where the vulnerable choke points are. Oilprice.comSource: U.S. Energy Information AdministrationThe Strait of Hormuz is the busiest passageway for oil tankers in the world, with over 17 million barrels (or 20% of the total world supply) moving through the narrow stretch of water each day. Disruption to this flow could severely damage global oil markets and so protecting the straits is an important job; and one of the most critical that the US Navy carries out.Related articles: OPEC Falling Apart at the SeamsRoger Stern, a professor at the University of Tulsa National Energy Policy Institute, wrote a study in 2010 in which he estimated that the US had spent $8 trillion on protecting oil cargoes in the Persian Gulf since 1976, when its military presence in the region was boosted following the first Arab oil embargo. This is all despite the fact that only 10% of the oil passing through the straits is actually destined for the US.Stern explained the true meaning behind the US‚Äôs reasons for heading to the Gulf en masse in an interview: ‚ÄúThe fear grew out of a belief not just in a global peak oil, but a strong CIA conviction, that was shared by the National Security Council, that the Soviets were running out of oil, that their production was going to tank in just a few years and the Soviets had no choice but to march to the Persian gulf to get oil, so that was the rationale for the idea that a force was needed.‚ÄùI recommend the full article on Oil Change for interesting read and further breakdown on other choke points around the world.By. James Burgess of Oilprice.com Read more... Read more posts on OilPrice.com ¬ª
trendwatching.comLast week, electronic car maker Tesla announced a bunch of changes to its service and warranty policy that will make it easier for customers to take care of their Model S cars. Since then, the stock is up 5.73%, and it's at new 52-week highs. This is a headache for a ton of people on Wall Street as Tesla is a really popular short. And as the bears are heading into their caves, the bulls are coming out to explain their side of the story. Investment firm Longboard Asset Management kindly sent us their long thesis on Tesla. They believe the stock will go to $200/share in 5 years (it's currently just below $55), that the shorts are going to get clobbered, and that the brand has the power to be the next Apple. It's a bold call. See if you buy it.
Alternatively, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his dovish allies on the FOMC might respond to their critics by raising stock market margin requirements. During March, margin debt soared to $380 billion, up 28% y/y, matching the previous record high during July 2007. The margin requirement has been flat at 50% since January 1974. Soaring margin debt certainly supports the charge that the Fed is once again inflating asset bubbles. However, valuation multiples arenít flashing irrational exuberance yet, but that could change quickly in a debt-financed melt-up of stock prices. †Dr. Ed's Blog Wednesday Morning Briefing: Exuberance. (1) Within shouting distance of 1665. (2) A short history of the bullís P/E. (3) Taking Greece out of the P/E. (4) Probability-weighted math yields 1695 target for S&amp;P 500. (5) Weighing the odds of a melt-up followed by a meltdown. (6) If stock prices soar, Fed will have to do something. (7) Phase out QE or raise margin requirements? (8) Throwing a wet towel on the bull. (9) Will someone please hit the pause button? (10) Good news out of Germany and China bolster outlook for slow, but steady global growth. (11) Copper starting to shine again? (More for subscribers.)
NY Magazine's Kevin Roose has an informative piece out this morning on Anthony Scaramucci's tips for shmoozing. The hedge fund manager is legendary on The Street for making friends and keeping them. That is what has made his SALT conference, now taking place in Las Vegas, so popular with world leaders, Hollywood types ("The Mooch" will be seated next to Oliver Stone at dinner), and money managers of all stripes. Roose got to the bottom of how Scaramucci does it (for more on that, click here), but we especially loved one of his points. Mooch said that to make people love you, you have to give up being snarky all the time and used his well-known frenemy Reuters journalist Felix Salmon as an example. From NY Mag: "The problem is," Scaramucci says, "snarky gets readership, but it closes your circle of accessibility. Like, Felix Salmon, he gets readership. But he's universally hated. I think even his wife hates him. If you're not snarky, you get a wide circle of accessibility." That, ladies and gentlemen, is a burn. One that could not go unnoticed by Felix's wife. From Felix's Twitter feed: Twitter We imagine that Mooch was just employing his famous sense of humor. But yeah... there's that.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderFROM LEFT: Vivian Giang, Michael Kelley, Dina Spector, Will Wei, Samantha Cortez, and Ashley Lutz.When Business Insider began searching for a new World Headquarters in New York's Flatiron district a few years ago, I was worried that this was the beginning of the end for the company. After all, the "New Global Headquarters" curse is notorious in the tech industry: When your favorite hyper-growth company announces that it's developing a massive new corporate campus (e.g., Apple), it's often time to run for the hills. Also, I was scarred by the memory of several high-profile companies in the dotcom era that were ultimately bankrupted by their aggressive real-estate bets. Inktomi, The Industry Standard, and others were dragged down in part by massive long-term leases that cost hundreds of millions of dollars to get out of. So, at Business Insider, we went the conservative route, getting a relatively short sub-lease on a great space on 20th Street. Even this seemed like a big bet: When we moved in, there was oceans of space--so much that it was hard to imagine that we would ever fill it up, let alone need more of it. And yet, a couple of years later, thanks to the dedication of our readers, clients, and team, we're bursting at the seams. Happily, this is what is known as "a high-quality problem," and we have a couple of options we're looking at. One of them is adding a small, temporary expansion office. And that's where we could really use your help. If you know of a company that has, say, 8,000 square feet of space that they would like to sub-lease to us for a year, we'd be grateful for the referral. ¬† Ideally, this space would be in the Flatiron District, but we're not picky. Thanks in advance for the help! NOTE TO COMMERCIAL REAL-ESTATE PROFESSIONALS: We're already working with a firm, so there's no need to reach out to us unless you know of something specific. If you do, please drop an email to our president, Julie Hansen (jhansen@businessinsider.com). Thank you.
The stock market is not the economy.¬† This is a point that can't be reiterated enough. There are many reasons that explain why the stock market has been ripping higher as the economy just drags along. The most significant reason is surely the global nature of the businesses that compose the stock market. In a new report, Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider takes a close look at the geographic exposures of the S&amp;P 500. Here's a regional breakdown: Goldman Sachs
For instance, take last Fridayís payroll employment report for April, which touched off a euphoric rise in stocks.†† While that was a positive surprise over the expected rise of†140,000 jobs, the reported†increase of 165,000 for the month was nothing to write home about. It was well below the 1st quarter average of 206,000 per month as well as the 4th quarter average of 209,000.† If anything, it looks as if employment increases are decelerating, certainly not a reason for celebration. Another example was the headline following the recent annual Berkshire-Hathaway gathering, stating ìBuffett says stocks will go a lot higherî.† While the quote is accurate as far as it goes, it was made in the context of an interview with CNBCís Becky Quick, in which he actually said, ìstocks will go a lot higher in YOUR (caps are ours) lifetime.î† Becky Quick is 41, and, according to the life expectancy tables, can expect, on average, to live to 82, which will be in 2054.† So stocks will be a lot higher in 2054.† Well, yes, but is that worthy of a headline? In addition to the mediocre employment report there was a lot of other evidence that an already lackluster economy was slowing down further as we headed into the spring.† The ISM manufacturing index fell for two consecutive months to its lowest level since December.† The ISM non-manufacturing index also declined for two straight months and is now below its 1st quarter average.† April vehicle sales slipped to under 15 million units for the first time since October.† First quarter GDP grew at a disappointing 2.5% following only 0.3% in the prior quarter.† Average GDP growth for the last four quarters has averaged only 1.8%.† Real consumer spending has increased only 2% over the past year, and this was accomplished on an exceedingly weak 0.9% rise in real disposable income over the period.† Only a sharp drop in the savings rate enabled consumers to reach even that disappointing level. In addition, March core capital goods orders were up only 0.2% following a 4.8% decline in February.† The year-over-year gain was 0.3%.† The NAHB housing market index dropped for the third straight month to its lowest level since October.† While housing starts were up 7%, more than the entire gain was accounted for by multi-family units as single family starts were down for the second time in three months.† The NFIB Small Business Index declined in March, and is only two points above its lowest level for the past year and three points lower than a year earlier.† Although March industrial production increased 0.4%, it was almost all accounted for by 5.3% rise in utility production, while the manufacturing sector fell 0.1%. As for foreign economies, the IMF once again reduced its 2013 global and EU growth forecasts and China reported disappointing results for 1st quarter GDP and exports.† This has resulted in a significant drop in commodity prices that is having adverse effects on a number of commodity-oriented emerging and advanced economies. Although the Fed, so far, has been able to lift stock prices, it has failed to elevate the economy to a point where growth is self-sustaining despite over four years of extremely easy monetary policy.† The headwinds from fiscal policy will actually intensify in the months ahead while Washington shows few signs of alleviating the dysfunction that has plagued Congress for the last few years.† Furthermore, the S&amp;P 500 is now selling at 20 times cyclically-smoothed trailing GAAP earnings, at the very high end of the zone that was considered normal prior to the serial bubbles of the last decade and a half.
Business InsiderBloomberg, founded by Mayor Michael Bloomberg, brings in about $6 billion in annual revenue.Goldman Sachs recently confronted Bloomberg LP after learning that reporters for¬†the business news service¬†have been using the company‚Äôs terminals to monitor employees of the Wall Street bank, Mark Decambre of¬†The New York Post reports. Specifically, Goldman officials learned that Bloomberg staffers could determine not only which of its employees had logged into Bloomberg‚Äôs proprietary terminals but also how many times they had used particular functions, sources told The Post.¬† Form The Post: In one instance, a Bloomberg reporter asked a Goldman executive if a partner at the bank had recently left the firm ‚Äî noting casually that he hadn‚Äôt logged into his Bloomberg terminal in some time, sources added. Wall Street firms pay about $20,000 a year to rent each terminal, which provides reams of real-time data about everything from financial transactions to sports to hard news. Tracy Alloway¬†of The Financial Times has a bit more detail on the functions of the terminal used for snooping. A Bloomberg spokesman said that¬†it immediately "decided to disable journalist access to this customer relationship information for all clients." Any company that provides an internet service like Bloomberg is going to have reams of data on the activities of clients. But letting journalists (or anyone else) have access to that for their work is a great way to freak out your clients, and make them skeptical about handing over so much money every year. We can only imagine that the bosses on the terminal side of the business are furious at the use of this data by journalists. Check out the full story at The Post &gt;
Evercore chairman Roger Altman was on CNBC this morning arguing that austerity in Europe was not a "choice" but rather something that was forced onto countries by raging credit markets that were rebelling against high debt loads. This is incorrect, and provably so. Here's a chart going back 3 years of Italian borrowing costs (the yield on the 10-year Italian bond). Bloomberg There were two big peaks in the country's borrowing costs. The first was in late 2011, and the second was in summer 2012. Something important happened at both of those peaks: The European Central Bank stepped up and began to backstop the entire Eurozone financial system. First, in late 2011, the ECB announced its 3-year LTRO program, which was a scheme that let banks pledge all sorts of collateral in exchange for cheap liquidity. These massively eased strains on the banks. Borrowing costs then fell sharply. Then in mid-2012, Mario Draghi announced the OMT program, which is a promise to backstop government bond markets in exchange for outside budget oversight. Borrowing costs fell sharply again, and now Italian borrowing is at record lows. So we can trace the two peaks of Eurozone debt stress directly to two times the ECB intervened. Austerity has had nothing to do with the improvement in borrowing costs. This point can further be proven by making two additional observations. Italy replaced its Prime Minister in late 2011, booting out Berlusconi and introducing the reformist Mario Monti, who had the political clout to introduce austerity. But obviously that swap did nothing, as borrowing costs surged through the summer of 2012, before the ECB intervened in 2012. And then furthermore, there's been a big backlash lately against austerity (in France, in Italy, etc.) and the markets haven't moved at all, and the reason for this is because the ECB is there, ready to stand backstopping governments. So this is not about markets. This is about ECB actions. When the ECB stepped up and performed the role of other big central banks (Bank of England, the Fed, Bank of Japan) and started backstopping the system, the debt crisis went away. Cutting spending had nothing to do with it.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
BloombergHere are four quick points from UBS economist Paul Donovan to start your Friday (verbatim from UBS.com):
Everyone's just watching, fascinated, as the yen just keeps diving. Yesterday USDJPY (the dollar vs. the yen) broke through 100 for the first time in years, and now it's already pushing 102. FinViz
Gold is back to doing that thing where it goes lower. After a strong couple of weeks, it's looking sick again, and it just dived. Kitco.com
catherine Hyland / VimeoMuch has been made of Chinese ghost towns.† Amid these ghost towns, one of the more remarkable stories has been that of China's 'Wonderland'. This was a Disneyland styled amusement park that was being developed just outside of Beijing years ago. At time it was being touted as the largest amusement park in all of Asia. Construction was abandoned in 1998 after a dispute over land prices. Workers have now however begun to demolish the abandoned buildings.† Local media suggest that the space will eventually make way for a shopping center. We drew on photos from Reuters' David Gray to give you a tour of the abandoned project that has seen farmers return to the land. We also drew on a video posted at io9 for the photo tour. Note: Reporter Andrew Shen helped with this feature.
Hereís some interesting commentary on the state of the high yield bond market (which, as FT Alphaville says, might not be appropriately named given its actual low yields). †Moodyís shows the divergence between corporate revenues and spreads: ìOur preferred measure of core business sales <U+2015>which equals the sales of retailers, manufacturers and wholesalers less sales of identifiable energy products <U+2015>rose by merely 3.0% yearly in Q1-2013, which was down from Q4-2012ís 3.5% and Q1-2012ís 6.2%. The yearly increase previously ebbed to 3.0% in Q2-2008, Q4-2000, and Q3-1998, where each earlier†deceleration was associated with a high yield bond spread significantly above its latest 410 bp. Thus, if†expenditures do not quicken, what is now the narrowest high yield bond spread since October 16, 2007 could widen substantially. (Figure 2.) The lackluster state of the world economy has curbed the growth of business sales. The US high yield bond†spread has shown a strong inverse correlation with the JPMorgan/Markit global composite PMI index of world economic activity. Ordinarily, the high yield bond spread widens as the global composite PMI falls. Nevertheless, despite how April 2013ís global composite PMI of 51.9 is well under its long-term median of†54.6, May 7ís high yield bond spread of 411 bp was well under its comparably measured median of 583 bp.†Moreover, the statistical record suggests that the high yield spread ought to be closer to 700 bp, as opposed to approaching 400 bp. In fact, when the high yield spread last narrowed to 411 bp in December 2003, the global composite PMI approximated 60.0.î Moody's Their conclusion ñ high yield bonds might actually be susceptible to reflecting the name that they less commonly referred to as ñ junk bonds: ìUntil the global composite PMI posts significantly stronger readings, the high yield bond spread is vulnerable to a pronounced re-widening.î Source: Moodys Research
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThis week, we just got through hearing from a bunch of hedge fund managers about how wildly distorted all of the markets were these days because of the Federal Reserve's Quantitative Easing. Numerous veteran investors are telling people that they'd be "insane" to buy long term bonds with such ultra-low yields. Meanwhile, stocks are hitting new highs, so the people who cry "bubble" are out in full force. In his NYT column today, Paul Krugman takes on the bubble-callers, and says there's no evidence of a bubble in either stocks or bonds. First on bonds, he notes that long-term interest rates are primarily a function of the expected path of short-term interest rates. Since inflation is very low by historical standards, and unemployment is still elevated, it makes a lot of sense to presume that the Fed will not be raising rates for a very long time still. Sure they might end QE before too long, but a rate hike is far off in the future. And a substantial rate hike is very far off. Quite simply, bonds look totally reasonably priced given basic assumptions. As for stocks, there's not much to see here either. Says Krugman: O.K., what about stocks? Major stock indexes are now higher than they were at the end of the 1990s, which can sound ominous. It sounds a lot less ominous, however, when you learn that corporate profits ‚Äî which are, after all, what stocks are shares in ‚Äî are more than two-and-a-half times higher than they were when the 1990s bubble burst. Also, with bond yields so low, you would expect investors to move into stocks, driving their prices higher. A lot of this is political, or at least ideological. The big hedge fund managers talking about distorted markets are unhappy about Bernanke and the various efforts to revive the economy, a phenomenon we discussed here. This leads them to make a lot of silly calls about how distorted everything is, when in reality there just isn't any evidence for that.
We've been posting this chart for ages, and been marveling forever at how beautiful it is, and it just never ceases to amaze us. The relationship between initial jobless claims (red line) and the S&amp;P 500 (blue line) has held remarkably strong for years now. Initial jobless claims hit a brand new post-crisis low yesterday, and of course, the S&amp;P 500 is making brand new highs. Showing this chart is the perfect counterpoint to anyone saying that this is all a "Fed-driven" market and that there's no real-economy improvement to back it up. FRED
Somewhat embattled JPM CEO Jamie Dimon is getting some support from high places. JPMorgan would be up a creek without Jamie Dimon as Chairman. One of the smartest, toughest guys around. Didn't bend when times got hard. Jamie Dimon results through crisis and beyond have earned him right to hold both Chairman and CEO titles...Great Leader!!
Bloomberg TVNEW YORK, May 9 (Reuters) - PIMCO Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund, increased its U.S. Treasuries holdings to the highest in over a year in April, data from the firm's website showed on Thursday. The fund, which has roughly $292.9 billion in assets and is run by Bill Gross, increased its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities to 39 percent in April, up from 33 percent in March. Treasuries "are better than the alternative (cash) as long as central banks and dollar reserve countries (China, Japan) continue to participate," Gross said in his May investment letter to clients. Gross, a founder and co-chief investment officer of PIMCO, said in the letter entitled "There Will Be Haircuts," that while Treasuries are a better alternative than cash, they still face a loss of at least 2 percentage points in the interest payouts after accounting for inflation. Pacific Investment Management Co., a unit of European financial services company Allianz SE, had $2.04 trillion in assets under management at the end of March, according to the firm's website. Gross, who has criticized the efficacy of global monetary stimulus in past letters, cited the U.S. Federal Reserve's zero-interest rate policy and monthly bond purchases of $85 billion as a cause of the reduction on Treasury returns. The Fed has pledged to keep interest rates between zero and 0.25 percent at least until unemployment hits 6.5 percent, and provided inflation stays under 2.5 percent. The fund also showed an increase in mortgage holdings, to 34 percent in April from 33 percent, but decreased its holdings of investment-grade credit to 7 percent in April from 9 percent. The PIMCO Total Return Fund attracted inflows of about $516 million in April, down from inflows of $723.4 million in March, according to Morningstar. The fund, which is the flagship of Newport Beach, California-based PIMCO, slightly increased its holdings of emerging market securities to 8 percent in April from 7 percent in March. The fund also showed a decrease in its holdings of debt issued in developed markets outside the United States, to 10 percent from 11 percent in March. Some investors have warned that high prices and low interest rates on bonds, mainly in response to the Fed's monthly bond purchases, have led to much greater risk of losses in bonds. Still, major bond firms such as PIMCO and Loomis Sayles have continued to see inflows to their main bond funds. PIMCO said on its website that the fund's holdings of U.S. Treasury debt includes Treasury notes, bonds, futures and inflation-protected securities. The PIMCO Total Return Fund's move into Treasury securities comes as the fund's cash equivalents and money-market securities fell to negative 8 percent in April, from negative 3 percent in March. In having a so-called negative position in cash equivalents and money-market securities, it is an indication of using derivatives and short-term securities as collateral to boost the fund's buying power with leverage. The fund's holdings of high-yield "junk" bonds, municipal debt, government-guaranteed agency securities, U.S. dollar-denominated interest rate swaps and rate-related derivatives, and "other" forms of credit were unchanged in April. High-yield "junk" bond holdings remained at 3 percent, municipal debt at 5 percent, government-guaranteed agency securities at 4 percent, swaps and rate-related derivatives at negative 3 percent and "other" forms of credit at 1 percent of the fund's portfolio. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Flickr/jacilluchIt's green all around. Markets are gaining everywhere after Japan had yet another huge day. The Nikkei gain 2.9%. Meanwhile, in the last day, the USDJPY not only broke through 100, it also broke through 101, as aggressive fiscal and monetary easing is causing the yen to fall. China gained 0.6%. US futures are modestly higher, while European markets are gaining. Italy is up 1.3%. Germany is up 0.88%. This has been a very quiet week with virtually no economic data. But the story is gains across the board.
