Once the preserve of cyber geeks or of dodgy traders, the virtual currency bitcoin can now not only be used to buy goods online but also pay for a degree at the University of Nicosia. Yet the newfound popularity of the currency, which was worth almost nothing until April 2011 and which now trades at around $1,000, may well prove its undoing. Market watchers and regulators are at odds over how the bitcoin should be handled, but as the currency gains prominence, voices warning against its use are getting louder. France's central bank has slapped it down as "highly speculative" while China's said it should not be used as a currency and banned its banks from providing services and products related to bitcoin. The European Union's banking watchdog also issued a warning to the digital currency's users, telling them: "You should be fully aware and understand their specific characteristics". Although Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke said such virtual currencies "hold long-term promise", his predecessor Alan Greenspan was unable to give an intrinsic value to the currency. Launched in 2009 as the invention of a mysterious computer guru who goes by the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto, bitcoins are created through a complex mathematical formula. Unlike hard currencies, it is neither backed up by a country's economic activity nor issued by a national authority. Bitcoin's official website said "all that is required for a form of money to hold value is trust and adoption". "In the case of Bitcoin, this can be measured by its growing base of users, merchants, and startups. As with all currency, bitcoin's value comes only and directly from people willing to accept them as payment," it said. With about 12 million bitcoins in circulation at the moment, total market capitalisation stands at about $10.57 billion. The formula used to create it limits its circulation at 21 million bitcoins. Germany decided to legalise it as a currency, so as to be able to tax it, while the Bank of America's Merrill Lynch unit touted it as a significant tool for e-commerce. After all, the digital currency can be transferred directly between smartphones or any other type of computers. However, this also raises concerns that it would be used for criminal or terrorist activities. 'Highly speculative' currency poses 'certain financial risk' In September, the currency came under the spotlight after US authorities shut down a website called Silk Road where illegal drugs and other illicit goods were being traded using bitcoins. Some $3.6 million worth of bitcoins were seized then. But the negative publicity also brought the currency to the attention of the real world. Individual investors got interested, hooked by examples such as that of a Norwegian young man, who purchased $24 worth of bitcoins four years ago only to realise that they are now worth the equivalent of $690,000. China became the biggest market for the currency as investors are attracted to it over the soaring value. But the Chinese central bank has moved to clamp down on it, issuing a stark warning and imposing restrictions on how they are traded in the country. "Bitcoin is a certain virtual commodity, does not possess the same legal status as currency and cannot and should not be circulated and used in the market as such," the People's Bank of China (central bank) said in a statement issued jointly with other financial regulators. Chinese banks and other financial organisations are banned from providing bitcoin-related services and products, it said. It called for enhanced control of online trading platforms for bitcoins to defend against the possibility of money-laundering, and pointed out investment risks faced by the public. The Bank of France also underlined the same risks, cautioning that the "highly speculative" currency poses a "certain financial risk" to users. "Even if the high volatility of the bitcoin is of possible interest for individual or professional speculators, they should be aware of the risks they are taking," the bank said. Further, the convertibility of bitcoin is not ensured and an investor could be unable to regain his investment, it warned. The central bank noted that if a currency is to be used as a mode of payment, it should meet rules against money laundering, and the its security platform should be monitored by the Bank of France. Nevertheless, the bank has no oversight of bitcoin, and urged instead for action to prevent the virtual currency from being used in illegal transactions. It also pointed out that the security of the virtual treasuries for the currency was not guaranteed by any authority. Last Wednesday, a Danish company specialising in bitcoin payments acknowledged that hackers had made away with 1,295 bitcoins worth about a million dollars. And Chinese clients of a Hong Kong-based electronic platform lost the equivalent of 2.43 million euros in bitcoins, when the firm suddenly ceased trading. Nevertheless, the head of BTCChina, the country's biggest Bitcoin trading platform, said the e-money offers a new investment option for the Chinese -- a nation of savers. Bitcoin is "a global asset class" equal to common investment choices including gold, shares and real estate, Bobby Lee said. "Bitcoin will go mainstream, I have full confidence. We hope to push this forward in China." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWarren Buffett recently met with a group of MBA students. A student asked him what shaped his political views (Buffett is a Democrat). The famous investor offered a great thought experiment, which helped him think through the kind of world he wants to live in. In it he characterizes something he calls the "Ovarian Lottery": My political views were formed by this process.† Just imagine that it is 24 hours before you are born. A genie comes and says to you in the womb, ìYou look like an extraordinarily responsible, intelligent, potential human being. [You're] going to emerge in 24 hours and it is an enormous responsibility I am going to assign to you ó determination of the political, economic and social system into which you are going to emerge. You set the rules, any political system, democracy, parliamentary, anything you wish ó you can set the economic structure, communistic, capitalistic, set anything in motion and I guarantee you that when you emerge this world will exist for you, your children and grandchildren.  Whatís the catch? One catch ó just before you emerge you have to go through a huge bucket with 7 billion slips, one for each human. Dip your hand in and that is what you get ó you could be born intelligent or not intelligent, born healthy or disabled, born black or white, born in the US or in Bangladesh, etc. You have no idea which slip you will get. Not knowing which slip you are going to get, how would you design the world? Do you want men to push around females? Itís a 50/50 chance you get female. If you think about the political world, you want a system that gets what people want. You want more and more output because youíll have more wealth to share around.  The US is a great system, turns out $50,000 GDP per capita, 6 times the amount when I was born in just one lifetime. But not knowing what slip you get, you want a system that once it produces output, you donít want anyone to be left behind. You want to incentivize the top performers, donít want equality in results, but do want something that those who get the bad tickets still have a decent life. You also donít want fear in peopleís minds ó fear of lack of money in old age, fear of cost of health care.† I call this the ìOvarian Lottery.î  My sisters didnít get the same ticket. Expectations for them were that they would marry well, or if they work, would work as a nurse, teacher, etc. If you are designing the world knowing 50/50 male or female, you donít want this type of world for women ó you could get female. Design your world this way; this should be your philosophy. I look at Forbes 400, look at their figures and see how itís gone up in the last 30 years. Americans at the bottom are also improving, and that is great, but we donít want that degree of inequality. Only governments can correct that. Right way to look at it is the standpoint of how you would view the world if you didnít know who you would be. If youíre not willing to gamble with your slip out of 100 random slips, you are lucky! The top 1% of 7 billion people. Everyone is wired differently. You canít say you do everything yourself. We all have teachers, and people before us who led us to where we are. We canít let people fall too far behind. You all definitely got good slips. Even if you don't buy Buffett's idea that only government can alleviate certain forms of inequality, one thing that's great about Buffett is his appreciation of luck, and the realization that he won a lottery ticket by dint of his birth. So many of our elites can't stop talking about how hard they worked, or the importance of taking risk and all that. Buffett readily acknowledges that he had incredible fortune from the moment he was born. At the same event, Warren Buffett also explained why he thought George W. Bush uttered the greatest economic statement of all time.
Doug KlineMexico's Congress has just†approved†a major energy reform bill that opens up the country's oil and gas sector to outside investment. † It's getting a lot of press because it transforms a policy that's been in place for 75 years, during which time the state enjoyed a monopoly on all energy revenues, produced through a company called Pemex. † The question is, what will this actually accomplish? And the answer seems to be that while this was a necessary step to modernizing the country's energy sector, there's uncertainty about what kind of an impact it will have. Barclays has been most bullish on the initiative. In an August note, the firm's oil services research team said the initiative could boost Mexico's economy by more than 1.5%. They're also inclined to take Mexican President Enrique PeÒa Nieto†at his word that production could climb to 3 million barrels a day by 2018 and 3.5 mbd by 2025, from about 2.5 mbd currently.†That would put Mexico on par with Iran as the world's sixth-largest producer, and put a statistically significant dent in oil prices.† But other analysts are being far more cautious. "Mexico energy reforms could unlock near term and long-term supply," Citi's commodities team, led by Ed Morse, said in a recent note, and they characterize its potential as one that "could surprise." A lot needs to go right for that potential to be realized. Deepwater production could get up and running quicker than expected "if Mexican energy reforms proceed smoothly and [fields] can be tied back to nearby US subsea lines through Pemex partnerships with [independent oil companies]." Morse recently told the FT's Jude Webber†that†it is premature to quantify what that surprise could look like.† The biggest problem is that no one knows how much oil and gas Mexico is sitting on.†According to the EIA, Mexico has 10.4 billion barrels of proved oil reserves. The next closest is Algeria at 12 billion barrels. The U.S. now†has at least 30.† But Pemex (per Reuters) says more than 3/4ths of Mexico's oil and gas resources are made up of prospective, or unproved, oil and gas deposits ó about 100 billion barrels worth. (The U.S. has more than 200 billion). In large part as a result of the absence of outside investment, Mexico has lacked the ability to explore those areas further. Instead, according to AllianceBernstein, it's found itself largely confined to a few highly productive fields, like the Cantarell in the Gulf of Mexico (just above Mexico's "elbow"), which at peak production in 2004 comprised 50% of the country's oil production. Since then,†Cantarell production has declined 80%, and the country's overall production has fallen 24%, according to AllainceBernstein.† All that's to say reform was sorely needed. But even though it's now going to happen, questions remain. For its part,†Bernstein sees†three hangups that could curb the reform's impact. First, oil majors are sort of strapped for cash these days, and can only go after so many plays at one time.†Here's the chart ó capex has slowed significantly: Scott Gruber/AllianceBernstein The best hope may be from the Chinese ó but that would come with its own problems as they lack the technical expertise enjoyed by Americans in exploiting deepwater and shale. Deepwater development is also much more difficult than landed plays ó and part of the reform is designed to attract investment into offshore development. Meanwhile,†The U.S. boom is so massive that there's no way Mexico can overcome American cost advantages, Bernstein says: "According to the EIA, the initial shale wells drilled by Pemex have run $20-25 mm†each, or ~4x the cost of a US shale well. Thus for years to come, it will remain cheaper for Pemex to simply increase gas imports from the US rather than develop domestic shale gas."† Finally, there's still an outside chance the reform could get scuttled. Since the bill actually took the form of a constitutional amendment, it must now be approved by Mexico's individual states. And the bill continues to face fierce criticism ó it was passed over cries of "traitors" from protesters who'd occupied the Mexico's Congress ó and a movement has developed to hold a referendum on it in 2015, though such an initiative would have to be approved by Mexico's supreme court. Barclays says oil service firms like Halliburton and Baker Hughes are best positioned to take advantage of the reform, whatever its impact. In a recent presentation, Derek Mathieson, Baker Hughes' VP for strategy and corporate development, said, "We have some really exciting opportunities in Mexico which comes with a little challenge as well but in Mexico it looks like itís going to be a pretty interesting story as it holds the next year or so." But the oil majors are being more circumspect. According to Reuters, William Colton, Exxon's VP for strategy and corporate development, told reporters limited his reaction to saying the initiative "would be very good for the people of†Mexico." And Tim Cutt, BHP Billiton's oil division head said he would have to wait and see how the reforms unfold before judging what their ultimate impact will be. Asked whether the gains seen in Texas' Eagle Ford shale play could be extended south of the border, Cutt said there was a "decent extrapolation."† Bottom line: this is a big deal for Mexico, but the rest of the world should be a bit cautious about the reform's broader impact.
Marc To Market Auto sales have been an important driver of the US economic expansion. †They have been aided by the steadily improving labor market, the wealth effect generated by higher income and rising asset prices, and by the re-opening of the asset-backed securities market, which allows the auto lenders to package and sell off the loans.† In some respects, it is the old originate and distribute model that was so ruinous for the housing sector. †It is different for the auto sector because the underling is a depreciating asset. †It seems particularly difficult to ignite a speculative bubble in new cars as they loose value simply driving them off the car lot.† This Great Graphic was posted on Bloomberg by Keith Naughton, who got the data from Autodata Corp.†††It shows the rise of sales by GM, Ford and Chrysler this year and the gain in market share over other producers, including the Japanese brands, despite the depreciation of the yen. †It is important to recognize that the decline of the yen is less significant for Japanese brands because the parts and autos are increasingly made in the US. †† Naughton's piece celebrates the American worker (title of his piece is How US Workers Rebuilt an Industry), but this seems not to give sufficient credit to the rationalization of the industry (i.e., getting rid of some excess capacity) facilitated by the Chapter 11 protection. †Indeed, a full 40% of the North American auto workers are now in Mexico. †  Last week (Dec 9), the US government sold its remaining GM stock, which hit a record high earlier this month. †The following day, GM announced Mary Barra would be the next CEO, the first woman in the post,, signifying and reflecting the new era. † † Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
Of the 14+ Wall Street strategists followed by Business Insider, not one predicted the S&amp;P 500 would be where it is today. In fact, the most bullish strategist at the beginning of the year ó Citi's Tobias Levkovich ó had a target of 1,615. Today, the S&amp;P 500 is sitting at 1,775 after starting the year at 1,426. Levkovich, who rarely tweaks his forecasts during the year, included this chart of the Wall Street's evolving consensus forecast for the S&amp;P 500 in a Nov. 29 note to clients. Despite their constant revisions throughout the year, Wall Street is still below today's 1,775 level, which is literally off of this chart. Citi Research
IBN/screenshotAs one of the¬†largest jackpots in U.S. lottery history climbs to $550 million¬†and potentially¬†beyond, we're reminded that winning the lottery will not solve all problems. In fact many people's lives became notably worse after they got super rich, and they managed to lose it all quite quickly.
The Wolf of Wall Street/Paramount PicturesYes, you make a lot of money when you work on Wall Street, but you're going to have to spend a lot of money to stay there. To go to work every day you'll need to look the part ‚Äî the suit, the shoes, etc. To live every day with a banker's schedule, you'll need people to take care of you ‚Äî maid service, dry cleaners etc. And then there are the social obligations ‚Äî trips, schmoozing, memberships ... Wall Street is full of Joneses, and as the saying goes, they're hard to keep up with. Here's how much money it takes to try.
At the county level, America is a tremendously unequal place. The median household income in the poorest county (Wilcox County, Alabama) was $22,126 in 2012. In Falls Church, Virginia, where highly educated defense contractors and federal government workers cluster, the median income last year was $121,250, more than five times higher. What's most startling, though, in new†local income and poverty data†released this week by the Census Bureau, is the way these opposing poles of poverty and wealth in America concentrate geographically. The Census map below shows median household income data from 2012 for every county in the country:via Atlantic Cities2012 Median household income by county. via Atlantic CitiesThere are more than 3,000 counties in the U.S. Of the 75 with the highest incomes, 44 are located in the Northeast, including Maryland and Virginia. The corridor of metropolitan statistical areas that runs from Washington, D.C., through Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston includes 37 of these top-earning counties (where the median family takes home at least $75,000 a year). Zoom in to the region, and it shows a kind of wealth belt unmatched even on the West Coast. Poverty is similarly concentrated in the American South. Seventy-nine percent of the poorest counties in the country (where the median family makes less than $35,437) are located in the South: via Atlantic Cities2012 Poverty rate of the total population by county.  This latest Census release also slices data by school district, revealing the below picture of poverty rates by district among school-aged children 5 to 17. In dark blue, these are the school districts with some the steepest challenges educating low-income children on scarce resources:via Atlantic Cities2012 school-aged poverty rate by school district. Relative to 2007, 33 percent of all U.S. counties saw statistically significant increases in poverty by 2012 (across all age groups), deepening the challenges in places that had been struggling even before the recession. Over this same time period, however, one part of the country in particular saw an actual†increase in median incomes, and it wasn't the traditionally wealthy Northeast corridor. It was the Upper Great Plains. Statistically significant increases in median income, from 2007-2012, are shown in green: via Atlantic CitiesChange in median household income, 2007-2012, by county. As a result of the†energy boom†in the Dakotas, households in about half of the counties there were better off in 2012 than they were in 2007, a distinction most of the rest of the country doesn't share. All maps, based on U.S. Census Bureau Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates, are courtesy of the Census Bureau.
Looking back, what patterns do we see? Daily Rituals: How Artists Work,†examines the work habits of over 150 of the greatest writers, artists and scientists. What did they all have in common? A relentless pace of work. Via†Daily Rituals: How Artists Work ìSooner or later,î Pritchett writes, ìthe great men turn out to be all alike. They never stop working. They never lose a minute. It is very depressing.î What did Stanford professor Jeffrey Pfeffer find when he looked at high achievers like†LBJ†and†Robert Moses? 60-65 hour work weeks were not uncommon. Via†Managing With Power: Politics and Influence in Organizations: In a study of general managers in industry,†John Kotter reported that many of them worked 60 to 65 hours per weekñwhich translates into at least six 10-hour days.†The ability and willingness to work grueling hours has characterized many powerful figuresÖ Energy and strength provide many advantages to those seeking to build power. When Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi studied geniuses for his book Creativity, he realized something fascinating about IQ. No one who changed the world had an IQ under 130 ó but the difference between 130 and 170 was negligible. As long as you were past the 130 IQ threshold, it was all about how hard you worked. (More on the work habits of geniuses here.) Warren Buffett once said: The difference between successful people and very successful people is that very successful people say ìnoî to almost everything. And thatís what gives them the time to accomplish so much. In Creativity,†Csikszentmihalyi makes note of the number of high achievers who declined his request to be in the book. Why did they say no? They were too busy with their own projects to help him with his. Achievement requires focus. And focus means saying ìnoî to a lot of distractions. In his classic essay†Managing Oneself, Pete Drucker is very clear: ignore your weaknesses and keep improving your strengths. In identifying opportunities for improvement, donít waste time cultivating skill areas where you have little competence. Instead, concentrate onóand build onóyour strengths. This means knowing who you are, what you are and what you are good at. Harvard professor Gautam Mukunda,†author of Indispensable: When Leaders Really Matter,†says this is key for leaders: More than anything else, ìKnow thyself.î Know what your type is. ÖThink about your own personalityÖ†For instance, if you are a classic entrepreneur, you canít work in an organization.†Know that.† (More on knowing your strengths here.) Nobody at the top of the heap goes it alone. And those at the center of networks benefit the most. Paul Erdos is the undeniable center of the mathematics world.†Ever heard of ìsix degrees of Kevin Baconî? Paul Erdos is the Kevin Bacon of math. This is no exaggeration. In fact, itís barely a metaphor ó itís just fact. How did he become the center of the math world? He was a giver. Iíve posted a lot about networking and as great networkers like Adam Rifkin†advise, Paul Erdos gave to others. He made those around him better. Via†The Man Who Loved Only Numbers: The Story of Paul Erdos and the Search for Mathematical Truth: He knew better than you yourself knew what you were capable ofÖHe gave the confidence that many of us needed to embark on mathematical research. (More on networking here.) Luck isnít magical ó thereís a science to it. Richard Wiseman studied lucky people for his book†Luck Factor, and broke down what they do right. Certain personality types are luckier because they behave in a way that maximizes the chance for good opportunities. By being more outgoing, open to new ideas, following hunches, and being optimistic, lucky people create possibilities. Does applying these principles to your life actually work? Wiseman created a ìluck schoolî to test the ideas ó and it was a success. Via†Luck Factor: In total,†80 percent of people who attended Luck School said that their luck had increased. On average, these people estimated that their luck had increased by more than 40 percent. (More about creating luck†here.) Intelligence and creativity are great but you canít quit when the going gets tough if you really want to accomplish anything big. Thatís grit. Perseverance. And itís one of the best predictors of success there is. Via Dan Pinkís excellent book†Drive: The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us. The best predictor of success, the researchers found, was the prospective cadetsí ratings on a noncognitive, nonphysical trait known as ìgritîódefined as ìperseverance and passion for long-term goals.î Researchers have found that grit exists apart from IQ and is†more predictive of success than IQ†in a variety of challenging environments: Defined as perseverance and passion for long-term goals, grit accounted for an average of 4% of the variance in success outcomes, including educational attainment among 2 samples of adults (N = 1,545 and N = 690), grade point average among Ivy League undergraduates (N = 138), retention in 2 classes of United States Military Academy, West Point, cadets (N = 1,218 and N = 1,308), and ranking in the National Spelling Bee (N = 175). Howard Gardner studied some of the greatest geniuses of all time. One quality they all had in common sounds an awful lot like grit. Via†Creating Minds: An Anatomy of Creativity Seen Through the Lives of Freud, Einstein, Picasso, Stravinsky, Eliot, Graham, and Ghandi: Öwhen they fail, they do not waste much time lamenting; blaming; or, at the extreme, quitting. Instead, regarding the failure as a learning experience, they try to build upon its lessons in their future endeavors.†Framing is most succinctly captured in aphorism by French economist and visionary Jean Monnet: ìI regard every defeat as an opportunity.î Hereís Angela Duckworth giving a TED talk on grit:  (More on how to be ìgrittierî here.) Failure is essential. Losers like to hear that because it makes them feel better about their past mistakes. Winners use it to go make more mistakes they can learn from. Always be experimenting. In his excellent book Little Bets, Peter Sims explains the system used by all the greats: The mindset is what makes a big difference.†The willingness to spend 5 to 10% of your time doing experiments will, over the long run, really open up that part of you that can be more creative and entrepreneurial, and yield, hopefully, some new opportunities that you hadnít thought of before trying something. You must†wrestle with your ideas.†Dissect, combine, add, subtract, turn them upside down and shake them.†Get ideas colliding. Via†Zig Zag: The Surprising Path to Greater Creativity: Successful creators engage in an ongoing dialogue with their work. They put whatís in their head on paper long before itís fully formed,†and they watch and listen to what theyíve recorded, zigging and zagging until the right idea emerges.† How do you start? Do like the greats and keep a notebook. (More on the creative process used by experts here.) You cannot go it alone. It can be hard to learn from books. And the internet makes it difficult to separate truth from fiction. You need someone who has been there to show you the ropes. A Yoda. A Mister Miyagi. Yes, 10K hours of deliberate practice can make you an expert but what makes you dedicate 10K hours to something in the first place? As Adam Grant of Wharton explains, the answer is great mentors: Why would somebody invest deliberate practice in something? It turns out that actually most of these world-class performers had a first coach, or a first teacher, who made the activity fun. (More on finding the best mentor for you here.)† Eight things you can do to be like the best: Whatís the easiest way to get started? Go here. Join 45K+ readers.†Get a free weekly update via email†here. Related posts: What 10 things should you do every day to improve your life? Here are the things that are proven to make you happier† How To Make Your Life Better By Sending Five Simple Emails The post 8 Things The Worldís Most Successful People All Have In Common appeared first on Barking Up The Wrong Tree. Read more posts on Barking Up The Wrong Tree ª
REUTERS/Adrees LatifRed Bull Formula One driver Sebastian Vettel of Germany receives a drink from a crew member during the third practice session of the Austin F1 Grand Prix at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, November 16, 2013.VIENNA (Reuters) - Red Bull is planning to launch its best-selling energy drink in¬†China¬†after gaining the necessary permissions, and is building an office in¬†Shanghai,¬†Austria's¬†Kronen Zeitung¬†reported. The newspaper cited the Austrian company - whose activities span extreme sports sponsorship, Formula One motor racing and media - as confirming the move. "The aim is a selective distribution of Red Bull, limited to urban areas and a target group that knows the brand from abroad. We want to develop a feel for the market and the consumers,"¬†Kronen Zeitung¬†quoted the company as saying. Privately owned Red Bull did not immediately respond to a request from Reuters for comment. The company, based near Salzburg, sold 5.2 billion cans of its Red Bull energy drink last year and made sales of 4.9 billion euros ($6.7 billion). ($1 = 0.7283 euros) (Reporting by¬†Georgina Prodhan)
Wikimedia CommonsI heard an amazing statistic earlier this year. According to Bloomberg, the 50 stocks with the lowest Wall Street analyst ratings at the end of 2011 outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by seven percentage points in 2012.† Think about that. Warren Buffett's goal was once to outperform the market by 10 percentage points a year. Doing the opposite of what Wall Street's smartest minds recommended last year got you two-thirds of the way there.† As we head toward bonus season, how did finance's top analysts do this year? I dug through FactSet data on companies with the most buy and sell recommendations as of January.† Drum roll... Includes dividends, through December 11, 2013. The S&amp;P 500 is up 27.4% year to date, including dividends. So, companies with the most sell ratings in January outperformed the market by a median 25 percentage points, while those with the most buy ratings underperformed by more than seven percentage points.† Bravo, gentlemen.† There are two takeaways here.† One of the most important lessons in all of finance is to understand the incentives of the guy sitting across the table from you. It sounds crazy, but a lot of professional stock analysts aren't terribly concerned with the accuracy of their picks. "Until recently, brokerage firms did not even track the accuracy of their analysts' opinions," Stephen McClellan of The Financial Times wrote in 2009. "It is just not an important part of the analyst's job description."  Institutional Investor magazine once surveyed mutual funds, hedge funds, and other big investors -- the folks who pay for Wall Street's research -- asking what attributes are most important to them in an analyst. "Of 12 factors ranked in order of priority, stock selection placed dead last," McClellan wrote. "Industry knowledge was the key quality that institutions wanted in analysts." Individual investors hearing news of an analyst upgrade can be taken down a dangerous path without realizing this.† But there's almost certainly something else going on here. It's the power of contrarianism.† In 1999, at the end of the biggest bull market in history when stocks were as overvalued as they'd ever been, Merrill Lynch analysts issued 940 buy recommendations on stocks and sell ratings on just seven. Morgan Stanley had 670 buy ratings and not a single sell recommendation. Compare this with 2010, after the market crashed: Less than 30% of global stock ratings issued by Wall Street brokerage firms were buys. More than 50% were hold ratings, according to Bloomberg.† In 2005, the investment bank Dresdner†Kleinwort wrote a paper on the history of financial forecasts and found something astounding. When a composite of analyst forecasts on things like bond yields and stock prices were overlaid with what actually happened, the forecasts had an almost perfect lag. A few months after bond yields rose, analysts forecast that they would keep rising. A few months after yields fell, analysts switched their forecasts and predicted yields would continue to fall. Viewed in a chart, it was obvious what was going on: When forecasting the future, analysts were just looking at what happened in the past and drawing a straight line.†"Analysts are terribly good at telling us what has just happened, but of little use in telling us what is going to happen in the future," the report said. It's the same with stocks. Most of the companies analysts flooded with sell ratings earlier this year performed terribly last year.† Markets will always assume tomorrow will look just like yesterday, moving as a herd toward what is often the wrong conclusion. The only way to protect yourself from this group-think is to train your brain to be†allergic†to popular opinions, taking contrarian views when everyone else is convinced they're right. Most people can't do that (by definition), but it's a trait you'll see in all the world's best investors. If you're uncomfortable making†decisions†most people around you think are wrong, don't try to beat the market. You'll never do it.
Corcoran Group Real EstateAn insanely beautiful mansion on New York's Upper East Side has just been listed for $114 million, according to The New York Times. The six-level property has 20,000 square feet of living space, in addition to 2,500 square feet of outdoor space, which includes a roof deck with sweeping views of Central Park and the city. The 69th Street home was built in 1884, and bought by investor Vincent Viola and his wife Teresa, the president of Maida Vale Designs,for $20 million in 2005. They gut-renovated the townhouse to create the extravagant residence it is today. And now they're flipping it for a whopping $114,077,000. And if the amenities are any indication, it's totally worth it. According to Corcoran Group, which is selling the home, the mansion has a saltwater pool with spa, panic room, heated stairs and floors in the parlor, plus a brick pizza oven in the kitchen. There's even an onyx elevator. You have to see this house to believe it.
While most economists have increased the probability of a December taper announcement, most nevertheless continue to believe it is unlikely. Tapering refers to the gradual reduction of the Federal Reserve's monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury securities and $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds. The program has been intended to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low and credit market liquidity high. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna is part of the tiny minority that expects the Fed to announce tapering at the conclusion of its FOMC meeting on Wednesday. He considers what happened in September when the Fed shocked markets and unexpectedly refrained from announcing tapering earlier in the fall. Importantly, at the time of the September FOMC meeting‚Äîwhen policymakers ultimately got ‚Äúcold feet‚Äù‚Äî there were four main factors weighing on their decision-making: a potential stumble in the housing data, a loss of momentum in the pace of hiring, anticipation of a potentially disruptive government shutdown/debt ceiling standoff and a perceived failure of market participants to draw the distinction between tapering and the timing of future rate increases. Since September, there has been significant improvement with respect to each of these factors. LaVorgna expects the Fed to announce a $10 billion reduction in Treasury purchases while keeping mortgage bond purchases going at full speed. Importantly, LaVorgna expects the Fed to reassure the markets that tapering is not tightening. In other words, it'll articulate that despite tapering, it'll do what it can to keep interest rates very low for a very long time. "In order to more firmly anchor interest rate expectations when the tapering commences, the Fed will strengthen its forward guidance on the funds rate, likely by lowering its unemployment threshold to 6.0%," wrote LaVorgna. Currently, that unemployment rate threshold stands at 6.5%. At the conclusion of the Fed's FOMC meeting on Wednesday, it will also update its economic forecasts. "At present, the Fed‚Äôs central tendency forecast for the unemployment rate in 2015 is 5.9% to 6.2% and 5.4% to 5.9% for 2016," noted LaVorgna. "The tone of the Committee‚Äôs economic assessment should be considerably upgraded relative to October." We'll cover the FOMC announcement live on BusinessInsider.com.
YouTube/MovieclipstrailersIn a few days, Jordan Belfort and his notorious pump-and-dump firm Stratton Oakmont will be immortalized in Martin Scorsese's film "Wolf of Wall Street." But, before you see the Hollywood version, check out former Stratton employee Josh Shapiro's firsthand account of his time at the firm in today's New York Post. The drugs, the scams, the prostitutes ó it's all there, with a side of intense remorse. Shapiro was a kid right out of the Marines when he joined the firm back in the '90s, now he's a physician's assistant. While he was killing it at Stratton, he was driving a $70,000 car, but he didn't buy a single piece of property: "I didnít think it was ever going to end. Property? The future? No. The future was right here and now." He "spent his money as fast as he could get it," but left the firm just days before the FBI raided the place. It's not hard to see how he got tired (from the NY Post): The office was basically separated into two parts: the cold callers in the back, and the brokers in the front. The cold callers were dressed in Van Heusen shirts and ties ó nothing too expensive. The guys in the front were sporting Armani, Boss, slicked back hair.Theyíd give meetings in the back to the cold callers where theyíd rip up $100 bills, throw them on the floor and tell them, ìDo you want to be a loser all your life, or do you want to make something out of your life? Do you want to be rich?î The motivational meetings in the morning were incredible.Porush gave meetings where heíd insult people, based on their performance. He would say: ìDoug, you sold 1,000 shares of stock in the last three weeks. You know, you should have slit your throat when you were shaving this morning.îHe would come out at other times, completely stewed out of his mind on Quaaludes. Stand on the desk, then fall onto the floor. Or he would come out angry, pick up a computer ó and these are the old CRT monitors ó and smash it on the floor as hard as he possibly could. And be like, ìYouíre all a bunch of f-<U+200A>-king losers unless you push this f-<U+200A>-king stock!î Shapiro's account is definitely worth a full read; check it out at the NY Post.
Flickr / Federal ReserveBoard of Governors meeting, January 1, 1922.A slew of strong better-than-expected economic data has economists increasing the odds that the Federal Reserve will announce the tapering its $85 billion quantitative easing program at the conclusion of its FOMC meeting on Wednesday December 18. "It's still a close call,† but chances are now above 50 percent that the Federal Reserve will modestly reduce its asset purchases later this month," said Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere who was communicating the analysis of former Fed Vice Chair Don Kohn. "There's a 60-40 chance that the FOMC will decide on Dec. 18 to begin tapering." However, a December tapering announcement is not the consensus. Most economists don't expect a tapering announcement until January or March. Goldman Sachs' David Mericle explains three reasons why in a new 9-page note to clients. Mericle expects tapering to begin in March, "with January possible as well." As for the December FOMC meeting: "We expect modest changes to the economic forecasts. In light of recent data, participants will likely mark down their projections of inflation and the unemployment rate and mark up their growth projections slightly," wrote Mericle. Notable economists forecasting a tapering announcement include Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey and Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna.
Reuters/Shannon StapletonGold looks like it is on its way to its first annual drop in 13 years. This is bad news for central banks that have been diversifying their foreign reserves to include gold, but at a slower pace than in 2012.¬† A new report from the World Gold Council showed that year-to-date central bank gold reserves increased by nearly 300 tonnes. Global official gold holdings totaled 31,913.5 tonnes as of December 2013, according to the latest report from the World Gold Council. We pulled the numbers on the 10 biggest official reserves. Note: CBGA refers to the Central Bank Gold Agreements.¬†The first Agreement (CBGA 1) ran from September 27, 1999 to September 26, 2004.¬† The second Agreement (CBGA 2) ran from September 27, 2004 to September 26, 2009. The third Agreement (CBGA 3) will run for five years from September 2009.
KnCMinerBitcoin businesses are booming, especially now that 42% of Americans know what Bitcoin is ‚Äî but there remain few businesses as revenue-rich as Bitcoin mining development. Background:¬†Bitcoins are mined by computers unscrambling blocks of "hashes" or complex strings of numbers and letters.¬†This tends to be an expensive and labor-intensive proposition ‚Äî the fastest miners now cost thousands of dollars, and they eat up lots of electricity and manhours of setup.¬† We recently¬†reported that Knc Miner, a Swedish developer of Bitcoin miners, had sold $8 million of its latest model, the Neptune, in 24 hours. When it drops in early 2014 (the date remains a bit amorphous), the Neptune could be the most powerful and efficient miner in the world, depending on what the competition looks like at that time (it's impossible to say how many Bitcoins it can mine because the mining difficulty rate, which goes upward as more Bitcoins are mined, will have changed when it's released). Today, we got new figures on Neptune sales: the first 1,200 Neptunes were sold exclusively to existing customers, at a price of $10,000 for a total of $12 million,¬†Ian Chaffee, a press rep for the company, told us in an email.¬†¬† The next batch of 1,200 were sold to new customers for $12,999 each, for a total of $15,598,800. That gets them to a grand total of ¬†$27,598,800, excluding taxes.¬† The figure nearly matches ¬†the company's entire revenues for its first seven months of production and sales of its earlier models, Chaffee says.¬† It's not clear how the margins on one of these babies is ‚Äî Alex Lawn, a KnC employee who recently came by BI's offices to demonstrate an earlier model, would only tell us the retail price is enough to cover the costs.¬† But it's a sign of how far Bitcoin's come.
Whatís really important in following the money is for investors to not get caught up in the negative web spun by the media. Thereís a lot of drama these days about Obamacare and Washington dysfunction. Take the government shutdown in October, when the House and Senate fought over the debt ceiling. Economic data wasnít released, services were halted, national parks were closed, and ìnon-essentialî government workers were told to stay home. As a result, GDP was expected to collapse. Yet, data released this week reveal a different, stronger image of the U.S. economy. I think Shakespeare would deem the mediaís fear mongering tactics as ìMuch Ado About Nothing.î Third-quarter GDP growth was recently revised to 3.6 percent, much higher than the estimated 2.8 percent figure. In November, more jobs were created and the unemployment rate fell to 7 percent. Not a spectacular result, but better than expected. Perhaps people are gaining confidence in the U.S. economy, as figures show a buying spree in large purchases of new homes and vehicles. In October, U.S. new home sales rebounded from a one-year low. According to Bloomberg, sales increased more than 25 percent, despite ìthis yearís increase in borrowing costs and property values.î As a ìsign of growing momentumî for the housing market, applications for building permits also climbed to a five-year high, says Bloomberg. Many garages will be filled with new cars and more expensive trucks and sport utility vehicles, as 16 million automobiles were sold in November, the fastest pace since February 2007, according to Autodata. American automobile makers ìdrove the blistering sales month,î with General Motors sales growing nearly 14 percent and Chrysler sales increasing 16 percent in November, says USA Today. These facts support what weíve been seeing in the U.S. purchasing managerís index (PMI), which climbed to a ten-month high in November. Generally, PMIs are a leading indicator of future economic trends. So, we shouldnít hope for a government shutdown again Ö or should we? Hereís a Simple Way to Follow the Money: Look for the leaders and understand the laggards. Hereís a chart showing the top sector performance among the S&amp;P 500 Index since January. With the revolution occurring in the health care industry, the sector has seen an incredible 40 percent increase, closely followed by consumer discretionary. Industrials stocks, which rose about 35 percent, have gotten a boost from PMIís jumper cables. Meanwhile, defensive areas such as telecommunications and utilities have lagged, as rising interest rates have made these defensive companiesí dividend yields less desirable.  To get an idea of the companies held in each of these sectors, the following are the largest stocks in terms of market capitalization: In industrials, General Electric (GE) is the biggest; in consumer discretionary, Amazon (AMZN) takes the lead; and in health care, itís Johnson &amp; Johnson (JNJ). On a year-to-date basis, in industrials, airlines such as Delta (DAL), have taken off. Among discretionary stocks, Netflix (NFLX) is the leader, and within the health care sector, biotechnology companies, such as Celgene (CELG), have increased the most. Ranking sectors and stocks this way, itís easy to identify and follow the leaders. Itís like Newtonís First Law of Motion: once in motion, these stocks tend to stay in motion. We believe the domestic bull run will also stay in motion, as the synchronized global recovery continues to take place. Just this week, Japan announced additional fiscal stimulus. In addition, China continues to grow, with sweeping economic reforms taking place, and Europe is expected to recover. Further, based on fund flows of investors selling their bonds and buying equities, we expect this trend to continue for a while. As I often say, trying to stop a bull market has risks. Get commentaries like this every week! Share your email address and weíll send you the free weekly Investor Alert published on Friday evenings.† You can also keep informed by following us on LinkedIn, Twitter or Facebook. † All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. The S&amp;P 500 Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies. The Purchasing Managerís Index is an indicator of the economic health of the manufacturing sector. The PMI index is based on five major indicators: new orders, inventory levels, production, supplier deliveries and the employment environment. Standard deviation is a measure of the dispersion of a set of data from its mean. The more spread apart the data, the higher the deviation. Standard deviation is also known as historical volatility. The following securities mentioned were held by one or more of U.S. Global Investors Funds as of 9/30/13: General Electric, Amazon.com, Celgene.
A troika of Fed (Federal Reserve) officials, including Bank of New York President Bill Dudley, Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer, and Fed Chair Janet Yellen, will lead policy in 2014 and 2015. That is the period of time in which the Fed will transition from $85-billion-per-month quantitative easing to a gradual extraction and approach to neutrality. We expect the Fed's communication strategy to improve, its policy to become more consistent, and the application of same to become more transparent. The Fed's new leadership lineup represents an excellent evolution. For the first time in recent years in Washington, DC, lunacy has given way to a baby step back towards sanity. We have a budget deal, albeit a small one. We have a deferral of shutdowns and shocks for at least a year or two. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, John Boehner, is re-emerging with new strength and is in control of his caucus. There is isolation of the extremists on the right, and less so on the left. We have a deficit forecast of less than 3% of GDP and falling. The rate of inflation in the US is below 2% and falling. By some measures it is 1% and falling. The outlook for inflationary shocks continues to diminish. This is positive for bonds and borrowers and constructive with regard to transparency and the accurate reporting of earnings, profits, and sales. Less inflation means more accurate numbers and fewer distortions. Lastly, gradual improvement in the labor markets is underway. It is slow. There are soft spots. The trend, though, continues to be positive. We approach 2014 with a rather magical if unexpected combination of positive policy, financial, and economic forces. Next year will start as a very good year. After that, as with anything else, it all remains to be seen.
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderOn a recent Monday morning, the stretch of Route 100 that runs through sleepy Waterbury, Vt., was bumper-to-bumper. The line of Camrys, Sierras, and Outbacks, some from as far away as Illinois, inched forward in the crisp air, their drivers united in a singular goal. In the immortal words of Homer Simpson: Mmm,¬†b-e-e-e-r. Jen Kimmich sighed at the chaos. She knew what they'd come for. They'd been arriving every Monday for the past two-and-a-half years, more every week, to the point where they now crowded the parking lots of the nearby Phinne nail salon and the Merchants Bank, both on the wrong side of Rt. 100, forcing their owners to dash across the state highway to reach their journey's end, a cramped retail shop in a modest beige building that housed the Alchemist brewery. The Alchemist, which evolved from a brewpub Kimmich started with her husband, John, a decade ago, has brewed a variety of beers, but the one that drew the faithful ‚Äî 90% from out of state, Kimmich estimated ‚Äî was the one in the silver-and-black 16-ounce cans, Heady Topper, the double IPA that rules of Beer Advocate's Top 250 beers list. The beer had sparked a frenzy.Hayman PhotographyThe Alchemist cannery in Waterbury, Vt. "We thought people would come to town, go to the pub, and buy a four-pack," she tells Business Insider. "What we didn't anticipate were the droves of people coming to buy as many cases as they could." Just when they thought the mania had peaked, the Chicago Tribune or the Atlantic would do a story, and it would start all over again. In December, undercover investigators from the Vermont Department of Liquor Control arrested Stephanie Hoffman, a 28-year-old who was trying to sell five cases on Craigslist. Her price? $825 for 120 cans, a roughly 100% premium. Heady Topper is a fine brew, perfectly bitter with an 8% ABV and a smooth, fruity finish. A bargain at just $3 a can, or $72 per case. People who came to the brewery were only allowed to buy one per visit. Kimmich attempted to manage the chaos while John, whose unkempt dirty blond hair matches his wife's, brewed in the back. And brewed. And brewed. They tripled production last January, to 36,000 cans a week, but crowds kept coming, and soon there wasn't enough left for the stores and brew pubs around the northern parts of the state. Outlets in south Vermont complained that they couldn't get it at all. For the Kimmichs, it was getting to be too much. Too many cars, too many people, too much attention. Even the owners couldn't find parking at their brewery. ¬†They made a decision: they would close the retail shop, take a time out and look for a larger space. "It was a mess," Kimmich says. "There were near accidents on Rt. 100. Our neighbors were unhappy. The town was concerned." The decision was big news in the brewing world and beyond; even the AP covered the story. Fans can still find the cans in shops around the area, but the crush at Alchemist has abated for now. ¬† Heady Topper was not an instant hit. In fact, it wasn't even one of the five staple beers the Kimmichs made available when they opened the Alchemist Brewpub in 2003. They didn't think a big, boozy double IPA would sell well enough to have it on tap all the time. Instead, they focused on more traditional styles like pale ales and pilsners, only brewing Heady occasionally. Sales were okay, but it was too strange, too different, and too fresh for most peoples' palates. The brewpub, meanwhile, was turning into a successful small, local business. On busy nights, people would wait up to two hours for a table, eager to eat some cheap, hearty food and knock back a couple pints in the friendly environment the Kimmichs created. Some of the wealthier Waterbury residents prevailed upon the owners to raise prices, but they refused. They wanted to keep the joint affordable. "We would always have college students come down from Burlington, and they wouldn't mind waiting," Jen says. "They knew we were a place where they could take the $20 in their pocket and get a plate of red beans and rice, have two beers, and have enough for a tip. That was important for us." In 2011 the Kimmichs made the decision to open a small production brewery. The plan was to supplement the brew pub with a line of canned beer. They would start with one style and eventually expand to a second. After some discussion, they chose Heady Topper as the first offering because they felt a fresh, hoppy double IPA was missing from the market and the high alcohol content would allow them to sell the beer for more of a premium. But in August, just a day before the first cans were scheduled to roll off the line, Tropical Storm Irene dumped¬† Hayman PhotographyJohn Kimmich, the mastermind behind Alchemist's legendary Heady Topper. 15 inches of rain on northern Vermont. The Winooski River overflowed its banks. Water rushed through downtown as Waterbury's residents fled to higher ground. More than 200 homes were severely damaged or destroyed. The brew pub was hit hard, its interior a mess of mud and ruined equipment. As they picked through the wreckage, the Kimmichs realized they had one option: double down on the production brewery and Heady Topper. They received a $100,000 loan from the Vermont Economic Development Authority, and used the money to add tanks, increasing production by 100%. It was a decision borne out of necessity ‚Äî the Kimmichs were desperate to keep their staff employed. Heady did a modest business at first, but momentum built quickly, and soon customers were lining up. Initially, it seemed like Heady benefited from being the new kid on the block. "I remember other brewery owners saying, 'Enjoy the wave while it's here,'" Kimmich says. "They thought it would drop off after that initial rush. But here we are two-and-a-half years later and it keeps getting more popular. It's taken a life of its own." She realizes they could make more money if they raised the price, but she and her husband refuse to do so. It's the same reason they kept prices down at the brewpub all those years ago, even as local businessmen left in a huff because they refused to wait in line for two hours. "Having money shouldn't give you the ability to enjoy beer more than anyone else," Kimmich declares. "We make a good amount of money on it, but we're not price-gouging. If it got to the point where we were selling it for $8 a can, all of our great fans at Phish shows or up at UVM wouldn't be drinking it the way that they are. To charge $9 or $10 for something that is made and put out in three weeks isn't right. It really takes advantage of the customer. We don't think that it should be a privilege to drink beer. No matter what the demand is, we'll keep it at $3." ¬† On one hand, the story of Heady is simply the tale of a remarkable brew that found a passionate audience. But it's also emblematic of a larger trend,¬†the explosion of the craft-beer category, which has led to a veritable tsunami of small-batch beers created by eager new players like the Kimmichs. Every year now, craft beer chips away at the market share of the macro-brewers ‚Äî Big Suds? ‚Äî as consumers turn away from the Budweisers and Coors Lights of the world in search of more full-flavored beer. In 2012, 13 million barrels of craft beer were produced, up more than 71% from 2006. In dollar terms, craft beer now represents 10.2% of the domestic beer market, and a report from IBIS World predicts spending on craft brews will grow to $3.9 billion this year. The trend is accelerating. According to Bart Watson, the staff economist of the Brewers Association, volume was up 13% during the first half of 2013, and that will likely increase in the second half of the year, which traditionally shows stronger sales as consumers turn to fall and winter beers. "It wouldn't surprise me to see craft at 15 percent of the market by volume in the near future," notes Harry Schuhmacher, editor and publisher of Beer Business Daily, citing industries like wine, spirits, and candy, where the premium space is responsible for between 15 and 30% of sales. In the brew mecca of Oregon, craft beer accounts for 47% of beer consumed. While no one expects the rest of the country to match this figure, it's held up as an example of how successful craft beer can become. Brewers AssociationBut even such a healthy rise in consumer demand won't be enough to sustain the many new breweries jumping into the marketplace. For every Alchemist, there are numerous small breweries turning out solid product that will never see a profit. In 2012, more than 400 were launched, for a total of more than 2,400 nationwide. Meanwhile, another 1,500 were in the planning stages ‚Äî an amount equal to all the new independent breweries that came online between 1996 and 2012. Just how those new breweries will survive, given the challenges of distribution and limitations of shelf-space and taps, is an open question, especially when even the craft beer market is dominated by a few big players, like Boston Beer Company, Sierra Nevada, and New Belgium. (Boston Beer, which makes Sam Adams, is now so large that the Brewers Association keeps changing the definition of craft beer to keep it in the fold.) Meanwhile, Big Suds has responded with its own versions of craft-like brews such as Blue Moon and Shock Top, made by MillerCoors and Anheuser-Busch InBev respectively, which have quickly come to dominate the market for specialty beers. For now, the buzz is positive, but beneath the surface, there are signs of trouble. Breweries are undercapitalized and the old guard well remembers a brutal stretch between 1996 and 2000 when 300 breweries closed as the market cratered due to a flood of inferior product and fickle consumer tastes. Besides, as any college freshman knows, even the best keg party is often followed by a brutal hangover. ¬† WikipediaRep. William Steiger got the craft beer movement started with H.R. 1337.The modern craft beer industry has its roots in a little-known bill introduced by Wisconsin Representative William A. Steiger. The businessman-turned-politician, who helped establish environmental protection for the Great Lakes and hired future vice president Dick Cheney as a Congressional intern, sponsored H.R. 1337. Alan Cranston, a senator from California, added an amendment that legalized home brewing on a national level. President Jimmy Carter signed the law on October 14, 1978, and in the early 1980s, a number of states began legalizing brewpubs. The number of breweries, which by 1978 had fallen to an all-time, post-Prohibition low of 89, began to climb. The recent jump in craft brewing began to the mid-to-late aughts and has recently picked up steam. "Part of it was the cost of capital," says Jason Childs, a professor who teaches The Economics of Beer at the University of Regina. With loans and investors easy to come by, the barriers to entry fell. Meanwhile, tastes have changed. After decades spent guzzling bland industrial mega-brews, beer drinkers have made the same evolutionary leap as wine- and coffee-drinkers before them, waking up to the pleasures of subtle, carefully crafted flavors. Appalachian State University now offers a degree in Fermentation Sciences, which provides instruction in entrepreneurship and business management in addition to brewing skills. The University of California-Davis and Oregon State University also have programs. The Homebrewing Association claims more than 37,000 members, a jump of 400 percent since 2005. Katherine Kyle, general manager at The Blind Tiger, one of the first craft beer bars in New York City, remembers when customers would insist there was a misspelling on the chalkboard outside the bar. "I think you mean 'draft' not 'craft,'" they would inform her. She hasn't had that conversation in years. ¬† Even as the craft segment has exploded, overall beer sales are falling, dropping by 0.9% in 2012. Big Suds has responded by creating their own niche brands aimed at securing their dominance. Blue Moon and Shock Top are marketed as as full-flavored, "artfully crafted," Belgian-inspired brews. Not only are the names of their corporate Tenth and BlakeSome craft brewers view MillerCoors' Tenth and Blake division as an attempt to obscure Blue Moon's corporate ownership.parents conspicuously absent from their packaging, the companies have created new divisions ‚Äî MillerCoors' Tenth &amp; Blake Beer Company and ABI's Green Valley Brewery ‚Äî that further blur the associations. The tactics have been controversial, so much so that MillerCoors CEO Tom Long recently felt the need to defend his brand. "We should be proud to make beers that grow and are popular ‚Äî that's the American way," he told Bloomberg. "Being small and unpopular, what's the utility in that?" Not that the sniping makes a difference. Both faux-craft brands are massive. Blue Moon's two million barrels would represent around 15%¬†of the craft market by volume. Shock Top, meanwhile, grew 100% between 2010 and 2011 and continues to gain ground. There are some in the craft community who argue the presence of these beers is a good thing, as ¬†they have increased the penetration of the craft market. "If you asked the world, 'Who has had a Blue Moon?' almost everyone would raise their hand," says Michael Kiser, of the Good Beer Hunting blog. "That fundamentally changes the consumer. That is now a person who is interested in flavor, who is interested in process, in the word Belgian. Craft breweries are building on a wave that was created by these things." That said, they are also in danger of being inundated by it. A number of successful craft breweries ‚Äî including Terrapin, Redhook Ale Brewery, Wiemer Brothers Brewing, Kona Brewing Co., and Leinenkugel ‚Äî have been acquired by or taken on major investments from ABI or MillerCoors. In 2011, ABI purchased Chicago's Goose Island for a reported $40 million, upsetting many Getty ImagesGoose Island was purchased by Anheuser-Busch InBev. ¬†fans. Popular beer bar Hopcat banished the company's beer from its taps, calling them "sell-outs." But Goose Island benefited from efficiencies of scale, as well as a powerful distribution network. "We make a better beer than ever," founder and former CEO John Hall tells Business Insider. The popular Bourbon County Brand Coffee Stout continues to hold the No. 4 spot on Beer Advocate's Top 250 beers. Even so, such consolidation will likely remain the exception. The bigger battle on the horizon is not between marco and craft but a throwdown among craft brewers themselves. ¬† In 2012, former Goose Island "innovation brewer" John Laffler founded Chicago's Off Color Brewing along with Dave Bleitner, focusing on unusual beers with names like Prairie Prairie Dog Attack, Cat-Sip Hibiscus Gose, and Screw You Jeremy Danner. The Off Color founders have modest ambitions. "Dave's married, and his wife makes more money than he does," Laffler says. "I'm not married, so I need to find a wife who makes more money than I do." Michael KiserWould-be craft brewers with visions of Clydesdales dancing in their heads are advised to take note. While the craft industry as a whole will grow, the window in which a lucky, talented newcomer might manage to create a national brand ‚Äî or even make a halfway decent living ‚Äî is closing fast. All together, the 400-plus craft breweries started in 2012 produced around 100,000 barrels, which is less than Anheuser-Busch InBev produces in a single day and about 4% of Sam Adams' annual output. New arrivals will find themselves splitting a smaller pot. "I see the industry becoming more local, more regional, more city-specific," Laffler says. "At that point, you're locked in making $35,000 a year and hopefully your business can last 10 years." Rich Buceta, a former advertising executive with close-cropped salt-and-pepper hair, founded Singlecut Beersmiths in Astoria, Queens, the first to open in the borough since the 1950s. Buceta expected 50 to 100 people at the opening; 1,200 showed up. WATCH: The Rise Of Craft Beer"We're a real, bona fide local brewery," he points out. "Without naming names, some breweries have names that are nothing more than a marketing ploy. You can argue it's craft beer versus crafty beer, something that's really not what it purports to be ..." (The reference is likely to the highly successful Brooklyn Brewery, which has produced most of its beer upstate since outgrowing its Williamsburg location.) Underlying such squabbling is a growing sense that a shakeout is on the horizon. "There's still the ethos that we all get along and that we all help each other out," Laffler says, "but our competition isn't Anheuser-Busch. It's not Coors. It's Bell's. It's New Belgium. It's Deschutes. It's these regional breweries that are having less growth in their home markets so they have to expand to foreign territory." For example, Lagunitas, which produces nearly 500,000 barrels a year in its Petaluma, Calif., brewery, is¬†opening a new facility in Chicago, which will have the capacity to produce 1.7 million. That could dramatically alter the beer market in the Windy City. The size of the company allows it to make beer faster and cheaper than the competition. "At some point, are people going to want to pay $12 per six-pack when they can pay $7 and get a high-quality six-pack from a bigger brewery?" wonders Oregon State University economics professor Patrick Emerson, who runs the Beeronomics blog. In Oregon, he adds, "We're starting to see some closings. As a cold-hearted economist, that's a good thing ‚Äî it increases the pressure to be exceptional." Good for consumers, perhaps, but challenging for craft brewers. When Buceta launched Singlecut last year, there were no other craft breweries in Queens. Now there are at least five. Nearly every week, people get in touch asking for his advice about starting a brewery. He rarely responds. Much as he'd like to, it wouldn't be good business to lend a hand to someone who could potentially steal his market share. "Brewers are going to start having sharper elbows, and you're starting to see cracks in the theory that a rising ship raises all tides in the craft beer world," Schuhmacher says. The trend is of growing concern to insiders. "We don't really have the emotional tools for dealing with battling the guy down the street rather than Anheuser-Busch," Good Beer Hunting's Kiser acknowledges. ¬† Forty-three breweries closed their doors in 2012, including six during a rough two-week span in February. That was up from 37 the previous year, and included Nevada's much-loved Buckbean. Owner Doug Booth, who brewed "Roller Bock" for the Nevada National Guard after they flew the company's flag during a mission in Afghanistan, blamed high costs and the tough economy. "The prices of the ingredients increased, and we really had not planned for that," he told the Reno Gazette-Journal at the time. "We were looking to increase our revenues, but unfortunately, we were too understaffed to manage it properly." Greg Koch, who founded San Diego's Stone Brewing Company in 1996, thinks plenty more closings are on the horizon: "We are giving the consumer a dizzying array of choices, which range from super-high quality to rather mediocre stuff," he points out. "You can expect that consumer fatigue will show up again, just like it did in 1996. It's like a school of fish. It will turn, but you don't know when." Off Color's Laffler shares Koch's concerns. "I'm really worried that a lot people are going to get into trouble in the next couple of years," he says. "They are risking a lot of money, whether it's their own or other peoples'. These are peoples' jobs. It's not a hobby. This is a profession. Courtesy The Blind TigerThe Blind Tiger in New York."Everybody's undercapitalized," Laffler adds. "F**k, I'm undercapitalized. I think there are a lot of rosy-colored glasses out there. A lot of people look at craft beer as a way to make money or be successful. Everyone has been growing at 10, 20, 100, 200 percent a year. Some new brewery founders think that they are going to do that, too. The world of beer was much different two or three years ago." Koch calls it "an age of irrational exuberance." The Stone founder, always quick with a metaphor, compares the craft industry to a young San Diego tree, one that came of age during one of those rare years when the usually fierce Santa Ana winds fail to materialize. "There's no headwind at all," he says. "In order for a tree to grow strong, there has to be wind. Otherwise, when we have a season of severe Santa Anas, there will be toppled trees all over the place. A lot of small brewers right now are growing up with no headwind. Chain stores are asking them before they open if they can get in line to buy some of their beer. This is an unusual thing that they think is normal. This won't continue." Stone, it must be said, is one of the few beer-making outfits that has successfully made the transition from local to national. Seventeen years after it was founded, it's now the 10th-largest craft brewery in the country. But even Koch is feeling the squeeze from all the new, local breweries popping up across the country. "I just got back from a short trip to Minnesota," he recalls. "A couple of the beer bars that have our beer on tap pretty regularly, just happened to not have our beer on tap. Why? Because their taps were filled with the new guys. It's not that they don't like Stone. It's not that they aren't going to be putting Stone back on tap. But when you have just so many physical tap handles ‚Äî and now you have this rush of new stuff and everybody is in a shiny-new-object mode ‚Äî it creates competition. You can't sell beer if it's not available." The flooded market has bred a generation of beer fans with no allegiance to a particular brand but an unquenchable thirst for the latest and greatest. As a result, many beer bars regularly rotate kegs, meaning that breweries need to constantly innovate to maintain sales. "We usually won't keep the same beer around for a long time," says Joey Pepper, the lead bartender at Brooklyn's Torst. "We'll do one initial purchase of it and then maybe come back to it later." Loyalty to a favorite producer is a thing of the past. For The Blind Tiger's Katherine Kyle, the goal is to build a good slate of options, period. "I try to order the beer that's going to move, but at the same time, I'm also curating that list," she says. "I have some parts that I want to be accessible and some parts that I want to be more esoteric." Kyle views the beer explosion she and her bar helped create with some wariness. Plenty of neophyte brewers, she says, just don't cut it. "Sometimes a young brewery isn't ready," she says. "We'll take it because they really want to be in the bar, but if they don't have the kinks out, the crowd here will pick up on it." ¬† Jen Kimmich is on the hunt for a new space. She and John had their eye on one spot but they had to bail after a traffic study indicated that they would need to pay to widen the road. Now, they are trying to decide whether to open a new, larger retail shop or buy a space where they can build a second brewery.Hayman PhotographyCans of Heady Topper fresh off the production line.  "There's an idea that we are against any growth," Kimmich says a bit defensively. "That's not true." Meanwhile, the Alchemist crew continues to brew beer, and not only the world famous double IPA. Another favorite is Petite Mutant, an American wild ale made with 1,500 pounds of local Montmorency cherries and several quarts of concentrated Montmorency juice from Wisconsin. "We'll never even break even on it," Kimmich says. "It's like the $10,000 batch of beer. We'll keg some up for local accounts and probably sell some single cans of it. And we'll drink a lot of it."
There were 14.6 million cosmetic plastic surgery procedures performed in the U.S. alone in 2012, up 5% from the previous year, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS). But America doesn't top the list of countries with the most aesthetic/cosmetic procedures. Italy, Greece, and, South Korea had the most aesthetic/cosmetic procedures per 1,000 people in 2011, according to a map from International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (ISAPS) and Goldman Sachs. The U.S., Colombia and Brazil are also right up there. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJeffrey GundlachDoubleLine CEO Jeff Gundlach just finished his latest webcast. During the call, he discussed Fed stimulus, which he thinks will be around longer than most foresee due to low inflation rates. Gundlach also said that while relaxation in lending standards has people worried about corporate bonds ‚Äî and that this could come back to haunt the market in the future ‚Äî it isn't a problem for now, as corporate profitability remains so high. He also sees emerging market bonds outperforming high yield in the future, given recent underperformance of the former versus the latter. All of Gundlach's theses are born out of a macro framework which he communicates in his eye-opening, hand-picked collection of charts on debts, spending, employment, inflation, stocks, bonds, and other critical global macro indicators.
Some market-watchers believe that a bullish Barron's cover is a contrarian indicator.† In other words, if it's an optimistic cover, then investors should be worried. Unfortunately, this rule hasn't worked during this rally. (see here, here, here, here, here, here, and here). Having said all of that, the story is nevertheless bullish. "The 10 strategists Barron's consulted about the outlook for 2014 have year-end targets for the S&amp;P of 1900 to 2100, well above Friday's close of 1775.32; their mean prediction is 1977," wrote Barron's Vito Racanelli. This number is a bit higher than the 12 strategists tracked by Business Insider, who have a mean forecast of 1,949. "The bullish consensus might trouble contrarians, but Wall Street's pros see ample reason for optimism, given their expectations of a stronger economy and rising corporate profits," added Racanelli. The strategist skewing everyone's averages is JP Morgan's Tom Lee who sees the S&amp;P 500 surging to 2,075. "The bull market, which began in March 2009, is acting like a ìclassicî secular bull market," wrote Lee in a note to clients on Friday. "History says we could see a 20% gain in 2014,"
