Nathan T. Wright Earlier, we published a bunch of pictures of computer-generated women. If you haven't seen them yet, you're going to want to. They're quite striking. After looking at these computer-generated women, you won't have to think to hard to have a sense of where the porn-fantasy world is heading. As soon as we published these pictures, moreover, folks at the South By Southwest conference in Austin, Texas, began comparing those women to the woman below. The woman below, apparently, is a computer-generated booth babe. This demonstration will presumably add to your sense of where the fantasy (and booth babe) industries are headed. The 3M hologram girl is trying to chat me up. #sxsw vine.co/v/bwiEv1mrFYw
Here's something that we haven't seen at all during the crisis aftermath: accelerating wage growth. But check this out. If you look at a year-over-year chart of private sector average hourly wages, you can finally see the first real signs of accelerating wages. FRED Here, let's zoom in a little more. Here's the same measure ‚Äî year-over-year change in average hourly wages ‚Äî going back just to 2007. FRED There have been some bumps up along the way, but yes, it really looks like for the first time since the recession, we're seeing a sustained period of wage growth. This will be a big trend to watch. For one thing, it's great for workers and spending etc. It also has implications for margins and the Fed, which will start to feel an itch in its finger, the longer this trend is sustained. Accelerating wage growth, and an unemployment rate that's ticking higher. Expect the "Fexit" (Fexit) talk to pick up. UPDATE: And right on cue, @jesse_livermore on Twitter posts this great chart showing year-over-year hourly wage growth vs. the Fed Funds rate (the Fed's main policy tool), which suggests that indeed an acceleration in wage growth would likely make the Fed think more about winding down its extraordinary actions. FRED
There are two basic approaches to fixing our crappy economy. The first approach is called "austerity." This logic for this approach rests on the theory that our economy is crappy because our government is spending more than it takes in and that the resulting deficit is creating "uncertainty." Once this deficit spending is reduced, this theory goes, uncertainty will ease, and confidence will return. And then our economy can recover in earnest. The second approach is called "stimulus." The logic for this approach rests on the theory that our economy is crappy because consumers are unemployed and broke and have little money to spend. Because consumers have little money to spend, this theory continues, the government should take up the slack and deficit-spend until unemployment drops and consumers have more money to spend. This government spending, in other words, will keep the blood flowing until the patient is healthy again. Five years ago, economists were locked in a fierce debate about which approach was better--"stimulus" or "austerity." Thankfully, that question has now been answered. The "stimulus" approach is better. Importantly, this question has not just been answered theoretically. It has been answered empirically. In 2008-2009, you will recall, the U.S. and Europe both went into a deep recession. In response, the U.S. tried "stimulus." Europe, meanwhile--and most notably the United Kingdom--tried "austerity." You know how well "austerity" has worked in southern Europe. The collapse of the Greek economy, and the ongoing weakness in Italy and Spain and much of the rest of the Eurozone, illustrates clearly that you can't cut your way to prosperity. What you might not know is how poorly "austerity" has worked in the European economy that is perhaps most like our own: The UK. Economist Paul Krugman put up a chart this morning that reminds us how well it has worked. The red line in the chart below shows the progress of the United States economy over the past five years. The United States, you will recall, enacted stimulus in response to the crisis. And, today, the U.S. economy is significantly larger than it was before the recession. The blue line in the chart, meanwhile, is the UK economy. The UK, you will recall, tried "austerity" as a way of fixing its economy. The UK economy has performed very poorly for the last several years, and is still smaller than it was before the crisis. Paul Krugman, New York Times This chart should make everyone who still believes that the way to fix our economy today is to cut government spending question their thinking. Unfortunately, in the past five years, these two approaches have been "politicized," which means that the people who advocate them never question their thinking. They just look at their party "talking points" and start talking. That's too bad. Because what it means is that, while each political team tries to score political points by reading from their party teleprompters, the rest of us have to suffer through a crappy economy.
Wikimedia CommonsIt was a good week for the economy. Even before Friday's Non-Farm Payrolls report, we reported that a lot of data was coming in very strong, suggesting at least that the expiration of the Payroll Tax Holiday was not hitting the economy as hard as some had feared. Prior to the jobs report, we saw really nice numbers on ISM Manufacturing, ISM Services, consumer credit, and initial jobless claims. Goldman Sachs is starting to get excited and take note. Here's a segment from a new note, which was posted on Calculated Risk: In our annual forecast rollout last November, we predicted that the US economy would move ìover the humpî of fiscal contraction, with still-sluggish growth in most of 2013 followed by a gradual acceleration to an above-trend pace in late 2013 and 2014. But the recent data raise the tantalizing prospect that the ìhumpî may already have occurred. ... The most visible data point is the strong February employment report showing a nonfarm payroll gain of 236,000 and a drop in the unemployment rate to 7.7%. But arguably the more important one is the apparent resilience of consumer spending despite the $200bn tax increase that took effect in January. ... In our view, it is still too early to close the books on the early-2013 consumption slowdown. After all, we only have auto sales and consumer confidence in hand for February so far. And we still think that the weakness in federal spending will restrain growth in coming quarters. But if consumption picture holds up in light of upcoming data, a modest upward adjustment to our growth forecast would probably make sense. Of course, the sequestration has just barely begun, and it may take some time for that to play out. But it's clear that we're getting close to breaking away from the post-crisis "new normal" and more towards the "old normal" trend growth for the economy. So tantalizingly close! Anyway, Calculated Risk has put up a great roundup of last week's data. Bill McBride prefaces his writeup with the line: "WARNING: Don sunglasses before reading! :-)"
AmazonEarlier this week, we published¬†Stifel Nicolaus Managing Director Dave Lutz' annual list of books recommended by traders. Every year, Lutz polls his clientele and ask them what books they like. He then sends out a big list to give everyone fresh ideas. Now, we dig a bit deeper ‚Äî and go a bit more high-brow ‚Äî by pulling 15 classic novels that appear on the list.¬† Some you probably haven't read since high school but are always worth revisiting. Others have maybe always been on your list. If so, here's a great excuse to finally get around to them.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc lost its battle to ignore an investor proposal to strip Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein of his chairman role, according to correspondence posted on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website on Friday. SEC staff sent a letter to Goldman internal counsel Beverly O'Toole this week, saying the agency is "unable to concur" with Goldman's view that the shareholder proposal does not warrant a vote. CTW Investment Group, which owns 25 Goldman shares, sent the proposal to the bank late last year for inclusion in its proxy statement. The investor argued that the chairman's role should be filled by an outsider who has never held an executive role at the company, "to promote the robust oversight and accountability of management." CTW is a coalition of unions that has become more active in proxy battles in recent years. Goldman responded by sending a letter to the SEC in January, requesting permission to omit the proposal from its proxy statement because the bank said it was "inherently vague and indefinite." The SEC's decision this week denied Goldman's request. (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Jan Paschal) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
As Cosma Shalizi says: "The singularity is in our past." Look at the bleeding edge of urban North Atlantic or East Asian civilization, and you see a world fundamentally unlike any human past. Hunting, gathering, farming, herding, spinning and weaving, cleaning, digging, smelting metal and shaping wood, assembling structures--all of the ‚Äúin the sweate of thy face shalt thou eate bread‚Äù things that typical humans have typically done since we became jumped-up monkeys on the East African veldt--are now the occupations of a small and dwindling proportion of humans. And where we do have farmers, herdsmen, manufacturing workers, construction workers, and miners, they are overwhelmingly controllers of machines and increasingly programmers of robots. They are no longer people who make or shape things--facture--with their hands--manu. At the bleeding edge of the urban North Atlantic and East Asia today, few focus on making more of necessities. There are enough calories that it is not necessary that anybody need be hungry. There is enough shelter that it is not necessary that anybody need be wet. There is enough clothing that it is not necessary that anybody need be cold. And enough stuff to aid daily life that nobody need feel under the pressure of lack of something necessary. We are not in the realm of necessity. What do modern people do? Increasingly, they push forward the corpus of technological and scientific knowledge. They educate each other. They doctor each other. They nurse each other. They care for the young and the old. They entertain each other. They provide other services for each other to take advantage of the benefits of specialization. And they engage in complicated symbolic interactions that have the emergent effect of distributing status and power and coordinating the seven-billion person division of labor of today‚Äôs economy. We have crossed a great divide between what we used to do in all previous human history and what we do now. Since we are not in the realm of necessity, we ought to be in the realm of freedom. But although we have largely set these post-agrarian post-industrial patterns for the next stage of human history, the human world of this next stage is only half-made. The future is already here--it is just not evenly distributed. Of the 7.2 billion people alive in the world today, at least 25% billion still live lives that are hard to distinguish from the lives of our pre-industrial ancestors. Only 5% of today‚Äôs world population lives in countries where income per capita is greater than $40,000 per year; only 10% lives in countries where income per capita is greater than $20,000 per year. The bulk of the world‚Äôs population is on the stairway to modernity. The patterns are set. The top of the stairway is visible--although it is not clear which top we shall reach: many possible tops are immanent in the patterns. Nevertheless, the climb will be hard. And that is what much of the history of the twenty-first and twenty-second centuries is likely to be about. So how did this great transformation happen? And how did the way it happened shape who we are now and who we will be in the future? The traditional tools, practices, patterns, and molds of history are not as much help in telling this story as one might hope. The history of how the world was greatly transformed is primarily economic and technological, and secondarily political and social. But historians are not used to placing the economic and technological in first place. In the study of any period back before 1800, there is no way that economic history can be seen as even one of the principal axes. Before 1800, most history at even the century-level--let alone the decade-level or the year-level--could not be economic history. History is change. And before 1800 economic factors changed only slowly. The structure and functioning of the economy at the end of any given century was pretty close to what it had been at the beginning. The economy was then was much more the background against which the action of a play takes place than like a dynamic foreground character. Changes in humanity's economy--how people made, distributed, and consumed the material necessities and conveniences of their lives--required long exposures to become visible. Economic history could be--indeed, had to be--a specialized ‚Äúlong duration‚Äù history. It required a scope of perhaps 500 years, if not more, to be properly placed in the foreground of any historical canvas. And even then the story told was of recurrent patterns and cycles rather than development and change. But since 1750 or so things have been different. The pace of economic change has been so great as to shake the rest of history to its foundation. For perhaps the first time, the making and using the necessities and conveniences of daily life--and how production, distribution, and consumption changed--has been the driving force behind a single century‚Äôs history. Even in the most long-established of professions, the pattern and rhythm of work life today is so very different from that of our ancestors as to be almost unrecognizable. It is these changes in production and also in home life and consumption, and the reactions to them, that make up the center ring action of the history that has made us who we are. This post-1750 history takes place in two stages. The first stage is the nineteenth century: the century of the British Industrial Revolution. Call it 1750-1870. It opens up the possibilities. The second stage is the twentieth century. Call it 1870-2010. It sets the patterns into which the human world is likely to grow in the future. delong.typepad.com SEE ALSO: Cosma Shalizi (2010): The Singularity in Our Past Light-Cone (November 28) http://vserver1.cscs.lsa.umich.edu/~crshalizi/weblog/699.html
Event Macau's leaders have travelled to Beijing for the annual session of the National People's Congress (NPC, China's largely rubber-stamp legislature), and have used the occasion to hold meetings with senior mainland officials, focusing primarily on bilateral co-operation. Analysis While Hong Kong media are concerned about comments from senior mainland officials railing against subversive groups in the territory, Macau's concerns at the legislative session are, for the most part, more prosaic. This partly reflects the fact that there is less pressure from the public in Macau to increase the level of democracy in the Special Administrative Region (SAR); Macau has generally been more politically apathetic than Hong Kong since its return to Chinese rule in 1999. Nevertheless, Macau does have many day-to-day concerns that can be advanced during the networking that surrounds the annual double sessions of the NPC and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (a powerless advisory body) in Beijing. Macau's chief executive, Chui Sai On, for example, has held discussions with Hu Chunhua, the new Chinese Communist Party secretary of the neighbouring mainland province of Guangdong. Mr Hu apparently confirmed that construction plans for the new campus of the University of Macau, which is being built on the nearby island of Hengqin in Guangdong, have been finalised and that the facility will be ready to accept students in September. Other delegates from Macau have focused on efforts to smooth the flow of visitors across the border between the SAR and China. Macau is also likely to be concerned about the ongoing anti-corruption campaign being waged by the central Chinese government. Historically, the territory has tended to suffer during such crackdowns as illicit money flows from mainland tourists coming to Macau to gamble are curbed. So far, this does not appear to have been the case in the latest campaign, as mainland tourist arrivals continue to expand rapidly. However, Macau's leaders will doubtless be seeking to learn more about the central government's intentions concerning the anti-graft drive. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Event Macau's leaders have travelled to Beijing for the annual session of the National People's Congress (NPC, China's largely rubber-stamp legislature), and have used the occasion to hold meetings with senior mainland officials, focusing primarily on bilateral co-operation. Analysis While Hong Kong media are concerned about comments from senior mainland officials railing against subversive groups in the territory, Macau's concerns at the legislative session are, for the most part, more prosaic. This partly reflects the fact that there is less pressure from the public in Macau to increase the level of democracy in the Special Administrative Region (SAR); Macau has generally been more politically apathetic than Hong Kong since its return to Chinese rule in 1999. Nevertheless, Macau does have many day-to-day concerns that can be advanced during the networking that surrounds the annual double sessions of the NPC and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (a powerless advisory body) in Beijing. Macau's chief executive, Chui Sai On, for example, has held discussions with Hu Chunhua, the new Chinese Communist Party secretary of the neighbouring mainland province of Guangdong. Mr Hu apparently confirmed that construction plans for the new campus of the University of Macau, which is being built on the nearby island of Hengqin in Guangdong, have been finalised and that the facility will be ready to accept students in September. Other delegates from Macau have focused on efforts to smooth the flow of visitors across the border between the SAR and China. Macau is also likely to be concerned about the ongoing anti-corruption campaign being waged by the central Chinese government. Historically, the territory has tended to suffer during such crackdowns as illicit money flows from mainland tourists coming to Macau to gamble are curbed. So far, this does not appear to have been the case in the latest campaign, as mainland tourist arrivals continue to expand rapidly. However, Macau's leaders will doubtless be seeking to learn more about the central government's intentions concerning the anti-graft drive. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
With the DOW blowing by milestones I went looking for other things that were at record levels. The first one that I looked at was M2. No surprise at all, M2 is bigger than ever. Charts of the long and short term trajectory of money supply: ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Bruce Krasting ¬† The money supply is $3T higher than it was at the start of the 2008 recession. GDP is up $2T. Bruce Krasting There is another component of M2.¬† It has me baffled. It too is at a record. In this case it‚Äôs a record low. I‚Äôm sure this important. I don‚Äôt know why it‚Äôs happening. I don‚Äôt know what the consequences of this will be. This chart is screaming something: Bruce Krasting ¬† My thoughts on the chart: - It‚Äôs fairly clear that sharp declines in the velocity of money is consistent with periods of recession. But.. - If recessions are the cause of the decline in velocity, what the heck is going on today? We are now three years out of recessions, and velocity keeps dropping. - Behind each of the recessions is the Federal Reserve. To offset a slowdown in the economy, it drops interest rates. When interest rates fall, velocity declines. - As interest rates have been forced to zero for years past the last recession, the velocity of money has continued to decline. - There are no periods in history where sustained economic expansion has occurred while money velocity is declining. If you buy into my (admittedly un-scholarly) assessment of money velocity, then you might conclude: * The Fed‚Äôs ZIRP policy has outlived its usefulness as a policy tool. * The Fed‚Äôs policy on Forward Guidance for short-term interest rates (another two years of ZIRP) is accelerating the decline in money velocity, and therefore counter productive. Clearly, Bernanke and the other Fed Doves don‚Äôt think there is a connection between record low money velocity and ZIRP. In fact, they must believe precisely the opposite. These folks are aware of the collapse in velocity, they know that this drop is a drag on the economy (particularly inflation), yet they have committed themselves to a policy that (IMHO) insures that money velocity stays historically low.¬† Go figure. One final thought on money velocity ‚Äì it will return to a more normal level at some point. This may not happen until years into the future when monetary policy goes off ‚ÄúFast Forward‚Äù. But it will happen. When it does, the high octane gas that is now M2 and not moving; will become the bloated M2 that is moving. Another dumb question comes to mind.: The Fed has said that it will not back off until inflation gets to 3%. But when the Fed does back off, money velocity should accelerate very quickly ‚Äì and this should give inflation another big boost. So when the Fed finally does respond to rising inflation, its actions will light a fuse on more inflation. The Fed Doves are not thinking of that scenario. If they did, they would be not so confident in their ability to control the outcome. That, or they‚Äôre bluffing.
Reuters* Feb CPI rises 3.2 percent from year earlier * Feb food CPI up 6.0 percent on year * Feb PPI falls 1.6 percent from year earlier BEIJING, March 9 (Reuters) - China's annual inflation jumped to a 10-month high in February as holiday spending for the Lunar New Year drove food prices sharply higher, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed on Saturday. China's consumer price index rose 3.2 percent in February versus a year ago, ahead of market expectations in the benchmark Reuters poll of a rise of 3.0 percent, with food prices leaping 6.0 percent on a year ago - a nine-month high. The month-on-month rise in CPI was also ahead of consensus, with the 1.1 percent increase the strongest monthly gain since January 2012's rise of 1.5 percent. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a 0.8 percent rise. The sharp rise in food prices underlined that seasonal distortions caused by the timing of Lunar New Year festivities - which were in February this year and in January in 2012 - were key drivers of the headline annual rise in prices. "Going into March, with the Lunar New Year impact fading and weather turning better, all conditions become favourable for food production and transportation and March CPI is expected to ease from February," Yu Qiumei, a senior NBS statistician, said in a statement accompanying the data. Policymakers are already braced for higher prices this year versus last. Inflation is likely to hit 3.5 percent in 2013, according to targets announced at the opening of China's annual legislative meeting on Tuesday. Inflation in 2012 was 2.6 percent. The 2013 projection, however, is 50 basis points below the 4 percent inflation that had been factored into the government's 2012 economic forecasts, suggesting that inflation is seen to be relatively well-contained - either by existing policy settings or the relative slackness in the world's second-biggest economy. China's GDP grew at its slowest rate in 13 years in 2012. ECONOMY STABILISING An economic recovery that started in the fourth quarter last year is viewed by analysts as a mild one engineered to ensure stability during the first year of a new government headed by Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang, who are in the final formal stages of taking over from outgoing President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao. That is due to be completed by March 17. "This pickup should have enough momentum to buoy growth for at least the first half of 2013, which will allow China's new leaders to take office against a more optimistic backdrop of rising business confidence," Andrew Batson, research director at consultancy GK Dragonomics wrote in a note to clients. Producer price data reflected the still mild nature of the recovery, with prices at China's factory gates falling 1.6 percent in February from the year before, compared with a 1.6 percent drop in January. Month-on-month, factory gate prices rose 0.2 percent in a sign that pricing in China's industrial sector is stabilising as a recovery in the world's No.2 economy gathers pace. A better sense of broad recovery momentum should come later on Saturday when data for industrial output, fixed asset investment and retail sales is published. Chinese trade data on Friday underlined the uneven path of the recovery, as exports soared past forecasts to jump by a fifth in February from a year ago, while imports were surprisingly weak, falling at their fastest pace in 13 months. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Bloomberg, Business InsiderThe world is changing, and nowhere is that better illustrated than in a good series of charts. Luckily, we've seen no shortage of excellent charts this week that amply illustrate the changes underway. The best charts this week touch on everything¬†from the first margin debt sell signal in three years to a major phase change for the U.S. dollar. Now, let's go to the charts.
It would collect ìmicro-level structural informationî on household wealth. A massive bureaucratic undertaking. Surveys went out in 2010. Results are now ready. No one in Europe had ever done a survey on that scale before. And no one might ever do it again. Because, in the era of bailouts and wealth-transfers, the results are so explosive that the Bundesbank is keeping its report secretóand word has leaked out why. The surveys were conducted on a national basis, with each central bank publishing its own report. They would then be combined and summarized by the ECB into a cohesive picture of how wealthyóor how poorópeople in various parts of the Eurozone were. A number of countries already published their reports, including Italy and Austria. What the Austrian National Bank found was not pretty (20-page PDF). The considerable wealth in Austria was very unevenly distributed. The wealthiest 5% owned nearly half of the countryís wealth. Their median wealth was Ä1.7 million in diversified assets. The lower 50% owned only 4% of the countryís wealth. Of them, 83% rented their homes. Their median wealth was a measly Ä11,000 consisting usually of a car and a savings account. Thatís half of the people! And 10% had a net wealth of less than Ä1,000. This unequal distribution of wealth created a huge gap between median income (half the people earned more, the other half less) of Ä76,000 and average income of Ä265,000 (pushed up by a small number of extremely wealthy households). And thatís why some countries donít even publish average income values. Too much truth would hurt. Germanyís data is likely to be similaróbut the Bundesbank is treating its report like a secret. Because the results are, letís say, awkward for two reasons. The highly unequal distribution of wealth is one of them. The German government already went through wild gyrations late last year, and now again, over its Poverty Report that exposed some inconvenient facts that were then edited outósomething that was leaked immediately, and it caused a ruckus [read.... Censored: Poverty Report in†Germany]. Italy is the other issue. But it may be too hot for the Bundesbank to touch. Italyís report (142-page PDF) finds that median household net wealth has increased 56% since 1991. And from 2008 to 2010, it increased by about 5% annually, despite the crisis! But the wealth of German households stagnated during much of that time while they paid taxes out of their noses. And now they might learn that Italyís median household wealth is Ä163,875ówhile Germanyís is closer to Austriaís, around Ä76,000. Less than half! ìPolitically explosive,î sources at the Bundesbank whispered to the FAZ. These reports show that in some countries, like Italy, where government finances have been in crisis, median household wealth is actually greater than in some financially healthy countries where governments have kept deficits and debts down. Germanyís federal government only had a minuscule deficit in 2012. But high taxes and the citizensí greater willingness to pay themóthough cheating is a national sportóhave over the years extracted a lot of wealth from the people and transferred it to the government. In Italy, people have been more adept at hanging on to their wealth. To the detriment of government finances. Other studies have shown similar trends, but never on such a scale with such detail, and in this ìharmonizedî and easily comparable manner. It could stir up a firestorm in Germany. Itís not just jealousy. Strung-out German taxpayers would have to be bamboozled into bailing out the mountain of Italian government debt that the Italians, whose median wealth is twice that of Germans, refused to pay for. It wonít sit well. Not at all. It could become a political nightmare for Chancellor Angela Merkel, who faces an election in a few months and must keep any kind of tumult out of the scenery. If the report ever sees the light of the day in unvarnished formónot a certainty given the debacle of the Poverty ReportóBundesbank statisticians will be trying to explain away the difference between countries like Italy and Germany. Household wealth is particularly high in countries with high homeownership rates, they will argue. In countries where renting is popular, like Germany, a considerable part of the housing stock is owned by the government and rented out in a subsidized manner. Thus the wealth is public, etc. etc. Because the bailout saga must go on. The messy reality that Germans canít afford to bail out their richer neighbors must not be allowed to interfere with the grand and glorious saga of the euro. Every country in the Eurozone has its own collection of big fat lies that politicians and eurocrats have served up in order to make the euro and the subsequent bailouts or austerity measures less unappetizing. Here are some from the German point of view..... Ten Big Fat Lies To Keep The Euro Dream†Alive.
"I have to get into this market; otherwise it's just dragging on me" (A portfolio manager quoted in the Wall Street Journal just prior to the March 2000 peak in the S&amp;P 500.) "..as long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance.¬† We're still dancing." (Citigroup CEO Chuck Prince in July 2007)¬† You know how that turned out. It's that time again.¬† The Dow surpassed its all-time high and the S&amp;P 500 is not that far from the tops of 1553 on March 24, 2000 and 1576 on October 9, 2007.¬† Just as in 2000 and 2007, the economic, valuation and political background does not support the budding euphoria. The economy has been limping along at about a 2% growth rate despite the near-zero percent Fed Funds yield and huge amounts of Fed bond purchases.¬† At the same time fiscal policy has become a significant headwind.¬† The agreement to avert the fiscal cliff could slice about 1% off GDP with the sequester reducing it by another 0.5%.¬† A 1.5% hit to a GDP that was only growing at about 2% leaves the economy on awfully thin ice, and very close to recession.¬† Consumers are still in the process of deleveraging their debt, and with wages climbing so slowly, are in no position to go on a spending spree anytime soon.¬† Businesses, sensing a lack of consumer demand, and worried about the dysfunction in Washington, are not likely to step up capital expenditures to any great degree.¬† Unlike the stock market, they are building up their cash in anticipation of the next crisis. The market has climbed on the basis of an almost childlike faith in the Fed as well as record corporate profits.¬† As we have previously stated the Fed has not been successful in channeling money into the real economy.¬† Moreover, corporate earnings growth has come to halt and is threatening to turn down.¬† In fact, third quarter S&amp;P 500 operating earnings declined from a year earlier, and fourth quarter reports seem to be falling short as well with the vast majority of companies having already reported.¬† Two quarters of declining year-to-year earnings growth has been seen only in recessionary environments. ¬†Earnings for the full year were up a miniscule 0.6% from 2011.¬† Although earnings estimates have been coming down analysts are still forecasting an increase of 14.7% for 2013 and another 12.8% for 2014. ¬†This outcome is highly unlikely, and will probably disappoint on the downside, particularly in view of the decline in fourth quarter productivity.¬† In April 2012 the consensus forecast for 2012 operating earnings was $104.89, and ended up at $96.99.¬† Even the prediction for 2013 has been reduced to $111.28 from $118.85.¬† If anything, the downward revisions appear to be accelerating.¬† Fourth quarter earnings turned out to be 13% lower than forecasts made as late as September. To make matters worse, profit margins are at historical peaks, and whenever this has happened margins have reverted to the mean. ¬†¬†¬† Rosy forward-looking earnings forecasts that come crashing down are nothing new for the market.¬† These forecasts are almost always wrong, and most often on the high side.¬† In mid-2000 the forecast of forward operating earnings was $64 and eventually came in at $38. At year-end 2007 the consensus estimate for 2008 was $89 and remained there until the end of May.¬† Even at the end of October, only two months from year-end, the estimate was $72.¬† The actual number came in at $46 just a few months later. The estimate for 2009 was even more laughable at $110 in May 2008.¬† At year-end it was still $99, but eventually ended up at only $57. Given all of the problems with using forward operating earnings as a measure of market valuation, it's amazing that it continues in such widespread use.¬† Currently, a large number of analysts are using the 2013 operating earnings forecast of $113 in estimating the P/E ratio at 13.7, which they regard as reasonable or even slightly undervalued. History, however, indicates that such euphoric forecasts at turning points are often hugely overestimated.¬† When the actual earnings are reported it becomes apparent that the P/E ratio was far higher than it appeared at the time. We also note that for the purposes of this comment we have gone along with the "Street's" predominant use of operating earnings.¬† As long-time readers know, we prefer the use of trailing cyclically-smoothed reported (GAAP) earnings, which gives a truer picture of valuation.¬† On this basis the P/E ratio is about 19, which would be highly overvalued for any time before the series of bubbles that started in the late 1990s. ¬†
To wit: management has reported that ‚Äúcomparable store sales for the month of February increased 3% compared to last year's 4% rise. Net sales for the month increased by 11%, (to) $966 million, up from $874 million for the four-week period ended February 25, 2012.‚Äù¬† In turn, same-store-sales from GAP North America jumped more than 2%, while same-geography Banana Republic dropped 5%. The seemingly big winner in all this? Old Navy: the brand‚Äôs comparable store sales jumped 6%, continuing a trend that‚Äôs emerged in recent years: GAP Inc. holds ground, BR loses it, and ON continues thriving in a slowed global economy. What‚Äôs this all mean?¬† For starters, the market‚Äôs obviously excited with both these results and those of the¬†past year, going so far as to say that GAP‚Äôs the turnaround story of the past 12 months, if not¬†few years. Furthermore, the company‚Äôs stock price has jumped to and now hovers around $35/share, up from a 52-week low of $24.26. Finally, the San Francisco based brand has its eyes set off-shore expansion, perhaps more so now than ever: company execs recently announced, in a direct shot fired across the bow at Euro-based competitor H&amp;M, ‚Äúplans¬†to open as many as 20 more Old Navy stores in Japan in 2013.‚Äù And really, it all makes sense.¬† Markets respond to earnings, and¬†GAP¬†has, at least superficially, delivered: and the driver behind these earnings? Old Navy. Consequently, it makes sense that GAP now turns to ON to further boost growth and earnings in a seemingly-paused global economy currently rejecting BR‚Äôs high price tags, while splurging on GAP‚Äôs item-of-the-moment (most recently: brightly-colored capris). So where‚Äôs that leave the retailer in the next 5-10 years? Despite recent media-proclamations that all‚Äôs good for golden-retailer GAP, the company‚Äôs headed for trouble.¬† Yet again. Here‚Äôs why: despite its 2012 expansion-slowed earnings, Swedish-behemoth¬†H&amp;M¬†has, in recent years, outpaced GAP by multiples, with Uniqlo quickly closing in behind. Instead of retrenching, innovating, and economizing operations and designs in order to cut COGS, boost net income, and solidify product offerings in the now internationally-dominated world of fast-fashion retail, GAP has instead decided to take the afore-listed retailers on ‚Äúhead-on,‚Äù by embracing the difficult-to-master art of quick operations and ‚Äúmodern‚Äù designs, all intended to boost inventory turns and keep consumers returning again and again.¬† And, despite the recent few years‚Äô positive proof the strategy‚Äôs working, it‚Äôs driving the company into a sartorial corner. Think about it: while the market may not see this, GAP finds itself relying more and more on ON (that brand which, in terms of price and turns, rivals Forever 21, yet another retailer driving down GAP‚Äôs revenues and margins in recent years) for both international growth and revenue stability. This reliance on the most ‚Äúfast-fashion‚Äù of the three key brands coincides with the drop off in BR‚Äôs revenue and the relative stability of the GAP‚Äôs.¬† This suggests that, given AP‚Äôs recent¬†significant increase in prices¬†(which rival BR‚Äôs on the high-end), consumers are migrating downward, ergo redefining the BR-GAP-ON triumvirate on the low ‚Äì as opposed to high ‚Äì end.¬† In short, GAP‚Äôs using its cheapest, lowest-margin brand to artificially boost revenue and earnings. Is this the end of the GAP as we know it?¬† No, of course not.¬† But it does signify a shift in its clientele and market expectations, ones that in turn clash significantly with the brand‚Äôs recent (extremely misguided) attempts to¬†move up-market.¬† In short, look for GAP to first rely upon for revenue ‚Äì then later spin-off/sell ‚Äì its most ‚Äúnon-GAP-aspirational‚Äù brand, Old Navy.¬† All because management didn‚Äôt think ahead. Or at all strategically. Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with ACM Partners, a boutique financial advisory firm providing due diligence, performance improvement, restructuring and turnaround services.¬† She can be reached at 312-505-0700 or at¬†margaret@acm-partners.com.
Jobs at big firms pay more than $165,000 a year to start, but the hours are notoriously long and the work can be mind-numbing. One former lawyer says it was utterly demoralizing too. At the end of our source's brief stint at a major firm, she felt she had no choice but to leave BigLaw completely. This former lawyer joined the firm after graduating from an Ivy League law school. At first, partners distributed work evenly among her "class" of associates, or young lawyers who have yet to make partner. But then a pecking order was quickly established. "I think law firms are very goal-oriented," our source told us. "You are going to become a partner, or you are disposable. If you are disposable, then you have a crappy life." The "disposable" associates, like our source, often received assignments at 4:30 or 5 p.m. that partners wanted "overnight." Our source routinely worked 13-hour days. "Probably three or five months in, it was very hard to maintain other things in my life," she says. Her work life was made more miserable by the unfriendly atmosphere in the office. The firm once held a "diversity training" where lawyers were told they should greet one another to make people feel less alienated, but partners and senior associates balked at the notion of saying hello to underlings. "There was major kickback from the senior associates and partners," our source says. "They were like, 'No, we don't want to say hello. My¬†prerogative is to be an accomplished lawyer.'" The entire experience, our source says, "was just not very humanizing." Life at the firm got worse after after she got a bad annual review. The writing was on the wall. Our source believes her firm never intended for her to become partner. "I think the abuses started piling up after that," our source told us. For a while, she put one foot in front of the other and went to work. "But at a certain point my body just turned on me," she says, "and I was just not going to physically go into the office anymore." Her departure was not unusual. "They take in large junior classes each year, and at the end of two years most people are gone for different reasons," she says. "People just disappear."
