Tomorrow will be busy ... Thursday economic releases:
Nikolaiii666 / FlickrStocks are way down early in the Asian trading session. Japan's Nikkei is down 0.7 percent. Korea's Kospi is down 0.4 percent. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is down 1.5 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is down 1.4 percent. China's Shanghai Composite is down 1.7 percent. This falls a steep tumble in the U.S. markets where the Dow fell 108 points.¬† A disappointing housing starts report, a weak Caterpillar sales report, and a hawkish tone from the Federal Reserve's FOMC minutes took a toll on stocks, oil, and gold.
Earlier today, Vladimir Pekhtin, a senior lawmaker within Russia's ruling United Russia party, announced his resignation. Pekhtin was not only one of the co-founders of United Russia, one of the key drivers of support for Vladimir Putin, he was also on the State Duma's Credentials and¬†Ethics Commission. Unfortunately, it appears to have been his own ethnics that have done him in. Last week, popular blogger and opposition leader Alexey Navalny published a post that appeared to reveal Pekhtin owned two luxury condos, a house and a plot of land worth more than $2 million. These properties were not declared to the Russian parliament, a breach of protocol. Here's one on Ocean Drive. Marc Cuban is reported to also own a unit in this building. Google Maps Google Street View ¬†And over here there's one on Bay Road. Google Maps Google Street View And here's a house Pekhtin reportedly owns. Note the nice swimming pools. Google Earth This is a big scalp for Navalny, who was one of the biggest faces in the opposition during the 2011/2012 Russian protests, but has faced a legal clampdown since the election. Navalny is now gloating on his blog. While Pekhtin hasn't admitted to doing anything wrong, the news came at a bad time for him ‚Äî the New York Times notes that the day before Navalny's blog post came out, Putin had proposed laws that would stop Russian officials outside of the country. While property would not be so banned, it was still just too embarrassing for the Moscow elites. It may just be the start as well. A United Russia deputy, billionaire Anatony Lomakin, resigned a few hours after Pekhtin.
One of the biggest worries of 2013 is quickly becoming rising gasoline prices.¬† Indeed, of the commodities that make up the CRB Commodity Index, gas is up the most. Here's a quick review of the year-to-date price moves in 19 major commodities via John Stoltzfus' team at Oppenheimer: Oppenheimer
Apple is no longer the most-loved stock among hedge funds. The Goldman Sachs equity strategy team is out with its new list of the most important stocks in the hedge fund world, and "after three consecutive years as the top hedge fund holding, AAPL has slipped to third pace, with 67 funds (11%) holding the stock as a top-10 position versus 109 last quarter (19%)." The new top stock: AIG. At the end of the fourth quarter, 117 funds were holding the stock, and it was a top-10 holding for 80 of those funds. AIG is up 22.5 percent since mid-November, almost double the S&amp;P 500. Goldman analyst†Michael Nannizzi has a $43 price target on the stock, 14.5 percent above today's closing share price of $37.57. The insurer reports earnings Thursday after the closing bell. For those unfamiliar with the VIP list, here is a brief explanation from Goldman of how it works: Our hedge fund VIP list (Bloomberg ticker: &lt;GSTHHVIP&gt;) consists of stocks in which fundamentally-driven hedge funds have a large stake. We define stocks that ìmatter mostî to hedge funds as the positions that appear most frequently among the top ten holdings within hedge fund portfolios. For this analysis, we limit our universe to hedge funds with 10 to 200 distinct equity positions in an attempt to isolate fundamentally-driven investors from quantitative funds or funds that mirror private equity investments. Click on the image below to see the top ten stocks held by hedge funds, according to the latest list: Lionshares via FactSet, IDC, Goldman Sachs Global ECS Research
Flickr/jking89Thursday is another very busy day for economic indicators. Key European indicators measured by the Flash Purchasing Manager's Index (PMI) will be released tomorrow.¬† In The U.S., we'll get some key housing indicators and another read on jobs. Several top U.S. companies are posting earnings reports tomorrow, like Wal-Mart and Safeway. Here's what you need to know (all times ET, consensus estimates from Bloomberg): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
Jordan Strauss/Getty Images for TeslaTesla Motors just announced its fourth-quarter financial results, and it reported a net loss that was a bit wider than expected.† But importantly, the company reached its production goal of 400 Model S cars a week, which it needed to hit to break even. And now, Tesla even expects to†generate "slightly positive" net income in Q1 2013. This would be its first-ever profitable quarter since its IPO. Here's a look at how the company got here.
BloombergByron Wien was almost fired from his first job as a security analyst, and he barely made the cut at Morgan Stanley 1984 where he eventual became the firm's top investment strategist. Today, when Byron Wien talks, all of Wall Street listens at full attention. Wien's annual 'Ten Surprises' list has been circulating for nearly 30 years. This year, in addition to offering market insights, Wien offered some life lessons. It's the type of wisdom that only comes from decades of experience on Wall Street.
APHouse Speaker John Boehner took to the opinion pages of The†Wall Street Journal today in a continued effort to pin the potential disaster of the sequester on President Barack Obama.† "The President's sequester is the wrong way to reduce the deficit, but it is here to stay until Washington Democrats get serious about cutting spending," Boehner writes. "The government simply cannot keep delaying the inevitable and spending money it doesn't have." But there's one big flaw in his argument, as pointed out by the†Washington Examiner's Byron York and others today. York writes that Boehner and the GOP's message is "astonishingly bad" on the sequester. Boehner is arguing that the sequester will be incredibly damaging ó it "threatens U.S. national security, thousands of jobs and more." But at the same time, Republicans are prepared to let the sequester kick in if Democrats don't agree to an equal amount of cuts in entitlement spending. In essence, Boehner is prepared to support a policy that he says threatens national security and jobs. York writes: Could the GOP message on the sequester be any more self-defeating?† Boehner could argue that the sequester cuts are necessary as a first ó and somewhat modest ó step toward controlling the deficits that threaten the economy.† Instead, he describes them as a threat to national security and jobs that he nevertheless supports.† Itís not an argument that is likely to persuade millions of Americans.† York's argument was seized immediately by White House press secretary Jay Carney in his press briefing earlier today.† "The President believes it is essential that we avoid these cuts," Carney said after reading a passage from York's piece. "It is bad policy. The Speaker himself says it is bad policy. We ó the Congress, rather, must act to make sure it doesnít happen." On the other end of the spectrum, conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh also cited York's piece and wondered "what Speaker Boehner is thinking." "But the question is, why would Republicans support something that does what Boehner says it's gonna do?" Limbaugh said. "...†I do not have an explanation. I don't think that there is a reasonable explanation for that. I don't understand it. Don't have an answer for you. It's too simple to chalk this up to incompetence. It may be that, but that's too simple. I don't have an answer. I can't explain it to you. All I know is that it doesn't make any sense." Mixed messaging can only add to the GOP's woes, because on its surface, letting the sequester go into effect doesn't look like a winning game. That's because although his approval ratings have fallen after a post-election honeymoon, Obama is still viewed far more favorably than Congressional Republicans. In a recent Quinnipiac poll, Obama's approval rating stood above water at 46 percent. Congressional Republicans, meanwhile, had an approval rating of 19 percent. That included dreadful ratings of 15 percent from self-identified Independents and only 41 percent from Republican voters. The polls signal that in the event the sequester cuts kick in and the effects are felt by Americans, they will blame Republicans ó the side viewed in much more of a negative light right now.†
Wal-Mart's business has been built on one major principle: "always low prices." Company executives¬†often refer to¬†the company's position as a "price leader" in interviews and news releases.¬† And Wal-Mart's recent ad campaign is based around a "low-price guarantee" and touts the advantages of shopping there over K-Mart, Target, and Best Buy.¬† Despite protests over supply chain concerns like a recent fire in a Bangladesh factory and low employee wages, most people who shop there say they do because it's the cheapest.¬† So is Wal-Mart really that much cheaper than competitors? No.¬† Competitor Target's prices are actually cheaper on average, according to an August study by Bloomberg Industries. The study found that a shopper would save 46 cents for every hundred dollars by shopping at Target instead of Wal-Mart.¬† Other consumer studies from places ranging from New Jersey to Dallas showed that deep discounters (like Aldi and Save-A-Lot) and local grocers had better prices than Wal-Mart. Blogger CouponSherpa compared prices for 71 common grocery products in 2011. She found that competitors like Kroger and Target often had more reasonable prices. The reality about Wal-Mart's pricing could put into context leaked emails reported by Bloomberg last week that caused an uproar.¬† ‚ÄúWell, we just had one of those weeks here at Walmart U.S. Where are all the customers? And where‚Äôs their money?‚Äù one executive said in an email.¬† The emails also said that February sales so far have been a "total disaster" and the worst start to a sales month in seven years. ¬† While it's easy to jump to the conclusion that Wal-Mart's problems spell out greater doom for the economy, it's also possible that it's just losing out to competitors, as Brad Plumer at The Washington Post reported. While the company will price-match to a lower ad, unless the prices are lower, many shoppers don't have the same incentive to do business with Wal-Mart.¬† If the competition has the same or better prices, Wal-Mart is at a disadvantage. Wal-Mart pointed us to more recent studies by USA Today and NBC New York showing that its prices are lower than grocery stores and other competitors. "More recent studies demonstrate Wal-Mart's price leadership. These reiterate that Wal-Mart is the everyday low price leader and that our customers don't have to wait for a sale or look for an ad," a spokeswoman told us.¬†
Gold prices are collapsing. The yellow metal got slammed again today ‚Äì it even hit the "death cross" ‚Äì but it's just part of a much bigger sell-off that's been underway for several months. Real interest rates are rising and fear is receding. That is the core of the bearish thesis on gold right now. The chart below seems to be the last hope for the gold bulls, given current trends.¬† Gold investors have advanced this argument all the time: the Federal Reserve is still printing money, and that's been great for gold. Note the big divergence that has opened up recently ‚Äì gold prices are headed south while the monetary base is doing just the opposite. Bloomberg, Business Insider (h/t @GreekFire23)
Street chatter indicates that while the results weren't terrible, there was little to change the minds of doubters.¬† Tesla revenues came in at $306 million, beating analysts' expectations. But earnings missed at $-0.65. Click here for updates &gt; Analysts expected $298,400,000 in revenues for the Palo Alto-based carmaker, according to Yahoo. Earnings were expected to come in at -$0.53, compared with $-0.69 a year ago. Here's the link to the company's full results. The company said it delivered approximately¬†2,400 Model S vehicles. That's a bit short of analysts expectations.¬† Ben Kallo, a senior research analyst at Robert W. Baird, expected 3,013,¬†according to the San Jose Mercury News. Tesla also said Q1 order cancellations "are likely to remain elevated" as a result of new company pricing timetables. The company says it plans to deliver about 20,000 Model S units in 2013, with 4,500 deliveries in Q1. Tesla watchers say this was a huge quarter for the company.¬† In November, Tesla said it was on track to deliver 2,500 to 3,000 units of the all-electric Model S sedan in the fourth quarter after delivering just 250 cars in the third quarter. It's also the first earnings announcement since Elon Musk's spat with the New York Times over reporter John Broder's harsh review of the Model S.
Martin Cathrae / FlickrThings got ugly. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,927, -108.1 pts, -0.7 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,511, -18.9 pts, -1.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,164. -49.1 pts, -1.5 percent And now the top stories:
Office Depot and OfficeMax have announced a merger, teaming up to fight industry big boy Staples and competition from general merchandise juggernauts Walmart and Amazon. The move will buy time, but it won't save the office supply chains. Not Office Depot, not OfficeMax, not even Staples, which¬†analysts are touting as the post-merger winner. These office retailers will all be destroyed unless they fundamentally change how they do business.  The biggest threat is the fact that workplaces are going digital, making the decline of the office supply industry a reality. "All three companies [OfficeMax, Office Depot, and Staples] could soon face an even larger existential threat than Amazon,"¬†wrote Ryu Spaeth at The Week. "The rapid digitalization of a workforce that has grown less reliant on notepads, pens, and printers. And that may be¬†a trend no merger can solve." For instance,¬†paper shipments have continued to plummet¬†as offices go digital and become more efficient. Just look at this chart from the Federal Register: Federal Register The shift to the paper-free cloud is not only affecting paper and printers. It also means that people don't need mega-packs of highlighters, because they're going through data on their iPad.¬†They don't have to buy pens to jot down notes, because they're typing them out on Evernote.¬†They don't need staplers, because a file on a computer monitor doesn't need to be stapled. "This is a cloud- and tablet-based and paper-free world,"¬†wrote Cody Willard at MarketWatch. "We‚Äôre already there, and all those trends are only going to get bigger." Derek Thompson at The Atlantic¬†points out that there are only few retail segments more doomed than office supplies.  Here's a chart of percentage change in jobs in various retail segments that Thompson got from EMSI. All of the segments worse off than office stores have been infamously decimated in recent years and office stores are poised to follow: EMSI / The Atlantic And the bad news doesn't stop there. The three biggest office supply chains are all big box specialty stores ‚Äî a broken concept. Best Buy, the most visible living victim of the Amazon steamroller, has started making moves to streamline itself with its smaller Best Buy 2.0 prototypes. Even almighty Walmart isn't immune. It's aggressively expanding its grocery business with smaller, standalone shops instead of supercenters. We've already seen consolidation among big boxes with the death of once-mighty CompUSA, Circuit City, Borders, Linens N' Things, and others. K-Mart continues to close stores like crazy. Department stores are getting slammed too ‚Äî jobs in that sector are down more than 40 percent since 2001, according to the data from EMSI. Now, both Office Depot and Staples have been working on developing and expanding smaller-sized physical concepts. An Office Depot exec acknowledged the need for change back in 2011, saying, ‚ÄúOur customers have spoken loud and clear: The big box era is over for them, they value convenience and speed, and they are voting with their wallet." But it won't be enough to reduce store square-footage.¬†Small stores with all the same products aren't going to suddenly make workplaces revert to the old ways. And it won't be enough to change the product assortment away from stacks of paper notepads and manila folders if margins are being tightened due to money wasted on unneeded store space. The current model will implode, and there's nothing anyone can do to stop it.¬†It's the end of the office supply retail world as we know it and these¬†retailers will have to make radical transformations in both areas if they want to survive.
Legendary value investor Seth Klarman, the founder of Boston-based hedge fund Baupost Group, created a bunch of buzz amongst floor traders at the NYSE with a quote from his Q4 letter. Via Art Cashin: "Investing today may well be harder than it has been at any time in our three decades of existence," writes Seth Klarman in his year-end letter. The Fed's "relentless interventions and manipulations" have left few purchase targets for Baupost, he laments. "(The) underpinnings of our economy and financial system are so precarious that the un-abating risks of collapse dwarf all other factors. Cashin noted that Klarman has achieved "near legendary" status on the Street. Klarman, who has a reputation for being media shy,¬†rarely speaks to the press. ¬†He did, however, sit down with interviewer Charlie Rose to discuss history, his book, Ben Graham, Warren Buffett and his investment philosophy back in 2011.¬† The interview is fascinating and we recommend you watch the full thing. We've pulled out 12 brilliant insights for value investing from Klarman.¬†
This morning, the Architecture Billings Index jumped to 54.2 from last month's 51.2 reading, the fastest rate of growth in more than five years. The index is a leading indicator for commercial real estate.† Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, sent along the chart below (the billings index in red versus the S&amp;P 500 in blue), describing the surge in billings as a "huge tailwind" for the market. Business Insider/Bloomberg The chart above suggests that billings can at times correlate with the market ñ but of course, that is not always the case.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk is ready to stop arguing with the New York Times over the newspaper's controversial review of the electric Model S, he tweeted this afternoon: Enough sour grapes from @nytjamescobb (auto ed) and a few others to start a winery. Can we just bury hatchet &amp; move on? The tweet was addressed to James G. Cobb, the Automobiles Editor at the NYT. In a four-part response, Cobb was cordial, but indicated he is still annoyed by Musk's aggressive criticism of the John Broder's review. Musk called the article "fake" soon after it was published. Here's Cobb's guarded reply: @elonmusk Three-parter: Elon, I admire your vision &amp; respect what you have built. You promised a game-changer &amp; Model S appears to be one. @elonmusk 2 of 3: NYT had had many positive pieces about @teslamotors, as you know, and until this month had a good working relationshipÖ @elonmusk 3 of 3: Öbut calling @jbrodernytís account ìfakeî was over the line &amp; impugned reputation of a good man and a consummate pro. @elonmusk Nobody here wants @teslamotors to fail. Quite the opposite, as we've demonstrated: ow.ly/hTwoh That may have prompted Musk's peace offering: Appreciate thoughtful @sulliview article. Faith in @nytimes restored. Tesla wants people to think about the game-changing, planet-saving nature of the Model S, not the likelihood of the car rolling to a stop in the middle of a winter roadtrip.
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesLast week, Bloomberg's Grant Smith reported† Goldman Sachs' is sticking to a year-long call that the price differential between the Brent and West Texas Intermediate†crude oil indices would narrow to $7.50 in the second quarter and $5 in six months. But in the past year, the gap has only widened, and now stands at about $18 ó here's the chart, with Brent in red and WTI in blue. FRED "Goldman Sachs insists they are right and the market is wrong," Stephen Schork writes. In a new note, Schork says that if you stuck with Goldman's recommendation, then you're probably down about 50 percent on your investment. Here's how he explains it: The June 2013 Brent/WTI spread averaged minus $12.24/b last August, when Goldman was telling clients to sell the spread (sell Brent at a $12.24 premium to WTI). However, by November the spread hit minus $17.95/b. Last month the spread had regressed back into ñ what our friend Dennis Gartman dubs asÖ The Box ñ i.e. the Fibonacci 50/62% retracement area from minus $12.98 to minus $11.80.† Thus, if you stuck with this trade you had to sustain a 47% mark-to-market decline in capital before you got back to breakevenÖ only to then watch half of your equity evaporate over the last month.† And he sees no reason to think Goldman will eventually be vindicated. The lynchpin of the trade was the expansion of the Seaway pipeline running from Oklahoma to the Gulf, which was supposed to boost WTI prices by relieving Oklahoma's supply glut. In other words, it was supposed to close the spread.† We wrote about this a few weeks ago.† But now the company responsible for Seaway is saying the pipeline is not able to process the mixture of light and heavy crudes that have accumulated.† As a result, Schork says, the future of the Brent/WTI spread ó and Goldman's call ó remains seriously murky.
Google FinanceAfter spending much of the day modestly in the red, it looks like this stock market sell-off is picking up. It's hard to pinpoint exactly what's causing this. In it's FOMC minutes, the Fed said it should be prepared to vary the pace of its quantitative easing program.¬† Not exactly earth-shattering stuff, but it reminds the markets that the Fed knows it could tighten. Earlier this morning we got a weak housing number.¬† We also heard from Caterpillar, a major industrial bellwether, that its recent sales have been disappointing. There is also some chatter that a major hedge fund or two may be liquidating its positions. Click Here For Full Coverage Of Today's Sell-Off &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Are Too Bullish On European Stock (The Wall St. Journal) Bargain-hunting investors are getting a bit too bullish on European stocks. $1.3 billion flowed into European stock funds in the first six weeks of 2013, according to Lipper data, and that's way more than the whole first quarter total last year, which is when investors started looking towards Europe after the 2007 financial crisis. Value investors should be forewarned against taking too big of a plunge into European stock funds, Global Financial Private Capital's Matt Krueger told the WSJ. He also pointed out that the latest fourth-quarter euro-zone gross domestic product numbers, which were released late last week, paint a picture of a region still contracting. "The last time you could trade euro-zone peripheral stocks at these types of valuations was about 30 years ago," said Krueger, "But we still don't think the rewards outweigh the risks. Gold Prices Have Totally Broken Down (Business Insider) The 50-day moving average for gold just fell below the 200-day moving average, which means that gold has gone into a "death cross," according to FT. Stockcharts.com Gold prices fall when fear is low and interest rates high, which is exactly what's happening right now. Mergers And Acquisitions Activity Is Double What It Was Last Year¬† (Advisor Perspectives) Mergers and acquisitions deals declined for the first time since the financial crisis in 2012. But the situation has changes dramatically in the past few weeks‚ÄîU.S. deal activity was $158.7 billion during the first six weeks of the year, double the amount seen during the same period last year. On January 16 alone companies announced $40 billion of M&amp;A deals. This provides ample opportunity for merger arbitrage and for activist investors. But fixed income investors are not likely to view these developments in good light. "The fear is that acquirers will actively re-leverage balance sheets to finance deals, resulting in lower credit ratings and more companies dropping from investment grade to high yield status." These Are The Warning Signs You Should Look For In A Hedge Fund (Market Folly) Greenwich Roundtable took a close look at hedge fund blowups, and analyzed what are the most common denominators of the hedge funds that tend to go kaput. Here's are a few things you should keep an eye for: 1) Fund was managed by one person with no risk manager. 2) Dangerous extent of portfolio concentration could have been revealed through conversations. 3) Assumption that a former analyst can all of a sudden perform as a portfolio manager at a new fund. 4) Fund grew but operating staff didn't grow to keep up. 5) Abrupt personnel changes/resignations. This Is Why You Shouldn't Put All Your Money In A Trend-Following Strategy (FA Mag) The usefulness of a trend-following system is entirely dependent on its ability to identify and appropriately react to market trends, and not react to false trends, said Frontier Asset Management's Scott MacKillop, in a write-up, and that is an incredibly difficult task. How well a trend-following system works depends quite a bit on luck. Which is why it is better to divide one's assets between a trend-following system and a fully invested portfolio. "Fully invested portfolios have historically done well when the trend followers have done poorly. They can soften the blow if the trend followers don‚Äôt catch the trend just right," said MacKillop.
Alex Wong, GettyFormer Senator Pete Domenici ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) ‚Äî Former Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico fathered a son outside of his marriage more than 30 years ago with the then-24-year-old daughter of a Senate colleague, the retired Republican has acknowledged. The revelation stunned many who know the state's longest-serving senator as a family man who advocated honesty. Domenici and Michelle Laxalt sent statements to the Albuquerque Journal identifying their son as Nevada attorney Adam Paul Laxalt. They said they decided to go public with their decades-old secret because they believed someone was about to reveal the information in an attempt to smear Domenici. "I deeply regret this and am very sorry for my behavior," Domenici, 80, said in his statement, published in the Journal's Wednesday editions. "I hope New Mexicans will view that my accomplishments for my beloved state outweigh my personal transgression." Domenici and Michelle Laxalt agreed to keep his fatherhood secret because he and her father, Paul Laxalt of Nevada, were senators at the time she gave birth. Michelle Laxalt is a former Capitol Hill staffer who now works as a prominent lobbyist in the Washington, D.C. area. Public records show she is now 58 and her son is 34. Laxalt said in a statement that she chose to raise her son as a single parent. "One night's mistake led to pregnancy more than 30 years ago," she said. The Albuquerque Journal reports she worked for several senators, but never Domenici. During six terms in office In New Mexico, Domenici was known for his unflagging support of the state's national laboratories and military installations. In Washington, he became a power broker for his work on the federal budget and energy policy. He also was an advocate for insurance coverage for mental health. Domenici declined to seek a seventh Senate term in 2008, saying he had been diagnosed with an incurable brain disorder. Edward Lujan, former chairman of the Republican Party of New Mexico, said he had heard rumors about the child years ago, but "I didn't pay much attention. I didn't care. Those kinds of things honestly are between the families and has nothing to do with how he did his job." Domenici voted for the impeachment of former President Bill Clinton after his affair with Monica Lewinsky, but his floor statement focused on the fact that Clinton had lied under oath, noting that the trial "has never been about the President's private sex acts, as tawdry as they have been." But he did note that "truthfulness" is the first pillar of good character in a program he helped establish for school children in New Mexico. "I don't think there was anything hypocritical about anything," Lujan said. "... I admire him as much today as I did yesterday and the day before." In his statement, Domenici said he was sorry that he caused hurt and disappointment for his wife and other family members. Domenici is the father of eight children with his wife, Nancy. He said he disclosed the situation to his family several months ago. "I have apologized as best as I can to my wife, and we have worked together to strengthen our relationship," Domenici said. Domenici told the Journal his son participated in the drafting of his statement. But it was unclear if the two had a prior relationship. Reached at his home in Washington Wednesday morning, Domenici said he had nothing more to say. The Laxalts did not immediately respond to emails and phone calls seeking comment. Michelle Laxalt's statement said her interaction with Domenici "consisted of telling him my decision, asking that he avail himself for health-related purposes, and asking that he agree that this remain private between the two of us." The website for Adam Laxalt's law firm, Lewis and Roca, said he is a former U.S. Navy officer and lawyer who served in Iraq. He also worked for then-Sen. John Warner, R-Va., and as a special assistant to an undersecretary of state, according to the website. Former colleagues said they doubted the revelations would impact Domenici's strong legacy. "His contribution to our country, to our state, our community, cannot be diminished in my view by personal events," said former Gov. Garrey Carruthers. Carruthers, who is also Republican, said Domenici called him Tuesday night to tell him the story was coming out. "It's regrettable," he said. "I guess most of us were quite surprised." Domenici served New Mexico well and "deserves to be left alone, Democratic Party Chairman Javier Gonzales said. "People need to step away and allow the senator and his family to focus on this in the privacy of their own home." ___ Associated Press writer Russell Contreras contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Americans have been granted a pleasant six-week respite from the anxiety that our elected representatives will once again screw up the economy that supports most of us. In late December and early January, you will recall, the two political parties played a big game of chicken to see who could score the most points in the debt-ceiling and tax-cut-expiration fight. And as part of a deal designed to make each team look like heroes for "cutting taxes" that they could easily have just voted not to raise, a problematic little budget agreement called the "sequester" was kicked down the road a couple of months. Well, now those two months are over. And at the end of next week, on March 1st, the "sequester" will kick in. Unless Congress intervenes, the sequester will trigger about $85 billion in annual spending cuts across most government agencies, including the military, the Department of Education, and the Department of Justice. These cuts will result in furloughs, loss of overtime, and probably some layoffs, especially if they are permanent. The cuts are designed to cut the deficit by about $1.2 trillion over 10 years, and although long-term deficit reduction is a noble goal, the cuts will also hurt the economy this year, when it is weak. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the sequester cuts, combined with the tax increases earlier this year, will reduce 2013 GDP growth by 1.5 percentage points. Both parties agree that the "sequester" is lousy policy--the cuts are sharp and indiscriminate across most agencies, including those that are favorites of each particular political team. But both parties voted for the sequester. And neither party is lifting a finger to try to stop the cuts from taking place. So take whatever they say with a grain of salt. Nor is the sequester the only economic hurdle on the horizon. At the end of March, the "continuing resolution" that is funding federal government spending will run out. After that date, the federal government will have to shut down unless or until another continuing resolution (or budget) is passed. This creates the possibility that the government will endure a 1995 scenario in which big agencies just close their doors until Congress finally does what it was elected to do. And then, in May, unless Congress has passed an agreement to delay it, the debt ceiling will return. The debt ceiling, you will recall, is what almost caused the country to default on its obligations back in the summer of 2011 and then again early this year. Our government is using our debt ceiling as a poker chip, and although the Republicans caved a couple of months ago, there's always a risk that they'll decide to hijack the country again. The bottom line is there are three ways our government can screw up our economy in the next three months. So don't relax just yet. Yahoo's Jeff Macke and I discuss the sequester below: 
Wikimedia CommonsUPDATE: FOMC minutes are out. Several Fed officials warned of reducing or ending QE too soon, but several on the FOMC said the Fed should be prepared to vary the pace of QE, because tapering the pace of the asset purchase program may become necessary. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; Below are the two key paragraphs from the minutes regarding QE: The Committee again discussed the possible benefits and costs of additional asset purchases. Most participants commented that the Committee's asset purchases had been effective in easing financial conditions and helping stimulate economic activity, and many pointed, in particular, to the support that low longer-term interest rates had provided to housing or consumer durable purchases. In addition, the Committee's highly accommodative policy was seen as helping keep inflation over the medium term closer to its longer-run goal of 2 percent than would otherwise have been the case. Policy was also aimed at improving the labor market outlook. In this regard, several participants stressed the economic and social costs of high unemployment, as well as the potential for negative effects on the economy's longer-term path of a prolonged period of underutilization of resources. However, many participants also expressed some concerns about potential costs and risks arising from further asset purchases. Several participants discussed the possible complications that additional purchases could cause for the eventual withdrawal of policy accommodation, a few mentioned the prospect of inflationary risks, and some noted that further asset purchases could foster market behavior that could undermine financial stability. Several participants noted that a very large portfolio of long-duration assets would, under certain circumstances, expose the Federal Reserve to significant capital losses when these holdings were unwound, but others pointed to offsetting factors and one noted that losses would not impede the effective operation of monetary policy. A few also raised concerns about the potential effects of further asset purchases on the functioning of particular financial markets, although a couple of other participants noted that there had been little evidence to date of such effects. In light of this discussion, the staff was asked for additional analysis ahead of future meetings to support the Committee's ongoing assessment of the asset purchase program. Several participants emphasized that the Committee should be prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved. For example, one participant argued that purchases should vary incrementally from meeting to meeting in response to incoming information about the economy. A number of participants stated that an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy, costs, and risks of asset purchases might well lead the Committee to taper or end its purchases before it judged that a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market had occurred. Several others argued that the potential costs of reducing or ending asset purchases too soon were also significant, or that asset purchases should continue until a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook had occurred. A few participants noted examples of past instances in which policymakers had prematurely removed accommodation, with adverse effects on economic growth, employment, and price stability; they also stressed the importance of communicating the Committee's commitment to maintaining a highly accommodative stance of policy as long as warranted by economic conditions. In this regard, a number of participants discussed the possibility of providing monetary accommodation by holding securities for a longer period than envisioned in the Committee's exit principles, either as a supplement to, or a replacement for, asset purchases. Below, the full text of the January minutes: A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, January 29, 2013, at 2:00 p.m., and continued on Wednesday, January 30, 2013, at 9:00 a.m. PRESENT:Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanJames BullardElizabeth DukeCharles L. EvansEsther L. GeorgeJerome H. PowellSarah Bloom RaskinEric RosengrenJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJanet L. Yellen Christine Cumming, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Sandra Pianalto, and Charles I. Plosser, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively William B. English, Secretary and EconomistDeborah J. Danker, Deputy SecretaryMatthew M. Luecke, Assistant SecretaryDavid W. Skidmore, Assistant SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselThomas C. Baxter, Deputy General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist Thomas A. Connors, Troy Davig, Michael P. Leahy, James J. McAndrews, Stephen A. Meyer, David Reifschneider, Daniel G. Sullivan, Christopher J. Waller, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Nellie Liang,1¬†Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Advisor to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors James A. Clouse and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Mark E. Van Der Weide, Deputy Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Joyce K. Zickler, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Eric M. Engen, Thomas Laubach, and David E. Lebow, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Beth Anne Wilson, Deputy Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors Karen M. Pence and Stacey Tevlin, Assistant Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Jeremy B. Rudd, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Andrew Figura, Group Manager, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors John C. Driscoll and Jennifer E. Roush, Senior Economists, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Ruth Judson, Senior Economist, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors Jonathan D. Rose, Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Sarah G. Green, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond David Altig, Jeff Fuhrer, Loretta J. Mester, Glenn D. Rudebusch, and Mark S. Sniderman, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Boston, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Cleveland, respectively Ron Feldman and Lorie K. Logan, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Minneapolis and New York, respectively Evan F. Koenig and Steven M. Friedman, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas and New York, respectively Matthew D. Raskin, Markets Officer, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Robert L. Hetzel, Senior Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Annual Organizational Matters2¬†In the agenda for this meeting, it was reported that advices of the election of the following members and alternate members of the Federal Open Market Committee for a term beginning January 29, 2013, had been received and that these individuals had executed their oaths of office. The elected members and alternate members were as follows: William C. Dudley, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with Christine Cumming, First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as alternate. Eric Rosengren, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, with Charles I. Plosser, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, as alternate. Charles L. Evans, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, with Sandra Pianalto, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, as alternate. James Bullard, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, with Richard W. Fisher, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, as alternate. Esther L. George, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, with Narayana Kocherlakota, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, as alternate. By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Federal Open Market Committee were selected to serve until the selection of their successors at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2014:¬†¬† ¬† By unanimous vote, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was selected to execute transactions for the System Open Market Account. By unanimous vote, Simon Potter was selected to serve at the pleasure of the Committee as Manager, System Open Market Account, on the understanding that his selection was subject to being satisfactory to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. By unanimous vote, the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations was approved with two amendments. The first broadened the actions that the Open Market Desk may take, at the Chairman's instruction during an intermeeting period, to include transactions to address temporary disruptions of an operational or highly unusual nature in U.S. dollar funding markets. For example, if secured funding rates were to increase to high levels in the wake of a natural disaster, the risk of a broader, more systemic disruption to the functioning of asset markets could result. In this case, the prospect that repurchase operations could potentially alleviate some of the market strains might warrant immediate action. Consistent with Committee practice, the Chairman, if feasible, would consult with the Committee before making any such instruction. The second amendment harmonized the language referring to the Committee's longer-run objectives with that in the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. The Guidelines for the Conduct of System Open Market Operations in Federal-Agency Issues remained suspended. AUTHORIZATION FOR DOMESTIC OPEN MARKET OPERATIONS(Amended effective on January 29, 2013) 1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to the extent necessary to carry out the most recent domestic policy directive adopted at a meeting of the Committee: A. To buy or sell U.S. government securities, including securities of the Federal Financing Bank, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States in the open market, from or to securities dealers and foreign and international accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on a cash, regular, or deferred delivery basis, for the System Open Market Account at market prices, and, for such Account, to exchange maturing U.S. government and federal agency securities with the Treasury or the individual agencies or to allow them to mature without replacement; and B. To buy or sell in the open market U.S. government securities, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, for the System Open Market Account under agreements to resell or repurchase such securities or obligations (including such transactions as are commonly referred to as repo and reverse repo transactions) in 65 business days or less, at rates that, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Committee, shall be determined by competitive bidding, after applying reasonable limitations on the volume of agreements with individual counterparties. 2. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1.A and 1.B from time to time for the purpose of testing operational readiness. The aggregate par value of such transactions of the type described in paragraph 1.A shall not exceed $5 billion per calendar year. The outstanding amount of such transactions of the type described in paragraph 1.B shall not exceed $5 billion at any given time. These transactions shall be conducted with prior notice to the Committee. 3. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market operations, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to use agents in agency MBS-related transactions. 4. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market operations, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to lend on an overnight basis U.S. government securities and securities that are direct obligations of any agency of the United States, held in the System Open Market Account, to dealers at rates that shall be determined by competitive bidding. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall set a minimum lending fee consistent with the objectives of the program and apply reasonable limitations on the total amount of a specific issue that may be auctioned and on the amount of securities that each dealer may borrow. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may reject bids that could facilitate a dealer's ability to control a single issue as determined solely by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may lend securities on longer than an overnight basis to accommodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading conventions. 5. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market operations, while assisting in the provision of short-term investments or other authorized services for foreign and international accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as fiscal agent of the United States pursuant to section 15 of the Federal Reserve Act, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York: A. For the System Open Market Account, to sell U.S. government securities and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States to such accounts on the bases set forth in paragraph 1.A under agreements providing for the resale by such accounts of those securities in 65 business days or less on terms comparable to those available on such transactions in the market; B. For the New York Bank account, when appropriate, to undertake with dealers, subject to the conditions imposed on purchases and sales of securities in paragraph l.B, repurchase agreements in U.S. government securities and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, and to arrange corresponding sale and repurchase agreements between its own account and such foreign, international, and fiscal agency accounts maintained at the Bank; and C. For the New York Bank account, when appropriate, to buy U.S. government securities and obligations that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States from such foreign and international accounts maintained at the Bank under agreements providing for the repurchase by such accounts of those securities on the same business day. Transactions undertaken with such accounts under the provisions of this paragraph may provide for a service fee when appropriate. 6. In the execution of the Committee's decision regarding policy during any intermeeting period, the Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, upon the instruction of the Chairman of the Committee, to (i) adjust somewhat in exceptional circumstances the degree of pressure on reserve positions and hence the intended federal funds rate and to take actions that result in material changes in the composition and size of the assets in the System Open Market Account other than those anticipated by the Committee at its most recent meeting or (ii) undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1.A and 1.B in order to appropriately address temporary disruptions of an operational or highly unusual nature in U.S. dollar funding markets. Any such adjustment as described in clause (i) shall be made in the context of the Committee's discussion and decision at its most recent meeting and the Committee's long-run objectives to foster maximum employment and price stability, and shall be based on economic, financial, and monetary developments during the intermeeting period. Consistent with Committee practice, the Chairman, if feasible, will consult with the Committee before making any instruction under this paragraph. The Committee voted unanimously to amend the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations, and to reaffirm the Foreign Currency Directive in the form shown below. The approval of these documents included approval of the System's warehousing agreement with the U.S. Treasury. The Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations were amended to include the authority to conduct small-value operations against the full range of foreign transactions that the Desk is authorized to conduct. This change was made to allow for prudent testing of operational readiness, and is similar in purpose to the amendment that the Committee approved in June 2012 to the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations. AUTHORIZATION FOR FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS(Amended effective on January 29, 2013) 1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for the System Open Market Account, to the extent necessary to carry out the Committee's foreign currency directive and express authorizations by the Committee pursuant thereto, and in conformity with such procedural instructions as the Committee may issue from time to time: A. To purchase and sell the following foreign currencies in the form of cable transfers through spot or forward transactions on the open market at home and abroad, including transactions with the U.S. Treasury, with the U.S. Exchange Stabilization Fund established by section 10 of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, with foreign monetary authorities, with the Bank for International Settlements, and with other international financial institutions: B. To hold balances of, and to have outstanding forward contracts to receive or to deliver, the foreign currencies listed in paragraph A above. C. To draw foreign currencies and to permit foreign banks to draw dollars under the reciprocal currency arrangements listed in paragraph 2 below, provided that drawings by either party to any such arrangement shall be fully liquidated within 12 months after any amount outstanding at that time was first drawn, unless the Committee, because of exceptional circumstances, specifically authorizes a delay. D. To maintain an overall open position in all foreign currencies not exceeding $25.0 billion. For this purpose, the overall open position in all foreign currencies is defined as the sum (disregarding signs) of net positions in individual currencies, excluding changes in dollar value due to foreign exchange rate movements and interest accruals. The net position in a single foreign currency is defined as holdings of balances in that currency, plus outstanding contracts for future receipt, minus outstanding contracts for future delivery of that currency, i.e., as the sum of these elements with due regard to sign. 2. The Federal Open Market Committee directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to maintain reciprocal currency arrangements ("swap" arrangements) for the System Open Market Account for periods up to a maximum of 12 months with the following foreign banks, which are among those designated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 214.5 of Regulation N, Relations with Foreign Banks and Bankers, and with the approval of the Committee to renew such arrangements on maturity: Any changes in the terms of existing swap arrangements, and the proposed terms of any new arrangements that may be authorized, shall be referred for review and approval to the Committee. 3. All transactions in foreign currencies undertaken under paragraph 1.A above shall, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Committee, be at prevailing market rates. For the purpose of providing an investment return on System holdings of foreign currencies or for the purpose of adjusting interest rates paid or received in connection with swap drawings, transactions with foreign central banks may be undertaken at non-market exchange rates. 4. It shall be the normal practice to arrange with foreign central banks for the coordination of foreign currency transactions. In making operating arrangements with foreign central banks on System holdings of foreign currencies, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall not commit itself to maintain any specific balance, unless authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee. Any agreements or understandings concerning the administration of the accounts maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York with the foreign banks designated by the Board of Governors under section 214.5 of Regulation N shall be referred for review and approval to the Committee. 5. Foreign currency holdings shall be invested to ensure that adequate liquidity is maintained to meet anticipated needs and so that each currency portfolio shall generally have an average duration of no more than 18 months (calculated as Macaulay duration). Such investments may include buying or selling outright obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, a foreign government or agency thereof; buying such securities under agreements for repurchase of such securities; selling such securities under agreements for the resale of such securities; and holding various time and other deposit accounts at foreign institutions. In addition, when appropriate in connection with arrangements to provide investment facilities for foreign currency holdings, U.S. government securities may be purchased from foreign central banks under agreements for repurchase of such securities within 30 calendar days. 6. All operations undertaken pursuant to the preceding paragraphs shall be reported promptly to the Foreign Currency Subcommittee and the Committee. The Foreign Currency Subcommittee consists of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Committee, the Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors, and such other member of the Board as the Chairman may designate (or in the absence of members of the Board serving on the Subcommittee, other Board members designated by the Chairman as alternates, and in the absence of the Vice Chairman of the Committee, the Vice Chairman's alternate). Meetings of the Subcommittee shall be called at the request of any member, or at the request of the Manager, System Open Market Account ("Manager"), for the purposes of reviewing recent or contemplated operations and of consulting with the Manager on other matters relating to the Manager's responsibilities. At the request of any member of the Subcommittee, questions arising from such reviews and consultations shall be referred for determination to the Federal Open Market Committee. 7. The Chairman is authorized: A. With the approval of the Committee, to enter into any needed agreement or understanding with the Secretary of the Treasury about the division of responsibility for foreign currency operations between the System and the Treasury; B. To keep the Secretary of the Treasury fully advised concerning System foreign currency operations, and to consult with the Secretary on policy matters relating to foreign currency operations; C. From time to time, to transmit appropriate reports and information to the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies. 8. Staff officers of the Committee are authorized to transmit pertinent information on System foreign currency operations to appropriate officials of the Treasury Department. 9. All Federal Reserve Banks shall participate in the foreign currency operations for System Account in accordance with paragraph 3G(1) of the Board of Governors' Statement of Procedure with Respect to Foreign Relationships of Federal Reserve Banks dated January 1, 1944. 10. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1, 2, and 5, and foreign exchange and investment transactions that it may be otherwise authorized to undertake from time to time for the purpose of testing operational readiness. The aggregate amount of such transactions shall not exceed $2.5 billion per calendar year. These transactions shall be conducted with prior notice to the Committee. PROCEDURAL INSTRUCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS(Amended effective on January 29, 2013) In conducting operations pursuant to the authorization and direction of the Federal Open Market Committee as set forth in the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Foreign Currency Directive, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, through the Manager, System Open Market Account ("Manager"), shall be guided by the following procedural understandings with respect to consultations and clearances with the Committee, the Foreign Currency Subcommittee, and the Chairman of the Committee, unless otherwise directed by the Committee. All operations undertaken pursuant to such clearances shall be reported promptly to the Committee. 1. The Manager shall clear with the Subcommittee (or with the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in the time available): A. Any operation that would result in a change in the System's overall open position in foreign currencies exceeding $300 million on any day or $600 million since the most recent regular meeting of the Committee. B. Any operation that would result in a change on any day in the System's net position in a single foreign currency exceeding $150 million, or $300 million when the operation is associated with re-payment of swap drawings. C. Any operation that might generate a substantial volume of trading in a particular currency by the System, even though the change in the System's net position in that currency might be less than the limits specified in 1.B. D. Any swap drawing proposed by a foreign bank not exceeding the larger of (i) $200 million or (ii) 15 percent of the size of the swap arrangement. 2. The Manager shall clear with the Committee (or with the Subcommittee, if the Subcommittee believes that consultation with the full Committee is not feasible in the time available, or with the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in the time available): A. Any operation that would result in a change in the System's overall open position in foreign currencies exceeding $1.5 billion since the most recent regular meeting of the Committee. B. Any swap drawing proposed by a foreign bank exceeding the larger of (i) $200 million or (ii) 15 percent of the size of the swap arrangement. 3. The Manager shall also consult with the Subcommittee or the Chairman about proposed swap drawings by the System and about any operations that are not of a routine character. 4. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1, 2, and 5 of the Foreign Authorization and foreign exchange and investment transactions that it may be otherwise authorized to undertake from time to time for the purpose of testing operational readiness. The aggregate amount of such transactions shall not exceed $2.5 billion per calendar year. These transactions shall be conducted with prior notice to the Committee. FOREIGN CURRENCY DIRECTIVE(Reaffirmed January 29, 2013) 1. System operations in foreign currencies shall generally be directed at countering disorderly market conditions, provided that market exchange rates for the U.S. dollar reflect actions and behavior consistent with IMF Article IV, Section 1. 2. To achieve this end the System shall: A. Undertake spot and forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange. B. Maintain reciprocal currency ("swap") arrangements with selected foreign central banks. C. Cooperate in other respects with central banks of other countries and with international monetary institutions. 3. Transactions may also be undertaken: A. To adjust System balances in light of probable future needs for currencies. B. To provide means for meeting System and Treasury commitments in particular currencies, and to facilitate operations of the Exchange Stabilization Fund. C. For such other purposes as may be expressly authorized by the Committee. 4. System foreign currency operations shall be conducted: A. In close and continuous consultation and cooperation with the United States Treasury; B. In cooperation, as appropriate, with foreign monetary authorities; and C. In a manner consistent with the obligations of the United States in the International Monetary Fund regarding exchange arrangements under IMF Article IV. All participants but one supported making only minor wording changes to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy.¬†Mr. Tarullo abstained because he did not think the statement had advanced the cause of achieving or communicating greater consensus in the policy views of the Committee. STATEMENT ON LONGER-RUN GOALS AND MONETARY POLICY STRATEGY(Amended effective on January 29, 2013) "The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is firmly committed to fulfilling its statutory mandate from the Congress of promoting maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. The Committee seeks to explain its monetary policy decisions to the public as clearly as possible. Such clarity facilitates well-informed decisionmaking by households and businesses, reduces economic and financial uncertainty, increases the effectiveness of monetary policy, and enhances transparency and accountability, which are essential in a democratic society. Inflation, employment, and long-term interest rates fluctuate over time in response to economic and financial disturbances. Moreover, monetary policy actions tend to influence economic activity and prices with a lag. Therefore, the Committee's policy decisions reflect its longer-run goals, its medium-term outlook, and its assessments of the balance of risks, including risks to the financial system that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The inflation rate over the longer run is primarily determined by monetary policy, and hence the Committee has the ability to specify a longer-run goal for inflation. The Committee judges that inflation at the rate of 2 percent, as measured by the annual change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures, is most consistent over the longer run with the Federal Reserve's statutory mandate. Communicating this inflation goal clearly to the public helps keep longer-term inflation expectations firmly anchored, thereby fostering price stability and moderate long-term interest rates and enhancing the Committee's ability to promote maximum employment in the face of significant economic disturbances. The maximum level of employment is largely determined by nonmonetary factors that affect the structure and dynamics of the labor market. These factors may change over time and may not be directly measurable. Consequently, it would not be appropriate to specify a fixed goal for employment; rather, the Committee's policy decisions must be informed by assessments of the maximum level of employment, recognizing that such assessments are necessarily uncertain and subject to revision. The Committee considers a wide range of indicators in making these assessments. Information about Committee participants' estimates of the longer-run normal rates of output growth and unemployment is published four times per year in the FOMC's Summary of Economic Projections. For example, in the most recent projections, FOMC participants' estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment had a central tendency of 5.2 percent to 6.0 percent, unchanged from one year ago but substantially higher than the corresponding interval several years earlier. In setting monetary policy, the Committee seeks to mitigate deviations of inflation from its longer-run goal and deviations of employment from the Committee's assessments of its maximum level. These objectives are generally complementary. However, under circumstances in which the Committee judges that the objectives are not complementary, it follows a balanced approach in promoting them, taking into account the magnitude of the deviations and the potentially different time horizons over which employment and inflation are projected to return to levels judged consistent with its mandate. The Committee intends to reaffirm these principles and to make adjustments as appropriate at its annual organizational meeting each January." By unanimous vote, the Policy on External Communications of Committee Participants and the Policy on External Communications of Federal Reserve System Staff were amended to clarify the precise beginning and end of the communication blackout period surrounding regular meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). By unanimous vote, the Rules of Procedure were amended to change the quorum requirements to state that a meeting of the FOMC could not be convened without a representative of a Reserve Bank. By unanimous vote, the Committee reaffirmed its Program for Security of FOMC Information. Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe Manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the FOMC met on December 11-12, 2012. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed at the January 29-30 meeting indicated that the expansion in overall economic activity slowed in the fourth quarter of last year, reflecting weather-related disruptions and other transitory factors, but private domestic final demand grew at a solid rate. Employment continued to increase at a moderate pace, and the unemployment rate, though still high, was lower at the end of the fourth quarter than in the preceding quarter. Consumer price inflation was subdued, and measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Private nonfarm employment expanded in December at about the same rate as in the fourth quarter as a whole, while government employment decreased. The unemployment rate was 7.8 percent in December, below its average in the third quarter, while the labor force participation rate was the same as its third-quarter average. The rate of long-duration unemployment and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons edged down in December, but both measures were still elevated. The rate of private-sector hiring, along with indicators of job openings and firms' hiring plans, was generally muted but remained consistent with continued moderate increases in employment in the coming months. Manufacturing production increased briskly in November and December after declining in October when activity was disrupted by Hurricane Sandy. As a result, factory output expanded only slightly in the fourth quarter as a whole, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization was only a little higher in December than in the third quarter. The production of motor vehicles and parts increased considerably in the fourth quarter, but factory output outside of the motor vehicle sector declined somewhat. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies in the first quarter would be roughly the same as in the fourth quarter. Broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels consistent with only modest increases in factory output in the near term. Increases in real personal consumption expenditures picked up somewhat in the fourth quarter, boosted importantly by higher spending on motor vehicles. After being roughly flat in the third quarter, households' real disposable income rose considerably, in part reflecting an acceleration of income payments in anticipation of increases in individual income tax rates after the turn of the year. In December and January, consumer sentiment was more downbeat than in the previous several months. Conditions in the housing sector continued to improve, but construction activity remained at a relatively low level, restrained by tight underwriting standards for mortgage loans and the substantial inventory of foreclosed and distressed properties. Starts of both new single-family homes and multifamily units advanced in the fourth quarter, and permits also rose, which pointed to additional gains in construction in the coming months. Home prices increased further in November. In the fourth quarter, sales of both new and existing homes were higher than in the previous quarter. Real business expenditures on equipment and software rose briskly in the fourth quarter after declining moderately in the preceding quarter. Although nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft also increased markedly last quarter, the level of orders remained below shipments. Moreover, other recent forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, suggested that outlays for business equipment would rise only modestly in the coming months. Real business spending for nonresidential construction declined somewhat in the fourth quarter and remained at a relatively low level. A reduction in the accumulation of nonfarm business inventories subtracted a considerable amount from the change in real gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quarter.¬† Real federal government purchases decreased substantially in the fourth quarter, primarily because of a sharp decline in defense spending that followed a marked increase in the previous quarter. Real state and local government purchases decreased slightly in the fourth quarter.¬† The U.S. international trade deficit widened substantially in November, as imports rose more quickly than exports. The rise in imports was fairly broad-based, led by strong increases in consumer goods, while the increase in exports mainly reflected higher sales of capital goods and automotive products. Exports to Europe posted another significant decline in November. Based on data for October and November and an estimate of the trade data for December, the advance release of the national income and product accounts showed that real net exports of goods and services made a small negative arithmetic contribution to the change in U.S. real GDP in the fourth quarter, with exports declining more than imports. Overall U.S. consumer prices increased more slowly in the fourth quarter than in the previous quarter. Consumer energy prices declined in November and December, and survey data indicated that retail gasoline prices fell further in the first few weeks of January. Consumer food prices continued to rise at a faster pace in November and December than in the third quarter, likely reflecting the ongoing effects of last summer's drought. In the fourth quarter, the rise in consumer prices excluding food and energy slowed. Near-term inflation expectations from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers rose a little in December and early January; longer-term inflation expectations were unchanged. Available measures of labor compensation indicated that recent gains in nominal wages remained relatively slow. Increases in average hourly earnings for all employees picked up a little in the fourth quarter but continued to be fairly subdued. Economic growth in the advanced foreign economies appeared to remain weak in the fourth quarter. In the euro area, industrial production and retail sales were below their third-quarter levels through November, and real GDP contracted in the United Kingdom. In Japan, indicators of production and exports remained weak; however, household consumption showed some improvement, and the new government introduced a large fiscal stimulus program and called for aggressive monetary easing to end deflation. In emerging market economies, real GDP growth is estimated to have picked up in China in the fourth quarter, consistent with other Chinese indicators that pointed to an improvement in activity. Production and exports rebounded at year-end in a number of other emerging Asian economies as well. Inflation generally remained well contained in both advanced foreign economies and emerging market economies. Staff Review of the Financial SituationU.S. financial market conditions improved on net between the December and January FOMC meetings, largely in response to the partial resolution of the issues associated with the so-called fiscal cliff, a positive start to the corporate earnings reporting season, and some favorable policy developments in Europe. The expected path of the federal funds rate based on market quotes moved up on balance over the intermeeting period, likely reflecting a somewhat more positive assessment of the economic outlook. Results from the Desk's survey of primary dealers conducted prior to the January meeting showed that dealers continued to view the third quarter of 2015 as the most likely time of the first increase in the target federal funds rate. In addition, the median dealer continued to see the first quarter of 2014 as the most likely time for the Committee's asset purchases to conclude, although fewer dealers than in December expected those purchases to continue beyond 2014.¬† Treasury coupon yields increased over the intermeeting period, including a notable rise just after year-end when passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 apparently lessened concerns about the risk of substantially higher fiscal drag on growth in the near term. More-positive investor sentiment regarding the outlook for global economic growth, along with some optimism about a federal debt ceiling deal, may also have contributed to the increase in yields. Measures of inflation compensation derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities rose slightly over the intermeeting period.¬† Conditions in short-term dollar funding markets were generally little changed on balance; year-end funding pressures were modest overall and roughly in line with market expectations. The outstanding amount of unsecured commercial paper issued by European financial institutions increased noticeably.¬† Indicators of the condition of domestic financial institutions generally improved over the intermeeting period. A broad index of bank stock prices rose, and the median spread on credit default swaps of the largest banking organizations moved lower.¬† Broad U.S. equity price indexes increased on net over the intermeeting period, buoyed by many of the same factors that contributed to the rise in Treasury yields. In addition, the fourth-quarter earnings reporting season started off well, as earnings and revenue results were above analysts' expectations for a higher-than-average number of firms. Option-implied volatility for the S&amp;P 500 index over the near term dipped to its lowest level since early 2007. The option-implied price of insurance against downside risk on the index at longer horizons remained elevated. Yields on speculative-grade corporate bonds decreased over the intermeeting period, and yields on investment-grade corporate bonds were up a bit. Risk spreads on speculative-grade bonds narrowed substantially, and spreads on investment-grade bonds decreased as well.¬† Net debt financing by nonfinancial firms increased in the fourth quarter. Outstanding volumes of corporate bonds, commercial and industrial loans, and nonfinancial commercial paper all expanded. The pace of gross public issuance of equity by nonfinancial firms remained solid in the fourth quarter, but it was subdued in January, likely because of seasonal factors.¬† Conditions in the commercial real estate sector continued to be strained amid elevated vacancy and delinquency rates. However, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities strengthened during the fourth quarter, and spreads on those securities narrowed over the intermeeting period. Conforming home mortgage rates edged up, on net, after touching new lows during the intermeeting period. Yields on residential mortgage-backed securities (MBS) rose by more, leaving the spread between the primary mortgage rate and MBS yields narrower. Mortgage refinancing originations in December and January stayed near their highest levels since the housing market began to recover. The share of existing mortgages that were seriously delinquent edged down in October and November but remained high. Consumer credit expanded briskly again in October and November. Nonrevolving credit continued to increase at a robust pace because of growth in student and auto loans, while revolving credit moved roughly sideways. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities remained strong in the fourth quarter. Growth of bank credit in the fourth quarter slowed to about half its pace compared with earlier in the year, as loan growth declined. According to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices, domestic banks continued to ease somewhat their lending standards and some loan terms, on balance; they also experienced an increase in demand, on net, in most major loan categories in the fourth quarter.¬† M2 and its largest component, liquid deposits, expanded robustly in December. Initial data suggested that the expiration of unlimited deposit insurance on noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at year-end had only a limited effect on bank deposits through early January. The monetary base expanded at a strong rate in December, reflecting growth in both currency and reserve balances.¬† Foreign financial conditions improved over the intermeeting period as markets responded favorably to the passage of fiscal policy legislation in the United States and to further progress in addressing euro-area strains. On net, global equity prices rose and euro-area peripheral spreads narrowed. As global risk sentiment improved, the dollar depreciated against the euro and most emerging market currencies. Against the yen, however, the dollar appreciated substantially. The yen's depreciation appeared to occur in part in response to statements from Japan's new prime minister, who urged the Bank of Japan to ease policy more aggressively. At its January meeting, the Bank of Japan restated its monetary policy framework, replacing its inflation goal of 1 percent with an inflation target of 2 percent, and announced it would commence a program of asset purchases in January 2014 with no predetermined limit on the maximum amount ultimately purchased. Yields on long-term Japanese sovereign bonds rose a few basis points on net over the intermeeting period, but yields on other foreign benchmark sovereign bonds increased more, reflecting both the improvement in global sentiment and reduced expectations for additional monetary accommodation, as the European Central Bank and the Bank of England kept their policy rates on hold and appeared to signal less likelihood of further easing.¬† Staff Economic OutlookIn the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the January meeting of the FOMC, the near-term projection for real GDP growth was revised up, in large part because the fiscal policy legislation enacted in early January was slightly less restrictive than the staff had assumed. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was essentially unchanged. With fiscal policy still anticipated to be tighter this year than last year, the staff expected that increases in real GDP would only moderately exceed the growth rate of potential output. In 2014 and 2015, real GDP was projected to accelerate gradually, supported by an eventual lessening of fiscal policy restraint, increases in consumer and business sentiment, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and accommodative monetary policy. The expansion in economic activity was expected to slowly reduce the slack in labor and product markets over the projection period, and progress in reducing the unemployment rate was anticipated to be gradual.¬† The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed from that prepared for the December FOMC meeting. The staff continued to project that inflation would be subdued through 2015. That forecast is based on the expectation that crude oil prices will trend down slowly from their current levels, the boost to retail food prices from last summer's drought will be temporary and relatively small, longer-run inflation expectations will remain stable, and significant resource slack will persist over the forecast period. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn their discussion of the economic situation, meeting participants indicated that they viewed the information received during the intermeeting period as suggesting that, apart from some temporary factors that had led to a pause in overall output growth in recent months, the economy remained on a moderate growth path. In particular, participants saw the economic outlook as little changed or modestly improved relative to the December meeting. Most participants judged that there had been some reduction in downside risks facing the economy: Strains in global financial markets had eased somewhat, and U.S. fiscal policymakers had come to a partial resolution of the so-called fiscal cliff. Supported by a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the housing sector was strengthening, and the unemployment rate appeared likely to continue its gradual decline. Nearly all participants anticipated that inflation over the medium-term would run at or below the Committee's 2 percent objective. In their discussion of the household sector, participants noted various factors influencing consumer spending. Some participants stated that low interest rates appeared to be contributing to strong sales of autos or, more generally, of consumer durables. It was also noted that continued deleveraging by households was improving their financial positions, which would likely support increased spending. Holiday shopping reportedly was relatively solid, and, reflecting the improvement in the housing market, demand for home furnishings and construction materials was up. However, some participants were concerned that the recent increase in the payroll tax could have a significant negative effect on spending, particularly on the part of lower-income consumers. Participants remarked on the ongoing recovery in the housing market, pointing variously to rising house prices, growth in residential construction and sales, and the lower inventory of homes for sale. A number of participants thought it likely that higher home values and low mortgage rates were helping support other sectors of the economy as well, and a couple saw the housing market as having the potential to cause overall growth to be stronger than expected this year. Nonetheless, it was noted that mortgage credit remained tight and the fraction of homeowners with mortgage balances exceeding the value of their homes remained high. In general, participants indicated that, relative to the recent past, more business contacts reported an improvement in confidence and some cautious optimism about the economic outlook. Anecdotal reports suggested that uncertainty about the evolution of the economy and government policy continued to restrain firms' hiring and capital spending decisions, but the passage of fiscal legislation in early January helped resolve some of the uncertainty about federal tax policy. Moreover, it was noted that businesses were in a good position to expand once they came to view the economic environment as more favorable. Survey data from one District indicated that more than half of the respondents expected to increase employment this year, with many citing expected sales growth as the reason. Reports from a number of industries across the country also suggested a more positive assessment of future prospects, particularly in the automotive, energy, and technology sectors. However, reports from the non-automotive manufacturing sector were less positive. In agriculture, record payouts from crop insurance following last year's drought supported farm incomes, and land prices continued to rise. Reports on business conditions in the commercial real estate sector were more mixed but, on the whole, somewhat improved. The strength of exports reportedly varied, with indications of higher demand from Mexico but some relatively pessimistic readings from firms about business conditions in Europe. Participants generally welcomed an apparent pickup in economic growth in parts of Asia and saw reduced risk that the Chinese economy would slow abruptly, but it was noted that no economy was currently in a position to lead global growth higher. The passage of legislation in early January resolved some of the uncertainties surrounding the federal fiscal outlook, but near-term uncertainties remained, including the prospect of automatic budget cuts. Participants generally agreed that fiscal negotiations could develop in a way that would result in significantly greater drag on economic growth than in their baseline outlook. One participant noted positive news about the fiscal position of the states; in some cases, revenues had risen sufficiently to enable increases in state government spending and employment. In their comments on labor market developments, participants viewed the decline in the unemployment rate from the third quarter to the fourth and the continued moderate gains in payroll employment as consistent with a gradually improving job market. However, the unemployment rate remained well above estimates of its longer-run normal level, and other indicators, such as the share of long-term unemployed and the number of people working part time for economic reasons, suggested that the recovery in the labor market was far from complete. One participant reported that firms in his District continued to have difficulty finding workers with suitable skills, suggesting that labor market mismatch was a factor deterring job growth. A few others, however, pointed to evidence that weak aggregate demand was the primary factor restraining job growth, citing data and analyses in support of the view that there was still a substantial margin of slack in the labor market. For example, a couple of participants noted evidence suggesting that a shift in the relationship between the unemployment rate and the level of job vacancies in recent years was unlikely to persist as the economy recovered and unemployment benefits returned to customary levels. Similarly, one participant cited empirical analysis showing that employment growth was lower in the states where a greater share of small businesses identified lack of demand as their most important business problem. Several participants expressed concern that continuation of only slow job growth and persistently high long-duration unemployment could lead to permanent damage to the labor market. Participants generally saw recent price developments as consistent with their projections that inflation would remain at or below the Committee's 2 percent objective over the medium run. There was little evidence of wage or cost pressures outside of isolated sectors, and measures of inflation expectations remained stable. However, a few participants expressed concerns that the current highly accommodative stance of monetary policy posed upside risks to inflation in the medium or longer term. Participants also touched on the implications for monetary policy of changes in estimates of the economy's potential output. A number of participants thought that the growth of potential output had been reduced in recent years, possibly in part because restrictive financial conditions and weak economic activity in the aftermath of the financial crisis had reduced investment, business formation, and the pace of adoption of new technologies. Many of these participants worried that, should the economy continue to operate below potential for too long, reduced investment and underutilization of labor could further undermine the growth of potential output over time. A couple of participants noted that uncertainties concerning both the level of, and the source of shifts in, potential output made it difficult to base decisions about monetary policy on real-time measures of the output gap. Participants noted that financial conditions appeared to have been supported by the recent fiscal agreement, a perceived reduction in the risk that the debt ceiling would not be raised in a timely manner, accommodative monetary policy, and actions taken by European authorities. With regard to Europe, participants continued to see downside risks to growth emanating from that region, given its unresolved imbalances and weak economic outlook. Several participants mentioned that domestic credit conditions appeared to have improved: Automobile loans were expanding rapidly and it was reported that competition to make commercial and industrial loans was robust. Although mortgage availability was still limited, a couple of participants indicated that they expected increased competition to bring about some lessening of the restraints on mortgage credit. In general, after having been depressed for some time, investor appetite for risk had increased. A few participants commented that the Committee's accommodative policies were intended in part to promote a more balanced approach to risk-taking, but several others expressed concern about the potential for excessive risk-taking and adverse consequences for financial stability. Some participants mentioned the potential for a sharp increase in longer-term interest rates to adversely affect financial stability and indicated their interest in further work on this topic. The Committee again discussed the possible benefits and costs of additional asset purchases. Most participants commented that the Committee's asset purchases had been effective in easing financial conditions and helping stimulate economic activity, and many pointed, in particular, to the support that low longer-term interest rates had provided to housing or consumer durable purchases. In addition, the Committee's highly accommodative policy was seen as helping keep inflation over the medium term closer to its longer-run goal of 2 percent than would otherwise have been the case. Policy was also aimed at improving the labor market outlook. In this regard, several participants stressed the economic and social costs of high unemployment, as well as the potential for negative effects on the economy's longer-term path of a prolonged period of underutilization of resources. However, many participants also expressed some concerns about potential costs and risks arising from further asset purchases. Several participants discussed the possible complications that additional purchases could cause for the eventual withdrawal of policy accommodation, a few mentioned the prospect of inflationary risks, and some noted that further asset purchases could foster market behavior that could undermine financial stability. Several participants noted that a very large portfolio of long-duration assets would, under certain circumstances, expose the Federal Reserve to significant capital losses when these holdings were unwound, but others pointed to offsetting factors and one noted that losses would not impede the effective operation of monetary policy. A few also raised concerns about the potential effects of further asset purchases on the functioning of particular financial markets, although a couple of other participants noted that there had been little evidence to date of such effects. In light of this discussion, the staff was asked for additional analysis ahead of future meetings to support the Committee's ongoing assessment of the asset purchase program. Several participants emphasized that the Committee should be prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved. For example, one participant argued that purchases should vary incrementally from meeting to meeting in response to incoming information about the economy. A number of participants stated that an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy, costs, and risks of asset purchases might well lead the Committee to taper or end its purchases before it judged that a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market had occurred. Several others argued that the potential costs of reducing or ending asset purchases too soon were also significant, or that asset purchases should continue until a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook had occurred. A few participants noted examples of past instances in which policymakers had prematurely removed accommodation, with adverse effects on economic growth, employment, and price stability; they also stressed the importance of communicating the Committee's commitment to maintaining a highly accommodative stance of policy as long as warranted by economic conditions. In this regard, a number of participants discussed the possibility of providing monetary accommodation by holding securities for a longer period than envisioned in the Committee's exit principles, either as a supplement to, or a replacement for, asset purchases. Participants also discussed the economic thresholds in the Committee's forward guidance on the path of the federal funds rate. On the whole, participants judged that financial markets had adapted to the shift from date-based communication to guidance based on economic thresholds without difficulty, although a few participants stated that communications challenges remained. For example, one participant commented that some market participants appeared to have incorrectly interpreted the thresholds as triggers that, when reached, would necessarily lead to an immediate rise in the federal funds rate. A couple of participants noted that this policy tool would be more effective if the Committee were able to communicate a consensus expectation for the path of the federal funds rate after a threshold was crossed. One participant also indicated a preference for lowering the threshold for the unemployment rate as a means of providing additional accommodation. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members saw the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that growth in economic activity had paused in recent months, in large part because of weather-related disruptions and other transitory factors. Employment had continued to expand at a moderate pace, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. However, members generally expected that, with appropriately accommodative monetary policy, economic growth would proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate would gradually decline toward levels they judged to be consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. Although members saw strains in global financial markets as having eased somewhat, they continued to see an increase in such strains as well as slower global growth and a greater-than-expected fiscal tightening in the United States as downside risks to the economy. Members generally continued to anticipate that, with longer-term inflation expectations stable and slack in resource utilization remaining, inflation over the medium term would run at or below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent.¬† In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members saw the economic outlook as relatively little changed since the previous meeting. Accordingly, all but one member judged that maintaining the highly accommodative stance of monetary policy was warranted in order to foster a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability. The Committee agreed that it would be appropriate to continue purchases of MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and purchases of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month, as well as to maintain the Committee's reinvestment policies. The Committee also retained its forward guidance about the federal funds rate, including the thresholds on the unemployment and inflation rates. Some members remarked favorably on the move away from providing calendar dates in the forward guidance and toward highlighting the economic conditionality of future monetary policy. One member dissented from the Committee's policy decision, expressing concern that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations. In the statement to be released following the meeting, the Committee made relatively small modifications to the language of its December statement, including to acknowledge both the pause in economic growth during the fourth quarter and some easing of the strains in global financial markets. In light of the importance of ongoing U.S. fiscal concerns, members discussed whether to include a reference to unresolved fiscal issues, but decided to refrain. Similarly, one member raised a question about whether the statement language adequately captured the importance of the Committee's assessment of the likely efficacy and costs in its asset purchase decisions, but the Committee decided to maintain the current language pending a review, planned for the March meeting, of its asset purchases. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:15 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December suggests that growth in economic activity paused in recent months, in large part because of weather-related disruptions and other transitory factors. Employment has continued to expand at a moderate pace but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has shown further improvement. Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. Although strains in global financial markets have eased somewhat, the Committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook. The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee will continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. If the outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially, the Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until such improvement is achieved in a context of price stability. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will, as always, take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action:¬†Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, James Bullard, Elizabeth Duke, Charles L. Evans, Jerome H. Powell, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Eric Rosengren, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action:¬†Esther L. George. Ms. George dissented out of concern that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in inflation expectations. In her view, the potential costs and risks posed by the Committee's asset purchases outweighed their uncertain benefits. Although she noted that monetary policy needed to remain supportive of the economy, Ms. George believed that policy had become too accommodative and that possible unintended side effects of ongoing asset purchases, posing risks to financial stability and complicating future monetary policy, argued against continuing on the Committee's current path. Discussion of Communications Regarding Economic ProjectionsAs a follow-up to the FOMC's discussion in October about providing more information on the Committee's collective judgment regarding the economic outlook and appropriate monetary policy, the staff presented several options for enhancing the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP). Most of the options involved displaying the information currently collected from participants in new ways by using different summary statistics or aggregations. In the ensuing discussion, participants expressed a range of views on the advantages and disadvantages of implementing changes to the SEP. For example, they generally judged that the addition of the median of participants' projections could be useful to better illustrate the central outlook of the Committee. Many participants also expressed interest in exploring the potential for using the SEP to convey information about issues related to the Committee's future asset purchases and the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. However, the discussion highlighted the complexity involved in providing this information, in part because participants' quantitative assessments of the likely evolution of the Federal Reserve's asset holdings under appropriate policy may not adequately convey the nature of the conditionality and the broader cost-benefit considerations guiding the Committee's actions in this area. At the end of the discussion, the Chairman asked the subcommittee on communications to explore potential approaches to providing more information about participants' individual views of appropriate balance sheet policy and its conditionality. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, March 19-20, 2013. The meeting adjourned at 1:45 p.m. on January 30, 2013. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on January 2, 2013, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on December 11-12, 2012. ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up ‚Äì we're about to get the release of the minutes from the Federal Reserve's January FOMC meeting, due out at 2 PM ET. The release of the December FOMC minutes in early January provided markets with a bit of a surprise. They revealed that several members of the Fed favored slowing or stopping quantitative easing by the end of 2013. So, when does the Fed begin to tighten? That's what everyone wants to know. Look for any mention of slowing or stopping QE in today's release. Perhaps it was discussed more at the January meeting. We will have the January FOMC minutes LIVE at 2 PM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Not everyone is a morning person. And few people like Mondays. But if you're a precious metals investor, mornings ‚Äì especially Mondays ‚Äì are brutal. The precious metals are routinely sold off at or soon after the 8:20am EST morning open of the New York NYMEX exchange. Below are the daily gold price charts (source: Kitco) for each Monday (or Tuesday, if Monday was a holiday) since early this year. The current day's gold price is noted by the bright green line. The morning takedown is highlighted by the orange oval. Gold is taken down $10 immediately after the 8am NYMEX open  A late breaking rally begun on the London exchange is quickly contained at the NYMEX open, and then beaten down nearly $10. Notice that the previous Friday's gold price action (the bright blue line) also showed the same behavior at the same time, but with an even more severe response once the NYMEX opened.  The 8am sell-off is smaller here (only a few $), but still noticeable.  Again, a sell-off happens after the 8am open. Note again how the previous Friday's action was similar, but even more severe.  Finally, an outlier. While there was an initial dip in the first hour of the NYMEX, the price took off soon after. So let's not count this one.  An immediate $14 drop at the 8am open. The downward momentum started in London, but the vertical downdraft once the NYMEX opened is unmistakable.  While less sharp, the steady selling clearly begins at 8am, beating gold down $12 to the technically significant $1,600 threshold.  Running the above data by Chris, he noted two additional observations. The first is that the price suppression is commencing increasingly in advance of the start of the NYMEX's open outcry process at 8:20am¬†EST (i.e., how trading happens at the NYMEX). This suggests that it's being done on behalf of powerful players granted permission to circumvent the rules.  The second is that the volume levels in this pre-open trading is similar to that seen during active hours. That is very unusual in markets, and exceptionally high.  For those wondering, the daily price charts for silver indicate measurably similar action during these gold takedowns. Not in exact lockstep, but directionally similar both in degree and timing. [Update: after initially writing this, I noticed Zero Hedge posted a related analysis today of the takedowns in silver for the month of February so far. Like gold, the selling is concentrated in the first few hours of the day on the NYMEX] ...they appear to be strangely collected in a brief four hour window at the start of the day... the black line is the average of the day's performance in February across the dates selected.  ¬† Charts: Bloomberg It's hard to swallow that these charts are evidence of a free and efficient market. Otherwise, a pattern this predictable would be quickly removed as traders and HFT algos piled in to a "sure" bet.¬† Instead, this is behavior one would expect to see if powerful interests wanted to suppress the price of gold: hit the price hard and early at the start of the trading week to prevent the price from building upward momentum, as well as to make capital think twice before entering the gold market. Who is doing this selling at the market open? Is it TBTF ("too big to fail") banks making profit on large short positions? Is it the Fed, through proxies, keeping the gold price contained so as not to signal how badly QE is devaluing the dollar? Allegations swarm across the Internet that it's one of these ‚Äì or both. But we don't know for certain. The exchanges don't make that information available to the public. But while these charts above are not enough evidence to prove that the gold price is being manipulated, they sure exhibit the symptoms one would expect to see if it is. So, the big question is: if the precious metals market is being manipulated, is it wise to be in it? History is littered with the bodies of investors whose investment thesis was right, but whose timing was wrong. Even though precious metals investors may be correct in their fundamental rationale for buying gold, can the precious metals markets remain held in check (or driven further down) for long enough that it's not worth the risk of owning the metals at all right now? As I laid out in Time To Choose, investors are facing a junction where they need to make a decision. Since rising markets and fiscal policy have divorced themselves from fundamentals, the gap between "what is" and "what should be" is widening. The weighting of your capital allocation needs to be based on which side you see winning out here. From our perspective here at Peak Prosperity, for all of the reasons explored in the Crash Course and discussed here daily, we firmly believe that fundamentals will ultimately matter most. And when they fully express themselves, there will be a tremendous re-pricing of assets ‚Äì largely higher for tangible assets that require energy to obtain, and markedly lower for paper claims on wealth (stocks, bonds, and their derivatives). But as we've often said, the corrective process may very well take much longer than we ever expected to arrive. Frankly, we're amazed that the system has held together so well over the past 5 years with all of the thin-air money printing, trillion-dollar deficits, and $100 oil. If you are playing to the fundamentals, as we are, you need to be eyes-wide-open that you may be frustrated for far longer than you'd like to be. So, if you decide to bet on the continued success of the status quo, your choices are easy: Get in the paper markets and go long. The Fed will be adding $85 billion of liquidity rocket fuel each month for the rest of the year to push the prices of your paper investments even higher. But if you choose the fundamentals, here are a few important guidelines to keep in mind: It's only human to have your confidence shaken when the market acts so completely differently than you think it should for so prolonged a time. Chris and I feel the same pain, both constitutionally as well as in our wallets, as much of our net worth is invested in the PMs. But every time we go through the exercise of challenging our assumptions, we walk away feeling certain that our charted course is the correct one ‚Äì and that at some point, fundamentals will prevail. As for what those fundamentals are, there's a seminal piece Chris wrote back in 2011 called The Screaming Fundamentals for Owning Gold and Silver that is even more true today. I highly recommend revisiting it. Chris has mentioned many times that this market feels an awful lot like 2007, when asset prices powered ever higher month after month, even though the underlying data was deteriorating fast. As then, he sees a high and rising potential for a violent correction that will take the market by surprise and vaporize a lot of wealth before players are able to react. It's times like these when you need to have the courage of your convictions and hold fast to whatever course of action you have decided upon after careful, considered analysis. During these trying periods, it's helpful to converse with a community of like-minded thinkers who can help remind you of the facts underlying your rationale ‚Äì which is why I recommend joining PeakProsperity.com's¬†Gold &amp; Silver Group if you own PMs. It's a great source of both informational and emotional support.¬† Chris and I will continue to closely track the developments in the precious metals markets and report back on any material changes to our outlook as they develop. In the meantime, we'll be holding fast. We hope you'll be doing the same, too.  (click on image if in need of dramatic inspiration)
WikimediaThe Marquis de LafayetteThe French government has responded to American tire chief's comments slamming the country's labor system. In a letter to Titan CEO Maurice Taylor, Secretary for Industrial Productivity Reform Arnaud Montebourg blasts Taylor's note as †"extremist", "ignorant" and insulting.† "France is proud to welcome on its soil more than 20,000 foreign businesses representing more approximately 2 million employees," he writes.† Each year, we count more than 700 decisions by companies to create jobs and commerce in France. And this strong attractiveness is not weakening ó quite the opposite: year after year, it is reinforced. Montebourg had been negotiating with Taylor's Illinois-based Titan International to avoid having to close a factory in the town of Amiens over rising costs. Titan ended up refusing the terms of the local manufacturing union's contract offer and shut down much of the plant. In the letter, Montebourg goes on to evoke Lafayette's role in creating the U.S. and threatens Titan's remaining businesses with aggressive regulations.† Here's our translation of the letter: Monsieur, Your note, as extremist as it is insulting, demonstrates a perfect ignorance of our country, France, its advantages, its recognized global attractiveness and its links with the United States of America. France is proud to welcome on its soil more than 20,000 foreign businesses representing nearly 2 million jobs, a third of its industrial exports, 20 percent of private research and development and 25 percent of industrial employment. Each year, we count 700 decisions by companies to invest and create jobs in France. And this strong attractiveness is not weakening ó on the contrary, year after year it strengthens. Among all these foreign investors, the U.S. is first. 4,200 American business units employ nearly 500,000 people. The presence of these American businesses in France goes back many years: Haviland since 1842, IBM since 1914, Coca-Cola since 1933, GE since 1974. And how many more. These bonds are year after year renewed: in 2012, businesses like Massey-Freguson, Mars or 3M chose to grow their presence in France. What are the decisive factors that lead to such decisions? Foreign businesses come to France quality infrastructure, an enviable quality of life, an energy that's among the most competitive in Europe, and an environment very favorable to research and innovation. But above all, far from your comments as ridiculous as they are disparaging, most of these businesses know and appreciate the quality and productivity of French workers ó their engagement, their savoir-faire, their talent and competency. To grow this attractiveness, the French government just adopted 35 measures under a program of growth, competitively and jobs. Among them, a tax credit for competitiveness and jobs reduces† salary costs to between by 6 percent. And, social organizations just concluded an accord on job security, which illustrates the quality of social dialogue in France and the importance of the government that I represent. † May I remind you that Titan, the business you lead, is 20 times smaller than Michelin, our globally known technological leader, et 35 percent less profitable. Which is to say that Titan could have gained much from sticking with France. France is as proud as it is happy to welcome the American investment ó our two countries are linked by an ancient and passionate friendship. Did you know what Lafayette did for the United States of America? For our part, we French, we will never forget the sacrifices of young American soldiers on the beaches of Normandy to deliver us from Nazism in 1944. And because you make the choice to criticize your own country in your letter to me, I must say how much the French government admires the policies put in place by President Obama. As minister in charge of industry, I am particularly sensitive to actions in favor of outsourcing jobs and radical innovation. As it turns out, our policies have been inspired by those of your President. You evoke your intention to exploit manual labor in certain countries to inundate our markets. I must say that this condemnable calculation, and so short-sighted, will sooner or later provoke a justified response. That's already the case in France, with its growing number of allies at the heart of the† EU who plead for reciprocity of exchange and take action against dumping. In the meantime, rest assured you may count on me to oversee with a renewed zeal your remaining businesses. They will be particularly subject to the terms of our social, environmental and technical laws. Sincerely,† Arnaud Montebourg
The Federal Reserve has revealed that it is considering scaling down and possibly even completely halting quantitative easing by the end of this year. Whether or not the central bank will actually be in a position to do that in 2013 is one of the hottest debates in the market right now ñ but the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield has risen from an all-time low below 1.5 percent in July to its current levels, slightly above 2 percent, and that has people talking. "It's the $64,000 question:†What ends up bringing this down?"†Citi strategist Michael H. Anderson told Business Insider. As several members of the Federal Reserve ramp up the public dialogue surrounding financial stability, Anderson thinks they're looking in the wrong place. In a recent note to clients, he wrote, "Itís more likely the excess that ultimately brings this cycle to an end is one that few are mentioning." In aggregate, investors have poured a staggering amount of money ñ hundreds of billions of dollars ñ into bond funds over the past five years. They have been largely deterred from stocks as memories of the crash in 2008 continue to haunt the market. That may all be changing as investors in mutual funds begin to open up their monthly statements and realize that their bond investments are starting to lose money. What happens when investors start pulling money from these mutual funds, and the fund managers have to turn around and get rid of their holdings of corporate bonds? No one knows for sure. This is an unprecedented situation. However, one thing is clear: that scenario could present a big problem. The chart below is a perfect illustration of what has Citi worried. ICI, NY Fed, Bloomberg, Haver Analytics, Citi Research Citi strategist Matt King, who sent us this chart in December,†put it this way: "Since 2007, credit mutual fund assets have doubled, while dealers' corporate bond inventories have halved.†So while in 2007, it would have taken a 50% outflow from mutual funds to double the size of the street's inventory, now if there were to be a 5% outflow it would double the size of the inventory." The corporate bond inventories of these dealers ñ big Wall Street banks like Citi ñ are a casualty of Dodd-Frank regulatory reform, which forced banks to reduce their own balance sheets. The negative side-effect of this particular aspect of the law should by now be clear. As Anderson put it, "When those [mutual fund] investors look to sell, will there be another buyer on the other side?" The answer, as far as anyone can tell, is maybe not. Before Dodd-Frank, Anderson told Business Insider, dealer inventories provided a buffer for these types of situations (albeit on a smaller scale). Sellers ñ mutual funds, for example ñ were able to unload their bonds to the dealers, who would hold on to them just long enough to find another buyer for them. In other words, the "buffer" of higher inventories on bank balance sheets provided the market with liquidity. Now, that buffer is gone. "If [the dealers] don't feel comfortable that they are going to quickly find a buyer on the other side ñ because the dealers don't want to be sitting on a whole bunch of paper ñ if the dealers are not confident in that, then they are going to be hesitant to provide that liquidity," Anderson told Business Insider. †In his note, Anderson summed up the concern over market liquidity succinctly: Perhaps the biggest risk building in the market is the decline in liquidity. Although volumes were higher in 2012 than 2011, we believe a lot of the improvement had to do with a strong market and inflows that made traders confident they could move risk. High yield TRACE volume rose 18% in 2012 and the average daily volume was $5bn, versus $4.2bn the prior year. We are not confident that liquidity improvement will be maintained in a prolonged market sell off.  In addition, trading volumes last year were roughly equivalent to volumes in 2007 but when we adjust for increasing market size, turnover is much lower. Dealer inventories rebounded a bit at the end of 2012 but are not far above decade-long lows. Regulations and stringent capital constraints are limiting how much liquidity dealers are providing and perhaps policymakers should focus on creating an environment conducive to secondary liquidity.  Therefore the market has grown in size beyond its ability to provide liquidity. This doesnít cause problems as long as capital flows are positive (i.e. inflows) or balanced. What happens when investors begin to shift their allocations to other assets? How well will the sell-side accommodate the transfer of risk from current†holders to the new holders? This is one of the bigger risks building in the credit market. That is how the entire bull market in credit could come to an end, says Anderson. In one fell swoop. The "Great Rotation" out of bonds and into stocks doesn't appear to be here yet. Perhaps it will never arrive, though at this point, the consensus view is that it happens in late 2013 or 2014. If the hundreds of billions of dollars that have flowed into credit mutual funds in the past five years reverse with any similar magnitude, this nightmare scenario, wherein no one wants to buy these bonds until the dust settles, could become reality. Thus, as Anderson warns in his note, policymakers may want to look at this corner of the bond market a little more closely.
 Peretz Partensky on FlickrInterviewer: "So... what's your biggest weakness?" To be honest, I think the biggest weakness question is one of the most bullshit questions you can get during an interview. But people keep asking it, so youíve got to have a strategy. There are some shops/industries where the best strategy is truth. In most banking/PE interviews, not so much. My favorite way to answer the biggest weakness question is to imagine the interviewer at their job and think about what they would relate to most strongly. Then I build an answer starting with, ìI get impatient/frustrated when....î You want to pick a problem that is endemic to the industry and essentially unsolvable. One of those things people just have to live with. You want them to think, ìYeah, that frustrates me all the time too.î It sends the signal that youíre at least aware of the challenges, which puts you ahead of many candidates. So say Iím talking to a VP. VPs spend their lives as the axis between senior bankers and analysts/associates. If they ask what my biggest weakness is, I might say, ìI get a little impatient when things take longer than I think they should. That would be fine, except it turns out the timeline I have in my mind for something is usually pretty optimistic. This is something Iím aware of and working on. So ideally in the future all my expectations would be realistic and I would do a good job of communicating them to the senior guys so there are no surprises.î Say Iím talking to an associate. Then it might be: ìI get a little impatient when I need to teach people who are new to the game. Coachingís important, and in order to build a strong team I know we need to get people up the curve quickly. In the past Iíve occasionally let coaching slide in order to hit a tight deadline, but in the future I know I need to make time to teach people how to do something rather than churn it out quickly myself.î For the rest of this break down, head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Good guess, but you're thinking of Jarndyce and Jarndyce, the complicated and interminable court case at the centre of Bleak House. It certainly bears a striking resemblance to the interminable "Bumi affair" that's given its primary author, the banking scion Nathaniel Rothschild, more press coverage than horsemeat of late and which nobody really understands. Calling it the "Bumi affair" makes it sound racy rather than complicated though. Well it's complicated and racy too. Feuding billionaires, whistleblowers, mass boardroom resignations, alleged computer hacking, claims that $1bn (¬£6.4m) has mysteriously gone missing, that kind of thing. Break it down for me. Who or what is Bumi? Bumi is listed on the London Stock Exchange and its business comprises two stakes in Indonesian coal-mining businesses. It owns 85 per cent of Berau Coal, a coal miner based in the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan, as well as 29 per cent of the similarly sounding Bumi Resources, a holding company with coal-mining interests across Indonesia. Who is behind Bumi? As you've probably guessed by now, Nat Rothschild, of the Rothschild banking dynasty, is one of the co-founders. Indonesia's Bakrie brothers are collectively the other co-founder. There are three of them and, although they're not well known here, they're big in Indonesia. In fact, the eldest, 66-year old Aburizal, is expected to win the Indonesian presidential election next year. The other brothers are Indra and Nirwan (the one who branded it the "Bumi affair"). So why are the co-founders locking horns? Mr Rothschild feels a bit of a Charlie because in November 2010 he did a deal with the Bakrie brothers without a huge amount of scrutiny. This saw him merging the $1bn-plus cash mountain he had raised from trusting investors with some of the trio's Indonesian coal-mining interests to create a company called Bumi with a lot of cash to spend. The basic premise of the deal was that Mr Rothschild could get the assets cheaply because Indonesia's dubious reputation for corporate governance left them "undervalued". He would then confer respectability (and value) on them through a London listing and the Rothschild name. Sounds good to me It sounded good to a lot of people and initially Mr Rothschild, an 18 per cent shareholder in Bumi, was able to magically "unlock" the value of the coal businesses to the point where only last May his personal fortune was valued at ¬£1bn. It seemed as if 41-year old Nat, the latest in a long line of Rothschild financiers, had transformed his image from a playboy to the most savvy mover and shaker of his lineage. I have a good nose for a but ‚Äì and I feel the mother of all buts coming Bingo. It wasn't long before Mr Rothschild decided he'd bought a share in a corrupt business and suspected that about $1bn had gone missing from the Indonesian coal businesses in which Bumi has a stake. This has prompted a series of increasingly hostile exchanges between Mr Rothschild, the Bakrie brothers and the Bumi board, not to mention an investigation by the Takeover Panel. Meanwhile, Bumi is working with Britain's Serious Fraud Office and the Indonesian authorities to try to get the bottom of what happened. What do the Bakries say to all this? They have strongly denied any involvement in financial irregularities. However, Bumi has confirmed that a forensic audit carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers determined that hundreds of millions of dollars of assets are unaccounted for. So this thing could drag on for a while Absolutely. Tomorrow promises to be the greatest showdown of all. Mr Rothschild has made a proposal that is audacious even by his standards. He wants to oust 12 of the 14 people on Bumi's board, including chairman Samin Tan, and put his own team in there, with "his truly" as one of the directors. The outcome of the vote is too close to call. But whatever it is, there are likely to be plenty more twists and turns. For a start, Mr Rothschild said that if he wins he will sue the the Bakries for $1.5bn, while the Bakries have said they will "commence litigation [and] immediately call a new extraordinary meeting to appoint new directors". If Mr Rothschild loses, he has pledged to continue his war. OK, Mr Rothschild may have lost more than $1.5bn of investors' money but he's done well in business otherwise, right? Yes and no. He does have some track record of making a profit, with the Atticus hedge fund of which he was co-chairman making stellar returns in the early years. But this success has been clouded by the fund's closure in 2009 as the financial crisis took its toll, as well as a share price fall of more than a fifth following the flotation of Genel, the oil company run by former BP chief executive Tony Hayward, in which he is a key backer. So the Bumi affair is "make or break" for him? Well not "make" as such, but certainly "break" ‚Äì a point not lost on Mr Rothschild himself, whose PR machine has unleashed an unprecedented number of emails in recent weeks to further his cause. Whatever happens now, after his fall from grace in the past few months, he is unlikely ever to be able to command the same respect again. There are some who say he will never raise another dollar from anybody. But, if he can push his plan through and improve Bumi's fortunes, he may just claw back enough to carry on in business ‚Äì but it's a big if. It's good Mr Rothschild is determined to retrieve funds for his shareholders but isn't he going about it a bit like a bull in a china shop? A bit, yes. Sir Julian Horn-Smith, the former Vodafone deputy chief executive who is now Bumi's senior independent director, lamented what he called Mr Rothschild's "extraordinary demonstration of a confrontational style which does not create value for shareholders". Also, his apparent ability to bear a grudge could further put off potential backers in the future. Rothschild, Mandelson and yacht spring to mind Yes they do. In 2008, Mr Rothschild famously invited the now Chancellor George Osborne to a party that he and Peter Mandelson were attending on Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska's yacht in Corfu. That encounter ended in a glorious falling out after Mr Rothschild wrote a letter to The Times claiming that Mr Osborne tried to solicit a donation from Mr Deripaska while on the yacht ‚Äì an accusation the latter vigorously denied. His letter was a retaliation against his prep school, Oxford and Bullingdon Club friend, Mr Osborne, whom he blamed for "dripping poison" to the newspapers about Gordon Brown, then Prime Minister. Is there anything else I should be aware of? Having declared at the weekend that his proposal was a shoo-in, Mr Rothschild has taken a couple of knocks this week, which leave the outcome genuinely too close to call. On Monday three investors thought to oppose his plan bought a 10 per cent stake in Bumi and yesterday Standard Life, thought to be a key ally of the scion, announced its opposition. You mentioned Jarndyce and Jarndyce earlier. Does that have anything to teach the Bumi protagonists? It just might. Dickens' fictional case centred on an inheritance and dragged on for so many generations that the legal costs eventually devoured the estate they were fighting over. A cautionary tale indeed. 
YouTube screencapRob Morrison, the WCBS New York anchorman accused of trying to strangle is financial journalist wife, has resigned from the local news station, FishBowlNY Tweeted. Here's the statement:¬† Rob Morrison announced today that he has resigned his position as a CBS 2 news anchor, effective immediately. ¬†Morrison stated, "My family is my first and only priority right now and I have informed CBS 2 management that I need to put all of my time and energy into making sure that I do what's best for my wife and my son. I very much appreciate the opportunity that CBS 2 has given me and I thank them for accepting my decision."  Morrison was arrested charged with trying to strangle his wife Ashley Morrison, the anchor of CBS "Money Watch," during a domestic dispute at their Darien, Connecticut home on Sunday, the New York Post reported.¬† He's currently free on bail and denies putting his hands on his wife. SEE ALSO: TV Anchor Arrested For Allegedly Trying To Strangle His Financial Journalist Wife &gt;
Like skirt lengths and tie widths, investment styles come in and out of fashion in long waves.† The period since the crash of 2008 has been difficult for value managers, who try to buy stocks at prices below their fundamental value and wait for the market to realize that value.† Growth stocks, whose earnings are expected to grow faster than the market, have fared better during this volatile time. While the recovery in the real economy has been disappointing, the U.S. stock market has performed strongly (but the rest of the worldís equity markets have lagged behind). Since the bottom in March 2009, the S&amp;P 500 has popped from its low of 677 to a high of over 1,520 recently.† This return of 124% plus dividends, spread over a little less than three years, represents a better-than-30% annual return and is typical of recoveries from very severe declines. The Russell 1000 value benchmark had performance similar to that of the S&amp;P 500 from March 2009 to November 2012.† But classic value managers, those who follow principles articulated by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd in their 1934 book, Security Analysis, have underperformed both value benchmarks and the broad market. The managers profiled in this article try to identify stocks selling below their fundamental values by a ìmargin of safetyî (Grahamís words). The margin ensures that if fundamental value is incorrectly estimated or deteriorates slightly, the strategy still succeeds.† As the market ìrealizesî the value, the stock price rises, and its price-to-earnings ratio, or P/E, reverts upward to a more typical P/E. The classic value manager sells the stock when it no longer offers a margin of safety between price and value. Value managers have often complained ñ since the middle 1990s, at least ñ that the stock market is so expensive that few stocks offer a margin of safety that would make them appealing in a Graham and Dodd value strategy.† These complaints receded at the 2002-2003 and 2008-2009 market bottoms, but theyíre back.† Some managers, nonetheless, believe theyíve identified a number of such stocks and hold concentrated portfolios of them.† These are the strategies on which I focus here. Both value and growth investing require avoiding ìtraps.î The growth trap is when a company that has grown tremendously looks good but may have nowhere to go but down. The value trap is subtler: A stock could appear cheap but actually be expensive because shareholders are aware of long-term difficulties with the companyís strategy or competitive position.† A classic example is airline stocks, which periodically fall to prices so low that they appear to offer a sure profit.† As often as not, however, such airlines have gone bankrupt, with existing shareholders getting nothing.† A similar situation exists with bank stocks, which are much more likely to go to zero than industrial stocks, because of leverage.† In fact, analyst and consultant Ronald Surz attributes most recent weakness in value stocks to the banking sector, which has performed poorly in the recovery from the 2008 crash.2Iíll look first at the outperformance of value managers over a long period, encompassing multiple market cycles.† Then, Iíll look at the performance since the most recent market bottom, during which value strategies have underperformed.† Iíll then explore the possible explanations for this underperformance ñ including those offered in interviews with two of the managers I studied ñ and posit the underlying message for investors. Read the rest at Advisor Perspectives &gt;
Youtube via Columbia Business SchoolWith finals creeping up on students at the Columbia Business School, second-year students wanted to show the first-years just how one should blow-off some steam. By organizing a flash mob, obviously. The second-year class e-vited the first-year to receive a 'class gift' in the library, said Braxton Bragg, class of 2013, CBS, in an email. The 'gift' was a choreographed dance sequence feature 100 plus second-year students, featuring songs the first-years had used earlier in the semester. Check it out: 
WTI crude oil futures are getting slammed in today's session. Right now, they're down over 2.2 percent, and a big part of the drop came in just the last 20 minutes. Metals like gold, silver, palladium, copper, aluminum, etc. are all tanking today as well. Bloomberg's Moming Zhou reports: West Texas Intermediate tumbled more¬†than $2 a barrel following declines in metals on rumors that a¬†commodity fund is liquidating. WTI dropped as much as 2.8 percent as silver and platinum¬†tumbled. Oil also decreased as gasoline futures slid for a¬†second day from the highest level since September. ‚ÄúThere is a rumor that a fund is blowing up,‚Äù said¬†Stephen Schork, president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,¬†Pennsylvania. ‚ÄúMetals are getting hit and it‚Äôs spreading over¬†to oil.‚Äù Below is a chart showing the move in oil, including the spike in volume in the light blue bars below the price graph: Thinkorswim And here is a chart of silver, which is off more than 3 percent today: Thinkorswim
We're tuning into Herbalife's earnings call and we noticed the nutritional supplement seller is playing some pretty weird inspiring music. † It turns out it's an Herbalife anthem.† Here are the lyrics via LyricsFreak.com:† We Are Here†(Herbalife Anthem)†We can cross any sea†Climb any mountain to reach our dream.†We just have to believe,†Trust the voice that is whispering within.†And no matter where we go†Well be standing together as one.†We are here. We are strong.†Finally found where we belong.†Herbalife†Round the world†Come together, we are one.†And well never give up†Knowing we can make a change.†Herbalife.†We have walked through the rain,†Now there's no place that I'd rather be.†And we all wear the name,†Side by side we are all family.†And no matter where we go,†Well be standing together as one.†We are here. We are strong.†Finally found where we belong.†Herbalife†Round the world†Come together, we are one.†And well never give up†Knowing we can make a change.†Herbalife.†We are here. We are strong.†Finally found where we belong.†Herbalife†Round the world†Come together, we are one.†We are here. We are strong.†Finally found where we belong.†Herbalife†Round the world†Come together, we are one.†And well never give up†Knowing we can make a change.†Herbalife. A reader pointed out that there's a dance, too.†  
After the financial collapse in 2008, it suddenly became very in vogue to talk about whether the US was going to become "Japan," a country synonymous with horrible growth and horrible economic policy for years. The advantage that the US had was that it got to see the Japanese tragedy play out, and learn from Japan's mistakes. Fortunately, Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke followed Japan closely and was determined not to make the same errors. One of Japan's biggest mistakes? It wasn't nearly as aggressive as it needed to be, early on, in terms of monetary easing. It also engaged in premature fiscal austerity. The US has made ome austerity mistakes (though not much) but where the US really shines is in monetary policy. This chart from @pawelmorski on Twitter compares real interest rates in the West post crisis peak to Japan post-crisis. As you can see, in the subsequent years from the equity peak, US real rates fell aggressively. Japan's fell a bit, and then perked back up. Japan eased up on the gas pedal way too early and the economy continues to pay for it (although it's trying to compensate now).  @pawelmorski
Business Insider sourceYesterday nutritional supplement seller Herbalife beat Wall Street's earnings estimates and raised its sales guidance.¬† The multi-level marketing firm reported $1.05 EPS on sales of $1.1 billion. Click here for updates &gt; On average, analysts polled by¬†Bloomberg¬†expected the multi-level marketing firm to post an adjusted EPS of $1.03 on sales of $1.049 billion. Herbalife has become one of the most controversial stocks.¬† Bill Ackman, the CEO of¬†Pershing Square¬†Capital Management, has publicly declared that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0. ¬†The premise of his thesis is that he believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme and regulators will be induced to investigate the company. The company said he used misleading and inaccurate information in his massive 342-slide presentation. The company also released its¬†10K filed yesterday and a short-seller (a.k.a. Bill Ackman) got a mention in it (emphasis ours). "In late 2012, a hedge fund manager publicly raised allegations regarding the legality of our network marketing program and announced that his fund had taken a significant short position regarding our common shares, leading to intense public scrutiny and significant stock price volatility. Following this public announcement in December 2012, our stock price dropped from $42.50 on December¬†18, 2012, to prices as low as $24.24 in the following week. Our stock price has continued to exhibit heightened volatility....Short sellers expect to make a profit if our common shares decline in value, and their actions and their public statements may cause further volatility in our share price. While a number of traders have publicly announced that they have taken long positions contrary to the hedge fund shorting our shares, the existence of such a significant short interest position and the related publicity may lead to continued volatility. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a shareholder‚Äôs investment to decline rapidly. ¬† Herbalife's management also said that it has contacted the SEC after Ackman's presentation, the 10K shows.¬† "From time to time, we receive inquiries from various government authorities requesting information from the Company. Following December 2012 market events and a subsequent meeting we requested with the staff of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement, the staff requested information regarding the Company‚Äôs business and financial operations. Consistent with its policies, the Company is and will fully corporate with these inquiries." We've included highlights from the call below.¬† He says the business continues to perform "exceptionally well" despite "untrue" and "unprecedented" attacks.&nbsp; He says when people truly understand Herbalife they see a "great company with a great future."&nbsp; He also said Herbalife will make it clear who is a "wholesale customer" versus "distributor" so investors can better understand the business. He says U.S. net sales, a market that's 32 years old, grew 20%.&nbsp;He says the growth in the U.S. continues be driven by daily consumption methods.&nbsp;He adds that new distributors grew 9%. He's going around the world &mdash;South Pacific, Russia, U.K., China &mdash; touching upon those areas and the results there. &nbsp;  Herbalife currently has $788 million remaining on a $1 billion share repurchase authorization, DiSimone says. He's talking about guidance about information put forth by a "short seller" (a.k.a Bill Ackman) Here's the part from the earnings release: "Guidance for the year also exclusdes one-time costs of $10 million to $20 million, mostly legal and advisory services, relating to the Company's response to information put forth into the marketplace by a short seller which information the Company believes to be inaccurate and misleading."&nbsp; "It's a testament to the power of our products and the results our customers have through those products everyday."&nbsp; He says a lot of distributors do become one so they can buy the wholesale products at the discount. &nbsp;He says they want to clarify that this group isn't selling the product, but are "engaged as wholesale customers."&nbsp; John DiSimone added that they will do similar research to what Lieberman did.&nbsp;
valuebin.files.wordpress.comArt Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations, is always on top of what the NYSE traders are buzzing about. Yesterday, they were passing around this gloomy nugget.¬† From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Cautionary Comments From Investing Icons ‚Äì Near legendary investor, Seth Klarman caused a good deal of buzz yesterday.¬† I could not locate his letter in full but here is a note from "Seeking Alpha" that traders kept handing about yesterday: "Investing today may well be harder than it has been at any time in our three decades of existence," writes Seth Klarman in his year-end letter. The Fed's "relentless interventions and manipulations" have left few purchase targets for Baupost, he laments. "(The) underpinnings of our economy and financial system are so precarious that the un-abating risks of collapse dwarf all other factors. As noted, Klarman has reached near legendary status among some of the Wall Street community.¬† He wrote a book some time back and now copies of that limited edition are said to trade for thousands of dollars apiece.¬† We'll try to get more on his letter and views. Meanwhile, stocks closed at a fresh post-crisis high yesterday.
Oof. Gold. More tankage. Here's why. And here's the chart. KITCO

Fortune Live Media via flickrIt's that time again ‚Äî Wall Street interview time. Since the Street is in such pain, acing these questions is more important than ever. That's why we've gone through our files to find questions that stick in people's heads. These questions get remembered because they tend to trip people up, whether it's because they're hard, they're surprising, or because they're something interviewees forgot to look over before the big day. So take a minute to think about these. It's worth saving yourself the embarrassment. Lisa Du also contributed to the reporting of this piece.
kjarrett via www.flickr.com creative commonsThe $2.2 billion dollar Revel Casino was the most ambitious project in the history of Atlantic City. After a nearly 6 year saga of construction halts, union protests, government assistance, and other drama, it opened to great fanfare in May 2012. It was supposed to revitalize the city and provide a resort like alternative to smoky, windowless casinos. It never delivered on that promise. It has yet to turn a profit and has been at or near the bottom of casino revenue in Atlantic City the whole time. Now, less than a year after opening, Revel announced yesterday that it had entered a pre-arranged bankruptcy plan with its creditors, and that it will seek Chapter 11 protection in the coming weeks.¬† Former Business Insider reporter Simone Foxman was there to photograph the Revel as it started. Here's a look at how things have gone downhill.¬†
Reuters reported on this earlier this month. Tests show¬†natural gas migrated from the bottom of the 8,300-foot well to a shallower sand formation 1,100 feet below the sea floor. The Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement says they did not detect any¬†gas or pollution at the seafloor,¬†but has ordered Apache to move a second rig into place in case a relief well needs to be drilled.¬† The leak was originally discovered Feb. 4. Apache has already evacuated¬†15 workers from the rig drilling the well.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderJust how big are the biggest US banks, and how safe are they? When trying to figure all that out, it makes a big difference if you are analyzing them according to US accounting standards or international ones. The latter makes lenders account for a greater portion of risky derivatives on their balance sheets. Take JPMorgan, for instance. Under US accounting rules, the bank is just the fourth largest in the world with total assets of $2.3 trillion and capital equal to roughly 7% of total assets. But under international rules where lots of off-balance sheets assets like derivatives are accounted for, according to Bloomberg,¬†JPMorgan would be the largest in the world with assets of $4.5 trillion and capital equal to less than 4% of assets. The higher capital ratios are, the less likely banks are to face liquidity and solvency problems. Thomas Hoenig,¬†vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., would prefer using stricter accounting standards.¬†‚ÄúDerivatives, like loans, carry risk,‚Äù Hoenig said in an interview with Bloomberg. ‚ÄúTo recognize those bets on the balance sheet would give a better picture of the risk exposures that are there.‚Äù The big banks point out that US rules allow them and their¬†trading partners ‚Äúto add up the positions they have with each other and show what would be owed if all contracts had to be settled suddenly.‚Äù Thanks to this ‚Äúnetting‚Äù practice, US bank asset size is, in reality, a lot less. Unless there‚Äôs, you know, some sort of crisis ‚Äì¬†as Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig explain¬†The Bankers‚Äô New Clothes: For example, in the final phase of the Bear Stearns crisis, the attempts of derivatives counterparties to close their positions or pass them to others played an important role and contributed to the run on the bank. Similar dynamics were observed in the case of Lehman Brothers. These experiences suggest that if JPMorgan were to become distressed, the bank‚Äôs enormous derivatives positions could be a major source of instability for the bank and for the financial system. Not only do Admati and Hellwig argue for international accounting rules, but also that banks be forced to hold dramatically higher levels of equity capital against their assets. In other words, more of the funding for banks loans should come from equity ‚Äî whether ¬†from reinvested earnings or the stock market ‚Äî rather than from borrowing. How much equity capital should banks hold? Something in the range of 20% to 30% would be a solid start. Higher equity requirement would also make it more likely that banks would shrink on their own. Admati and Hellwig: ‚ÄúHigher equity requirements would therefore alleviate the problem of banks being too big, too interconnected, or too political to fail. Not only would banks be less likely to fail, they would bear more of their own losses should they incur losses.‚Äù Capping bank size, limiting bank activities, higher equity capital requirements ‚Äî all tools in the toolbox for eliminating the crony capitalist subsidy of the US financial system by government.
But even combining forces won't be enough to overtake competitor Staples, Matt Townsend at Bloomberg News reported.¬† Staples holds a 35 percent market share of the office supply business, while Office Depot has 26.1 and Office Max has 15.6, according to IBISWorld.¬† Even¬†after the merger, Staples has $24 billion in sales, which OfficeMax and Office Depot have a combined $18 billion.¬† There's a simple reason why Staples has been able to eclipse OfficeMax and Office Depot.¬† Staples focuses on government and business contracts, which makes up $10.1 billion of its sales, compared with $9.6 billion in stores, Bloomberg reported. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the contract side where the upside is,‚Äù Gary Balter, an analyst for Credit Suisse AG, told Bloomberg. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs where the real profits are in this business. That business is more protected, while retail is under pressure from Amazon, discounters and over-storing.‚Äù Staples could stand to benefit because it could win even more business contracts as Office Depot and OfficeMax go through the merger.¬† Staples also has the opportunity to take new market share: Office Depot and OfficeMax will close a combined 600 stores, leaving space for the larger retailer to take over, Kevin Kingsbury at The Wall Street Journal¬†reported.¬† "While it makes sense on paper, the obstacles to (the merger's) success are dramatic," The WSJ noted, citing Janney.¬†
In a nutshell, duration risk refers to the concept that the value of a longer duration bond is more sensitive to interest rate changes than that of a shorter duration bond.¬† (For a more detailed explanation of duration risk see the FINRA Investor Alert.) It‚Äôs not every day that a major regulator makes cautionary comments about market valuation. We applaud FINRA for throwing a flag on the investment field.¬† The risks for large investment losses are very real (perhaps this is FINRA‚Äôs crack at ‚Äúirrational exuberance‚Äù). Bond prices have been, and continue to be, artificially inflated by Federal Reserve policies.¬† But the narrative doesn‚Äôt end there.¬† The very same policies that are inflating the value of bonds are also inflating the value of most other financial assets.¬† What‚Äôs concerning is that the anti-bond argument is almost always dovetailed with a pitch to get investors to increase their asset allocation of equities. The idea that the damage from rising interest rates will be confined only to long duration bonds is naive.¬† As sure as the sun rises, increasing interest rates will have a negative impact on all financial assets (as well as corporate earnings).¬† When the Fed takes away the punch bowl, the party always comes to an end. Higher Rates &amp; Equities ‚Äì Bad Bedfellows The Federal Reserve held the Fed Funds rate at 1% from mid 2003 through mid 2004.¬† During that time, investors were bombarded with the exact same tune we‚Äôre hearing today ‚Äì that bond investors were going to get destroyed when interest rates rose.¬† And just like today, equities were being heavily touted as the place to be. By mid 2006, the Federal Reserve had raised the Fed Funds rate by 425 basis points, leaving it at 5¬º%.¬† But something very interesting happened to the bond market‚Ä¶ not much.¬† The yield on the 10-year treasury bounced around in a 75 basis point range.¬† But equities didn‚Äôt fare so well.¬† When higher short-term rates finally caught up to the equity markets (about a year later), the S&amp;P 500 began its epic 58% plunge. Likewise, the S&amp;P 500 kicked off its 48% tumble from its spring of 2000 peak after the Fed‚Äôs 1999 tightening campaign.¬† However, contrary to the bond market doom and gloomers, bond investors sat back and tallied the profits while equity investors licked their wounds. We recognize that the equity bulls will stomp their feet and insist that there will be ample warning signals and plenty of time to get out of the market after rates start going up.¬† But we all know that isn‚Äôt how it works in the real world.¬† The initial downward move of major market declines is always viewed as a ‚Äúbuying opportunity,‚Äù but by the time reality sets in most investors become too paralyzed to react. Will it Be Different This Time? The fact that the bond market held up as well as it did in the past two tightening cycles won‚Äôt likely be repeated this time for three simple reasons.¬† First, through quantitative easing, the Fed is controlling many aspects of the yield curve, not just short-term rates.¬† Second, interest rates are so low on an absolute basis that there‚Äôs not much of a coupon to cushion against negative price returns.¬† And third, we don‚Äôt have the shadow banking system that we had pre-financial crisis to help offset rising rates. We think investors should heed FINRA‚Äôs warning about the effect that rising interest rates will have on long duration financial assets.¬† But investors shouldn‚Äôt get lulled into the idea that the equity market is a safe haven, and should resist the temptation to raise their equity allocations at this point.¬† The equity markets are along for the same Fed ride as the bond market, and in many respects equities might be the longest duration assets of them all. FINRA, Why Now? As much as we applaud FINRA for getting the message out about duration risk, we are scratching our heads.¬† The FINRA alert states ‚ÄúCurrently, interest rates are hovering near historic lows.‚Äù¬† We have news for FINRA, rates have been hovering near historic lows for several years, so why the warning now? ¬†Perhaps FINRA and the SEC should have required investment advisors, financial planners, and brokers to clearly articulate the risks associated with these long duration investment products before they sold them.
Yesterday we wrote about a troubling divergence in the housing market, namely, the difference between housing completions and new home sales. The concern: if completions are outpacing sales, then inventories must be piling up. Millan Mulraine at TD Securities first pointed to this trend back in October, using a chart comparing accumulated housing completions to accumulated new home sales. Here is his updated chart, which he sent out yesterday. TD Securities However, we're learning that this analysis wasn't sound. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics points out that despite housing starts rising 37 percent over the past year, and new home sales rising just nine percent, this isn't a sign of speculative overbuilding. Instead, he explains, "this gap reflects the fact that the starts numbers are picking up the strength of the rental sector, but the sales figures are not." Instead, Diggle suggests we look at 'single-family housing starts built for sale'. From "eye-balling" this chart, he says, "it doesn‚Äôt look like homebuilders are breaking ground on too many single-family homes at present. Indeed, supply conditions in the new single-family market are still very tight." Capital Economics ¬† Bill McBride at Calculated Risk points out that total completions are always higher than new home sales. He also points us to the Census Bureau which says "all new-single family houses are measured as part of the New Residential Construction series (starts and completions), but only those that are built for sale are included in the New Residential Sales series". Calculated Risk ¬† McBride also directs us to a non-seasonally adjusted graph of four start categories (single family built for sale, owner built (includes contractor built for owner), starts built for rent, and condos built for sale), since 1975. This chart shows that built for rent has increased significantly. Basically, McBride says builders are keeping inventories in check, and the increase is tied to demand not speculative building. So, it appears that one of the few areas of concern in the housing market has been quelled.
YouTube screencapWCBS in New York City anchor Rob Morrison was arrested Sunday for allegedly trying to strangle his financial journalist wife, Ashley Morrison, during a domestic dispute at their Darien home,¬†the New York Post reports citing Connecticut police. ¬† The anchor man, who is a former Marine, also faces charges for threatening and disorderly conduct, the report said.¬† Rob Morrison, who was allegedly drunk, told police during his booking that he was going to kill his wife when he was released, the report said citing court papers. According to the Post's report, he also called the police "f----g a--hole cops" and called one "Sergeant Douchebag" during the arrest at the couple's Darien home. His wife, Ashley, is the anchor of CBS "Money Watch." She was previously a stocks editor at Bloomberg TV, according to ShowBizDaily.¬† Ashley had red marks on her neck, the report said. Rob had a cut on his nose and lip from her hitting him with a remote to keep him from choking her, according to the Post.¬† Rob, who is now free on bail, told reporters that he didn't choke his wife and didn't lay his hands on her. He has been ordered by a judge to stay 100 yards away from her and can't contact her or go to their home.¬† The television anchor couple worked together. ¬†Watch them in this video clip below:¬†  
On Monday, news broke that Office Depot was in merger talks with competitor OfficeMax. Today, Office Depot announced earnings. In the earnings release, there was a mention of the merger ‚Äì even though it hadn't been officially confirmed. The release then disappeared from the company's investor relations page and the SEC's website. Now, Bloomberg reports that the merger has been confirmed. Below is the full press release on the merger, via Office Depot's investor relations page: OfficeMax And Office Depot Announce Merger Of Equals To Create $18 Billion Global Office Solutions Company Two Leading Companies to Combine to Build a Stronger, More Efficient Competitor Able to Meet the Growing Challenges of a Rapidly Changing Industry Customers Will Benefit from Unique and Innovative Products, Services and Solutions Available Through a Global, Multichannel Network Combined Company Positioned for Sustainable Long-Term Value Creation, Including Anticipated Annual Synergies of $400-$600 Million and Improved Cash Flows Combined Company's Newly Constituted Board of Directors to Include Equal Representation from Each of the Two Companies NAPERVILLE, Ill. and BOCA RATON, Fla., Feb. 20, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- OfficeMax Incorporated (NYSE:OMX) and Office Depot, Inc. (NYSE:ODP) today announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement under which the companies would combine in an all-stock merger of equals transaction intended to qualify as a tax-free reorganization. The transaction, which was unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of both companies, will create a stronger, more efficient global provider better able to compete in the rapidly changing office solutions industry. Customers will benefit from enhanced offerings across multiple distribution channels and geographies. The combined company, which would have had pro forma combined revenue for the 12 months ended December 29, 2012 of approximately $18 billion, will also have significantly improved financial strength and flexibility, with the ability to deliver long-term operating performance and improvements through its increased scale and significant synergy opportunities. Under the terms of the agreement, OfficeMax stockholders will receive 2.69 Office Depot common shares for each share of OfficeMax common stock. "In the past decade, with the growth of the internet, our industry has changed dramatically. Combining our two companies will enhance our ability to serve customers around the world, offer new opportunities for our employees, make us a more attractive partner to our vendors, and increase stockholder value," said Neil Austrian, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Office Depot. "Office Depot and OfficeMax share a similar vision and culture, and will greatly benefit from drawing on the industry's most talented people, combining our best practices and realizing significant savings. We are confident that this merger of equals represents a new beginning for our two companies and will allow us to build a more competitive enterprise for the long term." "We are excited to bring together two companies intent on accelerating innovation for our customers and better differentiating us for success in a dynamic and highly competitive global industry," said Ravi Saligram, President and CEO of OfficeMax. "We are confident that there will be exciting new opportunities for employees as part of a truly global business. Together, we will have the opportunity to build on our strong digital platforms and to expand our multichannel capabilities to better serve our customers and to compete more effectively. Importantly, this merger of equals transaction will provide stockholders of both companies with a compelling opportunity to participate in the long-term upside potential of the combined company." Companies Expect Strategic Combination To Create Long-Term Stockholder Value Key strategic benefits of the transaction include: Merger of Equals Structure: OfficeMax and Office Depot will have equal representation and governance rights on the combined company's Board of Directors and equal input on key decisions. With an all-stock merger, OfficeMax and Office Depot stockholders will benefit proportionately from the synergies achieved as a combined company. Enhanced Financial Performance: The combined company is positioned to deliver long-term operating improvement, with greater potential for earnings expansion and improved cash flow generation. Significant Synergy Opportunities: The merger is expected to deliver $400-$600 million in annual cost synergies by the third year following the transaction's close by leveraging both operating and G&amp;A efficiencies. Financial Strength and Flexibility: On a pro forma basis as of December 29, 2012, the combined company would have had more than $1 billion in cash on hand and more than $1 billion available through revolving credit facilities, giving it the flexibility to invest in both its current business and future growth opportunities. Increased Scale and Competitiveness: The combined company will be well positioned to optimize its shared multichannel sales platform and distribution network, primarily in North America. Together, the companies will provide a wide array of services and solutions that enable customers to work more efficiently and productively. By implementing best practices in sales, operations and management, the combined company is expected to be better able to compete with the many online retailers, warehouse clubs and other traditional retailers that are placing a greater emphasis on office product sales. Broader Global Footprint: The merger will combine the two companies' complementary international businesses, with minimal overlap, strengthening the combined company's ability to serve customers around the world. Improved Customer Experience to Build Brand Loyalty: Consumers and business-to-business customers are increasingly demanding a seamless omnichannel experience across retail stores, direct sales, telesales and digital environments. By integrating these touchpoints effectively, the combined company expects to build lasting brand loyalty.Accelerated Innovation: Both companies anticipate sharing customer insights and learnings from innovative pilot programs underway to better identify and fulfill evolving customer needs. Transaction Details Following the closing, the combined company's newly constituted Board of Directors will include equal representation and governance rights from each of the two companies. The parties have also agreed to form a selection committee made up of an equal number of independent Board members from each company that will oversee the search process for naming the CEO for the combined company. Both incumbent CEOs, as well as external candidates, will be considered in the search process. Neil Austrian, the Chairman and CEO of Office Depot, and Ravi Saligram, the President and CEO of OfficeMax will remain in their current positions through the completion of the search process. The combined company's management team is expected to draw upon the experienced group of leaders from both companies. The combined company's name, marketing brands and corporate headquarters location are expected to be determined following the appointment of the CEO for the combined company. The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar year 2013, subject to stockholder approval from both companies, the receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Under the merger agreement, OfficeMax will have the ability to declare and pay to its common stockholders aggregate cash dividends of up to $131 million ($1.50 per common share) before the closing of the transaction. Payment of dividends would not affect the exchange ratio in the transaction. In connection with the transaction, BC Partners, Inc. and its affiliates, which hold preferred stock representing approximately 22 percent of Office Depot on an as-converted basis, have agreed to vote in favor of the merger. In addition, BC Partners has agreed that as of the closing, its remaining equity stake will consist of common shares representing an amount no more than 5 percent of the voting capital stock of the combined company as a result of the combination of the redemption of preferred shares, conversion to common shares and open market sales of such common shares and repurchases by Office Depot. Following the closing, BC Partners will have no Board designees or other contractual governance rights related to the combined company. J. P. Morgan Securities LLC served as exclusive financial advisor to OfficeMax, and provided a fairness opinion to the Board of OfficeMax, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP and Dechert LLP acted as legal counsel to OfficeMax. Peter J. Solomon Company, L.P. and Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. LLC acted as financial advisors and provided fairness opinions to the Board of Office Depot, and Simpson Thacher &amp; Bartlett LLP acted as legal counsel to Office Depot. Kirkland &amp; Ellis acted as legal counsel to the Board of Office Depot. In connection with the transaction, Perella Weinberg Partners acted as financial advisors to the Transaction Committee of Office Depot's Board of Directors and Kirkland &amp; Ellis LLP served as the Committee's legal advisor. Conference Call and Webcast OfficeMax and Office Depot will host a joint webcast today at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time (10:00 a.m. Central Time) to discuss the proposed merger. Participants will include Ravi Saligram, President and CEO, OfficeMax; Bruce Besanko, EVP, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, OfficeMax; Neil Austrian, Chairman and CEO, Office Depot; and Mike Newman, EVP and Chief Financial Officer, Office Depot. The live audio webcast of the conference call, as well as a related slide presentation, can be accessed at either the "Investors" section of OfficeMax's website at http://investor.officemax.com or the "Investors" section of Office Depot's website at www.officedepot.com. The webcast and a podcast will be archived and available online on each company's website for at least 30 days following the call. Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Financial Results Office Depot and OfficeMax will each announce results for their fourth quarter and full year 2012 this morning before the market opens. This content can be accessed, respectively, at the "Investors" section of Office Depot's website at officedepot.com and on the "Quarterly Earnings" page located within the "Investors" section of OfficeMax's website at investor.officemax.com. Earlier,¬†DealBook¬†reported: A press release announcing the merger of the two office supply retailers briefly surfaced Wednesday on Office Depot‚Äôs Web site. Since then, the announcement has disappeared. The deal negotiations are ongoing, according to two people with knowledge of the matter. As of Wednesday morning, the company‚Äôs bankers and lawyers were still attempting to finalize an agreement. Below is the paragraph from the original Office Depot earnings release that prematurely mentioned a merger with OfficeMax: On February 19, 2013, the Company entered into a definitive merger agreement with OfficeMax Incorporated, pursuant to which the Company and OfficeMax would combine in a tax-free, all-stock merger transaction. At the effective time of the merger, the Company would issue 2.69 new shares of common stock for each outstanding share of OfficeMax common stock. In addition, at the effective time of the merger, the Company‚Äôs board of directors will be reconstituted to include an equal number of directors designated by the Company and OfficeMax. The parties‚Äô obligations to complete the merger are subject to several conditions, including, among others, approval by the shareholders of each of the two companies, the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Below is the full text from the original release, which disappeared from the company's investor relations page and the SEC's website: Boca Raton, Fla., February 20, 2013 -- Office Depot, Inc. (NYSE: ODP), a leading global provider of office supplies and services, today announced results for the fiscal quarter and full year ended December 29, 2012. FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Total Company sales for the fourth quarter of 2012 were approximately $2.6 billion, down 12% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. Sales for the fourth quarter of 2012, on a constant currency basis, were down approximately 11% versus prior year. The 53rd¬†week added approximately $140 million of sales in the fourth quarter of 2011. Excluding the benefit of the additional selling week in 2011, fourth quarter of 2012 constant currency sales would have been down 7%. The Company reported a net loss, after preferred stock dividends, of $17 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012, compared to net earnings, after preferred stock dividends, of $12¬†million or $0.04 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011. ‚ÄúWe delivered the financial results we had projected for the fourth quarter of 2012,‚Äù said Neil Austrian, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Office Depot. ‚ÄúDespite continued revenue pressure in North American Retail and International, we successfully executed our key initiatives.‚Äù Total Company gross profit margin decreased approximately 40 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the prior year period. This decline was due primarily to the benefit of the 53rd¬†week in 2011 from rent costs being amortized over previous periods in North American Retail and lower sales volume in International. Total Company operating expenses decreased by $108 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, compared to the prior year period, including the benefit from one fewer week of operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2012. Earnings, before interest and taxes (EBIT), adjusted for charges, were $34 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, compared to EBIT, adjusted for charges, of $47 million in the prior year period.¬†The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2012 was negative 23%, compared to negative 111% for¬†the same period in 2011. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2011 includes tax benefits of $24¬†million from the reversal of an uncertain tax position and the release of a valuation allowance. The Company ended the fourth quarter of 2012 with free cash flow of $64 million, compared with free¬†cash flow of $139 million reported in the prior year period. FOURTH QUARTER DIVISION RESULTS North American Retail Division The North American Retail Division reported fourth quarter of 2012 sales of approximately $1.1 billion, a decrease of 13% compared to the prior year. Excluding the $78 million sales impact from the additional selling week in the fourth quarter of 2011, the year-over-year sales decrease would have been less than 8%. Comparable store sales in the 1,079 stores that have been open for more than one year, and aligned to match the same selling weeks, decreased 6% for the fourth quarter of 2012. Sales of notebook computers and software decreased in the fourth quarter versus prior year, while sales of tablets, ereaders and desktop computers increased. Copy and Print, and cleaning and breakroom supplies sales also increased, while sales of office supplies and furniture declined versus prior year. Average order value was relatively flat in the fourth quarter and customer transaction counts declined approximately 5% compared to the same period last year. The North American Retail Division reported operating income of $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, compared to operating profit of $32 million in the same period last year. Included in the fourth quarter 2012 operating profit are approximately $9 million of charges, primarily related to store asset impairment. Excluding the charges and $11 million benefit of the additional week for the fourth quarter of 2011, the slight year-over-year operating profit decline was driven primarily by the negative flow-through impact of lower sales, partially offset by operational improvements. At the end of 2012, Office Depot operated 1,112 stores in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The North American Retail Division opened two new stores and closed four during the fourth quarter of 2012. North American Business Solutions Division The North American Business Solutions Division reported fourth quarter of 2012 sales of approximately $763 million, an 8% decrease compared to the prior year on a fiscal basis. Excluding the $34 million sales impact from the additional selling week in the fourth quarter of 2011, the year-over-year sales decrease would have been 4%. On a comparable sales basis aligned to match the same selling weeks, fourth quarter of 2012 sales would have been relatively flat versus prior year. Contract channel fourth quarter of 2012 sales were down versus last year as reported on a fiscal basis.¬†Comparable sales in the fourth quarter of 2012, aligned to match the same selling weeks in 2011, were¬†relatively flat. On the same basis, sales growth occurred across the contract channel‚Äôs small- and¬†medium-sized business customers, driven by both acquisition and improved retention for customers¬†managed by the new inside sales organization. Similarly, sales to enterprise-level accounts and public¬†sector customers also improved year-over-year as well, with the latter being driven by sales to¬†educational and federal government customers. Sales weakness continued among state and local¬†government accounts as these customers experience ongoing budgetary pressures. Direct channel¬†fourth quarter of 2012 sales were down versus last year as reported on a fiscal basis. Comparable sales¬†in the fourth quarter of 2012, aligned to match the same selling weeks in 2011, were relatively flat. While¬†online sales were up year-over-year due to an increase in traffic and higher average order value, the¬†direct channel experienced lower purchases from customers who shop using catalogs and place orders¬†through inbound call centers.¬† The North American Business Solutions Division reported operating income of approximately $55 million¬†in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $45 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. The favorable¬†comparison to the prior year includes approximately 60 basis points of higher gross margin driven by¬†sales and margin initiatives, as well as lower supply chain, advertising and payroll costs. International Division The International Division reported fourth quarter of 2012 sales of $789 million, a decrease of 13% in¬†U.S. dollars and a decrease of 11% in constant currency sales compared to the prior year. On a¬†comparable sales basis aligned to match the same selling weeks and excluding the $28 million sales¬†impact from the additional week in the fourth quarter of 2011, fourth quarter of 2012 sales would have¬†been down mid-single digits versus prior year. Total European contract sales decreased mid-single digits in the fourth quarter versus the prior year as¬†growth in Germany and relatively flat sales in the U.K. were more than offset by weakness in other¬†countries. In Asia, the contract channel reported relatively flat sales compared with one year ago. The¬†rate of year-over-year sales decline improved again sequentially, on a comparable sales basis, in the¬†European direct channel. European retail channel sales in the fourth quarter decreased compared to¬†prior year as weakness in Sweden and Hungary more than offset a slight sales increase in France. In¬†Asia, South Korean retail reported a slight sales increase in the fourth quarter versus prior year. The International Division reported operating income for the fourth quarter of 2012 of approximately $23¬†million, compared to $33 million in the same period of 2011. Included in these measures of Division¬†operating profit are approximately $9 million of charges related to restructuring actions in 2012, and $15¬†million of restructuring charges in the same period in 2011. Excluding the charges in both periods, the¬†remaining decrease in Division fourth quarter of 2012 operating profit reflects the negative flow-through¬†impact of lower sales, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses, driven by continuous process¬†improvement initiatives, as well as lower advertising and payroll expenses. The movement in exchange rates had a minimal impact on International Division operating profit in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the same period in 2011. Office Depot de Mexico Office Depot‚Äôs Latin American joint venture, Office Depot de Mexico, reported fourth quarter of 2012¬†sales of $286 million, an increase of 2% in U.S. dollars and a decrease of 3% in constant currency¬†versus the prior year. The joint venture added four stores during the fourth quarter for a total of 257¬†stores and distribution facilities in Mexico, Central America and Colombia at quarter end. Office Depot de Mexico reported fourth quarter of 2012 net income of approximately $17 million, versus¬†$16 million one year ago. Office Depot accounts for this investment using the equity method and the¬†50% share of Office Depot de Mexico‚Äôs net income is presented in the Company‚Äôs Miscellaneous¬†income, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. FULL YEAR RESULTS Full year of 2012 sales were $10.7 billion, a decrease of 7% from the prior year. Excluding the impact of a 53rd¬†week in fiscal 2011, constant currency sales for 2012 decreased 4% compared to the same period in the prior year. The Company reported a net loss, after preferred stock dividends, of $110 million or $0.39 per share for the full year of 2012, compared to net earnings, after preferred stock dividends, of $60 million or $0.22 per share for full year of 2011. Adjusted for charges, net earnings, after preferred stock dividends, would have been $9 million or $0.03 per share for 2012. Adjusted for charges and certain tax benefits, the 2011 net loss and the loss per share, after preferred stock dividends, were $8 million and $0.03 per share, respectively. Total Company operating expenses decreased $114 million for full year of 2012, when compared with the prior year period including the benefit from one fewer week of operating expenses in 2012. Total Company operating expenses for 2012, when adjusted for charges, would have decreased by $185 million compared with the prior year period including the benefit from one fewer week of operating expenses in 2012. EBIT, adjusted for charges, was $131 million for full year 2012, compared to $122 million the prior year. Capital expenditures for 2012 were $120 million and are estimated to be about $200 million in 2013 to fund ongoing capital maintenance, North American Retail store downsizes and other investments needed to drive the Company‚Äôs strategic plan. The Company generated free cash flow of $59 million for the full year of 2012, including a negative $58 million impact to Free Cash Flow from a first quarter of 2012 pension settlement that was offset by a positive impact to cash flow from investing activities of the same amount, with the net result of having no total cash flow impact on Office Depot. Other Matters¬† On February 19, 2013, the Company entered into a definitive merger agreement with OfficeMax¬†Incorporated, pursuant to which the Company and OfficeMax would combine in a tax-free, all stock merger transaction. At the effective time of the merger, the Company would issue 2.69 new shares of common stock for each outstanding share of OfficeMax common stock. In addition, at the effective time of the merger, the Company‚Äôs board of directors will be reconstituted to include an equal number of directors designated by the Company and OfficeMax. The parties‚Äô obligations to complete the merger are¬†subject to several conditions, including, among others, approval by the shareholders of each of the two companies, the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company had $671 million in cash and cash equivalents on¬†hand and $699 million in availability under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, for a total of approximately $1.4 billion in available liquidity.
Caterpillar, the industrial behemoth that makes earthmovers, regularly publishes its rolling 3-month dealer sales statistics. This gives us a sense of capital equipment sales in various global regions, which in turn serves as a proxy for economic activity. And the latest numbers aren't good.¬† Worldwide dealer sales accelerated in the three months ending in January.¬† The North America and Asia/Pacific regions posted double-digit declines. From the SEC Filing: SEC via Yahoo Finance
YoutubeLast May, French President Francois Hollande reorganized the Elysee to create a new position, the Minister of Transforming Productivity (in French, Minist√®re¬†du Redressement Productif).¬† The goal was to make French industry more competitive and efficient. Hollande named Arnaud Montebourg, a socialist known for his capitalist sympathies, to head the post. But in the eyes of one American CEO, the plan is not working. Via FTAlphaville's tumblr comes a letter addressed to Montebourg¬†from the CEO of tiremaker Titan International about the company's attempts to save a factory in Amiens. Despite his best efforts, CEO Maurice Taylor cannot hammer out a deal with French unions, which he blasted as overpaid and lazy. I have visited the factory a couple of times. The French workforce gets paid high wages but works only three hours. They get one hour for breaks and lunch, talk for three, and work for three. I told this to the French union workers to their faces. They told me that‚Äôs the French way! Taylor goes on to warn that France will lose all its domestic tire producers if the government continues to meddle in labor negotiations. Here's the whole letter: Dear Mr. Montebourg: I have just returned to the United States from Australia where I have been for the past few weeks on business; therefore, my apologies for answering your letter dated 31 January 2013. I appreciate your thinking that your Ministry is protecting¬†industrial¬†activities¬†and jobs in France. ¬†I and Titan have a 40-year history of buying closed factories and companies, losing millions of dollars and turning them around to create a good business, paying good wages. Goodyear tried for over four years to save part of the Amiens jobs that are some of the highest paid, but the French unions and French government did nothing but talk. I have visited the factory a couple of times. The French workforce gets paid high wages but works only three hours. They get one hour for breaks and lunch, talk for three, and work for three. I told this to the French union workers to their faces. They told me that‚Äôs the French way! The Chinese are shipping tires into France - really all over Europe - and yet you do nothing. In five years, Michelin won‚Äôt be able to produce tire in France. France will lose its industrial business because government is more government. Sir, your letter states you want Titan to start a discussion. How stupid do you think we are? Titan is the one with money and talent to produce tires. What does the crazy union have? It has the French government. The French farmer wants cheap tire. He does not care if the tires are from China or India and governments are subsidizing them. Your government doesn‚Äôt care either. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre French!‚Äù The US government is not much better than the French. Titan had to pay millions to Washington lawyers to sue the Chinese tire companies because of their subsidizing. Titan won. The government collects the duties. We don‚Äôt get the duties, the government does. Titan is going to buy a Chinese tire company or an Indian one, pay less than one Euro per hour and ship all the tires France needs. You can keep the so-called workers. Titan has no interest in the Amien North factory. Best regards,¬†Maurice M. Taylor, Jr.Chairman and CEO
APA pair of National Futures Association directors are expected to submit a proposal today to the self regulatory agency to have Jon Corzine, the ex-CEO of now-defunct MF Global, banned from the futures trading industry for life, the New York Post's Kaja Whitehouse reports. The authors of the proposed ban are John Roe, the president of Roe Capital Management, and James¬†Koutoulas, who runs¬†who runs commodity trading advisory firm Typhon Capital Management and the man who was the voice for 8,000 wronged MF Global clients. Chicago-based NFA is the self-regulatory agency that oversees dealings with commodities and futures trading. The NFA has banned 134 people since 2008, Kououlas told the Post. Broker-dealer MF Global collapsed in the fall of 2011 and more than a billion in customer funds went missing.
The problem: an economy where businesses are suffocating under an obese public sector. Ever larger budgets have been the only source of economic growth. But now that model has run aground. During the campaign last year, candidate Fran√ßois Hollande forecast that the economy in 2013 would grow 1.7%. Shortly after taking office, he shaved it down to 1.2%. Late last year, for the new budget, he chopped it to 0.8%. And now that too has gone up in smoke. Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius guesstimated on RTL that growth would instead be 0.2% to 0.3%. And the goal of a budget deficit of 3%? It hasn‚Äôt been ‚Äúabandoned,‚Äù Fabius said. But there‚Äôd be ‚Äúa delay.‚Äù The final vestiges of economic optimism are evaporating. Taxes have already been raised to absurd levels, and new tools are being implemented to crack down on tax fraud [read... Draconian Cash Controls Are Coming To¬†France]. But the deficit still isn‚Äôt coming in line. Now the chopping block has been moved to the center. On it are child benefits. Instant hullabaloo. Child benefits are part of a gamut of social benefits and subsidies. Parents of one child receive no child benefits. Once they have two children, they receive ‚Ç¨127 per month. With four kids, they receive ‚Ç¨452 per month. For each additional one, they receive another ‚Ç¨162. A household with eight kids receives ‚Ç¨1,100 ($1,500) per month in salary-like payments. And it‚Äôs tax free, regardless of income. But there are drawbacks: a single mom with one child and a minimum-wage job receives nothing, while a wealthy household with two kids receives ‚Ç¨127 per month; and it‚Äôs very, very expensive. Hence its sudden appearance on the chopping block. Three options have been mentioned: include child benefits in taxable income; reserve the benefits for lower-income parents; or cap the benefits for high-income parents. The prior Socialist Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, had already run his head into that wall. Tumults in the street forced him to retreat. In this context, the evening news on France 2, France‚Äôs largest TV channel, had an amazing report, amazing because it showed a well-mannered, articulate, well-intentioned and rarely televised meeting of government functionaries and elected officials that, unintentionally, displayed in a microcosm what is wrong with the French economy. France has a shortage of daycare centers‚Äîup to 12,000 places in Paris alone, according to the report. When three places opened up at the in-house daycare center of the H√¥tel de Ville (City Hall) in Paris, 16 families applied. So 13 elected representatives and bureaucrats‚Äîsome of them doctors and childhood specialists‚Äîsat around a conference table. The director of the daycare center, after meeting with the families, had put together a dossier on each case. Hours of work. Now she was presenting the dossiers. The 13 people weighed pertinent aspects and carefully arrived at a decision. It took nearly two hours‚Äî26 man hours (not counting the many hours put into it beforehand), paid for by taxpayers, to decide which three children should be able to enter the government-owned daycare center. But where the heck was the private sector? Not a single word. Despite a shortage, and hence demand. No one even seemed to think about it. Certainly not the reporters of government-owned France 2. The private sector simply didn‚Äôt enter into the equation‚Äîthough entrepreneurs creating daycare centers for 12,000 kids in Paris alone would have stimulated the economy in numerous ways. ‚ÄúWe have a major, massive, heavy problem that has never been dealt with until now,‚Äù lamented Fran√ßois Bayrou, presidential candidate of the centrist MoDem, ‚Äúwhich is, our country has abandoned the force that it had, the force of creation, of enterprise, of production. If you don‚Äôt produce, you don‚Äôt have new products, new services, innovations, things to sell.‚Äù France has abandoned the private sector. He estimated that growth in 2013 would be ‚Äúzero, at best.‚Äù And the lofty growth forecast during the campaign? ‚ÄúAs always during an election,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúthey tell the French things that are illusions and lies.‚Äù But instead of falling for the latest fad of blaming German Chancellor Angela Merkel, British Prime Minister David Cameron, Europe, globalization, or other specters of the French economic nightmare, he said, ‚ÄúThe problems of France are French.‚Äù And so, the French economic model with its domineering public sector is being put through the wringer. That these discussions are taking place is a positive, though whether or not they will lead to anything constructive, or just more government intervention‚Äîand more stimulus, for a brief ‚Äúmoment of euphoria,‚Äù as Bayrou sneered‚Äîremains uncertain. Not everything in the Eurozone is falling apart, not even in crisis-struck Italy: Ferrari booked records sales and profits in 2012. As dazzling as its cars. Not a single cloud darkened the horizon. Except in Italy where sales collapsed. And in the rest of the world, where central-bank printer ink stained the records. Read.... What Ferrari‚Äôs Glorious Results Tell Us About The¬†World.
Financial journalist and award-winning author Michael Lewis has a glowing review of John Lanchester's novel "Capital."¬† In The New York Review of Books, Lewis writes that Lanchester "has a gift for taking a reader who knows nothing about a complicated topic and leaving him with the feeling that he knows all about it, or at least everything worth knowing. He makes you feel smarter than you are."¬† Based on Lewis' review, it definitely sounds like we should pick up a copy. What also caught out attention was Lewis reflecting on what London was like during the 1980s when he was in grad school at the London School of Economics during the rise of investment banking there.¬† Lewis writes how about how in the 1980s London was the last city he thought an investment banker would belong. ¬† Yet they did. And a brand-new social type was born: the highly educated middle-class Brit who was more crassly American than any American. In the early years this new hybrid was so obviously not an indigenous species that he had a certain charm about him, like, say, kudzu in the American South at the end of the nineteenth century, or a pet Burmese python near the Florida Everglades at the end of the twentieth. But then he completely overran the place. Within a decade half the graduates of Oxford and Cambridge were trying to forget whatever they‚Äôd been taught about how to live their lives and were remaking themselves in the image of Wall Street. Monty Python was able to survive many things, but Goldman Sachs wasn‚Äôt one of them. Then he goes on to explain how London replaced the "dole for the poor" for the "dole for the rich."¬† In neither place were the windfall gains to the people in finance widely understood for what they were: the upside to big risk-taking, the costs of which would be socialized, if they ever went wrong. For a long time they looked simply like fair compensation for being clever and working hard. But that‚Äôs not what they really were; and the net effect of Wall Street‚Äôs arrival in London, combined with the other things that were going on, was to get rid of the dole for the poor and replace it with a far more generous, and far more subtle, dole for the rich. The magic of the scheme was that various forms of financial manipulation appeared to the manipulators, and even to the wider public, as a form of achievement. All these kids from Oxford and Cambridge who flooded into Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs weren‚Äôt just handed huge piles of money. They were handed new identities: the winners of this new marketplace. They still lived in England but, because of the magnitude of their success, they were now detached from it. Toward the end, Lewis makes the point that London wouldn't want to return to life like it was in 1980.¬† I also found myself thinking: the English may finally have decided they have had enough of their experiment with the American financial way of life. If what happened in the Western world financial system had happened at another time in history, there would have been an obvious political response: a revolt against the Roger Younts of the world and, more generally, the grotesque inequities spawned by the putatively free financial marketplace. If the memory of British socialism wasn‚Äôt so fresh‚Äîif people didn‚Äôt still recall just how dreary London felt in 1980‚Äîthey‚Äôd be pulling down the big banks, and redistributing the wealth of the bankers, and it would be hard to find a good argument to stop them from doing it. The absence of the satisfying political response to the financial crisis is due, at least in part, to the absence of an ideological vessel to put it in. No one wants to go forward in the same direction we‚Äôve been heading, but no one wants to turn back either. We‚Äôre all trapped, left with, at best, the hope that our elites might experience some kind of moral transformation. Definitely some interesting, must-read observations from Lewis.  Read his full review here &gt;
Maureen lunn/Flickr,CCThe biggest tailwind in the US economy is housing. But there have been some weakish numbers lately. Housing starts for January just came in below expectations. Analysts were expecting 890K vs. expectations of 920K. And yesterday the homebuilder sentiment report missed. These are just two noisy reports during rough winter months. But when you're talking about the economy's biggest tailwind, you might want to pay attention to see if a trend develops.
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUPDATE: The latest housing starts and building permits data are out. Housing starts fell to 8.5 percent to 890,000 ‚Äì missing expectations of a slighter drop to 920,000 ‚Äì from last month's 973,000. Building permits rose 1.8 percent to 925,000, though ‚Äì exceeding expectations of a smaller rise to 920,000 ‚Äì from 909,000 last month. Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Housing starts for January are due out at 8:30 a.m. ET. Consensus is for housing starts to decline to a pace of 914,000 units, from 954K in December.¬† Permits however are expected to rise to 920,000 units, up from 903K the previous month. Click here to refresh &gt; Homebuilder sentiment, considered a leading indicator for housing starts, declined to 46 in February. This would lead us to think that housing starts should slow. With concerns of overbuilding posing a risk to the housing recovery, a decline in housing starts could be a good thing. Bank of America's Michelle Meyer has pointed out three reasons not to worry about optimistic homebuilders that will overbuild. Namely that there are capacity constraints, that small homebuilders have a harder time getting financing for new projects, and that it will take large homebuilders time to kick off new projects since they downsized during the crisis.
AP A reporter for Eyewitness News in Pretoria, South Africa, Barry Bateman, is doing an amazing job of Tweeting updates from the Oscar Pistorius bail hearing. The prosecutors in the case are arguing that Pistorius is a flight risk and should not be granted bail. They are also laying out more details about why they believe Pistorius intentionally executed his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. (Pistorius says the shooting was an accident.) Among the revelations to come out in the hearing, according to Bateman: CROSS EXAMINATION: Pistorius attorney gets investigator to concede the following: Near the end of the hearing, the investigator says he "believes Pistorius will run." According to reporter Bateman, there are laughs from the gallery. The hearing will continue tomorrow.
Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this in school? Part II ‚Äì Compound Interest and Wealth Part III ‚Äì Compound Interest and Consumer Debt Part IV ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì an example using a pension buyout Preamble  In the last post I used the example of a pension buyout to show how the discounted cash flows formula worked, and I argued that discounted cash flows are the key to all investing decisions.[1]¬† Everything else you get inundated with ‚Äì from the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex ‚Äì is just a whole lot of hype, gimmicks, tricks and tips.[2] Which makes it all more odd that almost nobody outside of the financial industry has ever heard of discounted cash flows, never mind actually using the formula in their investment life. So, allow me to peel back the curtain a bit more, using the example of an annuity investment.[3] ¬† ‚ÄúLife‚Äôs but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more‚Äù ¬† Another example using discounted cash flows, to value an annuity Is that guaranteed monthly income annuity offered by an insurance company a good deal or not?¬† To answer the question you‚Äôd need to know how to discount cash flows to put yourself on an equal footing with your insurance company offering you the annuity.¬† Which I did on my site once before.[4] Let me break down some of the numbers, by way of example, or possibly by way of inspiration to others who want to start calculating discounted cash flows in their own life. I just went on my preferred insurance provider‚Äôs website[5] and asked for a quote on a 15-year fixed time-period annuity.¬† In exchange for a $100,000 lump sum from me, the insurance company offered me $641.15 per month, guaranteed, for the next 180 months.¬† The question I ask is whether that is an attractive investment for my $100,000? To answer the question I‚Äôm going to use the discounted cash flows formula Present Value = Future Value/ (1+Yield/p)N. I offer a bit more explanation of these variables in a footnote[6] I can discount exactly 180 different future payments of $641.15, by dividing each of them by (1+ Yield/12)N. For the first cash flow, N is 1.¬† For the second, N is 2.¬† For the 180th monthly payment, N is 180. This looks like this table in my spreadsheet, which contains 180 rows of numbers and discounted cash flows formulas: ¬† Once I have programmed a spreadsheet to calculate 180 individual discounted values for $641.15, I next program the spreadsheet to add up all 180 payments.[7] Next I can input a value for Y, or Yield, to try to figure what kind of deal I‚Äôm offered by my annuity company. I compare the sum of all 180 values to my original $100,000 investment.¬† To come up with a comparable yield on the annuity, I input different values for yields into my spreadsheet.¬† For my purposes I can find the ‚Äòyield‚Äô through ‚Äòiteration,‚Äô basically trying different values until I match up the sum of discounted annuity payments to a final value of $100,000. If I assume Y is 2%, as I‚Äôve shown in the table below, it turns out the sum of all cash flows is too small and does not quite add up to $100,000. ¬† If I instead assume Y is 1.5%, it turns out the sum of all cash flows is too large and adds up to more than $100,000. ¬† ¬† So I keep trying to find, using my spreadsheet, the value that makes all 180 discounted payments of $641.15 equal to $100,000.¬† Once I find that, I know what kind of yield, or return, my insurance company offers me on my annuity investment It turns out, through iteration, that 1.92% is the yield I get by investing $100,000 today and receiving $641.15 per month guaranteed for the next 15 years. The fact that 1.92% is an absolutely pathetic return is not surprising, nor notable.¬† As I‚Äôve written before, insurance companies are in the business of buying money cheaply and selling money expensively, and retail annuities are the ultimate source of cheap money for them. What is notable is that we, as consumers, have no way of evaluating the return on an annuity if we can‚Äôt do discounted cash flows. Which is why I say, ask not what you can do with your insurance company.¬† Ask what your insurance company is doing to you. Just like credit card companies do not want you to know that the average American household, carrying the average credit card balance, at an average interest rate, will pay $2.6 million over 40 years because of compound interest[8], similarly, insurance companies can build massive skyscrapers in major cities because they know how to use the discounted cash flow formula to get money cheaply. And you don‚Äôt. Please see earlier posts Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this in school?, Part II ‚Äì Compound Interest and Wealth Part III ‚Äì Compound Interest and Consumer Debt Part IV ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì Pension Buyout Example Part VI ‚Äì Conclusion, or why everyone needs to know this math for the good of society [1] Put it this way, if you‚Äôre an individual (I will exempt broker-dealers, HFT and many professional investors from this next statement because they are often doing something different) and you‚Äôre not employing a discounted cash flows formula, you‚Äôre gambling, not investing.¬† Which is to say, 99.5% (and I rounded down to be conservative) of us are gambling when we purchase an individual stock. [2] Are the Chinese buying it?¬† Is your gym-budding selling? Will baby-boomer demographic trends boost this?¬† Is Bill Ackman short the stock?¬† Is it a breakthrough miracle drug?¬† Will nano-technology make it obsolete?¬† All hype. [3] I‚Äôm using an annuity to illustrate the use of the discounted cash flow formula because it‚Äôs easier to talk about the straight math of future annuity cash flows than it is to talk about modeling future stock dividends and profits.¬† That involves a longer conversation about equities actually just being a series of future cash flows, which most people will not want to wrap their head around at this time. [4] By the way, I just re-read my piece on annuities from six months ago.¬† You should go read it.¬† It‚Äôs good. [5] I mentioned USAA before in my piece on annuities, because their customer service is awesome.¬† I have no relationship to them other than as a customer and I just like them.¬† I assume their quote is standard for an annuity provider, neither better nor worse than the competition.¬† As I wrote you before, USAA, you should totally make me your President Palmer, peddling life insurance for you.¬† Call me, maybe. [6] This time with the formula I‚Äôve introduced the variable p, which is the number of times per year that money gets compounded.¬† In the case of monthly payments, p is 12, because I have to take into account compounding 12 times per year.¬† N remains the number associated with each payment, from 1 to 180 in our example, unique to each monthly payment.¬† Yield, also known as Discount Rate, is the variable I‚Äôm going to solve for, to figure out whether the investment is a good deal or not. [7] Those of you reading this who have spreadsheet experience will note that it‚Äôs very simple to create 180 nearly identical rows of formulas simply by a click-and-drag of a single formula.¬† Similarly, adding up 180 different discounted cash flows is as easy as typing ‚Äú=sum()‚Äù into a spreadsheet cell and referencing the correct cells.¬† Out pops the answer. [8] As I explained in this post here.
There are reports that FoxConn (the Chinese company that manufactures iPhones) is having a hiring freeze. Yahoo Finance
John Shearer/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Carlos Barria /ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - David Einhorn's hedge fund has shown a "likelihood of success" if his legal attack against Apple Inc goes forward, a U.S. judge said, though he made no immediate ruling on fund's request to block a shareholder vote on a proxy proposal next week. U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan on Tuesday reserved decision on a lawsuit by the fund, Greenlight Capital, to stop a February 27 shareholder vote on an Apple proposal to end the issuance of preferred stock without investor approval. "Candidly I do think the likelihood of success is in favor for Greenlight," Sullivan said at a court hearing in New York. The hedge fund sued Apple earlier this month as part of Einhorn's broader attempt to get the company to send a bigger chunk of its $137 billion in cash to shareholders. The lawsuit contends Apple improperly "bundled" three proposed amendments to its charter into one proxy proposal, a violation of regulatory rules. Sullivan did not specify when he would rule on Greenlight's injunction request, though he cited the impending date of the vote. He said he would now focus on whether Greenlight would be irreparably harmed if the vote moves forward. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined comment. A spokesman for Einhorn did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The proxy proposal Einhorn has targeted, Proposal No. 2, would amend Apple's charter to provide for majority voting for directors, establish a par value for Apple stock and eliminate Apple's power to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval. Mitchell Hurley, a lawyer for Greenlight, said Apple had violated U.S. Securities and Exchange rules that prohibit shareholders from voting for a proposal where they support only some but not all of the item. Einhorn says he supports two of those amendments but not the preferred stock amendment. "In other words, it will result in precisely the kind of harm the rules were designed to prevent," Hurley said. Apple contends Proposal No. 2 doesn't bundle material matters together or force shareholders into an unfair choice. "The SEC had no objection and no comment" on the proposal, said George Riley, a lawyer for Apple. While Sullivan said Greenlight may have shown it would likely succeed on the merits of the case, the judge during the hearing questioned whether an injunction was appropriate. The proposal became public in late December, yet Einhorn didn't sue Apple until February 7. "I'm not sure that necessarily is going to get you over the hump for irreparable harm," Sullivan said. A separate lawsuit against Apple heard at Tuesday's hearing was filed by a different investor, Brian Gralnick. The lawsuit seeks to block not just a vote on Proposal No. 2 but also an advisory "say-on-pay" vote on executives compensation. Sullivan indicated Tuesday he would rule against Gralnick on his request for an injunction. Apple shares ended regular trading on Tuesday down 17 cents at $459.99. The case is Greenlight Capital LP, et al., v. Apple Inc., U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, 13-900. (Reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Gary Hill, Dale Hudson and Steve Orlofsky) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
On March 1, automatic spending cuts that will affect every department and every agency will go into affect, lopping off about $85 billion in spending from this fiscal year. And though people are freaking out (especially the defense industry) there's virtually no progress taking place. People think there's no chance that the sequester, as the cuts are called, will be avoided. But there might be more time than people realize. March 1 is not a hard deadline like a debt ceiling or a government shutdown. In a note this morning, Nomura explains why people are kind of calm. The expectation of insiders and lobbyists is that the issue will be dealt with in March sometime. As both sides try to best their opponent's creative interpretations of the words "credible" and "plan," our economists note that while they do not expect an agreement to alter the automatic cuts before March, they "do expect the cuts to be modified before the end of March". Representatives of the defence industry appear to agree, with the Hill reporting that industry groups have given up a more than 18-month campaign to prevent the cuts to focus on getting them reversed as soon as possible. Markets appeared to take little note of the noise, leaving one to wonder whether contentious negotiations will resume with the aim of resolving the sequestration ahead of expectations or if this is part of broader positioning ahead of the budget negotiations. In a tweet last night, POLITICO's Ben White pointed out the real deadline, when the government is set to shutdown, a la 1995. Ben White, Twitter At that point, if there's still no deal on anything, then maybe start to freak out. But if you do want to freak out a little, here's how much the actual sequester would cost:¬†
We've been all over the gold wreckage this morning. We mentioned that according to technical analysts, gold has entered a "death cross." And we explained the fundamental reasons gold was declining. And now here's just a chart of gold falling more in just the last few minutes. From KITCO: Kitco
* Gaps between cells will be bigger - source * Boeing says "good progress" being made * Air India says Boeing hopeful of getting Dreamliners flying by April (Adds battery fix, comments from Boeing, airlines) NEW DELHI, Feb 20 (Reuters) - Boeing Co has found a way to fix battery problems with its grounded 787 Dreamliner jets which involves increasing the space between cells, a source familiar with the U.S. company's plans told Reuters. "The gaps between cells will be bigger. I think that's why there was overheating," said the source, who declined to be identified because the plans are private. The 50 Dreamliners in commercial service were grounded worldwide last month after a series of battery-related incidents including a fire on board a parked plane in the United States and an in-flight problem on another jet in Japan. Until the Dreamliner is cleared to fly again, Boeing will be starved of delivery payments. The logical solution for Boeing would be to install ceramic plates between each cell and add a vent to the battery box, Kiyoshi Kanamura, a professor at Tokyo Metropolitan University who has conducted research with several Japanese battery makers, told Reuters on Tuesday. Earlier on Wednesday, the chairman of state-run Air India said Boeing is hopeful of getting the Dreamliner back in service by early April. "They said that these planes should start flying again from early April. They can't be sure but they are hopeful," Rohit Nandan said. Air India has six Dreamliners and has ordered 21 more. The question of the airline seeking compensation from Boeing for the jet's glitches would be taken up once the aircraft are flying again, Nandan said. "Good progress is being made", a Boeing spokesman in Seattle said in response to questions about a possible flight restart in April. "We have been in close communication with our customers since this issue arose. The details of our conversations with customers are confidential," he added. Spokesmen for Japan's All Nippon Airways Co Ltd (ANA) , which has the biggest fleet of Dreamliners, and Japan Airlines Co Ltd (JAL) said they were unaware of the suggested April schedule. ANA and JAL have been most affected because they own around half of the lightweight, fuel-efficient jetliners in operation as a strategic move to win market share from their U.S. and European rivals. (Reporting by Anurag Kotoky; additional reporting by Bill Rigby in SEATTLE, Yoko Kubota and Mari Saito in TOKYO and Devidutta Tripathy in NEW DELHI; Editing by Daniel Magnowski) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Some dovish sounding minutes from the Bank of England came out this morning. And the pound is getting drilled. The pound is one of the most hated currencies right now thanks to a deteriorating economy, deteriorating trade balances, and the belief that more aggressive policy by the Bank of England is likely in the future. Here's a chart showing the steep drop just over the last 10 days. FinViz
Gold has been falling, and as we just mentioned, it's about to enter a "death cross", which is a technical analysis term that means it's fallen hard, and people think it will fall more. But while diagonal lines on a chart are fun, there are fundamental reasons why gold is declining. It basically comes down to two things, that can be be expressed clearly in chart form. The first is real interest rates. When real interest rates are extremely low or falling, that's good for gold. And there's an intuitive reason for that. Collapsing real interest rates mean you're not getting paid much for being in currency, and the real economy probably isn't offering that much either. So, why not be in gold? Here's a chart comparing gold in recent year to the yield on the 10-year TIPS (inflation adjusted bonds). As you can see, gold has been a mirror image of the TIPS yield, and now that real interest rates are ticking higher, gold is seeing weakness. FRED The other big driver of gold is fear. When people are in a panic, something in our reptilian brains tells us to buy gold, which is why it's been around as a quasi-currency for so long. A good way to demonstrate this is by a chart which compares the VIX (an index that measures market fear) to a ratio of gold/oil. The gold/oil ratio captures the relationship between being in an unproductive shiny metal vs. being in a useful commodity that should benefit during a time of economic strength. When people are fearful, they'll opt more for the pointless metal and drop oil. When people are confident, they'll ask, why be in a pointless metal, when I can sell oil to the world? And here you go. The VIX (red) almost aligns perfectly with gold/oil (blue). FRED So there you go. A rise in real interest rates and the collapse of fear are behind the drop in gold.
ALERT ALERT ALERT! Gold -- which has been falling falling precipitously -- has gone into a death cross, according to FT. FTGlobalmarkets Technical analysts believe that when this happens it means that the price has totally broken down, and that the trap floor has opened up. Here's a chart of spot gold prices. You can see that the moving average lines are about to cross, as the blue line prepares to dive below the red. Stockcharts.com Remember, gold has been falling for essentially two reasons.
All you need to know, really. Markit Economics
Gold continues to tumble today after a brutal Friday session took the shiny yellow metal below $1600 per ounce. Over the past four months, it's fallen more than 10 percent from its October 4 high of $1798.10. In a note to clients, Deutsche Bank commodities analyst Xiao Fu has a few thoughts on why gold prices are falling. Perhaps the biggest factor weighing on gold prices is the drop in the equity risk premium, which in turn is driven by rising yields. The equity risk premium is the expected rate of return of stocks over that of bonds (here, specifically, it's defined as the S&amp;P 500 earnings yield less the yield on a 10-year Treasury bond). The chart below shows that gold prices track the ERP pretty closely. Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP As bond yields rise ‚Äì and stocks rise, depressing the S&amp;P 500 earnings yield ‚Äì it's caused the ERP to fall. The recent rise in bond yields has been encouraged by the release of the December FOMC minutes in early January, which revealed for the first time that the Federal Reserve was considering reining in quantitative easing by the end of 2013. Wednesday, the Fed will release the minutes from the January FOMC meeting ‚Äì which followed the release of the December minutes ‚Äì and observers will get a chance to see how that discussion morphed in January. Thus, it's a big day for gold. Xiao writes: Gold returns have historically performed well when short- and long-term real interest rates are low or negative. Successive rounds of QE programmes over the past few years have worked to push U.S. 10-year real Treasury yields deeper into the negative territory. More recently, the Fed‚Äôs rhetoric regarding potential QE exit has lowered market expectations of future QE and the decline in 10-year real yields has reversed. As the macro outlook improves, ultra-accommodative monetary policy will become harder to justify. Our Economics team expects the Fed to begin unwinding its unconventional policy by ending QE purchases around Q4 this year. This could lead to higher yields and further headwinds for gold prices. Even so, the erratic nature of the recovery in U.S. real economy data indicates that real yields and the gold price will remain sensitive to Fed speak. Consequently the release of the FOMC minutes this Wednesday will provide important guidance on the U.S. monetary stance and thus gold prices in our view. Deutsche Bank expects gold to average $1856 per ounce in 2013.
Robert Johnson ‚Äî Business InsiderIt's another quiet morning, but that's not unusual. Markets are generally drifting a little bit higher, although not dramatically so. Germany is up 0.15%. Italy is up 0.1%. France is down a hair. US futures are up. Gold is sagging again. Markets have generally been swinging back and forth around the unchanged line.
