A bad financial planner, on the other hand, may fail spectacularly on each of those counts -- and others. How can you tell if you're stuck with an incompetent or unscrupulous financial planner? Here are six red flags you may encounter. 1. A turbulent backstory If your prospective adviser has switched jobs frequently, it could mean trouble, says Jayne Di Vincenzo, CEP, president of Lions Bridge Financial in Newport News, Va. "I've had advisers apply to work with me who have changed firms every two years," Di Vincenzo says. When looking at an advisement firm, it may be wise to look into the turnover among the firm's advisers and staff, says Robert Schmansky, CFP, founder of Clear Financial Advisors in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. "If there has been a lot of turnover among the professional staff, among the advisers specializing in certain areas, that could be a sign that those people aren't comfortable with the way things are being run," Schmansky says. 2. A one-size-fits-all philosophy If the only tool you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail. But if you encounter a financial planner who fails to look deeply into your individual situation, you may be better off looking elsewhere for advice. Di Vincenzo says these advisers are frequently more interested in selling products than they are in helping clients. "Whatever your financial needs are, there's only one answer such as an annuity, whole life insurance, one hot stock, etc.," Di Vincenzo says, describing how some planners promote singular approaches. "Or everything you need is one product or one fund family. They're a product pusher, not a financial planner." 3. Constantly shifting tactics Be wary if every time you meet with your adviser, he or she is recommending a change in investment strategy or hot new product, Schmansky says. "I would be very cautious of an adviser who sees his value as offering you a product or service you can't get on your own," he says. "The reason they're recommending a new annuity may be the old annuity has stopped compensating the adviser as much. I saw that quite a bit with one adviser who focused on annuities." 4. No target return Failing to define your target return number is a definite red flag, Di Vincenzo says. When building an investment strategy, the planner should set a target return and a standard deviation the client is comfortable with, she says. For example, a client's average target return might be 7.5 percent with a standard deviation of 10 percent in a bad market and 20 percent in a horrible market. But that client might average 14 percent during good markets, she says. "You try to position clients for good returns in good markets," she says. "That's part of our whole planning process." 5. No tax strategy Failing to account for taxes can be a sure sign that your planner isn't taking a comprehensive approach. Look instead for a professional who folds tax concerns into your larger investment strategy. "Make sure your adviser has a tax plan strategy and make sure it's integrated," Schmansky says. 6. A static approach Your planner should occasionally recommend rebalancing your portfolio based on your target return goal, Di Vincenzo says. "I recently had a portfolio come over that hadn't been rebalanced since 1998," she says. "The clients were getting ready to retire and hadn't heard from their adviser." If you haven't heard from your adviser in 15 years, the red flags above may be the least of your worries.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Veteran Advisor Reveals 8 Great Investment Rules He Learned From A Non-Professional Investor (Advisor Perspectives) Rob Isbitts of Sungarden Investment Research, who was named one of the top U.S. wealth advisors four times by Worth magazine, said he got some of his best investment advice from his father, a non-professional investor. Those are "ingrained" in his firm's investment process. 1. "Never buy a security unless you believe the reward to risk ratio is at least 2:1 in your favor." 2. Don't waste too much time on predictions. 3. Stock will almost always fall faster than they rallied. 4. Have a target sale price and be ready to sell at or near your target. Also be open to changing your target when conditions change. 5. Don't follow the rabble. 6.¬†¬† "In a bull market, even if you sell prematurely, another opportunity will arise elsewhere. Falling in love is for mating, not investments." 7. In a bear market be very flexible. 8. Keep your emotions in check when you're investing. BlackRock Is Giving Equity Managers The Boot (Pensions &amp; Investments) BlackRock has replaced portfolio managers on 80% of its equity teams in the past year and a half, according to Pensions &amp; Investments. And this has extended to research analysts as well with entire teams being laid off. BlackRock saw $20.5 billion in net outflows from its active equity portfolios in the year through March 31. Active equity accounts for a smaller part of its AUM but a significant portion of revenue.  Last Month Was Very Bad For Low Volatility Strategies (Falkenblog) Many researchers are questioning low volatility strategies after their underperformance relative to high beta strategies.  Falkenblog  Detroit-Based Advisor Agrees To Settle Charges That It Stole From A Pension Fund For The City's Police And Firefighters (SEC) Chauncey Mayfield and his MayfieldGentry Realty Advisors will pay back almost $3.1 million that was allegedly stolen from a pension fund it managed for Detroit's police and firefighters, according to the SEC.¬† From the SEC: "He used it to purchase the shopping properties and title them in the name of a MayfieldGentry affiliate. Other executives at MayfieldGentry gradually became aware that Mayfield had siphoned money away from their biggest client. Rather than come clean about the theft and risk losing the sizeable business the firm received from the pension fund, MayfieldGentry officials instead devised a plan to secretly repay the pension fund by cutting costs at the firm and selling the strip malls. Their plan ultimately failed when MayfieldGentry could not raise enough capital to put the stolen amount back into the pension fund." BYRON WIEN: I Spoke To The Smartest Man In Europe, And He's Sounding Really Bullish (Blackstone) Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien has a source he calls "the smartest man in Europe." That man now sounds bullish according to Wien. Here's a highlight from their conversation paraphrased by Wien. "Money managers had been so preoccupied with that idea that they failed to recognize the pullback from austerity which could lead to the restoration of growth.¬† During the last few years European companies, like their American counterparts, have become vastly more efficient.¬† ...Stocks are priced assuming conditions will get worse and I see them getting better ‚Äì not everywhere and not in every sector, but if you are a careful stock picker you can make money. "The most important factor is that almost no investor likes Europe now and that enhances the opportunity.¬† Two years ago everyone was worried that the European Union was going to break apart.¬† That was never going to happen over the near term because everyone had too much to lose, especially Germany, which has been the biggest beneficiary.¬† Now most people realize Europe is going to muddle through at least for a while, but few people are buying European stocks to take advantage of this conclusion."
Wikimedia Commons On Wednesday, the German Constitutional Court will hold a public hearing on the legality of the European Central Bank's "outright monetary transactions" (OMT) program. The OMT is a program announced last summer that gives the ECB the ability to backstop government bonds, provided said country agrees to oversight and reforms. Remarkably, the ECB has yet to actually engage in any outright monetary transactions. However, as ECB President Mario Draghi put it in a press conference on Thursday following the central bank's latest decision on monetary policy, "OMT has brought stability, not only to the markets in Europe but also to the markets worldwide." As such, people are talking about this week's court hearing. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale interest rate strategist¬†Ciaran O'Hagan asserts that there is "much concern over what damage talk at the German constitutional court might do." "In the 29-page Buba report leaked last April, there was some choice criticism of the ECB‚Äôs powers by the Bundesbank," writes O'Hagan in a note to clients. "A speech along the same lines by Mr Weidmann would hurt peripherals, and that is the key near-term threat." Arguably, the biggest issue on the table is whether OMT impinges on the German constitution. Deutsche Bank's Europe economists provide a pretty good overview of the subject in their latest note to clients: This week's events only entail a hearing. The actual court rulings will likely come later in the year. "We are fearful of what Mr Weidmann will say now, but we do not expect the German court to rock many boats over the coming months," says O'Hagan. "Indeed, by Europeanising the ECB‚Äôs interventions, the court could end up strengthening the ECB‚Äôs powers." And, once again, one of the remarkable aspects of this story is the fact that OMT has not even been activated yet. "The more serious issues for investors are whether the ECB is at all serious about OMT and whether it will ever act on all its talk," says O'Hagan. "For now investors have blindly accepted the ECB‚Äôs talk at face value. But what if they think that the emperor doesn‚Äôt have enough clothes? That is a more real threat to [euro area] peripherals."
SpringleafSpringleaf Finance Corp. is talking to banks about doing an initial public offering, WSJ's Mike Spector reports. The company makes subprime loans primarily for car and home repairs, Spector says. It employs about 3,600 people. Its parent company is Fortress Investment Group, which bought it in a firesale from AIG in 2010. Springleaf has recently performed well in debt markets, Spector writes: One sign of Springleaf's comeback: In May, Springleaf for the first time in many years raised money in the high-yield debt market, a key driver of its business. The company sold $300 million of high-yield bonds, raising $50 million more than it initially sought. Springleaf makes money by borrowing money at lower rates than it charges customers and capturing the difference. If subprimes are heating up...draw your own conclusions. Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com &gt;
Business InsiderFormer head of Merrill Lynch and Smith Barney Sallie Krawcheck, who now owns high-achieving women's network 85 Broads, spoke about women's leadership in the workplace.¬† "I'm a buyer. ¬†I'm really a buyer of women in the workplace," Krawcheck¬†said at the S.H.E. Summit Week kickoff event at BCBGMAXAZRIA in Midtown Manhattan on Monday.¬†The S.H.E. Summit is a lifestyle and leadership event for women started by Claudia Chan.¬† The former banker told the group of women that when she was in mid-20s and working in London, she recognized she was the most senior female in the investment bank. ¬†At the time, she said she didn't know how to navigate because there wasn't a senior female role model. ¬† "So really watching then as the advancement of women, us, continued, but has recently stalled. And we're all very aware of this amazing national conversation that we're having about women in leadership." ¬† She said that this advancement of women in the workplace has stalled in a number of areas ‚Äî boards, CEO roles and senior executive roles. ¬† She said Wall Street has actually gone backwards. "So as I like to say, because it's true. ¬†You know Wall Street went into the downturn white, middle aged and male and came out whiter, middle-aged-er and male-er."¬† Krawcheck, who began her career in finance as an analyst, refers to herself as a "recovering research analyst." "I love facts. I embrace everyone's opinion. ¬†I'd love to hear your opinion. However, I really think we need to make decisions and take action off the facts."¬† She said that she's "hard pressed to find data that shows women's leadership is anything but good."¬†¬† Krawcheck noted that companies with women on management teams have a higher return on equity, lower risk and volatility and better client focus.¬† "I'm not saying women are better than men...but what i'm saying is diverse management teams outperform non-diverse management teams and actually outperform more capable and smarter management teams. Such is the value of diversity."¬† Krawcheck, who graduated from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, used the Tar Heel basketball team to illustrate her point. ¬† She explained that if we were to pick five ¬†random UNC basketball players such as¬†Phil Ford, Jimmy Black,¬†Raymond Felton, Kendall Marshall and Ty Lawson. While they are all super star players, they would not be the best team. ¬†Why? Because they're all point guards. ¬†You've got to have a center and a shooting guard, etc.¬† "That's why diversity matters," she explained.¬† "So I'm a buyer. I'm such a buyer I bought 85 Broads." ¬† Krawcheck, who purchased 85 Broads last month for an undisclosed amount, said that she thought a lot about the power of networking. ¬† "Networks are where knowledgeable people come together to accomplish things that they want to.¬†I have also thought about the leadership and future leadership ‚Äî command and control has worked very well for a lot of years. Collaboration and communication as is now enabled by social media and by the Internet...brings people together through collaboration, communication, formulation is a very, very powerful wave that we are going to see." ¬† "We are having a national conversation like I haven't seen in my lifetime." ¬†
The massive sell-off across emerging markets continues in force today. One of the big themes in global markets over the past month has been the rise in U.S. Treasury yields and the attendant strength in the U.S. dollar. This has caused a big unwind in emerging markets, as EM currencies depreciate against the dollar and higher-yielding EM government bonds look less attractive relative to Treasuries. The 10-year Turkish government bond yield rose 22 basis points today to 4.22%.¬†In South Africa, 10-year yields rose 28 basis points to 7.84%. And in Mexico,¬†10-year government bond yields widened 5 basis points to 3.33%. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg And if you're looking for a really ugly chart, inflation linkers¬†in Brazil are getting absolutely massacred. (Inflation linkers are just bonds linked to inflation, like TIPS in the U.S.) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Her resignation followed the worst quality-control problem in Lululemon history. The retailer recalled 17% of its black luon pants for being too sheer in March.† Some of the yoga gear maker's biggest fans called for the CEO's firing after the retailer announced the recall. Carolyn†Beauchesne, author of†the blog Lululemon Addict, claimed in a post that Day "ruined" her favorite brand.† Beauchesne's blog is a gathering place for women who want to review and discuss Lululemon yoga gear.†She once told us that she's spent a total of $15,000 shopping there.† Responding to the see-through pants scandal, Beauchesne explained why many fans of the retailer don't like the CEO:† "Day has ruined everything special about lululemon. The bullet proof quality, the fit, the femininity, the lululemoness of the product," Beauchesne wrote in March. "She is a one-trick pony who grew the company through expansion." Day replaced Lululemon founder Chip Wilson in 2008. Before that, she was an executive at Starbucks.† Many of Beauchesne's commenters appeared to support her vendetta against Day.† "I had more faith in Chip Wilson to appoint someone with a like-minded vision for the company," one commenter wrote. "I'm surprised that he fell for her-she provided short-term eye candy for the investors, but look where it has taken her in the long run." "I do not think Day should stay on, but not all of the blame falls on her," wrote another commenter. "The head of product/manufacturing and head of design must be replaced. Whoever allowed that shoddy fabric, construction and design should be shown the door, stat. They clearly don't understand the brand or the vision." Another popular blogger, who goes by Lulumum, criticized Day's expansion strategy. "I think it's time the board take a very serious look at what the cost of such quick expansion really is, because you are losing us here," Lulumum wrote. "And you are losing integrity while you are at it." Today,†Beauchesne tweeted the news that Day was stepping down.† "About time!" one follower responded. Another summarized the move as "for the best." †
YouTube / The Moms ViewIt's back to school for Farrah Abraham, famed reality show star-come-porn actress. Abraham will pursue her bachelor's of business administration at Pace University's Lubin School. She plans to start a career in the restaurant business after completing the online program, BusinessWeek's†Louis Lavelle reports: Abraham†said she plans to concentrate in accounting and internal auditing at Pace. ìI have career plans for my first restaurant to open by the beginning of next year, as I complete my bachelors. I would hope to have a couple of restaurants open by that point, and do other business projects.î Incidentally "Internal Auditing" may make a great name for Abraham's next film (she took home $1.5 million for the first). ìFurthering your education is about learning and increasing your income value for your future and your childrenís,î said Abraham, who has a young daughter, Sophia. ìIím the example for my daughter. Even though Iím already successful and have a career it is always good to have your eggs in more than one basket. The more one can do, the less they have to rely on others.î The restaurant business is hard. Then again, so is reality TV. Good luck!
Yoga clothing retailer Lululemon just reported earnings, and the stock is tanking. The numbers aren't bad ‚Äì the company beat expectations on earnings and revenue ‚Äì but the CEO used the opportunity to announce that she would be stepping down. Shares are down 9% in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the press release. VANCOUVER, British Columbia--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- lululemon athletica inc. [NASDAQ:LULU; TSX:LLL] today announced financial results for the first quarter ended¬†May 5, 2013. lululemon also announced today that after a five and half year tenure¬†Christine Day¬†will step down as the Company's Chief Executive Officer when a successor is named. The Board has formed a search committee and enacted its CEO succession plan. Ms. Day's decision is being announced at this time so the Board has the benefit of a healthy transition period, and can openly use that time for a thorough search for the next CEO. "Being a part of lululemon for the past five and a half years has been an incredible journey. I am proud of building a world class team that has produced one of the best growth, brand and profit stories in retail," said Ms. Day. "Plans have been laid for the next five years and a vision set for the next ten. Now is the right time to bring in a CEO who will drive the next phase of lululemon's development and growth. I will continue to actively lead the organization while the Board searches for a new CEO, and will work to ensure a smooth transition." "Christine has been an exceptional leader for lululemon, successfully embracing the culture while growing the business and returning value to all of our stakeholders including our guests, employees, partners and shareholders," said¬†Chip Wilson, Chairman of the lululemon Board of Directors. "I thank Christine for her leadership, contributions and commitment to lululemon. I am confident that we will find the right person to lead this strong team and continue to build on this excellent foundation." RESULTS FOR THE FIRST QUARTER ENDED¬†MAY 5, 2013 Commenting on events of the first quarter Ms. Day added: "The past quarter has been one of the most important in our company's history. While we regret that we had quality issues with our black luon we are proud of the organization's ability to get luon delivered back into our stores within 90 days of having pulled it from our line, all the while keeping our guests happy and engaged with the brand." For the first quarter ended¬†May 5, 2013: The Company ended the first quarter of fiscal 2013 with¬†$588.4 million¬†in cash and cash equivalents compared to¬†$424.3 million¬†at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Inventory at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2013 totaled¬†$143.7 million¬†compared to¬†$107.7 million¬†at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company ended the quarter with 218 stores in¬†North America¬†and¬†Australia. Updated Outlook For the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we expect net revenue to be in the range of¬†$340 million¬†to¬†$345 million¬†based on a comparable-store sales percentage increase of 5% to 7% on a constant-dollar basis. Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of¬†$0.33¬†to$0.35¬†for the quarter. This assumes 146.0 million diluted weighted-average shares outstanding and a 30.0% tax rate. For the full fiscal 2013, we now expect net revenue to be in the range of¬†$1,645 million¬†to¬†$1,665 million¬†and diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of¬†$1.96¬†to¬†$2.01¬†for the full year. This assumes 146.2 million diluted weighted-average shares outstanding and a tax rate of 30.0%. Voluntarily Delist from¬†Toronto Stock Exchange The Company has provided written notice to the¬†Toronto Stock Exchange¬†("TSX") regarding the delisting of its common stock. The Company anticipates that its common stock will be delisted from the TSX at the close of trading on¬†June 24, 2013. The Company believes that the minimal trading volume of its shares on the TSX no longer justifies the expenses and administrative efforts associated with maintaining this dual listing. The Company's listing with NASDAQ provides its shareholders with sufficient liquidity, as NASDAQ accounts for nearly all of the Company's current trading volume. Further, administrative and regulatory efficiencies will be achieved by focusing on the single listing. The Company's common stock will continue to be listed and trade on NASDAQ and its Canadian shareholders will be able to continue to trade through their brokers on that market.
LululemonLululemon CEO Christine Day is stepping down. Shares are tanking on the news. Day has been the head of luxury yoga-wear maker Lululemon since 2008. Before that, she worked as an executive at Starbucks. The board has hired an executive search committee, and Day will stay on as CEO until her replacement is chosen, the company said today. "Being a part of Lululemon for the past five and a half years has been an incredible journey. I am proud of building a world class team that has produced one of the best growth, brand and profit stories in retail," Day said in a company release. "Plans have been laid for the next five years and a vision set for the next ten. Now is the right time to bring in a CEO who will drive the next phase of Lululemon's development and growth. I will continue to actively lead the organization while the Board searches for a new CEO, and will work to ensure a smooth transition," Day said. Day's leadership was called into question after a series of quality control issues with the brand's clothing.¬† The worst offense happened in March, after the retailer had to recall 17% of its black luon yoga pants for being too sheer. That gaffe cost the company millions of dollars and resulted in the resignation of Chief Product Officer Sheree Waterson.¬† The retailer figured out the source of the problem and has started re-stocking shelves. The company didn't say where Day plans to go next.¬† Lululemon beat Wall Street's expectations during earnings today.¬†
Eric.Parker / FlickrAbsent any major economic data releases, it was a fairly quiet day in the market. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
China's exports to Hong Kong grew just 7.7% in May, down from 57.2% in April and a whopping 92.9% in March. Overall exports grew just 1%. Why the huge drop? At the time of the big gains earlier in the year, analysts said it was because the export data was "the result of disguised capital inflows, as exporters could overstate export amount in order to move yuan into the mainland." On May 5, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) announced that it would crack down on companies that used "merchandise trade invoices for arbitrage activities, and announced the introduction of strict limits on how much onshore banks can short or lend the US dollar," wrote Societe Generale's Wei Yao. The sudden collapse reflects the effectiveness of the government's crackdown on disguised arbitrage flows. Business Insider
If you‚Äôre an unemployed, underpaid, morally ambivalent banker or ex-banker who‚Äôs fed up with the grunge of Wall Street or the City of London, you could be forgiven for thinking that Edward Snowden was onto a good thing. By most measures,¬†Snowden¬†- the man currently holed-up in a Hong Kong hotel after blowing the whistle on U.S. surveillance systems -¬†was very well paid. Despite not going to university, he earned a salary of $200k (¬£131k) in 2012 ‚Äì placing him in the¬†top 5% of American earners. Even better, while he earned this salary Snowden lived and worked in¬†Honolulu, Hawaii. The good news is that financial services professionals who want to work for the security services should have plenty of opportunity to do so ‚Äì and not just because the CIA wants to ply them with alcohol and extract secret information. Recruiters said the security services and financial services firms need similar skills. ‚ÄúHigh frequency traders need to analyse large volumes of data,‚Äù said Dominic Connor, a quant headhunter at QFS in London. ‚ÄúHedge funds also have a need for advanced text processing techniques like sentiment analysis so that they can use news feeds to identify trading opportunities.‚Äù Snowden was touting his services to the US National Security Agency (NSA) as a contractor via Booz Allen Hamilton. In the UK, the NSA‚Äôs equivalent is¬†Government Communication Headquarters (GCHQ)¬†in Cheltenham. Neither Booz Allen Hamilton nor GCHQ were immediately able to respond to requests for comments for this article.
CybrbeastThe world's first Bitcoin baby is here and adorable. That's thanks to Dr. C. Terence Lee, a California-based fertility specialist and Bitcoin¬†aficionado. Lee offered a couple with whom he had worked with before a 50% discount if they would go along with his dream of fostering a Bitcoin retail economy (of babies).¬†As CNN Money's Stacy Cowley reports: ¬† The child was born thanks to a frozen embryo transfer cycle paid for with bitcoins. Lee says it's the first time he's aware of that anyone has paid for fertility treatments that way. Lee presented on his unconventional fertility methods at the Bitcoin 2013 conference. Apparently Lee is just in it for the love of the Bitcoin game. The digital currency's recent crash doesn't bother him at all. Lee claims he wouldn't care if his bitcoins lost their value entirely -- he and his staff are having fun figuring out the technology, meeting new people, and enjoying the economic novelty of a whole new kind of currency. He's even managed to convert a few more of his clients.
Apple has redesigned the look and feel of its mobile operating system for iPhones and iPads, iOS. The new version uses a simpler "flat" design, without the fancy three-dimensionality of the old one. And as Apple had a lot of fun pointing out in its conference presentation, some of the old skeumorphic (physical-world-like) icon designs have been replaced by modern digital ones. So, which design do you like better? Here are some of the old icons:  Here are some of the new ones: Apple VOTE:
In the course of my research for a project I have in the works, I came across this amazing little nugget of archival footage. The below clip is a business broadcast from the CBC circa January 1981. It chronicles the day after legendary newsletter nutcase Joe Granville single handedly caused a stock market panic. I love everything about this clip, especially the clothes and haircuts and computers they're all using. And Granville himself makes an appearance, he's f***ing awesome. This is amazing... 
AP/Nati HarnikNational farm values appear to be overpriced but not in a bubble, according to Paul Ashworth at Capital Economics. Prices are up 10% in the last year, and have been up 25% over the past three years. But he does see a "localized bubble in farmland values in the corn belt," considering the biggest gains in farmland values have been among the largest corn and wheat producers: "Near-zero interest rates have undoubtedly played some role in this, but the bigger factor has been the surge in corn and wheat prices over the past decade.¬† "We do not believe that a bursting of this bubble would have any systemic risks for the wider financial system. Nevertheless, a slump in farmland prices in the corn belt could hit some small community banks very hard and it would be devastating for the farmers involved." Prices have risen by over 50% in prices in the northern plains (Kansas, Nebraska, North and South Dakota) and the corn belt (Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri and Ohio). In Nebraska prices have nearly doubled over the past three years and Iowa prices are up over 80%. The rising price of corn and wheat explain the rise in prime crop land values. But ranch prices haven't moved along with livestock prices, and this is because livestock prices were pushed up by rising feed costs. Ashworth also points out that farmland values could be driven by the shale revolution. Capital EconomicsA closer look at Iowa Iowa's farmland is overvalued relative to national value of farm production, writes Ashworth. That ratio is almost double the long-run average suggesting that farmland is overvalued by as much as 100%. But this isn't an apples to apples comparison. From Aswhorth: "Comparing Iowa farmland with the national value of farm production is, however, unfair. Unfortunately, we don't have figures for Iowa State ¬†¬† ¬†farm production values. But since Iowa farmland is predominantly used to grow corn, we can compare it to corn prices, although we need to adjust for rising yields. (We used a 10-year average of corn yields to smooth out temporary drought-related slumps.) This ratio suggests that Iowa farmland is a more modest 40% overvalued. "Even then, however, we have used the 2012 end-year price of around $6.50 per bushel. Corn is now fetching around $5.50 per bushel, which would suggest that Iowa farmland is nearer to 70% overvalued. The bottom line is that Iowa farmland is markedly overvalued, unless you believe that corn prices will rebound back to recent highs."Compared with cash rents for farmland, however, Iowa farmland values don't look nearly as overvalued. Data from Iowa State University show that cash rents for Iowa farmland surged to $252 per acre in 2012, up from $183 in 2009. Using those cash rent rates and farmland values, we can calculate a yield for Iowa farmland. As Chart 12 shows, that yield has fallen from about 6% a decade ago to 3% in 2012. Given the even bigger decline in long-term Treasury yields over that time period, the decline in Iowa farmland yields seems reasonable." The good news is that the demand for farmland loans is decreasing, and only 0.7% of farmland loans are seriously delinquent. And though a collapse in farmland value would hurt small community banks, these loans don't make up a huge part of banks' balance sheets and therefore don't post a systemic risk to the financial system."
Low volatility had a bad month in May, and there has been a slew of commentary on this. ¬†See Abnormal Returns¬†here¬†for a bunch of links. Deutsche Bank's 'The Quant View' by Rochester Cahan summarized the month's performance¬†by noting¬†¬†that 'Last month we argued that the Low Volatility/High Dividend Yield trade was looking crowded, and cautioned that this¬†could indicate elevated downside risk. It turns out that call was prescient.'¬† "Could" and "change in probability" means nothing, because it's consistent with anything, eg, if the rate rises it's hardly testable because the old and new probability are couched merely as possibilities, and if the probability doesn't change, that's in the forecast too ('could'). ¬†Now if they said, don't buy or short strategy X this month, that would have been prescient. ¬†I wonder if such people realize how disingenuous this is, or if they think their nuance is actually highly rigorous analysis. In any case, last month was very bad for low volatility strategies, leading many researchers to reassess the validity of this approach. ¬†But, to put it in perspective, here's the total return over the past 12 months, using my beta data. Falkenblog Clearly the past year, higher beta has been the better place to be, while lower beta has not. ¬†As the SP500 rose 26% from May 31 2012 through May 31 2013, this is not surprising: on average, over shorter horizons like years, betas are accurate, so higher beta stocks do better in rising markets, lower beta portfolios underperform. For example, over the past year, given the SP500 rose 26%, low beta stocks rose 70% of that, high beta 170% of that, implying betas of 0.7 and 1.7, which is totally consistent with the simple CAPM for the high beta stocks, and better-than-expected for the low beta portfolio (ie, its beta was 0.6 in that period). ¬†If you bought low vol stocks not understanding this, well, you really need to. Now, many people seem to infer from this that low vol/beta has been a bad bet over the past year. If you evaluate yourself purely against the indices, this is true: deviations from the benchmark are only good if they are above the benchmark. ¬†Yet, in simple Sharpe ratio or Information ratio, high beta portfolio did poorly, even in this period. ¬†The clear winner is actually a Beta-1.0 portfolio, which has the highest Sharpe¬†and¬†Information ratio. ¬†Like low volatility, I have championed the beta 1.0 portfolio for a while, and I'm sure it will be a big fund someday. Falkenblog Internationally we see the same thing: low vol did worse in raw returns, but much better in a pure Sharpe. Falkenblog See data¬†here. ¬†I think this highlights a profound truth, that as a practical matter investors don't care about Sharpe ratios as much as returns relative to the benchmark.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderEvery summer, we welcome a new class of interns to join the editorial team at Business Insider. This year, we're thrilled to have 19 talented young journalists join our team. They'll be spending the summer helping us build the business news site for the digital generation. (And yes, all BI interns are paid.) Amelia Acosta, Dartmouth College [Politics] Alexandra Mondalek, University of Michigan [Strategy] Anmargaret Warner, Wake Forest University [Lists &amp; Rankings] Brian Jones, Columbia University [Military &amp; Defense] Cole Katzter, University of Binghamton [Social Media] Christina Sterbenz, Syracuse University [Law] Justin Gmoser, Clarion University of Pennsylvania [Video] Kyle Russell, UC Berkeley [Tech] Laura Brothers, Ithaca College [Personal Finance] Liz O'Connor, Boston College [Lifestyle] Lynne Guey, University of Florida [Careers] Melia Robinson, Syracuse University [Entertainment] Michael Thrasher, Ohio University [Retail] Peter Jacobs, Cornell University [Colleges] Philip Johnson, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign [Sports] Robert Ferris, NYU [Science] Sam Colt, Kenyon College [Contributors] Steven Perlberg, Washington University [Markets / Finance] Steven Tweedie, University of Michigan [Tech]
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderFor New Yorkers, there's nothing better than escaping the city on a hot summer weekend. But getting out of town is another story. Anyone who's ever tried to get to the Hamptons on a Friday afternoon knows the traffic on the Long Island Expressway can be hellish, and the train ‚Äî¬†while faster this year¬†‚Äî can still devolve into a drunken frat party. There is, however, another way to hightail it from the city to the Hamptons: by seaplane. Not only is it a quick, 40-minute (or so) hop from the East River seaport to destinations out east, there's no chance of traffic or unpleasant passengers, and the view is pretty spectacular. Of course, there's also the matter of cost. Seaplane operator Fly The Whale, one of several companies that offers the service, charges $3,250 to $3,500 for a private charter for eight to¬†the Hamptons. Single seats on "shared charters" cost $535. I recently got to take a Fly The Whale seaplane from Manhattan to the Hamptons as part of a trip to see a luxury condo complex being built in Sag Harbor. It sure beat Penn Station at rush hour. Disclosure: Sag Development Partners, the owners of the Watchcase development in Sag Harbor, paid for my travel expenses.
Federal investigators are putting the final touches on an agreement that would give them access to key evidence in the case against former SAC Capital employee Mathew Martoma, the FT reports. Last year Martoma was accused of participating in the most lucrative insider trading scheme of all time, in which he used Dr. Sydney Gilman a former professor of neurology at the University of Michigan's medical school, to get inside information on two pharmaceutical stocks. Up until now, the University of Michigan has refused to give lawyers on the prosecution and/or the defense an encryption key to decode the files on Gilman's laptop ‚Äî the one on which he allegedly stored the information he passed to Martoma. From FT: Peter Barkey, a spokesman for the medical school, said: ‚ÄúWe are in the process of finalising agreement with the US attorney‚Äôs office.‚Äù He expected it to be completed by Wednesday. Mr Barkey said the university would not turn over the encryption key because of its responsibility to protect patient confidentiality, but it was nearing an agreement with the government and Mr Martoma‚Äôs lawyer to run keyword searches. The negotiation was focused on sorting out the exact search terms, he said. Looks like this thing is getting down to the wire.
There is a great natural economic experiment unfolding. And it is not the QE3 versus U.S. fiscal austerity debate that some of us have been debating. Rather, it is the United States versus the Eurozone and the different policy "treatments" their economies are receiving. Jim Pethokoukis explains: [W]e have an intriguing natural economic experiment. Two large, advanced economies are both undergoing fiscal austerity from spending cuts and tax increases. But one is recovering, though glacially, from a previous downturn; the other is deteriorating. The likely difference: monetary policy. Not only did the Federal Reserve slash short-term interest rates to nearly zero way back in 2008, but it has also embarked upon a massive bond-buying program known as quantitative easing. The European Central Bank, however, only last month cut its key interest rate to 0.5 percent, still higher than the Fed-funds rate. And the ECBís ìunconventionalî monetary policy has been far more modest, with bond purchases less than a tenth the size of the Fedís. Its goals have also been more limited: stabilizing southern Europeís debt markets and avoiding a financial crisis. At a recent speech in Frankfurt, Germany, St. Louis Fed president James Bullard said that unless Europe adopts an aggressive bond-buying program, it risks an extended period of low growth and deflation like what Japan has experienced since the 1980s. This policy treatment explains the different NGDP trajectories in this figure: Macro and Other Market Musings What is puzzling to me is how anyone could look at the outcome of this experiment and claim the Fed's large scale asset programs (LSAPs) are not helpful. Some claim the LSAPs are just helping the rich, at best, and may even be deflationary. But it is not hard to imagine how much higher U.S. unemployment would be were it not for the Fed's QE programs. Just look to Europe's unemployment rate, as noted by Pethokoukis. Yes, the LSAP programs are far from ideal but they are keeping Americans from experiencing the unemployment seen in Europe.† In other words, QE is helping the lives of ordinary working people in the Unites States. And there are many ordinary working Europeans whose lives would be much better off if the ECB were to more closely follow the Fed's actions.† The insights from this natural experiment should give QE critics pause. And so should the fact that these these programs are helping shore up the supply of safe assets. Critics who see the slow recovery and point to the Fed's LSAPs simply are not doing the right (if any) counterfactual.
Google FinanceNot much going on in U.S. markets today, as there were no major economic data releases this morning. However, the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield did hit its highest level in over a year this morning, at 2.22%. Meanwhile, after a small upward move earlier, stocks have retraced their gains, and the S&amp;P 500 is now flat on the day.
You probably know the story ‚Äî in the '90s Wall Street got carried away (to say the least) with the tech boom and the Chinese wall between its analysts' research and investment banking was crossed. Since then, the Street's research has slowly won back some of its credibility, but former hot-shot Merrill Lynch analyst, Richard Bernstein ‚Äî who now oversees $1.3 billion at his own firm, Richard Bernstein Advisors ‚Äî still doesn't buy it. His interview in last weekend's issue of Barron's breaks down his thoughts. To Bernstein, the problem isn't credibility. Now the problem is that Wall Street research is all basically the same stuff. From Barron's (this is a Q&amp;A, the italicized questions are from Barron's reporter, Lawrence Strauss): You can show me a report, you can take off the banner, and I would have no idea who wrote it. It is very hard to differentiate one person's research from another's. "We don't care about individual names. We care about getting size, style, country, and sector right." Is there anyone, in particular, whose work you like? Michael Goldstein at Empirical Research Partners was one of my biggest competitors when I was on the sell side, and now we subscribe to his work. He is very good. But most of the Street research is remarkably similar, with very little value added, so we don't use a lot of outside research. About 95% of what we do is our own research, and there are only maybe three or four people whose work we subscribe to. Has Wall Street research changed a lot since you started your career in 1981? It has. If I want to find a strategy report on Botswana, I can find it on the Street now. Wall Street has a strategist for every country and product you can name. So the research has gotten broader. However, the depth has gotten so shallow, it is absolutely ridiculous. The strategists I always looked up to -- people like Chuck Clough of Merrill Lynch and Lee Cooperman and Steve Einhorn of Omega Advisors -- weren't necessarily tremendously broad. I am not sure they could tell you what was going on in industrial production in Botswana. But the depth of their research was fantastic. So there you have it ‚Äî one bank's research may be just as good as another. The lesson here is, as ever, do your own homework.
By international standards, Canada survived the financial crisis pretty well. Now we're seeing indications that our neighbor to the north was only delaying the inevitable. Canadians are way more indebted than Americans (via Matt Phillips): Statistics Canada Canadian banks may have gone bailout free during the credit crisis, but household debt has now spiked to a record¬†165% of disposable income. While U.S. home prices plummeted in the wake of the crisis, and are just now starting to show signs of life,¬†Canada's house prices have risen a ridiculous¬†123% since January 2000. We're seeing a classic housing bubble near burst, with¬†Toronto home sales slumping 10% in the first half of May while prices simultaneously climbed 5.4% like it was no big deal. Canada's economists may try to cushion worry with talk of a "soft landing" of future price drops, but the country¬†is highly levered and its homes are crazy overvalued.
Earlier in the week I wrote a post previewing AAPLís Word Wide Developers Conference (below) where the title suggested that expectations were high. †Let me clarify a little bit, they are only high because the company and Tim Cook in particular have their back against the wall a bit given what appears to be a lull in product innovation since Steve Jobs death in late 2011. As I write, AAPL is down nearly 2% on the week, making back about a percent off of this mornings lows after flirting with the stockís 50 day moving average. † At this point I think it is safe to say that when Tim Cook takes the stage for the keynote address on Monday afternoon expectations for tangible new products are not running high. †Most of the speculation over the last few weeks has surrounded on the operating system improvements and potential services like iRadio and possibly electronic payments. It is my strong belief that investors will be disappointed by AAPL merely updating their software and services to a place that many in the ìTechnoratiî already feel Android is. †If in fact there is no ìWOWî moment at WWDC the next identifiable catalyst will be fiscal Q3 earnings that will fall in late July and Aug expiration. I am clearly not a raging bull on the stock and think that this summer, possibly prior to earnings the stock could retest the $400 level on the mere fact that product news remains allusive. †That being said I would likely be a long term buyer of the stock on the next re-test. But here is the thing, it appears that the investment world is in universal agreement that the lows are in, and from what I can tell from the financial press, Twitter, communication with investors and pundits, everyone and their mother is LongÖ.again. †In the last month, Leon Cooperman and just recently Jeff Gundlach on CNBCís Halftime report Tuesday, suggested they are long and that the stock has bottomed, and if you agree with them, and you are longÖ a levered overwrite could be the way to add some juice to your position without additional risk, aside from being called away at a much higher level (which is good!) † Theoretical Trade Against a Long Stock Position: -Buy 1 Aug 475 call for ~10.00 -Sell 2 Aug 500 calls at ~5.00 each or 10.00 total Break-Even on Aug Expiration: -Profits of stock btwn 441 and 500, profits of up to 25 btwn 475 and 500, max gain of 25 if stock is 500 or higher. †In that instance your long stock would be called away with 59 profits plus an additional 25, which would equal an added 5.5%. †Btwn 441 and 475 just the profits of the stock and the ratio call spread expires worthless. -Losses of the stock below 441. Payout Diagram: 100 shares AAPL vs Aug 475/500 call 1◊2 from TradeMonster As you can see from the chart, the 1◊2 acts to juice your long to 500, a level that would provide stuff resistance if AAPL manages a summer rally or pops on August earnings. This is a great structure if you bought the stock down here and would use 500 as a level to exitÖ it is also a great structure if you are long the stock higher and wish to get some of your money back on a rally back to 500. Trade Rationale: †To summarize Jeff Gundlach in his interview with Scott Wapner on the Fast Money Halftime show on Tuesday: †Gundlach thinks sentiment is poor, the stock is cheap, †technicals show a base and cash distribution should offer support. †Here are some quotes: †îit is too cheapî, and $500 should be a fairly easy place for the stock to go toî and î basing out in a way that is fairly encouragingî he thinks ìstock is a nice inclusion at current levels given low PEî. Thatís how I chose the strikes, to get to $500, earnings and guidance will need to be one of the catalysts. Update -Video from Options Action on CNBC Friday June 7th discussing AAPLís WWDC &amp; the options strategy that I detailed above:  † Original Post: †MorningWord 6/5/13: †WWDC &amp; Great Expectations ñ $AAPL† MorningWord 6/5/13:† †This coming Monday in San Francisco, AAPL CEO Tim Cook will take the stage at the companyís World Wide Developers Conference ìWWDCî, and make no mistake about it, expectations are running hot. Despite the strong likelihood†of little new tangible product news. †Last Thursday, Enis highlighted Goldman Sachsí derivative research teamís suggestion (here) to buy June 450 calls in front of the event, as they expect: this event to once again be a positive catalyst for shares ñ this time†driven by refreshes of existing services (iCloud and Siri) and/or a preview†of the new iOS7 operating system. The options market has underestimated†the positive nature of this event in the past. Over the past 10 years, looking†from 10 days prior to WWDC to 1 day after, shares averaged a +5% return†and implied volatility rose by +7% (average) Well the stock hasnít quite run just yet, at least not on anticipation of the event, and†AAPLís ytd performance remains a massive outlier on the downside (-15.5% ytd), just as it had on the upside in its amazing bull run up to last year. †But just as many have called for a long term bottom in AAPL of late, the one month chart below shows some fairly†peculiar†behavior starting off with the ~10% peak to trough correction, for apparently no reason, starting on May 8th and ending on May 16th and the subsequent 7.5% rebound that has seen the stock forming a decent base at near term support. AAPL 1 Month chart from Bloomberg † Given next weekís conference and the potential for a positive†catalyst†to be announced, many market†technicians†have suggested that the stock could have recently made a Reverse Head &amp; Shoulders bottom as we previously referenced †courtesy of Greg Bender of Bloomberg on May 30th. AAPL 1 yr chart from Bloomberg IN my early run through of product expectations from Wall Street and from the Blogosphere, it appears that few expect anything meaningful on the hardware front (possibly new MacBooks per BGR.com), while most are†focused†on a major upgrade of iOS†(per GS via BusinesInsider.com) and added services like the rumored Pandora ìKillerî, iRadio (per AppleInsider.com) or fingerprint scanning (here). If you are buying the stock or calls for a trade into the event, my sense is that if there is any excitement it is probably going to come in the lead up to the event. †If the only material product additions are in fact software or services to be released in the fall I worry that there are few catalysts if any to own the stock (aside from share†repurchase) between now and the iPhone launch in late Sept. There are 3 things I would like to see happen in the days prior to WWDC, a rally back to resistance at or around $470, a selloff to 420 and/or an implied volatility spike. † A vol spike would be a nice opportunity to sell short dated vol and the price move could provide a nice entry to play for a reversal back in range. Yesterday on CNBCís Fast Money Halftime Report with Scott Wapner, investor Jeff Gundlach, who was short AAPL last year, recently just bought the stock around $405 and gave his reasoning for it:  † To Sum Up, Gundlach thinks sentiment is poor, the stock is cheap, †technicals show a base and cash distribution should offer support. †Here are some quotes: †îit is too cheapî, and $500 should be a fairly easy place for the stock to go toî and î basing out in a way that is fairly encouragingî he thinks ìstock is a nice inclusion at current levels given low PEî. Whatís most interesting is that Gundlach did not once mention the words new products in that interview. †That is what is going to drive the stock back above $500. †He did say that it is unlikely the stock sees $700 anytime soon, but given the marketís ytd rise and the unprecedented cash distribution plan, I would suggest that the stock is gonna need something more than buybacks, dividends &amp; low PE to get this pig back to unchanged on the year ($532.17). Last week at the WSJís All Things D conf, the most telling thing thing Tim Cook said on the product front was,†ìThe wrist is interesting,î (here†at 6:35pm) alluding to their probable entrance to the wearable computing market. †I am not sure this is gonna do it in 2013, if iWatch is the the iThingy that restores innovation. Donít get me wrong, there are many technical aspects about AAPL the stock that are getting increasingly attractive, but some of the core fundamentals characteristics of the company, that have driven the stockís success in the last decade still remain allusive. †I am still in the camp that a retest of the previous lows, possibly in front of, or after fiscal Q3 earnings in late July could be the appropriate spot to set up for a second half †of 2013 that could see refreshes and additions to iPad, iPhone and possibly something in the living-room.
Earlier this year Dow Theorists were looking at transportation stocks or "trannies" and saying it was a good time to buy. The idea is that the durability of a rally depends on the strength of stock indexes. When the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Dow Transportation Average move in tandem, depending on the direction, they signal a buy or a sell. The idea has six underlying principles. Mark Newton of Greywolf Equity Partners walks us through the basics of Dow Theory. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueNSA leaker Edward Snowden, who just checked out of his hotel in Hong Kong†and left†for parts unknown, made a number of startling claims over the weekend. Chief among these was the claim that "the vast majority of human communications are automatically ingested [by the National Security Agency]." We're going to assume that what Snowden means by "ingested" is "copied" or otherwise logged and recorded. So the vast majority of human communications are automatically recorded by the U.S. government? That's a pretty startling claim. It has been nearly 24 hours since Snowden made that claim. So is the President of the United States, or at least the White House or the NSA, going to respond to that claim? If so, when? Are all our communications being recorded? If so, by whom? How? Is this recording legal under current laws? Where are the recordings stored? How long are they kept? Who has access to them? How can they be used? Inquiring minds want to know... SEE ALSO: It Seems A Bit Early To Call Edward Snowden A "Hero"
This post originally appeared on¬†LinkedIn. The fact that Mr. Tudor Jones chose to provide this answer to a question unrelated to the topic he addressed is equally confounding. It takes a special brand of sexist thought to associate trading and breast-feeding in response to the question: ‚Äú¬†Please reflect on the makeup of the panel¬†‚Äî rich, white middle age men who were mentored by the same and what it takes for someone different to have a seat at the table and finally share their voices from a powerful place.‚Äù For a man who boldly trumpets his business acumen alongside his philanthropy and good deeds, one is left wondering, ‚ÄúWhat the heck was he thinking?‚Äù (click to watch the panel discussion). The general nature of his answer was simply that once women become mothers, they are incapable of being excellent traders. His specific turn of phrase was as follows: "We will never see as many great women investors or traders as men, because as soon as that baby's lips touched that girl's bosom, forget it." The factual basis of his response seems more appropriate for a barbershop than a boardroom. His opinion was mainly based on TWO women he knew at EF Hutton back in the 1970's, though he said he has witnessed this "time and time again." What is ‚Äúthis‚Äù? Is it that women left the business for some reason after having children, or is it him noticing that upon their return to work after their maternity leave their investment prowess disappeared which he then associated to breast feeding? We both breastfed our babies at the same time as we were making investment decisions and we can assure him that women can do both. If you were a good trader before you have children, you can be a good trader after having them. Motherhood has nothing to do with it. What was true for us is also true for others. As fund investors we are able to easily find hedge funds managed by women (some with four children) who are able to produce returns that even Mr. Tudor Jones would be pleased to post. Chesapeake Partners, BlueCrest, Sisu, Metropolitan Capital, Feingold Asset Management and a host of other hedge funds run by women traders (each who are also juggling the duties of motherhood) are doing quite well. Should we attribute their focus and returns to luck? Or maybe they didn't breastfeed so it was easier to keep their mental abilities in check? It seems he is recommending that before any of us hire a woman manager we include in our due diligence a question like "do you ever intend on having children while actively managing your portfolio?" If the answer is yes then take a pass. While it is easy to dismiss Mr. Tudor Jones‚Äô comment as ridiculous, the sad reality is that many successful and powerful men, who have a great influence in our society, agree with him ‚Äì although many, if not most, would have the common sense not to trumpet it in public. The belief that women cannot be good mothers and committed to their careers means they don't get hired, don't get mentored, and don't get promoted. Sadly, this was not the first time Mr. Tudor Jones shared his ‚Äúwisdom‚Äù as he boasted that he gave this advice to members of the¬†100 Women In Hedge Funds Network. My hope is that the women in the audience challenged his conclusions, but I guess it was not enough to sway his thinking as he seemed very willing to share it again, even when that was not the question. (¬†see note below - 100 Women in Hedge Funds said he has not spoke to the group for 9 years) That said, perhaps we should be¬†grateful¬†for Mr. Tudor Jones‚Äô honesty as we now have an opportunity to discuss the real barriers that are preventing women from succeeding in this important sector of the financial services industry. In a world where money is power, hedge fund managers have a lot of both, and thus his statement that women will ‚Äúnever be‚Äù represented is profoundly disturbing. So why are there so few women hedge fund managers? A report by the National Council for Research Women entitled: ‚ÄúWomen in Fund Management: A Road-Map to Critical Mass and Why it Matters‚Äù¬†published in 2009 identifies a number of reasons. First, there is an assumption that women are not good managers of risk, but the evidence from studies about gender and risk taking actually shows that the opposite is true. The paper identifies a number of studies that suggest women managers, on average, may, in fact, be more risk measured, thereby delivering better long-term risk adjusted returns. Maybe it's time to reread the study "Boys Will be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence and Common Stock Investment"¬†which documented that men trade 45 percent more than women. A more¬†recent study¬†showed that women hedge fund managers outperformed male managers in 2012. Hedge funds run by women made an 8.95% return while the global hedge fund index only returned 2.69%.There are many other studies that¬†make the case for women¬†and for the benefits of diversity in general. The second reason, often cited for the paucity of women managers, is that there is a pipeline problem. In other words, there are not enough women choosing to enter the field with the ‚Äòright‚Äô backgrounds to enable them to be successful. This has become the classic argument for almost any business sector facing challenges from under-represented populations. While there is merit to this, it is much more prevalent in the case of hedge funds because they represent the ultimate boys-club. New hires, with rare exception, need to look and act like the current traders on the desk; white men. If the new job is in marketing or management however you may see a woman being hired because we all know women can do¬†those roles. It is only the highly intellectually and physically demanding trading roles that they are not up for. The third and most important reason there are not enough women traders today is because of the difficulty women have in raising capital ‚Äî or ‚Äúcapital punishment‚Äù as it is called. Endless studies have shown that women have a much¬†harder time raising money than men,¬†despite balanced credentials. One¬†well-known study¬†presented investors with two copies of an almost identical prospectus of a company going public. The only difference was that one prospectus disclosed the biography of a woman CEO and the other, a male CEO. Investors overwhelmingly chose to invest in the company which was run by the man, as well as saying that they would invest up to 300% more in the company with the male CEO. For anyone who believes that we live in a meritocracy, this is a great study to refer them to. This difficulty in raising capital is especially true in the hedge fund space. It is logical to assume that this is due to deeply embedded biases and beliefs people hold about whom they will trust with their money, as the study above indicates. One such belief we can now identify is that motherhood and investment prowess are mutually exclusive. Is there evidence to support this assumption? No. In fact, there is not a shred of measurable data that support the premise that when women have babies, their biology changes such that they can no longer concentrate long enough to make intelligent judgments on how to deploy capital. For Tudor Jones, who makes his living with supposed logic and who presents himself to the world as being interested in solving society‚Äôs deepest problems (and in fairness, has done anawful lot of good¬†in that regard), the right response to the question: "What would it take for someone who is different to get a seat at the table?" might have been, "I don't know, but I would like to figure it out." Then he could go on to devote some of his brain and some of his resources to examining the research, research that would clearly suggest that there is a huge bias in our society preventing people who deserve an opportunity from getting one. The evidence would lead him to cast aside any belief that motherhood and trading are incompatible, and that there are many other valid reasons for why women leave trading, or are not there to begin with. One other step would be to talk to successful woman traders andask them¬†to help him understand why there are so few women. If they are anything like us, breastfeeding will not come up as one of the reasons. Women in Fund Management: A Road Map to Critical Mass and Why it Matters¬†presents a long list of solutions to help advance women in the areas of trading and portfolio management. The paper is freely available for download by¬†clicking here. Susan Shaffer Solovay and Jacki Zehner Susan Shaffer Solovay¬†was the Founder and CEO of Pomegranate Capital, a fund of funds that invested exclusively with women run hedge funds. Prior to that she held a variety of positions in the financial industry, starting out trading commodities at EF Hutton. She also served on the Board of the Trustees of The Partnership for New York and was the founder of a foundation supporting a New York City public school. Jacki Zehner was the first woman trader, and youngest woman, to be made partner of Goldman Sachs. Since leaving Goldman she has dedicated her resources towards creating a more gender balanced world. Both would welcome the opportunity to speak with Mr. Tudor Jones and his fellow managers on how to increase the participation of women as traders in the hedge fund industry. * 100 Women In Hedge Funds commented that Mr. Tudor Jones has not spoken to the group for 9 years and when he did it was about philanthropy. They think he may have been mistaking them for another group. More from LinkedIn:
Anyone who has been following global financial markets over the past month or so will have easily flagged the sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market as a major event that has been felt around the world. Even more important than the price action in Treasuries itself, though, is how volatility in the market has risen. The chart below shows the percentage increase in both Treasury yields and volatility of Treasury yields since the beginning of May, when the big sell-off in the bond market began. Since May 2, yields have risen 34%, while volatility is up 64%. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg "Everybody knows that at any given moment in time, there is usually one†market more important than all the others ñ the one that sometimes becomes the principal driver of all other markets," writes BofA Merrill Lynch rates guru David Woo in his latest note to clients. "Price action over the past month tells us†that US rates, especially US rates vol, has become that pivotal market." Why has the Treasury volatility market become so important? Woo argues that "carry trades love low risk-free interest rates, but they love low interest rate volatility even more." "This is why over the past three years, billions of dollars have poured into high yielding assets like risky corporate bonds, emerging market currencies, and dividend paying stocks, driving their risk premiums to abnormally low levels," writes Woo. "This is also why with the back-up in rates vol triggered by talks about the tapering of QE, these assets have witnessed a sizeable correction over the past month." According to Woo, there are three reasons interest rate volatility could be set to move higher in the Treasury market: Despite the recent spike in rates vol, it remains at a low level. Both our macro-vol model and our walk-vol model suggest that 10y rates vol is undervalued. The breakevens on rates straddles also seem too narrow - the implied range for a 3m 10y rates straddle is 1.8-2.3%. Increased positioning in US rates could push rates vol higher. Investors have built up considerable long positions in both the US dollar and US equities, reflecting growing optimism about the US. In contrast, positioning in US rates appears unusually light. It seems reasonable to assume that rates positioning has room to play catch-up, if only for hedging purposes. Increased demand for convexity hedging can also push US rates vol higher. We believe many mortgage investors are under-hedged. We don't see the May NFP significantly changing the tapering speculation. The modest increase in the unemployment rate may lead the market to push out a little further the start of the Fed rate hiking cycle, but the healthy pace of job creation does not weaken the case for tapering, in our view. We have been surprised and impressed by the resilience of the US recovery to both fiscal tightening at home and the slowdown abroad. In any event, we suspect the rates outlook has become more asymmetric: rates will likely react more to strong data than to weak ones, at least in the short-term. 10-year U.S. Treasury yields continue to rise today. Right now, they're up about 3 basis points, trading at 2.20%.
Getty ImagesDavid Kostin, Goldman Sachs' chief U.S. equity strategist, provides us with a list of stocks with the most upside potential in his new Monthly Chartbook. Kostin notes early May was solid for the S&amp;P 500, but cited month-end drags in telecom services and utilities (-7 and -9 percent, respectively).¬† Nevertheless, he projects the S&amp;P will end up 7.3% by year end, at 1750. Like last time, the list of undervalued stocks is dominated by the energy industry. You'll find some healthcare and tech picks in there too.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - As billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen deals with a spate of redemptions out of his own hedge fund, another firm in which his SAC Capital Advisors has money saw returns plummet in the first four months of the year. Adams Hill Capital, run by former SAC equity portfolio manager Andrew Schwartz, was down 8.34 percent to the end of April, according to an investor note reviewed by Reuters. In the same period, the S&amp;P 500 stock index rose more than 12.7 percent and hedge funds on average gained about 4.6 percent, according to hedge fund tracking firm eVestment. Adams Hill lost about 7.4 percent alone in April, when the stock market gained 1.9 percent. It could not be determined whether the hedge fund made up ground in May. Adams Hill, along with another firm called Scopus Asset Management, is listed on regulatory filings as an adviser to an SAC Capital portfolio, meaning it manages a dedicated pool of money for Cohen's hedge fund. It is not uncommon for large hedge funds like SAC Capital to employ other advisers, also known as sub-advisers, to manage some of a firm's money, especially if a manager is impressed with the outside firm's track record. Adams Hill and SAC did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Adams Hill, which in total oversees roughly $425 million in assets according to the April investor note, manages more than $100 million of SAC's money, according to a person familiar with Schwartz's firm. While it is never a good thing for a hedge fund to lose money, poor returns at Schwartz's Westport, Connecticut-based fund come at a particularly bad time, since SAC is set to contract significantly over the next several months due to heavy redemptions by outside investors. There has been much speculation on Wall Street about how Cohen and his 21-year-old firm will deal with requests by investors to redeem billions of dollars in the wake of an insider-trading probe that has intensified in recent months. People familiar with the fund said outside investors asked to redeem up to $4 billion in the second quarter, on top of the $1.7 billion in first quarter redemption requests. The withdrawals mean that SAC Capital, which will return the money by year's end, will shrink in size by about 45 percent. That could impact Adams Hill if Cohen decides to pull back money from the fund as SAC's capital base shrinks, said people in the hedge fund community. Schwartz, who brought three SAC colleagues with him to his new fund, ran a large portfolio when he worked at SAC that focused on global resources equities.
pottedmeatchunks / cake centralThe 39-year-old ex-wife of an 83-year-old former Morgan Stanley vice president is now on welfare and she thinks that her ex-husband is hiding his millions, the New York Post's Julia Marsh reports.¬† Christine Jensen, a former medical receptionist, married financier George Bruce Leib back in 2007. ¬†She filed for divorce six years later. ¬† Jensen, who quit her job when she got married, told the Post that she lives on $1,000 she gets from Leib every month and that she now has to used food stamps. She thinks she deserves more money.¬†She also told the paper that she's sick and can't work. Leib, who left Morgan Stanley in 2008, said that he only has net worth of $26,000. ¬†He claims that he lost his fortune in the 2008 financial downturn, according to the report. FINRA records show¬†that Leib worked at Morgan Stanley from 1978 until April 2008. ¬†Before that, he worked at Reynolds Securities for two years.¬†¬† They didn't sign a prenup.¬†
REUTERS/Steve MarcusMost billionaires own art: The average billionaire holds¬†$31 million ‚Äî¬†or .5% of their net worth¬†‚Äî in art, according to Wealth-X, a wealth intelligence firm.¬† But the world's top billionaire art collectors take their hobby to the next level. Wealth-X identified the top 10 billionaire art collectors, who have an average of 18% of their net worth invested in art. Of the top 10, luxury goods tycoon Francois Pinault is the wealthiest, with around $1 billion of his $9.9 billion net worth is tied up in art. And Hollywood mogul David Geffen has the most valuable collection, with around $1.1 billion worth of art.
Getty ImagesCNBC's Kate Kelly reports that the second quarter redemptions at embattled hedge fund SAC Capital were between $2 and $3 billion.¬† CNBC's Kelly noted that the number is closer to $3 billion.¬† This was pretty much in line with expectations. It was estimated investors would request to pull out $3.5 billion. ¬†During the Q1 deadline, $1.7 billion was marked for redemptions. SAC Capital, which was founded by billionaire Steve Cohen, manages about $15 billion. ¬†Of that, $9 billion belongs to Cohen and SAC employees. ¬†The rest is outsider money.¬† The government has been intensifying its insider trading probe at the fund. ¬† In the case against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Cohen has been identified as¬†"Portfolio Manager A."¬†¬†He has not been charged with any wrongdoing and he has maintained that he¬†acted appropriately.¬† ¬† Cohen and a handful of other execs recently received subpoenas to testify before a grand jury.¬† Back in March, SAC agreed¬†to pay $616 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission¬†to settle two separate civil insider trading cases. ¬† Under the statute of limitations for insider trading, the government has until the end of July, the anniversary of the tradse in question, to file additional charges.¬†
Regardless of where you come down on the MBA debate, there's a healthy demand for graduates of top programs, given that the average salary is well above six figures.¬† Where those students want to work is a great indicator of which businesses and industries are hottest right now.¬† Research firm Universum USA¬†just released the results of its annual MBA survey, which asks students to name their five most-desired employers. Nearly a quarter of respondents put Google in their top five, beating out McKinsey, the biggest and top-earning management consulting firm. Overall, tech companies have a really strong showing, outweighing traditional destinations like consultancies and banks. Among those who fell in the rankings were Facebook, perhaps hurt by a less-than-stellar IPO, Goldman Sachs, General Electric, and Morgan Stanley, which dropped 12 rankings and out of the top 25 entirely.¬† Universum 2012 data via Poets &amp; Quants
Last week, Jennifer Hudson, Tom Cruise, and Hugh Jackman all appeared at Wal-Mart's annual shareholder meeting.¬† These stars regularly command six-figure appearance fees, yet they appeared at the meeting for free, according to a tweet by Stephanie Clifford at The New York Times.¬† Other outlets have also reported that the celebrities performed for free at the big event in Bentonville, Ark. Clifford speculated that Wal-Mart is powerful enough to get the hottest celebrities in the world to appear for free because it has customers the entertainment industry desperately needs.¬† "My guess: Wal-Mart's one of the last DVD/CD sales behemoths," Clifford tweeted.¬† Her theory makes sense: As America's largest retailer, Wal-Mart has access to millions of American consumers who shop there multiple times a week.¬† If Wal-Mart decides to feature a DVD or album, sales could spike.¬† Tom Cruise gushed about Wal-Mart during his appearance onstage, calling the retailer a "role model."¬† He also touted the retailer's programs for sustainability and women.¬† Hugh Jackman served as master of ceremonies.¬†Kelly Clarkson and John Legend performed for the crowd.¬† Past celebrities who have appeared at the meeting include Taylor Swift, Justin Timberlake, and Will Smith.¬†
Congratulations to SocGen analyst Sebastien Galy, who has written what is probably the most creative bit of writing you will ever read regarding the bond market ¬†The main theme remains the same, FI curves are repricing the price of long term money a bit like a car carrying sparkling wine in the 1920s south of France. The road is covered with beautiful platanes, the air is fresh with the scent of lavender and full of the sounds of crickets. The occasional potholes let corks fly loose and¬† you are left dodging and counting how many bottles are left. The cuvee Le Junk bond is really fizzy, L'emergent already emerged in a mighty pop. The USD should continue its longer term bid, with the occasional position adjustment we saw in EURUSD recently. This is very colorful, but also apt. Left and right, lately, we've seen some huge moves in currency, emerging market bonds, junk bonds, and so forth. Markets mostly remain calm, but the violent moves in some markets should make people wonder what cork will come flying next.
YouTube/Margin CallConvergEx Group Chief Market Strategist Nick Colas was recently at a conference for Registered Investment Advisers (RIAs), and he learned that the "Main Street" crowd is decidedly optimistic on the prospects for the stock market. "Essentially, this is one pretty bulled up crowd," writes Colas in a note to clients. "And itís not just the presenters, many of whom run mutual funds or exchange traded funds. Youíd expect them to be optimistic. No ñ it is the warm embrace of the message by the RIAs here that is most notable." Colas's observations at the conference reminded him of something he calls the "Boston buy, New York sell" routine on Wall Street, which he describes as such: For as much as Wall Street has changed over the last few decades, one ritual still begins the day at virtually all research-driven brokerage firms: the ìMorning Call.î† If you havenít worked at one of these operations, you probably have a fairly antiseptic view of what this entails.† Sector analysts and strategists gathering with the firmís salespeople to opine on markets and stocks and guzzle on 20 ounce StarbucksÖ† Some polite questioning, perhaps...† And then all the salespeople hitting the phones to spread the word to clients on the firmís investment viewpoints as expressed by the analysts.† The reality is somewhat sloppier.† Analysts give their perspectives, yes, on the investment merits of the public companies under their coverage.† But the most likely question from the sales staff is either ìWhy isnít everything you just said already in the stock?î or ìWhat are the 24 words I can say on the off chance I actually get a client on the phone?î† And every salesperson serves accounts with a wide variety of investment perspectives.† What the guy covering hedge funds needs from an analyst call is very different from the gal covering long-only mutual funds. As a result, the same analyst morning call gets transmitted in very different ways.† It might start as an upbeat reiteration of a ìBuyî recommendation with some color about the current quarter that the analyst believes will be a penny below consensus.† The hedgie salesman will call every account saying ìMy guy/gal says that this company is going to miss.† Short the stock.î†† The mutual fund saleswoman will go out with ìGotta†buy†this name if/when it pukes on the quarter.î† Old school Wall Street salespeople call this a ìNew†York†sell,†Boston†buyî call. "To sum up, this is essentially one of those 'New†York†sell,†Boston†buy'†calls," says Colas of the bullishness on display at the RIA conference. "Is this group too amped up in the near term? Probably," writes Colas. "But I think itís a mistake to call an absolute market top on the basis of this enthusiasm." After all, says Colas, "this crowd has lived through so much in the last five years that I doubt their currently bullish tendencies will be easily derailed."
The GuardianWhatever else you think about NSA-leaker Edward Snowden, you have to admit this: The man is a public relations genius. When he decided to leak top-secret National Security Agency documents to the media, Snowden knew he was taking a big risk of spending a good chunk of time in prison ó especially in an era in which an Administration is aggressively prosecuting leakers. But Snowden felt passionately enough about his cause that he was willing to risk this. And Snowden also appears to have been smart enough to realize that a leak of this magnitude would likely lead to his being "outed" at some point, regardless of how careful he was. And he was also presumably smart enough to realize that if his identity was ever discovered, the process of being introduced to the public as a "traitor" and "felon" (presumably in cuffs, during a perp walk) would likely color how the public perceived him and his actions. Snowden would likely have been forced to make any public statements from a jail cell, in a jumpsuit, with nervous attorneys sweating every word, so he would not likely have been able to say much if anything to turn this public perception around. And he certainly would not have been able to make an extensive, careful case for why he did why he did, and what the government is doing, with so much time and control. In other words, Snowden appears to have been smart enough to realize that, if he waited around to be found out, he would be treated like Bradley Manning ó the Army private who was hustled out of public view and thrown in solitary confinement for months after being charged with leaking documents to Wikileaks. So instead of living in fear and awaiting that fate, Snowden took matters into his own hands. He went public on his own terms. He presented himself to the world as a courageous, well-intentioned, brave, and principled young man. He placed an image in everyone's mind of Edward Snowden as well-dressed, articulate, and free, a man in full control, a David standing up to Goliath, a man ready to accept the consequences of his actions. And he got a chance to make his full case against the government before the government got to dictate the terms of the engagement or say anything in response. And, at least so far, this decision worked! Snowden is already being hailed as a "national hero" in many quarters. A petition to "pardon" Snowden before he has even been apprehended and charged with anything has already received nearly 10,000 signatures. In a poll we have conducted this morning, fully two-thirds of Business Insider readers view Snowden as a "hero." Only 15%, meanwhile, view him as a traitor. (~20% haven't made up their minds.) That's not bad for a 29 year-old contractor who easily could be painted as a selfish traitor and appears to be responsible for one of the biggest U.S. intelligence breaches in history. SEE ALSO: What Do You Think Of Edward Snowden? [POLL]
REUTERS/Anders Wiklund/ScanpixHedge funder Christopher O'Neill married Princess Madeleine of Sweden on Saturday at the Royal Palace chapel in Stockholm in front of some of America and Europe's biggest magnates and socialites. Though O'Neill may have put a ring on it, the 38-year-old partner at Noster Capital will not actually become a prince, giving this fairy-tale wedding a little less enchantment.† According to Swedish law, O'Neill must obtain Swedish citizenship and avoid "a position of responsibility in business" to achieve the princely courtesy title. He plans to do neither.†According to a royal press release (via Google Translate). This means that Mr. Christopher O'Neill - according to those principles - can not bear the title HRH Prince of Sweden and Duke of Gastrikland and H‰lsingland.† Madeleine is fourth in line to the Swedish throne, so it's unlikely that O'Neill, a†dual U.S.-U.K. citizen,†would need to fulfill his would-be princely duties.
The EIA has upgraded its estimates of worldwide oil deposits by 11% thanks to shale. It also boosted its shale gas estimates 10%, and combined with earlier U.S. results, said there's now 47% more known amounts of gas deposits. The agency had never fully studied worldwide shale oil deposits, but now estimates in additional 313 billion barrels' worth of shale or tight oil compared, with 2011 estimates mostly focused on the U.S. Here's the full comparison between prior estimates and the new report:¬† EIA The agency added results from new gas formations in a host of countries.¬†Basically everyone got upgraded except Asia. Canada and Argentina added the greatest boost to their respective regions. Here's the full worldwide regional ex-U.S., which actually went up 15%. EIA And here are your new league shale tables (with estimates of the Advanced Resources Institute, which co-write the new study, in parantheses) ‚Äî oil: EIA And gas: EIA On Friday, BP economist said global oil markets are oversupplied.
In 2008 Eurochem made several announcements about its new potash mine, Gremyachinskoye mine in Volgograd. In the context of Melnichenko‚Äôs proposal to reduce his personal exposure in the company, and sell assets to Gazprom or shares to international investors, Eurochem reported growing reserves, speed in mining new output, and jumping sales revenues. Gremyachinskoye was to be commissioned in two stages, start shipping 2.3 million tonnes of potash per annum in 2012, and by 2015 double that volume.EuroChem chief executive Dmitry Strezhnev said at the time that total investment for the project came to $2.2 billion; that included $100 million for the mine license; $50 million for preparatory works; $600 million for the processing plant; $300 million for infrastructure to support the mine; and more than $600 million for the two principal shaft builders, Thyssen Schachtbau (Germany) and Shaft Sinkers (South Africa). ‚ÄúWhen we studied the profitability of this project,‚Äù Strezhnev said, ‚Äúit was profitable even at a potash price of $500. We do not expect prices to go lower than $700-$800, so our investments carry almost no financial risks.‚Äù Nikolay Pilipenko, Eurochem‚Äôs financial director, added: ‚ÄúWe were ready for an IPO already last year. The Eurobond [$300 million, issued March 2007] was a very good disclosure exercise that we‚Äôve now passed. If [the IPO] will be decided by the management we can prepare very quickly.‚Äù Potash hasn‚Äôt been the winning bet Melnichenko (92% of Eurochem‚Äôs shares) and Strezhnev (8%) were counting on. The commodity price peaked at $900 per tonne; collapsed to $300; and is currently at $391.50. During the five years in which Shaft Sinkers has been excavating at Gremyachinskoye potash has failed to reach Eurochem‚Äôs breakeven point. johnhelmer.net In 2008, when Shaft Sinkers confirmed its $270 million contract, Rob Shroder, then chief executive of Shaft Sinkers, described the technology intended for Gremyachinskoye as only the second such application to a potash mine in the world; the other was at Boulby in the UK. ‚Äú√Ñlthough this is our first venture into Russia, we have sunk shafts throughout the world with the exception of North America. We specifically bring our grouting techniques, used successfully in the majority of these other projects, and are certain this will bring significant time and cost savings for this Project.‚Äù According to Shroder, ‚ÄúInstead of freezing, where one drills holes 500 metres deep, freezes the ground to this depth, and then sinks the main shaft through frozen ground, we cover-drill up to 42 metres ahead of ourselves. If we intersect water or running sands, we pump cement or resin grouts into the material, until it solidifies. then we drill and blast through.‚Äù This is a Canadian description of the grouting technology for holding back water and preventing cave-in ‚Äì common hazards in potash mining the world over. Eurochem thought it was hedging against the potash price by investing in Shaft Sinkers grouting technology as a cheaper, faster way of getting saleable potash from underground and into the market ‚Äì 25% cheaper, according to Alexander Tugolukov, the technical director at Eurochem. The German and South African contractors had been chosen, he said in 2008, ‚Äúwith a kind of socialist emulation between them to determine who will do the job better, quicker and cheaper. These tactics may also be used on our Verkhnekamskoye deposit [potash, in the Urals] to cut the timing of mine development and construction from the conservative 7-8 years to about 5-6 years.‚Äù Vladimir Torin, Eurochem‚Äôs spokesman, added: ‚ÄúWe searched the global market for a company specializing in what we needed, and found Shaft Sinkers by ourselves. We then negotiated directly, sending Alexander Tugolukov, our technical director, to South Africa to study their previous and pending projects. They are the largest shaft constructors in the world, so the choice was obvious.‚Äù For the next four years what seemed obvious was that everything was going swimmingly. The Eurochem contract ‚Äì Shaft Sinkers‚Äôs biggest, representing about 30% of its order book ‚Äì enabled Shaft Sinkers to move from private ownership shared between Shroder and black empowerment enterprise partners to an IPO on the London stock market in December 2010. By then the control shareholder was International Mineral Resources (IMR), an affiliate of ENRC, the Kazakh mining conglomerate, which had bought out most of the South Africans. In June 2011 Eurochem¬†reported¬†that Shaft Sinkers‚Äô work was going according to plan, and was ‚Äúon track to allow potash production to start by late 2013. Shaft Sinkers acknowledged there was a problem well before Eurochem did, but the former was a public company operating under London market rules. On December 29, 2011, Shaft Sinkers¬†said¬†that ‚Äúdue to the continued slow progress resulting from extremely difficult ground conditions previously announced, it has entered into discussions with its client EuroChem with a view to amend or terminate the contract. Sinking works have now been suspended and the parties are in negotiation on the way forward.‚Äù On June 1, 2012, Shaft Sinkers¬†reported¬†the problem had become bad news: ‚Äúdiscussions are continuing with EuroChem on the settlement of outstanding amounts‚Ä¶ The Group continues to pursue new projects and is awaiting client adjudication on several tenders and proposals in South Africa, The DRC, Russia, and Kazakhstan. Results from trading for the 2012 financial year are forecast to be in line with expectations and the Board remains confident of the Group‚Äôs prospects.‚Äù On August 30, 2012, it was clear the Russian mine project had stopped: ‚ÄúThe full demobilisation of our EuroChem project is expected to be completed during the second half of 2012. Discussions continue with EuroChem to recover the amounts owing to the company.‚Äù In fact, as much later announcements from Eurochem revealed, Eurochem told Shaft Sinkers it was terminating their contract at Gremyachinskoye on April 20, 2012. Why Eurochem pretended nothing was happening isn‚Äôt clear. Here is Eurochem‚Äôs first- quarter IFRS financial report, issued on May 22, 2012, one month after the contract ended: ‚ÄúWe continued making good progress on our two potash developments in the first quarter of the year. In southern Russia, shaft sinking operations at VolgaKaliy‚Äôs skip shaft #1 hit the 500 meter mark late in the first quarter. As at 18 May, the shaft had reached its approximate midway point of 550 meters. The future mine‚Äôs cage shaft continued being readied for freezing with sinking operations set to resume within the next twelve months.‚Äù Note that the skip shaft was the German project; the cage shaft was Shaft Sinkers‚Äô. Eurochem was intentionally misleading¬†in this claim. Eurochem‚Äôs first public disclosure of the dispute was this¬†announcement¬†of October 5, 2012. The wording is important because of the claim that the dispute was a contractual one based on the technical claim about the grouting technology: ‚ÄúShaft Sinkers was chosen as the contractor to develop the cage shaft of the Gremyachinskoe deposit but subsequently proved unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. Shaft Sinkers‚Äô grouting technology entirely failed, causing in excess of USD 161 million in direct costs and a delay to the project‚Äôs completion date which was subsequently revised to 2015.‚Äù This announcement is also noteworthy because of Eurochem‚Äôs calculation of the liability. It took several more months before it was disclosed publicly that Eurochem was raising the amount of its claim to $800 million to include purported lost profits because of the production delay. This amount appears in a Shaftsinkers¬†report¬†on February 13, this year. Russian courts don‚Äôt accept this type of damage claim. Whether it will be allowed by the two arbitration tribunals in Zurich and Paris, to which Eurochem has applied, remains to be seen, not least of all because Eurochem claims lost profits when the price of potash is still below the cost of mining and selling it. In Eurochem‚Äôs reporting of the dispute with Shaft Sinkers, the details are to be found in the auditor‚Äôs notes to the financial reports for 2012. In its audited accounts Eurochem also fails to provision for Shaft Sinkers‚Äô counterclaim ($54 million in press reports, $15 million in Shaft Sinkers‚Äô reports). According to Eurochem‚Äôs auditor, ‚ÄúWrite-off of a portion of the assets at the Gremyachinskoe potash deposit. Following an earlier termination of the construction contract, in October 2012 the Group filed a claim against Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Ltd. (Shaft Sinkers), seeking US$ 800 million compensation for the direct costs and substantial lost profits arising from the delay in commencing potash production. This was a result of the inability of Shaft Sinkers to fulfill its contractual obligations and complete the construction of the Gremyachinskoe cage shaft, primarily due to problems with the grouting technology. In October 2012 Shaft Sinkers presented an interim claim letter to the Group claiming compensation of US$45 million in costs incurred by them up to and inclusive of 30 September 2012 in connection with the termination of the construction contract. Management believes that this claim is without merit. The above disputes are subject to arbitration as specified in the contract. An outstanding advance given to Shaft Sinkers of RR 495,387 thousand was written off during the nine months ended 30 September 2012 (nine months ended 30 September 2011: nil). Due to the failure of the grouting technology employed in the cage shaft construction, expenses previously capitalised, amounting to RR 3,116,000 thousand, were¬†written-off¬†during the nine months ended 30 September 2012 (nine months ended 30 September 2011: nil). Following Eurochem‚Äôs submission of its claims to arbitration in October, Shaft Sinkers issued this notice to the London Stock Exchange: ‚ÄúOn 5 October 2012 the Company responded to the announcement by EuroChem that it had filed a claim against Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Ltd in relation to its project with EuroChem which was terminated with effect from 20 April 2012. The Company has reviewed the arbitration claims, and after consultation with legal counsel, continues to believe that the claims are without merit, and will contest them robustly. A claim for a net amount of $15 million has been submitted to EuroChem for amounts still owing under the contract.‚Äù A spokesman for Shaft Sinkers was asked this week to clarify what happened, and also why the dispute escalated from a problem of mine delay to an $800 million claim. He responded: ‚ÄúShaft Sinkers has built many shafts worldwide and we were involved in the construction of the other deep potash mine in Boulby in the UK. Shaft Sinkers was called in after other companies failed and we successfully completed building the mine. We believe that the [Boulby] mine continues to operate normally.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe technology is not experimental, having been used successfully in many mines around the world and it did not fail in this case. However deep shafts are clearly complex engineering projects where delays can happen due to a wide range of factors. In the case of Eurochem, the ground conditions were difficult and Shaft Sinkers were in the process of refining the specific application necessary for the shaft when Eurochem suspended the project. Whilst the exact details of the contract are covered by commercial confidentiality and are subject to legal restrictions, I can say that as Shaft Sinkers has ‚Äì so far ‚Äì not failed in its mining efforts, provision for failure was from Shaft Sinkers‚Äô point of view unnecessary.‚Äù Is there another reason why Melnichenko has stopped one of the mine shafts, and ordered his lawyers to pursue Shaft Sinkers on the technical claim? Since the potash price is well below where the miners would like it to be, mining less potash is one way of putting a bottom under the price. Eurochem‚Äôs Russian potash rival Uralkali implemented a production cut in 2012 of 8%. In the first quarter of this year, Uralkali said it is cutting by another 40%. The Russian cuts match those of Canada‚Äôs Potash Corporation, the largest producer in the worl, which has taken 1 million tonnes off the market since last year. For Eurochem to hurry a fresh 2.3 million tonnes from Gremyachinskoye on to the market would be folly, as the price it would fetch would probably be lossmaking. Mining the law courts may look a better bet to Melnichenko, especially if he must pay his lawyers less than the $15 million in overdue invoices from Shaft Sinkers for the work done but not paid for when the contract was halted. Is there any other reason for the attack on Shaft Sinkers and its Kazakh control shareholder? The answer to that one may lie in problems which Eurochem is having in Kazakhstan, but which the company is reluctant to acknowledge. Asked what problems in Kazakhstan Melnichenko and Eurochem have across the border, Eurochem sources initially claimed there weren‚Äôt any. Kazakhstan holds substantial reserves of mineable fertilizers, particular phosphates. These are concentrated in the southern regions of the country, between the cities of Shymkent and Taraz. In 2008, when Shaft Sinkers confirmed its $270 million contract, Rob Shroder, then chief executive of Shaft Sinkers, described the technology intended for Gremyachinskoye as only the second such application to a potash mine in the world; the other was at Boulby in the UK. ‚Äú√Ñlthough this is our first venture into Russia, we have sunk shafts throughout the world with the exception of North America. We specifically bring our grouting techniques, used successfully in the majority of these other projects, and are certain this will bring significant time and cost savings for this Project.‚Äù According to Shroder, ‚ÄúInstead of freezing, where one drills holes 500 metres deep, freezes the ground to this depth, and then sinks the main shaft through frozen ground, we cover-drill up to 42 metres ahead of ourselves. If we intersect water or running sands, we pump cement or resin grouts into the material, until it solidifies. then we drill and blast through.‚Äù This is a Canadian description of the grouting technology for holding back water and preventing cave-in ‚Äì common hazards in potash mining the world over. Eurochem thought it was hedging against the potash price by investing in Shaft Sinkers grouting technology as a cheaper, faster way of getting saleable potash from underground and into the market ‚Äì 25% cheaper, according to Alexander Tugolukov, the technical director at Eurochem. The German and South African contractors had been chosen, he said in 2008, ‚Äúwith a kind of socialist emulation between them to determine who will do the job better, quicker and cheaper. These tactics may also be used on our Verkhnekamskoye deposit [potash, in the Urals] to cut the timing of mine development and construction from the conservative 7-8 years to about 5-6 years.‚Äù Vladimir Torin, Eurochem‚Äôs spokesman, added: ‚ÄúWe searched the global market for a company specializing in what we needed, and found Shaft Sinkers by ourselves. We then negotiated directly, sending Alexander Tugolukov, our technical director, to South Africa to study their previous and pending projects. They are the largest shaft constructors in the world, so the choice was obvious.‚Äù For the next four years what seemed obvious was that everything was going swimmingly. The Eurochem contract ‚Äì Shaft Sinkers‚Äôs biggest, representing about 30% of its order book ‚Äì enabled Shaft Sinkers to move from private ownership shared between Shroder and black empowerment enterprise partners to an IPO on the London stock market in December 2010. By then the control shareholder was International Mineral Resources (IMR), an affiliate of ENRC, the Kazakh mining conglomerate, which had bought out most of the South Africans. In June 2011 Eurochem reported that Shaft Sinkers‚Äô work was going according to plan, and was ‚Äúon track to allow potash production to start by late 2013. Shaft Sinkers acknowledged there was a problem well before Eurochem did, but the former was a public company operating under London market rules. On December 29, 2011, Shaft Sinkers said that ‚Äúdue to the continued slow progress resulting from extremely difficult ground conditions previously announced, it has entered into discussions with its client EuroChem with a view to amend or terminate the contract. Sinking works have now been suspended and the parties are in negotiation on the way forward.‚Äù On June 1, 2012, Shaft Sinkers reported the problem had become bad news: ‚Äúdiscussions are continuing with EuroChem on the settlement of outstanding amounts‚Ä¶ The Group continues to pursue new projects and is awaiting client adjudication on several tenders and proposals in South Africa, The DRC, Russia, and Kazakhstan. Results from trading for the 2012 financial year are forecast to be in line with expectations and the Board remains confident of the Group‚Äôs prospects.‚Äù On August 30, 2012, it was clear the Russian mine project had stopped: ‚ÄúThe full demobilisation of our EuroChem project is expected to be completed during the second half of 2012. Discussions continue with EuroChem to recover the amounts owing to the company.‚Äù In fact, as much later announcements from Eurochem revealed, Eurochem told Shaft Sinkers it was terminating their contract at Gremyachinskoye on April 20, 2012. Why Eurochem pretended nothing was happening isn‚Äôt clear. Here is Eurochem‚Äôs first- quarter IFRS financial report, issued on May 22, 2012, one month after the contract ended: ‚ÄúWe continued making good progress on our two potash developments in the first quarter of the year. In southern Russia, shaft sinking operations at VolgaKaliy‚Äôs skip shaft #1 hit the 500 meter mark late in the first quarter. As at 18 May, the shaft had reached its approximate midway point of 550 meters. The future mine‚Äôs cage shaft continued being readied for freezing with sinking operations set to resume within the next twelve months.‚Äù Note that the skip shaft was the German project; the cage shaft was Shaft Sinkers‚Äô. Eurochem was intentionally misleading in this claim. Eurochem‚Äôs first public disclosure of the dispute was this announcement of October 5, 2012. The wording is important because of the claim that the dispute was a contractual one based on the technical claim about the grouting technology: ‚ÄúShaft Sinkers was chosen as the contractor to develop the cage shaft of the Gremyachinskoe deposit but subsequently proved unable to fulfill its contractual obligations. Shaft Sinkers‚Äô grouting technology entirely failed, causing in excess of USD 161 million in direct costs and a delay to the project‚Äôs completion date which was subsequently revised to 2015.‚Äù This announcement is also noteworthy because of Eurochem‚Äôs calculation of the liability. It took several more months before it was disclosed publicly that Eurochem was raising the amount of its claim to $800 million to include purported lost profits because of the production delay. This amount appears in a Shaftsinkers report on February 13, this year. Russian courts don‚Äôt accept this type of damage claim. Whether it will be allowed by the two arbitration tribunals in Zurich and Paris, to which Eurochem has applied, remains to be seen, not least of all because Eurochem claims lost profits when the price of potash is still below the cost of mining and selling it. In Eurochem‚Äôs reporting of the dispute with Shaft Sinkers, the details are to be found in the auditor‚Äôs notes to the financial reports for 2012. In its audited accounts Eurochem also fails to provision for Shaft Sinkers‚Äô counterclaim ($54 million in press reports, $15 million in Shaft Sinkers‚Äô reports). According to Eurochem‚Äôs auditor, ‚ÄúWrite-off of a portion of the assets at the Gremyachinskoe potash deposit. Following an earlier termination of the construction contract, in October 2012 the Group filed a claim against Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Ltd. (Shaft Sinkers), seeking US$ 800 million compensation for the direct costs and substantial lost profits arising from the delay in commencing potash production. This was a result of the inability of Shaft Sinkers to fulfill its contractual obligations and complete the construction of the Gremyachinskoe cage shaft, primarily due to problems with the grouting technology. In October 2012 Shaft Sinkers presented an interim claim letter to the Group claiming compensation of US$45 million in costs incurred by them up to and inclusive of 30 September 2012 in connection with the termination of the construction contract. Management believes that this claim is without merit. The above disputes are subject to arbitration as specified in the contract. An outstanding advance given to Shaft Sinkers of RR 495,387 thousand was written off during the nine months ended 30 September 2012 (nine months ended 30 September 2011: nil). Due to the failure of the grouting technology employed in the cage shaft construction, expenses previously capitalised, amounting to RR 3,116,000 thousand, were written-off during the nine months ended 30 September 2012 (nine months ended 30 September 2011: nil). Following Eurochem‚Äôs submission of its claims to arbitration in October, Shaft Sinkers issued this notice to the London Stock Exchange: ‚ÄúOn 5 October 2012 the Company responded to the announcement by EuroChem that it had filed a claim against Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Ltd in relation to its project with EuroChem which was terminated with effect from 20 April 2012. The Company has reviewed the arbitration claims, and after consultation with legal counsel, continues to believe that the claims are without merit, and will contest them robustly. A claim for a net amount of $15 million has been submitted to EuroChem for amounts still owing under the contract.‚Äù A spokesman for Shaft Sinkers was asked this week to clarify what happened, and also why the dispute escalated from a problem of mine delay to an $800 million claim. He responded: ‚ÄúShaft Sinkers has built many shafts worldwide and we were involved in the construction of the other deep potash mine in Boulby in the UK. Shaft Sinkers was called in after other companies failed and we successfully completed building the mine. We believe that the [Boulby] mine continues to operate normally.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe technology is not experimental, having been used successfully in many mines around the world and it did not fail in this case. However deep shafts are clearly complex engineering projects where delays can happen due to a wide range of factors. In the case of Eurochem, the ground conditions were difficult and Shaft Sinkers were in the process of refining the specific application necessary for the shaft when Eurochem suspended the project. Whilst the exact details of the contract are covered by commercial confidentiality and are subject to legal restrictions, I can say that as Shaft Sinkers has ‚Äì so far ‚Äì not failed in its mining efforts, provision for failure was from Shaft Sinkers‚Äô point of view unnecessary.‚Äù Is there another reason why Melnichenko has stopped one of the mine shafts, and ordered his lawyers to pursue Shaft Sinkers on the technical claim? Since the potash price is well below where the miners would like it to be, mining less potash is one way of putting a bottom under the price. Eurochem‚Äôs Russian potash rival Uralkali implemented a production cut in 2012 of 8%. In the first quarter of this year, Uralkali said it is cutting by another 40%. The Russian cuts match those of Canada‚Äôs Potash Corporation, the largest producer in the worl, which has taken 1 million tonnes off the market since last year. For Eurochem to hurry a fresh 2.3 million tonnes from Gremyachinskoye on to the market would be folly, as the price it would fetch would probably be lossmaking. Mining the law courts may look a better bet to Melnichenko, especially if he must pay his lawyers less than the $15 million in overdue invoices from Shaft Sinkers for the work done but not paid for when the contract was halted. Is there any other reason for the attack on Shaft Sinkers and its Kazakh control shareholder? The answer to that one may lie in problems which Eurochem is having in Kazakhstan, but which the company is reluctant to acknowledge. Asked what problems in Kazakhstan Melnichenko and Eurochem have across the border, Eurochem sources initially claimed there weren‚Äôt any. Kazakhstan holds substantial reserves of mineable fertilizers, particular phosphates. These are concentrated in the southern regions of the country, between the cities of Shymkent and Taraz. At Taraz the leading miner is¬†Kazphosphate, which is incorporated in the UK. That entity has had what is known in the market as a controversial history since it was first taken over by two controversial Israelis, Nahum Galmor and Arkady Gaydamak. After fighting between themselves the property passed into local control and into the hands of three Kazakhs ‚Äî Nurlan Bizakov, Galimzhan and Maxutbek Yessenoz. According to Eurochem‚Äôs financial report for 2012, issued on February 7, 2013, Melnichenko has two projects in Kazakhstan ‚Äì one at Karatau, where Kazphosphate is already mining; and one at the Kok-Jon and Gimmelfarbskoe deposits, which have been partially explored but not yet mined. According to Eurochem‚Äôs papers, ‚Äúto increase upstream integration, we plan to start phosphate rock mining in Kazakhstan‚Äôs Karatau Basin from 2013‚Äù; and ‚Äúwe are looking to increase our vertical integration by extracting phosphate rock from the Kok-Jon and Gimelfarbskoe deposits in Kazakhstan‚Äôs Zhambyl province‚Äù. The releases from Eurochem include the announcement in February 2009 of Kazakh presidential approval for the Karatau project, with capital spending of $2.5 billion; production targets of 1 million tonnes of phosphates, 800,000 tonnes of nitrogenous fertilizers; a nitrogen, phosphate and potash combination (NPK) plant, and more, allby the year 2015. This was repeated for the benefit of Russian and Kazakh ministers in¬†June 2009. Subsequent company publications¬†claim¬†that right now ‚Äúwe are developing the phosphate deposits and constructing a fertilizer plant in two locations, Zhanatas and Karatau.‚Äù It would be madness for Melnichenko to be spending $2.5 billion on adding to phosphate supply when it is suffering from the same downturn in market demand and price as potash: johnhelmer.net Melnichenko isn‚Äôt mad. But the Kazakhs are impatient. They think there is a four year-old promise to start the mine with targeted production tonnage and estimated revenue and cashflows. So how much has Eurochem actually spent at Karatau since 2009, and is there a problem between the company and the Kazakh mine licensing authorities? A spokesman for Eurochem replies: ‚ÄúIn terms of its activity in Kazakhstan, EuroChem is working through the various regulatory and legal requirements necessary to ensure that its operations conform with Kazakh legislation. Investment has been made into social projects there, with USD 5 million already committed. Further than that, I‚Äôm afraid we cannot comment.‚Äù That doesn‚Äôt sound like the thunder of digging machines at Karatau. But promising to start excavation in 2009 and not starting, Eurochem has paid real money for additional phosphate reserves elsewhere. Eurochem‚Äôs financial report for last year notes payment of Rb1.1 billion ($35.8 million) for the mineral and mining rights at Kok-Jon and Gimmelfarbskoye. ‚ÄúDuring the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group signed a contract with the authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the extraction of phosphate rock at the Kok-Jon and Gimmelfarbskoe deposits in Kazakhstan‚Äôs Zhambyl region. The Group plans to launch a mining and production project, which includes the development of phosphate rock deposits, the construction of integrated mining-and-processing facilities and a fertiliser production plant. Under the terms of valid licences for the exploration and development of mineral resource deposits, the Group is required to comply with a number of conditions, including preparation of design documentation, commencement of the construction of mining facilities and commencement of the extraction of mineral resources by certain dates. If the Group fails to materially comply with the terms of the licence agreements there are circumstances whereby the licences can be revoked. The management of the Group believes that the Group faces no material regulatory risks in relation to the validity and operation of any of its licences.‚Äù There is domestic rivalry for Eurochem from several sources, according to those familiar with the matter, and this is too sensitive for Eurochem to acknowledge, particularly as it doesn‚Äôt have to do so for public shareholders. The phosphate prospects are also not so attractive that Kazphosphate was able to sell its shares in a London IPO it was contemplating in 2009. Nor was Melnichenko willing to buy a 50% stake in Kazphosphate the year before, at least not at the reported asking price of $400 million. So can the Kazakh and Russian phosphate combines go it alone, each publicly promising billion-dollar investments in new mines? That depends on a great many things, not least the willingness of Kazakh government ministries and state-controlled suppliers of raw materials, gas and electricity to cooperate at a price that allows the mines to make their target rates of return. Right now, if you follow the phosphate price trajectory, the risks recommend doing nothing on the ground.
BloombergBlackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien likes to talk to a guy he refers to as "the smartest man in Europe." Here's how Wien describes him: In my mind he earned that title by seeing major shifts in the investment landscape long before his peers on both sides of the Atlantic.† Among these were the rise and fall of the Japanese stock market in the 1980s, the end of the command economies in Russia and China, the opportunities afforded by the emerging economies, the importance of gold as an asset class and the dangers represented by the overvaluation of American technology stocks in the late 1990s. Along the way he has accumulated some of the material rewards of success, including elegant residences, museum-quality artworks spanning many centuries and sleek means of transportation on the ground and in the air, but what moves him is identifying a major change before others recognize it. I have often attributed at least a part of his acumen to the mercantile tradition in his family that goes back several hundred years.† His ancestors operated canteens selling food, supplies and weather protection to travelers along the Silk Road.† Dinner table conversation from the time he was a young boy centered around investment opportunities.† In his ninth decade he still derives excitement from a fresh idea, and it is inspiring to watch.† In July 2012, Wien's friend was sounding pretty pessimistic on the continent's prospects. Now, Europe's "smartest man" is bullish, and it's largely thanks to one key development he says many have missed: changing attitudes toward austerity policies in the eurozone. Wien relays some of their conversation: ìEveryone thinks Europe is hopeless and I can understand why.† The European Union is a flawed concept and it may not survive in the long run.† There needs to be much more convergence, both economic (which is possible) and political (which is impossible), but a major change in attitude has taken place this year.† Until recently the policy makers believed that increasing taxes and reducing spending was the way for the weaker countries to solve their deficit problems, but that was clearly the wrong idea.† From a political point of view the austerity approach was impossible because the people in these places wouldnít accept what their governments were trying to impose on them.† Punishing the people for past economic mistakes also made no practical sense.† Europe was in a recession and the austerity policies were only going to make conditions worse.† Unemployment was becoming a serious social problem and job creation had to be a priority.† As we moved into this year the policy makers, even Angela Merkel, began to understand that austerity was the wrong course and that restoring growth had to be an objective. ìEurope is in a kind of equilibrium now which is likely to be sustained by the expansive monetary policy of the European Central Bank.† This should continue at least until the German elections in September, resulting in a definitive pullback from austerity.† Merkel can only win if she moves away from her hard-line policy stance.† Conditions are continuing to improve in Italy even though Mario Monti is no longer in charge.† The unions still have too much power in France.† FranÁois Hollande is beginning to realize that he must restore business confidence by introducing policies that take a positive view of growth.† Germany will have to be tolerant of larger budget deficits in Spain, France and Italy... ìIn the meantime most investors have reduced their European exposure.† Who would want to invest in a place where a recession was underway and likely to get worse?† Money managers had been so preoccupied with that idea that they failed to recognize the pullback from austerity which could lead to the restoration of growth.† During the last few years European companies, like their American counterparts, have become vastly more efficient.† Unemployment in Europe is 12% and part of the reason it is so high is that companies are getting the work done with fewer employees, so profits should improve considerably on any increase in revenues.† Stocks are priced assuming conditions will get worse and I see them getting better ñ not everywhere and not in every sector, but if you are a careful stock picker you can make money.† ìThe most important factor is that almost no investor likes Europe now and that enhances the opportunity.† Two years ago everyone was worried that the European Union was going to break apart.† That was never going to happen over the near term because everyone had too much to lose, especially Germany, which has been the biggest beneficiary.† Now most people realize Europe is going to muddle through at least for a while, but few people are buying European stocks to take advantage of this conclusion. Recently, we've seen a bit of an upturn in euro area PMI indices, which track the health of the manufacturing sector. However, most readings are still below 50, which suggests that the euro area is still contracting, albeit at a slower pace than before. Read more from Wien's conversation here &gt;
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithTesla's stock was down 2.5% to below $99.33 in the first minutes of trading today. This is well off its closing high of $110.33.This comes after Bill Alpert at Barron's wrote that Tesla's Model S "owes its better-than-200-mile range to batteries costing tens of thousands of dollars." Tesla needs to drastically cut battery costs by 2016 when it plans to launch a car that is more affordable. "If Tesla's next-generation car can't go the distance at half the price, its stock will head much lower," Alpert wrote. The sub-head of the summed up Alpert's stance. "Tesla's electric car offers a quiet, powerful ride. But unless it comes up with a cheaper, stronger battery, the stock could turn out to be a lemon. From Barron's: "Stubbornly costly batteries may even cause headaches when today's Tesla's luxury cars arrive on the used-car lot. Folks who buy $90,000 cars tend to replace them every few years, and the bid for a four-year-old Model S may prove disappointing if it's going to need an expensive new battery in a few more years. Musk has astutely met that concern with a financing option guaranteeing resale value, but that just shifts the risk to shareholders. "As a result, Tesla's balance sheet will sprout a contingent liability for the "residual value" of those cars, and analysts worry that the amount will quickly rise to hundreds of millions of dollars -- on the order of half of the company's book value. The deferred impact of all those used batteries will become clearer in coming years, after Tesla also starts running low on the government-legislated zero-emission-vehicle credits that offset $68 million in expenses in the March 2013 quarter." Alpert also says time will tell us how much "sustained demand" there is for the car. "No one yet knows what portion of Tesla's initial buyers were "early adopters," unrepresentative of ongoing demand," he wrote. Tesla's CEO Elon Musk terminated the interview with Barron's after a few questions on battery cost reductions. Here's a look at Tesla's five chart:Google Finance-day Read the entire piece at Barron's &gt;
I can totally dominate my 11 year old daughter in tennis. I kick her ass basically. Like, if she hits an easy shot, I can slam it back to the other side of the court and with her small legs thereís no way she can run to catch the ball. Thatís the way I roll. I destroy the dreams of 11 year old girls. Hereís the problem: I get tired. After about eight minutes Iím too exhausted to play anymore. Sheís like, ìDaddy, whatís wrong?î But after all the strenuous work of slamming shots, dominating her with my topspin, running the net, lobbing, serving, etc I need a break. My breath canít be caught and for some reason Iím spitting gray gunk onto the ground. We say kids have a lot of energy. Do they have a battery? Is it fully charged? Do they have more electronic chemicals or something? How does it work? Iím older and Iím better at everything. And I know everything because Iím the father. I can see her or my other daughter and I can see the life around them. Iím not talking about ìaurasî. I donít know what that is. But just LIFE. They have it. They ooze it. They spray it everywhere. And it comes out smart and it comes out stupid. It doesnít matter. They can waste it at that age. They have enough to spare. I have to bottle mine. Use it appropriately. In Jimmy Connors autobiography he talks about how he started breaking down when he was #1 in the world in tennis. The new guns (John McEnroe) were coming up and beating him. He couldnít hit #1 anymore. His bones were tired. He was 29 years old. Ok, thatís ok. Thatís why I like chess and not tennis. So I took a look at a list of the top 100 chessplayers in the world. They must be a bunch of old men. #1, Magnus Carlsen, was born the year after I graduated college. I had to scroll down to #65 to find someone who was older than me. Julio Zuniga. Three months older than me. I was at a conference last week of entrepreneurs. There were 15 speakers. I was one of them. Tim Ferriss was another. Marc Ecko was another. Lots of smart people. I was the oldest speaker. But then I realized: out of the 110 people in the audience, I was older than all of them as well. Where is everyone? Did they put the 45 year olds in a concentration camp? Is that even appropriate to say? Did they put the 45 year old Jews in a concentration camp? Did I miss the exit on the ramp and end up in the under-45 year old world? I feel better than when I was 20. And I know more about things. A lot more. I could write a book with what I know! I know that when a spouse starts telling me her problems, I need to LISTEN and not SOLVE her problems. I know that if someone says, ìI have a great opportunity for youî, then he is trying to send fuckness in my direction. I create my opportunities. In my entire life nobody has ever magically given me one. The only magic I believe in is when I cast the spells. I have 45 years worth of spells to cast. I know at 45 that if Iím not happy ìhereî then thereís even less chance I will be happy ìthereî, in whatever daydream ìthereî exists. But what the hell, every day is a battle: with depression, with health, with money worries (no matter how much you have, or how little), with love, with kids, with the institutions that always try to imprison us and scare us, with the arguments that always try to engage us. One of my best friends for 20 years is no longer speaking to me. He brought up a web post I wrote two years ago that angered him. It was my anti-war post. ìAre you kidding?î I asked. I was so shocked. But he didnít respond. Heís no longer speaking to me. Some years I lose friends. Some years I make friends. Whatís the point of dwelling on it? And I know if I let anything bother me, if I donít truly appreciate the things in my life, if I donít cherish the moment, and take care of my body and mind and emotions and spirit, then I can start to age. We donít just have a physical body. We have emotional, mental, and spiritual ones also. They all age. They all need to be taken care of and exercised and fed nourishing food. Energy changes. I still have the energy of my youth. But itís spread now through my other bodies. Now I have to go and crush the hopes and dreams out of my 11 year old on the tennis court. Someone has to teach her the harsh realities of life. And yes, then I will feel like the king of the world. For about eight minutes. Until she is standing over me, laughing, with her tennis racquet raised in victory.
This is the company NSA leaker Edward Snowden briefly worked for, according to a company release yesterday. It gets about 98% of its revenues from government contracts, according to the New York Times. The firm¬†had contracts with the government totaling $3.85 billion in 2011. According to Washington Technology, its 17 "major" customers are all different government agencies, including ¬†The Defense Department, Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Homeland Security Department, and IRS.
News organizations and, possibly, the National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden himself, are misinterpreting a key concept in a leaked NSA presentation, senior tech industry sources say. One of these sources argues that this misunderstanding calls into question whether Snowden really understands some of the other assertions he is making about U.S. intelligence activities. Late last week, two major newspapers reported that the National Security Agency has "direct access" to the central servers of the world's biggest Internet companies, including Google and Facebook. With this access, the papers implied, the U.S. government can snoop in real-time on the digital communications of hundreds of millions of people worldwide. After these reports appeared, the companies named in the reports issued vehement, explicit denials about the "direct access" assertion. And when skeptics suggested that the companies were just parsing their words carefully, the companies issued even more explicit and strenuous denials. Google, for example, said the government has no access to its servers, no "back door" into the systems, and no API (application programming interface) through which the government could spy on its users. Facebook said basically the same thing, adding that the government had also not requested vast amounts of "bulk data" like the startling request that was made of Verizon. All the companies confirmed that they do provide data to the government in response to specific court orders ‚Äî once the requests have been reviewed by the companies' lawyers. And after a batch of data is delivered to the government (often, presumably, electronically), the government can obviously query the data however the government likes. But senior tech industry sources say that the assertion that the government has "direct access" to these companies' servers ‚Äî and, with it, unlimited real-time snooping capabilities ‚Äî is flat-out wrong. So it's worth reviewing where this claim of "direct access" to the companies' servers came from. And it's worth asking how much, if at all, this apparent misunderstanding calls into question some of the other claims made by the 29 year-old NSA leaker, Edward Snowden. The assertion by The Guardian and The Washington Post that the NSA and FBI had "direct access" to the servers of Google, Facebook, and other companies came from the following slide (published here by The Guardian), which is from a National Security Agency presentation obtained by the papers. The presentation, the papers have now revealed, was provided by Snowden, who is now holed up in a hotel in Hong Kong. The Guardian As you can see, this slide suggests that the government is collecting data in two ways: first, from the "fiber cables" that the data flows through as it travels from the sender to the recipient (a.k.a., the Internet); second, in the "PRISM" program, from the companies themselves. Specifically, the green area in the bottom of the slide states that the PRISM collection comes "directly from the servers of [nine] U.S. Service Providers." According to many of the technology companies named in that sentence, however, as well as the senior tech industry sources that we have spoken to, the "directly from the servers" wording is either being misinterpreted or is just plain wrong. It is true that any data provided by Google, Facebook, et al, to government investigators does come originally from some "servers" of these companies ‚Äî because that's where the data is sent, received, and/or stored. Importantly, however, the government does not have access to these servers. The government gets the data only after the companies' lawyers approve the government's request for the data and the companies then either send the data to the government or put the data somewhere the government can access it (by storing it on another server, for example, to which the government is granted access. This is a common method of sharing data these days, although according to a New York Times report, the companies are not using a server on their premises to share data with the government). If the government were making massive data requests of these companies ‚Äî for example, if the government were demanding to see "all data generated by all Facebook users in the years 2012 and 2013" ‚Äî then this might be a distinction without a difference. But according to the companies and our sources, the requests are far narrower than that. (One source estimated that the number of actual people covered by data requests at one big technology company over the past few years was in the "thousands," not the millions, much less the hundreds of millions. The source did not have exact numbers, however.) The bottom line is that news organizations and, possibly, NSA leaker Edward Snowden, appear to fundamentally misunderstand the nature of how the big tech companies provide data to the government. And given that misunderstanding, it's worth asking what else Snowden might not understand. In his interview with The Guardian, Snowden made two claims that were particularly startling: Snowden did not elaborate on exactly what he meant by these claims. (Would this "wiretapping" be legal? Could Snowden actually initiate the wiretap or did he just have the authority to order it? Is the government recording the contents of communications or just records of communications? Etc.) But at first glance, the claims seem far-fetched. And given that Snowden appears to misunderstand how the government gathers data from big technology companies ‚Äî or is passing on a presentation that misrepresents this ‚Äî it seems possible that he might be misunderstanding these broader assertions, too. In any event, the first order of business for those who are interested in what Snowden has to say (e.g., pretty much everyone) is to get more detail on what, exactly, he is claiming the government can and can't do and is and isn't doing. And then the second step will be to corroborate his assertions with other intelligence sources. Snowden's leak appears to be one of the most significant intelligence leaks in history. If nothing else, it has triggered a public debate about how much information the government is and should be collecting and how it is using that information. Although public awareness of U.S. data gathering might make the program less effective as a national security tool, it appears to be high time that the public understands what the government is and isn't doing. SEE ALSO: The NSA Leaker Is Running Out Of Money To Pay His Hotel Bill 
Flickr / DaniJaceA few minutes ago, credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's revised the outlook on its U.S. sovereign credit rating up to stable from negative. The news has caused a spike in S&amp;P 500 futures and the U.S. dollar versus the yen. Futures are now trading around 1648, up 0.6%, versus levels around 1641 prior to the release. The dollar-yen exchange rate has just broken through ¬•99.00 to the upside, and is now up 1.5%. Meanwhile, after turning positive earlier, gold is negative again after the S&amp;P release. Right now, the shiny yellow metal is trading around $1379 an ounce, down 0.3%, versus levels around $1386 prior to the release. 10-year Treasury futures are down 0.2%, trading at their lows of the day. The yield on the 10-year Treasury is 3 basis points wider to 2.20%.
For the vast majority of small businesses ‚Äî the ones away from New York and Silicon Valley and in industries like dentistry and auto repair ‚Äî getting financing is a massive pain. It involves reams of documents, weeks of waiting, and frequent rejection. New York startup On Deck Capital hopes to appeal to these millions of businesses with a loan application process that takes minutes to complete and can be approved within a day. On Deck's secret is software that evaluates loans within minutes based on analysis of data including¬†cash flow, past credit use, and vendor payment history. While banks look closely at a business owner's personal history, the startup makes decisions based on data about the business itself. At the same time, the startup is efficient enough to deal with small clients. "Banks typically don't love lending to smaller businesses," On Deck CEO Noah Breslow told Business Insider. "It's much more efficient for a bank to make a million dollar loan than a $50,000 loan." This has been the status quo for years, and banks have been slow to innovate in the space due to tight regulatory scrutiny, their sheer size, and issues with their legacy business. Other startups in the space include¬†Capital Access Network and Kabbage, and¬†even Amazon is¬†getting into the game. For On Deck to succeed, it will have to prove that its rapid loan evaluations are effective and gain a market foothold before competition moves in. All about data Using online data and relatively little input from the business owner, On Deck's algorithms asses risk, build credit profiles, and make lending decisions quickly. There are about 15 fields in the application for a $30,000 loan. "When they apply, to get a smaller loan, it's about the same as applying for a credit card," Breslow says. For loans up to $150,000, On Deck collects one-to-three months of cash flow data via transaction-based data tracker or uploaded bank statements. Compared to regular banks, that's nothing. "There are 14 different pieces of information you have to bring in," Breslow says. "You have to have two or three years of personal tax returns and two or three years of business tax returns. Usually you have to build a business plan around the loan and create pro-forma financial projections going forward and have that as a part of your package as well." Breslow recently visited a "decent-sized" bank in the Midwest that does a 16-page individual writeup for a $100,000 loan.¬†That's a week of a person's life running financials and doing sensitivity analysis, he says.¬†"It's just not cost effective." OnDeck Capital"We're never going to see these people." "A lot of the banks' process was about me looking you in the eye, and then a bunch of self-reported data," Breslow says. On Deck works because it uses third-party verified data. It's about sophisticated data analysis, not a gut feeling nor what small business owners hope their business will be in the future. Everything from cash flow to past credit use to vendor payment history to legal history goes into the model. It even takes into account a presence on sites like Yelp. "It's not that we make a core underwriting decision based on it," Breslow said, "but it helps validate a business we've never seen before. If you see 80 Yelp reviews, you know this guy exists, he's got a flow of customers, and the food's not half bad." The big data method lets them approve people who have been conditioned to rejection from big banks yet who are perfectly capable of growing their business and repaying a loan. The firm has loaned half a billion dollars since starting in 2007, and ‚Äî after raising a lot of money ‚Äî is set to loan half a billion dollars in this year alone. Changing the risk management game A classic bank loan might be three to five years. On Deck's are three to 18 months, and rather than monthly payments, they're collected in daily "micropayments" from the business.¬† Rather than loaning to, say, a contractor who builds one home a quarter and won't be able to pay if a deal falls through, the company focuses on businesses with steady, small cash flow, like restaurants, dentists, and repair shops. While technology, data, and the credit model reduce risk before a loan is granted, daily payment helps reduce risk afterward. The long-term vision is to make things even more fluid. "Eventually we're going to be at a place where the data from a business continually unlocks credit for them. They don't have to apply; applying is superfluous because their data has already enabled the credit to be there," Breslow says. "In time, the business owner is going to just log into their bank account and be like "oh, I need $50,000 for this,' and bang it's there. We're continually iterating to get closer to that." After raising money from Thiel and Google Ventures, the company will put some muscle into marketing and increasing name recognition. There certainly is a demand for better small business lending in America.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidCredit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's has revised up its outlook for the USA's credit rating to stable from negative. In 2011, S&amp;P stripped the USA of its AAA credit rating and put it on negative outlook. The credit rating agency also raised the outlook for the Federal Reserve and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's ratings to stable from negative. S&amp;P 500 futures and the dollar are jumping on the news. Below is the full text from the S&amp;P release. --------- TORONTO (Standard &amp; Poor's) June 10, 2013‚ÄîStandard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services today affirmed its 'AA+' long-term and 'A-1+' short-term unsolicited sovereign credit ratings on the United States of America. The outlook on the long-term rating is revised to stable from negative. Our sovereign credit ratings on the U.S. primarily reflect our view of the¬†strengths of the U.S. economy and monetary system, as well as the U.S.¬†dollar's status as the world's key reserve currency. The ratings also take¬†into account the high level of U.S. external indebtedness; our view of the¬†effectiveness, stability, and predictability of U.S. policymaking and¬†political institutions; and the U.S. fiscal performance. The U.S. has a high-income economy, with GDP per capita of more than $49,000¬†in 2012. We expect the trend rate of real per capita GDP growth to run¬†slightly above 1%. Furthermore, we see the U.S. economy as highly diversified¬†and market-oriented, with an adaptable and resilient economic structure, all¬†of which contribute to strong sovereign credit quality. We believe that the U.S. monetary authorities have both the strong ability and¬†willingness to support sustainable economic growth and to attenuate major¬†economic or financial shocks. As a result, we expect the U.S. dollar to retain¬†its long-established position as the world's leading reserve currency (which¬†contributes to the country's high external indebtedness). We believe the¬†Federal Reserve System has strong control over dollar liquidity conditions¬†given the free-floating U.S. exchange rate regime and as demonstrated by the¬†Fed's timely and effective actions to lessen the impact of major shocks since¬†the Great Recession of 2008/2009. Since 1991, the Fed has kept inflation¬†(measured by CPI) in the 0%-5% range. In addition, the U.S. monetary¬†transmission mechanism benefits from the unparalleled depth of the country's¬†capital markets and the diversification of its financial system, in our¬†opinion. We view U.S. governmental institutions (including the administration and¬†congress) and policymaking as generally strong, although the ability of¬†elected officials to address the country's medium-term fiscal challenges has¬†decreased in the past decade due to what we consider to be increased¬†partisanship and fundamentally opposing views by the two main political¬†parties on the optimal size of government. Views also differ on the preferred¬†mix between expenditure and revenue measures in the quest to return the¬†federal budget toward a more balanced position. Recent examples of impasses¬†reached on fiscal policy include the failure of the 2010 National Commission¬†on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform to obtain a qualified majority of its¬†members in favor of its fiscal consolidation plan and the inability of the¬†Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to reach an agreement to specify¬†specific fiscal measures to avoid indiscriminate cuts set down by the Budget¬†Control Act of 2011 (BCA11). That said, we see tentative improvements on two fronts. On the political side,¬†Republicans and Democrats did reach a deal to smooth the year-end-2012 "fiscal¬†cliff", and this deal did result in some fiscal tightening beyond that¬†envisaged in BCA11, by allowing previous tax cuts to expire on high-income¬†earners. The BCA11 also has engendered a fiscal adjustment, albeit in a blunt¬†manner. Although we expect some political posturing to coincide with raising¬†the government's debt ceiling, which now appears likely to occur near the¬†Sept. 30 fiscal year-end, we assume with our outlook revision that the debate¬†will not result in a sudden unplanned contraction in current spending--which¬†could be disruptive--let alone debt service. Aside from tax hikes and expenditure cuts, stronger-than-expected¬†private-sector contributions to economic growth, combined with increased¬†remittances to the government by the government-sponsored enterprises Fannie¬†Mae and Freddie Mac (reflecting some recovery in the housing market), have led¬†the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), last month, to revise down its¬†estimates for future government deficits. Combining CBO's projections with our¬†own somewhat more cautious economic forecast and our expectations for the¬†state-and-local sector, and adding non-deficit contributions to government¬†borrowing requirements (such as student loans) leads us to expect the U.S.¬†general government deficit plus non-deficit borrowing requirements to fall to¬†about 6% of GDP this year (down from 7%, in 2012) and to just less than 4% in¬†2015. We now see net general government debt as a share of GDP staying broadly¬†stable for the next few years at around 84%, which, if it occurs, would allow¬†policymakers some additional time to take steps to address pent-up age-related¬†spending pressures. The stable outlook indicates our appraisal that some of the downside risks to¬†our 'AA+' rating on the U.S. have receded to the point that the likelihood¬†that we will lower the rating in the near term is less than one in three. We¬†do not see material risks to our favorable view of the flexibility and¬†efficacy of U.S. monetary policy. We believe the U.S. economic performance¬†will match or exceed its peers' in the coming years. We forecast that the¬†external position of the U.S. on a flow basis will not deteriorate. We believe that our current 'AA+' rating already factors in a lesser ability¬†of U.S. elected officials to react swiftly and effectively to public finance¬†pressures over the longer term in comparison with officials of some more¬†highly rated sovereigns and we expect repeated divisive debates over raising¬†the debt ceiling. We expect these debates, however, to conclude without¬†provoking a sharp discontinuous cut in current expenditure or in debt service.¬† We see some risks that the recent improved fiscal performance, due in part to¬†cyclical and to one-off factors, could lead to complacency. A deliberate¬†relaxation of fiscal policy without countervailing measures to address the¬†nation's longer-term fiscal challenges could place renewed downward pressure¬†on the rating. TELECONFERENCE INFORMATION Please join Standard &amp; Poor's on Monday, June 10, 2013, at 11 a.m. Eastern¬†Daylight Time for a live webcast and Q&amp;A on Standard &amp; Poor's affirmation of¬†its 'AA+' rating on the United States government and its revision of the¬†rating outlook to stable. Register for the complementary webcast here:¬† http://ratings-events.standardandpoors.com/content/Webcast You may submit your questions for the presenters in real time via the Webcast¬†interface. For more information on this topic, please visit¬†www.spratings.com/usrating.
The world pumped 31.6 gigatons of carbon into the atmosphere in 2012, a record, according to the IEA. It was a 1.4% increase from 2011. China was the largest emitter ‚Äî although its annual change of 3.8% was way down compared with previous years ‚Äî followed by a clutch of countries from the developing world. The agency also notes Japan's efforts to convert to renewables was not enough to reduce YOY carbon output.¬† In the U.S., emissions were way down thank in part to coal-to-gas switching, the agency said. Here's the full breakdown: IEA If we stayed at the 1.4% rate, global temperatures would be on pace to¬†increase of 3.6 ¬∞C or more, the agency said.
via Sotheby's RealtyGoldman Sachs managing director/partner Michael J. Swenson (a.k.a. "Swenny") has put his Tuxedo Park, New York mansion on the market for $2.595 million,¬†Curbed's Rob Bear reports. Swenson joined the investment banking giant back in 2000. ¬†While at Goldman, he has worked as the head of ABS trading and managing director of structured products. ¬†He was named to the highly-coveted position of "partner" in 2008. In 2010, Swenson and a bunch of other Goldman execs were grilled on Capitol Hill¬†over the firm's CDS trading before the financial crisis.¬† Before Goldman, Swenson worked at Solomon Brothers and Solomon Smith Barney, FINRA records show. Swenson and his wife purchased this Tuxedo Park home back in 1998 for $750,000, Curbed reported. They renovated the lower level of the home adding entertainment and fitness rooms, complete with a sauna. ¬† Now that sounds awesome. ¬†Let's take a tour.¬†
In Athens, the Greek stock market is down 5.8% today after a deal to privatize state natural gas firm DEPA failed to attract any bids from investors. DEPA was supposed to be one of the key revenue-raisers for the Greek privatization program. Failure to privatize DEPA will make it challenging for Greece to meet the revenue targets specified by the troika of EU, ECB, and IMF lenders in its bailout package. The chart below shows the Athens Stock Exchange today. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
The stock is up about 1.8% pre-market. Here's the full breakdown:
Flickr/Cornelia KoppLast week saw a†crazy full schedule of economic data accompanied by market volatility. This week has much quieter calendar. "The first important data release does not arrive until Thursday, when we get May retail sales," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. Talks of a "taper" have also been put off giving investors and traders a few days to gather their thoughts and reposition their portfolios before the news flow picks up again. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Big swings have returned to the stock market as economic data continues to be weak or disappointing. "[W]e continue to believe that most institutional investors are not prepared for a potential period of market weakness," said BMO Capital's Brian Belski who sees the S&amp;P 500 falling to 1,575 by the end of the year.. "[T]he market is likely stuck in a frustrated and choppy trading range for at least several more months, unless the economic environment (and job growth in particular) begins to pick up more steam and quick."

REUTERS/Toby MelvilleGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
And with the other eye, they‚Äôre gazing at the screens of their smartphones and computers where they‚Äôre seeing a brutal junk bond rout. Junk bonds had a phenomenal run. With each truckload of free money that the Fed and other central banks delivered to the markets, junk-bond valuations soared and yields plunged. The St. Louis Fed‚Äôs BofA Merrill Lynch junk-bond yield index, which was deep into the double digits during the financial crisis, hit an all-time low on May 9 of 5.24%, down from 6.19% at the start of the year. Yields on some of the least bad junk in the index were well below 5%. Before these crazy times that the financial crisis brought, you could buy an essentially risk-free 1-year FDIC-insured CD with an interest rate of 5%. But recently, desperate investors, mauled by the Fed‚Äôs zero-interest-rate policy and losing ground to inflation, were furiously grabbing yield wherever they could, taking on risks no questions asked, any risks no matter how large, to get to that 5% yield.A feeding frenzy for junk. Companies took advantage of this Fed-induced desperation and bamboozled investors into gobbling up $187 billion in junk bonds so far in 2013, a record! One of the losers of the Fed‚Äôs policies was the corporate restructuring industry. With endless amounts of nearly free money available, even teetering companies with too much debt and money-losing operations could borrow more to cover up any holes. So my friends and their restructuring outfits branched out into performance-improvement consulting and financial advisory, and some have left the business altogether. Bubbles balloon to an absurd magnitude. But one day the feeding frenzy dies down, and gradually, or sometimes suddenly, the risks, the silliness, the illogic, the whole nonsensical nature of the bubble move into the foreground for all to see, and more and more people open their eyes and see it. Some of them will try to get out somehow, quietly at first, by looking for the greater fool. And there are plenty of them, for a while. But new investors want to be compensated for the risks they‚Äôre now seeing, and they‚Äôll demand higher yields in return for taking on those risks. That day might have been May 9 ‚Äì when the air started hissing out of the junk bond bubble. What came afterward was a rout. And a spike in yields:  In less than a month, average yields, according to the FRED BofA Merrill Lynch index, jumped from 5.24% on May 9 to 6.34% on June 6, from the lowest level ever¬†to the highest level of the year. Risk is a matter of perception; and during bubbles, no one perceives it. Junk bonds have a relatively high probability of default, and when they default, the entire principle tends to go up in smoke. They‚Äôre called junk for a reason. When the easy money dries up and the chase for yield is over, companies might have difficulty issuing new junk bonds, and when they can issue them, it will be at a higher cost, and some companies might not find any buyers at all. But that day hasn‚Äôt come yet. The spike in yields since May 9, as brutal as it has been, represents that ridiculously tiny hook at the right-hand corner of the long-term graph below: ¬†  ¬† That‚Äôs how far the pendulum can still swing the other way! Easy money covers up a lot of holes, but when money gets more expensive, these holes turn into traps. Then debt blows up, and creditors kick out entrenched executives, and restructuring specialist are brought in to save the company ‚Äì at the expense of stockholders and junk-bond holders. Creative destruction might finally take its course. That‚Äôs what the Fed is afraid of. Banks and insurance companies have loaded up on junk. Their balance sheets are infested with risk. Fed governors have fretted publicly about it, citing junk-bond yields as symptom of excessive risk-taking. Yet junk bonds are a small outgrowth of the most magnificent credit bubble ever that these same Fed governors have so proudly created, and that they‚Äôre now trying to figure out what to do with. Merely their polite musings about ‚Äútapering‚Äù their bond purchases have taken junk-bond holders on a wild and unpleasant ride. As the chart shows, it may be just the beginning. And a¬†harbinger of things to come in other markets. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has been warning about excessive risk taking for a while. But this time, he outdid himself in the dreadfulness of his warning and in the humor of his presentation. Read.... Fed‚Äôs Fisher Hilariously Slams Fiscal-Policy Chaos, Slugs QE, And Throws In Video Spoof of¬†Congress
Folks like oil man T. Boone Pickens have been big advocates of getting a natural gas vehicle (NGV) infrastructure in the U.S. Unfortunately, that really hasn't gotten off of the ground. However, natural gas vehicles are booming in Asia and in particular China, where the right incentives seem to be in place. Here's Citi: Asia over the past decade has grown to become the largest NGV market, led by Pakistan, Iran and India, with China surging ahead. Favorable fuel economics between oil and natural gas, national security and environmental factors, in part or in full, drove the adoption of natural gas vehicles. Asia, including China, now consumes more than 7-mb/d of oil for transportation. For China specifically, the much cleaner burning attributes of natural gas amid pollution problems in the country, and the current favorable price of gas vs. oil, along with fuel diversification factors, are propelling the country forward in the use of gas in transportation. China is way ahead of the U.S. in the deployment of NGVs and related infrastructure. Check out this chart of NGVs across the world. You can barely see North America at the bottom of this chart. Citi Research
There isn't a whole lot on the economic or earnings calendar this week until Thursday. Perhaps now's a good time for a mid-year assessment of your investments. For what it's worth, here's a table rounding up Goldman Sachs' forecast for everything: Goldman Sachs
The GuardianThe man responsible for one of the biggest U.S. intelligence leaks in history, 29-year old Edward Snowden, has been staying in a room in a Hong Kong hotel for the past three weeks. And now, says CNN, he is running out of money. One of the two Guardian reporters who broke the story with Snowden, Ewen MacAskill, says the cost of the hotel is beginning to max out Snowden's credit card. The Guardian reporters, Glenn Greenwald and MacAskill, who are also in Hong Kong, declined to reveal what hotel Snowden is staying in. If the U.S. intelligence apparatus is anything like as powerful as what Snowden describes, however, it probably won't be long until he is located. And at that point, a hotel bill will probably be the least of Snowden's concerns. (And perhaps the Guardian will pick up the tab!) The results of an early Business Insider reader poll suggest that Snowden has won the hearts and minds of people worldwide. Two-thirds of those who responded to the poll think Snowden is a "hero." Only one third think he is a "traitor" or "haven't made up their minds."¬† Vote in the poll here &gt; (via Bill Bishop)
Societe GeneraleRecent moves in the US and Japanese bond markets have some people worried if interest rates are doomed to surge. The consensus certainly seems to think so. Goldman Sachs' Francesco Garzarelli has warned clients that the bond sell is "for real" with 10-year Treasury yields likely to head to 2.5% later this year. In a note to clients this morning, Societe Generale's Patrick Legland reminds clients that their analysts expect the 10-year Treasury surging to 2.75% by the end of the year. Legland communicated this in a note titled "Are We Facing A Bond Crash? Not Yet, But..." In the note, he discuss the risk of a disorderly bond market sell-off. Here's the "but" explained: More volatility: a worrying signThe recent rise in bond volatility is clearly a worrying sign, but we are still far from the volatility peaks which occurred in the past five years following the Lehman debacle and the euro sovereign debt crisis. However, the sharp rise in Japanese yields reminds us that there is still an anomaly that should be corrected in the next few years. The key question remains whether the BoJ will succeed in its policy and be able to maintain rates at low levels medium term. If not, then the bond bubble could burst rapidly, with dire consequences for financial markets. The evolution of bond volatility in Japan and the US should therefore be watched closely for any signs of panic. For the moment, we do not see indications of an imminent bond crash, but volatility will remain high until we understand better how the Fed exit will be implemented. So, the risk of a bond crash is not imminent, but certainly on the table.
The result was Goldilocks on steroids. The stock market tends to do best when investors are least concerned about the prospects of a recession. Fridayís numbers were reassuring because our YRI Earned Income Proxy rose to yet another record high. We derive it simply by multiplying aggregate weekly hours times average hourly earnings of total private industries times 52. It is highly correlated with wages and salaries in personal income and with retail sales. †Ed Yardeni Today's Morning Briefing: Down the Middle. (1) Between love and hate. (2) Guidance from Hilsenrath. (3) Fed Debating Society. (4) The suspense is in the bond market. (5) S&amp;P 500 remains remarkably resilient and overbought. (6) Friday was good for overweight-rated CFI sectors, which have led the bull. (7) Retailers getting pricey with P/E at 20. (8) Financials are relatively cheap. (9) Industrials should beat Energy and Materials in slow-growing global economy. (10) Earned Income Proxy rises to another record high. (11) Goldilocks on steroids. (More for subscribers.)
The GuardianEarly opinions vary on Edward Snowden, the former spy who leaked confidential national security documents and accused the U.S. of building¬†an intelligence machine that records nearly all human communications. Some people think Snowden is a traitor. Some people think he's a hero. Some people are¬†reserving judgment until they learn more. What do you think?¬† Vote below...
Early opinions vary on Edward Snowden, the former spy who just leaked confidential national security documents and accused the U.S. of building an intelligence machine that records nearly all human communications. Some people think Snowden is a traitor. Some people think he's a hero. Some people are reserving judgment until they learn more. Those who think Snowden is a traitor and criminal are gearing up to arrest him. And those who think he's a hero are petitioning the White House to pardon him. As of this morning, a petition to "Pardon Edward Snowden" has received nearly 8,000 signatures.† To put that in context, it's about 0.0004% of Americans over the age of 18. Click through for the actual petition &gt; White House
There‚Äôs been a big brouhaha in recent weeks over who actually predicted the financial crisis and whether it matters. ¬†I think maybe we‚Äôre asking the wrong question though. ¬†The reason is simple ‚Äì we‚Äôre being biased towards one narrow part of the business cycle. One thing you‚Äôll find among those who claim to have predicted the crisis is that a lot of them are perennial bears. ¬†I often cite Wynne Godley for predicting the financial crisis in the USA and the Euro crisis, but Godley was famously bearish throughout his life. ¬†And that tends to be the case with many of the economists who ‚Äúpredicted‚Äù the crisis. ¬†You find that many of them were bearish for years or even decades before the crisis and then when the storm hit they were lauded for their forecasting capabilities. ¬†A classic case is someone like Peter Schiff who seems to always be negative about something in the USA so when something finally goes wrong he tends to have his hands in some part of the ‚Äúforecasted‚Äù disaster. ¬†It‚Äôs the old ‚Äústopped clock‚Äù thing‚Ä¶ Now, I should add that the main reason I love Godley‚Äôs predictions is because he clearly explained WHY the crisis would occur. ¬†That is, he understood, at an operational level, why something was wrong with the US economy and the Euro system. ¬†He wasn‚Äôt just screaming fire in a crowded theater for 20 years straight. ¬†He was explaining precisely why there was a high risk of fire in the first place and showing us precisely why the theater was so dangerous. ¬†Most of the predictors of the crisis were just towing the party line or saying the same thing they‚Äôd been saying for a long time (like, debt is unstable, government is bad, the Fed is a ponzi scheme, etc). ¬†But maybe we focus on one part of the business cycle too much. ¬†After all, a great trader doesn‚Äôt make money just because he makes a great prediction in one direction. ¬†He must also be smart enough to know when the odds have changed and now favor cashing out. ¬†So maybe the better question is, who predicted the crisis AND the ensuing recovery? ¬†In other words, who predicted the entire cycle instead of just the part that gets all the media attention? ¬†Isn‚Äôt that a better display of real skill in forecasting? So the more important question here might not be who predicted the bust, but who ALSO predicted the boom afterwards? ¬†Okay, ‚Äúboom‚Äù might be a bit of an overstatement, but there‚Äôs certainly been at least¬†some¬†recovery. ¬†There‚Äôs definitely been a huge recovery in most assets, but I know we can debate the strength of the recovery. ¬†Anyhow, is there anyone who was extremely bearish heading into the downturn who was also prescient enough to predict that the world wasn‚Äôt ending and that we might actually be on the verge of a big turnaround when things looked so terrible in 2009/10? Honestly, I can‚Äôt think of anyone off the top of my head who did this so I wanted to throw it out there to you guys. ¬†Did anyone predict the bust AND the boom?
Australia has one of the ugliest currencies in the world right now for two related reasons. Commodities have been weak, and Chinese growth has been poor. This weekend we got served a brand new helping of poor Chinese data, which we've rounded up here. As such, more pain for the Aussie dollar. Here's a chart going back a few days: FinViz
The sheer madness of the Japanese market continued on Monday. In its first trading since the solid US jobs report on Friday, the Nikkei gained nearly 5%. Nikkei.com Remember, the Friday jobs report set off a big 200-point Dow rally on Friday, as job creation of 175K proved to be sigh of relief. Today markets are generally higher across the board. US futures are up modestly. Same with Europe, where the Germany is up 0.22%.
