REUTERS/Jason ReedAsian markets are higher in overnight trading. Chinese stocks were up in early trading but turned red after inflation data showed that consumer prices climbed 2.7% and producer prices fell 2.7%. The decline in producer prices highlighted China's excess capacity problems. Chinese stocks plunged on Monday after policymakers said they would cut credit to sectors suffering from overcapacity.  Meanwhile Japanese stocks are up following gains in the U.S. market. 
ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 2.7% year-over-year (YoY) in June, beating expectations for a 2.5% rise. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 2.7%, more than expectations for a† 2.6% fall. This compares with a 2.1% rise in consumer prices and a 2.9% fall in producer prices in May. Producer prices have been negative for 16 months and Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough tweeted that this showed "tremendous slack in the manufacturing sector." We have previously reported that the excess capacity in Chinese industries has weighed on producer prices. Earlier this year, CLSA's Christopher Wood wrote that PPI "is as good an indicator as any of the deflationary excess capacity in the system, which is why local fund managers are fond of tracking the correlation between PPI and nominal GDP growth, and also more recently with the A share market." Meanwhile, the Ministry of Commerce reported that food prices jumped in June, driven by rising seafood and meat prices. Food inflation climbed 4.9%, from 3.2% in May. Vegetable prices increased 9.7% and meat prices were up 4.8%. Pork prices were up 1.1%, after falling 4.9% in May. Non-food yoy CPI inflation remained flat at 1.6% in June.
statigr.am/mickey768Today, Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale issued a research report arguing that fiscal drag in the U.S. has been "defeated" rather than delayed. Monetary easing and strong growth in housing are allowing the economy to power through federal tax increases and spending cuts, according to SocGen's Chief U.S. Economist Aneta Markowska. And with sequestration in place, federal debt levels are set to stabilize as a share of the economy over the next decade‚Äîmeaning investors don't have to fear another yet round of fiscal changes. SocGen expects economic growth to accelerate in the second half of the year. But what most interested us in the report was SocGen's roundup of furloughs in the federal workforce. It turns out, they're more limited than people expected‚Äîwhich is why they haven't been holding the economy back much. Furloughs are almost entirely limited to the Department of Defense and the Internal Revenue Service. In all, SocGen expects 850,000 federal workers to be furloughed for an average of 10.5 days. That's equivalent to the loss of 35,000 full-time jobs‚Äîjust a small blip on the overall economic picture. Here's the department-by-department table showing who's getting furloughed and who isn't: Societe Generale Sequestration isn't a smart policy. But it's coming late enough in the recovery, and the Federal Reserve has been active enough in offsetting it, that Washington's stupidity won't damage the economy too much.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingThe Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) was expected to consider a rule that would require brokers to disclose their bonuses to clients, at its July 11 meeting. This has however been postponed, according to Investment News. Under this rule, brokers would be required to disclose details on compensation of $50,000 or more, including signing bonuses, back-end bonuses etc. And the rule would need SEC approval.¬† In an email interview, Simon Roy, president of Jemstep, an online investment advisor, told Business Insider that wirehouse support for the rule has more to do with preventing poaching and less to do with transparency. For there to be true transparency, clients need to should have access to more transparent accounting. Business Insider: Many wirehouses like Morgan Stanley are welcoming FINRA's broker compensation disclosure rule on the grounds that it brings more transparency. Do you agree? Simon Roy: Anything that increases fee and compensation transparency on behalf of clients is of value. However, to say that the wirehouses support this proposed legislation on the grounds that it brings more transparency is a stretch. The proposed legislation is expected to reduce poaching of productive brokers from their ranks which could reduce broker compensation costs and increase firm profitability. Wirehouses are like owners of baseball teams looking to reduce the share of revenue paid to high value players. Anything that inhibits large payouts to players benefits the teams who invest in large farm system, i.e., the large wirehouses. Presenting their rationale for supporting this legislation as transparency appears to be a somewhat convenient patina.¬† The real reason is an effort to improve firm economics.¬† It is worth noting that FINRA is an industry self-governance body and wirehouses have seats on the board.¬† BI: What in your mind are the benefits to clients? What are the potential conflicts of interest that could arise?¬† SR: I believe the benefits of this proposed legislation for the client are indirect and not easily quantifiable. Ironically brokers who leave firms are paid a bonus on the previous years‚Äô production so informing clients when they leave does not necessarily reduce the incentive boost production in the prior year.¬† While I support more transparency for clients, broker bonuses are not the logical starting point. It would be more valuable and actionable for investors to have a transparent accounting of all fees paid on their portfolios held at brokerage firms and the other sources of income earned by brokerages from their portfolios.¬† Clients could use this information to evaluate the services they receive from brokerage firms and be in a position to make changes if needed. BI: Is there an argument to be made against such a rule? SR: I do not think there is a really good argument to be made against such legislation but it certainly can be improved to make it more meaningful to investors. I would challenge to wirehouses to propose expanding the legislation in support of transparency to make all brokerage fees and earning off their client‚Äôs portfolios openly available to clients. BI: Is there anything else you think our readers should know? SR: The reason brokers are paid up to 180% bonuses for moving firms is because they can generate significant revenue for brokerage firms from their client base. The issue for clients is not the level of bonuses brokers are paid to move or to stay, but rather the inability to determine the full cost of doing business with a particular brokerage firm. Clients should know what they are paying and what they are gaining from such fees.¬† The alternative for many dissatisfied with this lack of transparency is to move to Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs) who have a fiduciary responsibility to only take compensation directly from clients and be fully transparent with such fees.
Wikimedia CommonsDonors eager to see Egypt turn an economic corner after the ouster of Mohammed Morsi can now¬†directly forward money into the country's national bank. The "Support Egypt" fund¬†‚Äî which uses the number 306306 to signify the June 30th protests that led to Morsi's removal from power¬†‚Äî will aim to support the nation's struggling economy. From Daily News Egypt: Business associations nationwide have rushed to inject donations. According to Fathy Morsy, head of Behiera‚Äôs chamber of commerce, the Behiera investors association are set to donate EGP 5m in individual trader contributions, as the law prevents any chamber of commerce from donating without the confirmation of minister of industry and foreign trade. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs very important for Egypt to be financially independent,‚Äù said deputy head of Cairo Chamber of Commerce Ali Shoukri. ‚ÄúI believe that we won‚Äôt resort to a confirmation from the Ministry of Trade and Industry because it‚Äôs dissolved now, so the decision of donation will be taken by the board of directors indeed.‚Äù A year ago, Morsi's regime launched a similar campaign, dubbed "Egypt's Renaissance" (with a similar buzzy account number). ‚ÄúPeople harshly condemned the first campaign of 333/333, calling it humiliation,‚Äù said Magdy Toulba, an economic expert.‚Äù But now people believe that the nation is bleeding and we should do our utmost effort to heal its ailing economy." In June, Egypt's finance ministry reported a nearly $30 billion budget deficit for the first 11 months of the 2012/2013 fiscal year.
REUTERS/Eric Draper U.S. growth has outpaced the economic shock of the sequester, according to¬†Societe Generale's chief U.S. economist Aneta Markowsa. And it's reason to suspect the Fed will begin to taper its stimulative bond purchases, she writes in a new report to investors. While market watchers speculate themselves into insanity, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke has been largely explicit when it comes to the timeline for the quantitative easing slowdown¬†‚Äî it's tied to economic data. Bolstered by auspicious indicators like¬†June's 195,000 new jobs, that economic data may mean the Fed's taper will come sooner rather than later. Of course, just months ago politicians were busy playing a blame game over the sequester, the spate of cuts that was supposed to spur a significant negative shock on the economy¬†‚Äî the kind that could hurt a burgeoning recovery. To a certain extent it did, with summer furloughs netting an economic impact of about 35,000 full time job cuts, according to Societe Generale. So what gives? According to¬†Markowsa, growth has simply outshined the negatives, and the taper will be on its way as summer turns to fall.¬† If US growth continues to hold near 2% in the face of a fiscal shock that‚Äôs removing 1.75% from the economy this year, than one must conclude that the underlying growth has accelerated sharply and may be running between 3.5%-4%. We believe this is why the Fed has turned more optimistic on the outlook and has brought forward the timeframe for tapering.¬† Markowsa provides four main reasons why SocGen is confident the economy will stomach this dose of fiscal restraint enough to prompt a September (or earlier) taper. For all the political bluster surrounding the sequester, at least it threw a bucket of water on post-crisis uncertainty. This fall, however, politicians will again argue whether or not to raise the debt ceiling. So there's that to look forward to. SocGen
Aluminum demand is highly cyclical, so it gives us a good sense economic activity.¬† And Alcoa is the world's biggest producer of aluminum. Here are two¬† charts from Alcoa's Q2 earnings presentation depicting the state of the global economy. Alcoa Alcoa shares were trading higher after hours.
The Sunnyvale, Calif.-based firm said¬†it expects second-quarter revenue to come in at $575 million, against a $630 million consensus, according to CNBC.¬† "While we are disappointed in our performance this quarter," CEO Gary Guthart said in a statement, "particularly with respect to our capital sales in the U.S., overall procedure performance was solid in a difficult environment. We remain confident in the value that our products and services bring to patients, hospitals and the healthcare system."¬† Here's the full release ¬ª
TomFoolTest via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. More Money Flowing Into Smart Beta Is Just Another Sign That Quants Are Taking Over (The Economist) Smart beta funds, which do not use market cap-weighted approach, seem to be attracting more money. They got $15 billion in Q1 2013, up 45% year-over-year. The Economist points out that there are a number of smart-beta approaches. "The simplest is to give each market constituent equal weight. If there are 100 stocks, then each would have a weighting of 1%. A second approach, dubbed ‚Äúfundamental indexing‚Äù, is to weight each company by its financial characteristics‚Äîsales, dividends, assets or cash-flow. A third is to weight the index in terms of the volatility of the stocks, with the least volatile being favored. A fourth is to use the ‚Äúmomentum effect‚Äù to buy stocks that have recently risen in price. That‚Äôs just for starters." While the strategy has its own criticisms, The Economist argues that it is "another sign that the Quants are taking over." Quants refers to the use of math in finance. A New Study Tells Maryland's Pension Fund To Switch To Indexing (Maryland Public Policy Institute) A report from the Maryland Public Policy Institute is recommending that administrators of state pension systems consider indexing them. The report by Jeff Hooke and John Walters compared the investment fees and investment performance of Maryland‚Äôs state pension fund to those of other state pension funds. Their study found that the ten states with the highest wall street fee ratio over the last five fiscal years had a lower annualized five year return than the bottom ten states. They also found that an index portfolio mimicking state pensions asset allocation had an annualized return of 2.19%, against 1.5% which was the actual median performance of 35 state pension funds."State pension systems represent the retirement security of millions of public employees across the nation. Confidence in the strength of that safety net is beginning to erode. In these tumultuous economic times, the administrators of the state‚Äôs pension systems would be wise to consider indexing the systems‚Äô portfolios to ensure average investment returns and to cut unnecessary fees. this would be a safer, more responsible use of system resources than paying Wall Street management firms billions of dollars each year to deliver sub-par results on public securities and risky alternative investments. taxpayers and public sector employees suffer the results of subpar performance." Investors Jumped Back Into Stock In June (TD Ameritrade) TD Ameritrade's proprietary Investor Movement Index showed that retail investors increased their exposure to stocks in June. The IMX climbed 2.6% to a reading of 5.15 after falling in the months of April and May. TDAmeritrade Two Things Firms Can Do To Attract Female Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) As wealth managers try to woo more female investors, Catherine Valega of Green Bridge Wealth Management believes need to woo female advisors too. In a new WSJ column she writes that firms can do two things to attract more female advisors.¬† 1. "They should find ways to get women together. Host events where female advisers are able to meet other female advisers at all levels of the industry. It's the easiest thing to do. ‚Ä¶At top conferences there is sometimes a female adviser dinner, but we need to do that at every level of the experience chain so more women have a chance to receive mentoring." 2. "Firms try to attract women using the same model they use when attracting a man." Valega writes that this is a mistake as women have a different work-life balance, and firms need to rethink how they approach female advisors.  The Brand New 'Pain Trade' (JonesTrading) A pain trade refers to an asset that cause the most pain to the most amount of people. And Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading writes that being long bonds is the new pain trade. "Much of the pain trade talk over the past two years has been the move higher in equities.¬† These days, there is a new pain trade--being long bonds. There is a major tidal shift occurring here.¬† Following 5 years of the Federal Reserve, Commercial Banks and investors piling into bonds the momentum is finally reversing.¬†¬†¬†¬† "Normally, we would take the view that investors should not be scared of a 10 year Treasury yield below 3%. The problem is that the behavior of the buyers of these instruments over the past few years has hardly been normal."
Here's an interesting slide from aluminum giant Alcoa's Q2 presentation. Basically, there isn't an airplane in the sky that isn't loaded with parts from Alcoa. Alcoa
Analysts expected EPS of $0.06. The stock was up 1.5% after hours. Revenue also beat at $5.85 billion versus estimated $5.79 billion. Here's the full release ª† Speaking on CNBC, CEO Klaus Kleinfeld said he was not concerned by a China slow down.  The company does not make any mention of China, Asia or the Pacific in its release. Second quarter 2013 net loss of $119 million, or $0.11 per share, compares to net income of $149 million, or $0.13 per share, in first quarter 2013, and a net loss of $2 million, or $0.00 per share, in second quarter 2012, the company said. Jim Cramer argued today the firm remains an excellent economic bellwether†ó "a global barometer of every†single area that should be on fire if the rise in interest rates is right." But London-traded aluminum has fallen nearly 10% in the past 12 months, and the Wall Street Journal's Spencer Jakab argues the aluminum market ó and Alcoa's earnings ó don't mean what they used to: Alcoa's shares have dropped on the day following its earnings report two-thirds of the time since 2008. It hasn't done all that well on other days, either. The equity bull market has effectively passed it by. Alcoa has lagged behind the broad market by nearly 25 percentage points this year, leaving it near a four-year low. Even if Alcoa beats the consensus forecast for second-quarter earnings of six cents a share on Monday, up from zero a year earlier, investors will likely be more interested in management's comments on the glutted market for metals. Click here for updates ª
Flickr via wonderlaneWe tend to think of 401(k) plans as the bedrock of the retirement savings system. But these plans, named after a section in the Internal Revenue Code, were actually developed more by accident than by design. When lawmakers originally established the Revenue Act of 1978, the goal was to limit executives at some companies from having too much access to the perks of cash-deferred plans. (Why, you ask? Since the 1950s, companies had been fighting with the Internal Revenue Service to allow more money to be squirreled away in such plans.) The accidental birth of the 401(k) can be credited to Ted Benna. In 1980, the benefits consultant used his interpretation of the law to create a 401(k) plan for his own employer, The Johnson Cos., that allowed full-time employees to fund accounts with pre-tax dollars and matching employer contributions. Benna then asked the Internal Revenue Service to change some proposed rules under the law that ultimately led to the widespread adoption of 401(k) plans by employers in the early 1980s. "I knew it was going to be big, but I was certainly not anticipating that it would be the primary way people would be accumulating money for retirement 30 plus years later," Benna, now semi-retired and the president of the 401(k) Association, told Workforce magazine. The 401(k) Grows Up: A 30-Year Timeline In the early 1980s, 401(k) plans were only available at a handful of large companies, such as Johnson &amp; Johnson. Today, some 94% of private employers offer them. A 401(k) plan is a retirement account that you can only access through an employer. You contribute a portion of your salary to the plan, and if you choose to put that contribution in a traditional 401(k), it isn‚Äôt taxed until you withdraw the money, allowing your investments to grow over time without being taxed. (Note: You will pay penalties if you take out the money before a set retirement age, as defined by the plan.) And, as an added bonus, many employers will match some of your contributions. In its relatively short history -- just 30 years! -- 401(k) plans have had many milestones: 1978: Congress passes the Revenue Act of 1978, which includes a provision that allows employees to avoid being taxed on a portion of income that they decide to receive as deferred compensation, rather than direct pay. The provision becomes Internal Revenue Code Sec. 401(k). 1981: The I.R.S. issues rules allowing the funding of 401(k) plans through employee salary reductions. 1982: Several companies‚Äîsuch as Johnson &amp; Johnson, PepsiCo and Honeywell -- begin to offer 401(k) plans to their employees. By 1983, nearly half of all large employers either offer a 401(k) plan or are considering offering one, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. 1984: The Tax Reform Act of 1984 requires ‚Äúnondiscrimination‚Äù testing to prevent 401(k) plans from favoring highly compensated employees over rank-and-file workers. At the time, Congress was concerned that executives would take advantage of 401(k) plans more than lower-paid employees. 1996: Assets in 401(k) plans surpass $1 trillion, with more than 30 million participants. 2001: The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 provides for catch-up contributions for participants 50 and older, as well as the creation of Roth 401(k)s, which let after-tax contributions grow tax-free. 2006: The Pension Protection Act of 2006 allows employers to automatically enroll employees in 401(k) plans, and offer target-date funds as a default option. Today‚Äôs 401(k): Too Big For Its Britches? The current 401(k) stats are staggering: 51 million Americans have more than $3.5 trillion invested in 401(k) plans, which is more than double the $1.6 trillion in assets held by the plans in 2002, according to the Investment Company Institute.Assets in 401(k) plans represent 18% of the $19.4 trillion U.S. retirement market.The average account balance in a 401(k) plan reached $80,900 in the first quarter this year. According to Fidelity Investments, a large 401(k) plan administrator, that‚Äôs up 75% from $46,200 during the market low in the first quarter of 2009. Benna, who‚Äôs referred to as the "Father of the 401(k)," has actually been critical of his creation as of late, noting that there are too many investing options available today and that their complexity has a negative impact on 401(k) plan participants."This monster is out of control. We went to three options, then to six, then to seven, then to 15 -- it is far beyond what most participants were able to deal with," Benna told SmartMoney magazine. "And I am not convinced we have added value by getting more complicated." The original 401(k) plan had only two investing options: a stock fund and a fund that guaranteed a return similar to a money market fund. The typical 401(k) now offers 19 funds. Some employers have been working to simplify 401(k) plans by limiting the number of funds on a plan‚Äôs investment menu, as well as automatically enrolling workers into target-date funds, which adjust a portfolio of stocks and bonds as a participant approaches retirement to reduce risk. Today, nearly 70% of 401(k) plans offer a target-date fund as a default option, with about 12% of 401(k) assets invested in such funds. The 401(k) Effect: Did These Plans Kill Pensions? As 401(k) plans have thrived, traditional pension plans have declined. According to the Department of Labor, from 1980 to 2008, the proportion of private workers participating in traditional pension plans fell from 38% to 20%. For employers, 401(k) plans are a more enticing option because they cost less than traditional pension plans, and they don‚Äôt carry the same accounting liabilities and investment risks. Some 401(k) critics even say that workers would be better off in traditional pensions. "We know after 30 years of this 401(k) experiment that people do worse in 401(k)s than they would have if their money was in a traditional plan or if it was in a plain vanilla retirement account," Teresa Ghilarducci, director of the Schwartz Center for Economic Policy Analysis at The New School for Social Research, told PBS‚Äôs Frontline in April. But pensions were never as widely available as 401(k) plans. "Even in the 'good old days' when 'everybody' supposedly had a pension, the reality is that most workers in the private sector did not," writes Nevin Adams of the Center for Research on Retirement Income at the Employee Benefit Research Institute. "Even among those who did work for an employer that offered a pension, most in the private sector weren‚Äôt working long enough with a single employer to accumulate the service levels you need for a full pension." As a result, notes Adams, most workers who have pensions still rely on a combination of Social Security and personal savings, in addition to pension income to fund their retirements... and the number of 401(k) plans continues to grow. How to Make the Most of Your 401(k) Despite the growth of 401(k) plans, there‚Äôs an estimated $6.6 trillion deficit in what Americans currently have in savings compared to what they will actually need in retirement, according to an analysis by the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. This shortfall should make maximizing retirement accounts, like a 401(k) plan, a priority. As of 2013, you can contribute up to $17,500 into a 401(k) plan, and put in $5,500 more if you‚Äôre 50 or older. If you‚Äôre not maxing out your 401(k), you should consider boosting your contribution by 1% every six months. For most of us, that‚Äôs about $20 to $50 per paycheck, which you probably wouldn‚Äôt miss much. And since most employers will automatically deduct a 401(k) contribution from your paycheck, it makes the extra savings easier to stomach. Your employer may also offer to help you save more: Some 95% of 401(k) plans provide matching contributions, and the average company contribution is 2.5% of an employee‚Äôs pay. Matching policies among 401(k) plans differ depending on the company, but the most common is a dollar-for-dollar match of up to 6% of an employee's pay. The Investing Answer: Even if you have a good 401(k) plan, the most important thing to do is to start saving more now because it's hard to make up for lost time when it comes to building a healthy retirement nest egg. P.S. -- Need more help with planning your retirement? Check out LearnVest's free "Retire In Style" bootcamp. This 10-day email program gives you daily to-dos so you can enjoy a decades-long retirement, worry-free now and then. Click here to sign up.
REUTERS/Joseba Etxaburu The calm before the earnings season storm. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Flickr/Philip Taylor PTThe Federal Reserve's G.19 report on consumer credit outstanding is out. Credit jumped by $19.6 billion in May to $2.838 trillion, which was far higher than the $12.5 billion forecasted by economists. Revolving credit (e.g. credit card balances) jumped by $6.6 billion to $856.5 billion. Non-revolving credit (e.g. mortgages, auto loans) grew $13.0 billion to $1,982 trillion. Growth in April, however, was revised down to $10.8 billion from an earlier reading of¬† $11.05 billion gain in April. "As households have made significant progress in repairing their balance sheets, consumers have been more willing and able to take on additional credit," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia ahead of the release. "The Federal Reserve‚Äôs Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey indicates that banks on net have been increasingly willing to make loans to consumers in the second quarter and are loosening standards." Here's a breakdown of the report via the Fed: Federal Reserve
This weekend, the town of Lac-Megantic in Quebec was practically leveled when rail cars carrying petroleum came off the track and ignited. Five people were killed and 40 remain missing. Canadian PM Stephen Harper said the town looked like a "war zone." Safety is always a major concern with the various modes of energy transport. According to data compiled by Dagmar Etkin of the group Environmental Research Consulting, rail transport is much less spill-prone than hauling oil by car or pipeline. We wrote about this in April. Here's the table: road transport sees nearly twice the rate of gallons spilled per billion gallons transported than rail. Dr. Dagmar Etkin/Environmental Research Consulting It's also worth noting that pipelines actually saw more gallons spilled per billion gallons transported than rail. Reuters' John Kemp adds a good comment about this: ... in the three years from 2010 to 2012, just two people were killed per year by incidents involving liquids pipelines, and three more injured, according to PHMSA records. Three more were killed pear year by gas transmission pipelines and 23 injured. Notwithstanding occasional explosions and spills, pipelines have proved safe, and the number of fatalities and amount of materials lost per mile of pipeline is falling. Tank cars carried by rail may be somewhat riskier, but the statistical record so far shows it is much safer than carrying oil by truck. A tragedy for sure, but it's unlikely to make much of a dent in how crude gets moved.
To say that the gold market displays all of the classic features of a bubble gone bust is to oversimplify. There is no doubt that goldís heady rise to the peak, from around $350 per ounce in July 2003, had investors drooling. The price would rise today because everyone had become convinced that it would rise even further tomorrow. Doctors and dentists started selling stocks and buying gold coins. Demand for gold jewelry in India and China soared. Emerging-market central banks diversified out of dollars and into gold. The case for buying gold had several strong components. Ten years ago, gold was selling at well below its long-term inflation-adjusted average, and the integration of three billion emerging-market citizens into the global economy could only mean a giant long-term boost to demand. That element of the story, incidentally, remains valid. The global financial crisis added to goldís allure, owing initially to fear of a second Great Depression. Later, some investors feared that governments would unleash inflation to ease the burden of soaring public debt and address persistent unemployment. As central banks brought policy interest rates down to zero, no one cared that gold yields no interest. So it is nonsense to say that the rise in the price of gold was all a bubble. But it is also true that as the price rose, a growing number of naÔve investors sought to buy in. Lately, of course, the fundamentals have reversed somewhat, and the speculative frenzy has reversed even more. Chinaís economy continues to soften; Indiaís growth rate is down sharply from a few years ago. By contrast, despite the ill-advised fiscal sequester, the US economy appears to be healing gradually. Global interest rates have risen 100 basis points since the US Federal Reserve started suggesting ñ quite prematurely, in†my view†ñ that it would wind down its policy of quantitative easing. With the Fed underscoring its strong anti-inflation bias, it is harder to argue that investors need gold as a hedge against high inflation. And, as the doctors and dentists who were buying gold coins two years ago now unload them, it is not yet clear where the downward price spiral will stop. Some are targeting the psychologically compelling $1,000 barrier. In fact, the case for or against gold has not changed all that much since 2010, when I†last wrote†about it. In October of that year, the price of gold ñ the consummate faith-based speculative asset ñ was on the way up, having just hit $1,300. But the real case for holding it, then as now, was never a speculative one. Rather, gold is a hedge. If you are a high-net-worth investor, or a sovereign wealth fund, it makes perfect sense to hold a small percentage of your assets in gold as a hedge against extreme events. Holding gold can also make sense for middle-class and poor households in countries ñ for example, China and India ñ that significantly limit access to other financial investments. For most others, gold is just another gamble that one can make. And, as with all gambles, it is not necessarily a winning one. Unless governments firmly set the price of gold, as they did before World War I, the market for it will inevitably be risky and volatile. In†a study published in January, the economists Claude Erb and Campbell Harvey consider several possible models of goldís fundamental price, and find that gold is at best only loosely tethered to any of them. Instead, the price of gold often seems to drift far above or far below its fundamental long-term value for extended periods. (This behavior is, of course, not unlike that of many other financial assets, such as exchange rates or stock prices, though goldís price swings may be more extreme.) Gold bugs sometimes cite isolated historical data that suggest that goldís long-term value has remained stable over the millennia. For example, Stephen Harmstonís†oft-cited 1998 study†points to anecdotal evidence that an ounce of gold bought 350 loaves of bread in the time of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, who died in 562 BC. Ignoring the fact that bread in Babylon was probably healthier than todayís highly refined product, the price of gold today is not so different, equal to perhaps 600 loaves of bread. Of course, we do not have annual data for Babylonian gold prices. We can only assume, given wars and other uncertainties, that true market prices back then, like today, were quite volatile. So the recent collapse of gold prices has not really changed the case for investing in it one way or the other. Yes, prices could easily fall below $1,000; but, then again, they might rise. Meanwhile, policymakers should be cautious in interpreting the plunge in gold prices as a vote of confidence in their performance.
These are tough times over at the Meredith Whitney Advisory Group. According to the Wall Street Journal's Greg Zuckerman, the firm founded by the veteran bank analyst has been watching business shrink. From Zuckerman: The firm started with more than 30 research clients, but just 14 of the clients were left at the end of January, according to people familiar with the matter. Elliott Management, Paulson &amp; Co. and Balyasny Asset Management are among those that have departed, according to people close to Ms. Whitney's firm and to those hedge funds... ...The firm's staff has shrunk in the past two years from five full-time investment professionals, in addition to Ms. Whitney, to just one as of last month, according to people close to the firm. Whitney made a name for herself during the financial crisis as an analyst at CIBC World Markets, which was where she correctly predicted that Citigroup would have to cut its dividend due to capital concerns. During a "60 Minutes" interview in December 2010, Whitney forecasted that the U.S. municipal bond market would experience cascading defaults.¬† This prediction has not materialized. Read more about the state of Whitney's firm at WSJ.com.
Eliot Spitzer has already proven that he can turn a less-than-sexy political office into a national conversation. If he wins the race for New York City Comptroller, you can expect him to do it again. It will be a new platform, but his foil will remain the same. As NYC Comptroller Eliot Spitzer would still direct his energies at reforming Wall Street politically and culturally. Before entering and leaving the office of New York Governor, Spitzer was the state's Attorney General. There he was known as 'The Sheriff of Wall Street,' and even after scandal banished him from public life, he has constantly carved out small spaces in the media where he can continue to rail against the industry's transgressions or excess. There was the time he got in a massive fight with Maria Bartiromo on live television for saying that former AIG exec†Hank Greenberg should be accused of fraud. Bartiromo suggested he may be saying that because he had a personal vendetta against Greenberg, Spitzer countered her by saying that "facts are facts." And then there's Spitzer's reaction to a story about former Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain. During the most terrifying days of the financial crisis, Thain and other bank CEOs were meeting with the President in Washington. According to former FDIC Chair Sheila Bair, Thain had the nerve to double-check that Wall Street compensation would not be touched, despite to the industry's contribution to the disaster. Here's what Spitzer wrote about that in his Slate column: The Thain vignette is so troubling because he did such harm and yet continued to feel so entitled, to express no sense of remorse, to not recognize that his stewardship had led to the troubles and that maybe there should be consequences. He and others on Wall Street personified the world of heads I win, tails you loseóor, put another way, of socializing risk while privatizing gains. Have we learned any lessons? The critical point is this: We don't resent success, we applaud it. We don't begrudge others the earned fruits of their labor. But we do and should resent an attitude of entitlement without obligation. And that attitude is still pervasive on Wall Street. Spitzer called this blog post (by the way), 'The Grimmest Story Youíll Hear Today About Wall Street Pay'. And what does the New York City Comptroller's office know about Wall Street pay? The short answer to that is, as much as it possibly can. The State office releases an extensive annual report on Wall Street compensation, which details the importance of the industry to city and state revenue.†In 2012, Wall Street tax revenue made up over 6% of all tax revenue for NYC, and 13.5% for New York State. What that means is that the city's current Comptroller, John Liu is expected to keep a sharp eye on how increasing tax revenue from Wall Street could (potentially) help fill city budget gaps. When NYC was running a $4 billion deficit in 2010, Liu was quite clear about that. From Bloomberg: ìWeíre not at a point in time where itís prudent to exclude any options,î Liu said, citing Patersonís prediction of a $9 billion deficit for the state and Bloombergís $4 billion projected city budget gap...†While taxing bonuses may prompt some employers to leave New York City, ìso would decimating the police force by a quarter or 20 percent, or even 10 percent, which will make the city less livable,î said Liu, 43, a Democrat who took office in January. ìWe need to find a balance.î With the right Mayor in place, a Comptroller Eliot Spitzer could potentially turn ideas like that into action.† Then there's the $139.2 billion controlled by the five New York City pension funds to consider. In America's new era of activist shareholders, it's easy to envision a Comptroller's Office getting more hands on with its investments, and the investors that make them. Right now, for example, the NYC Comptroller's office is suing BP†for investment losses related to the Deep Water Horizon oil spill, and it has lead the push to get†major Wall Street banks to clawback executive pay. So there's definitely some flexibility in this office. In 2010, when Goldman's stock plummeted 20% from April 16th to mid-May, New York City and State pension funds owned†1.86 million shares of Goldman stock, worth $269 million. City comptroller John Liu said his office was "monitoring this situation closely." It's hard to imagine Spitzer, in that position, being as cool when asked for comment ó and the Comptroller will always be asked for comment. Spitzer knows all this. Rumor had it that he was considering a run for the Comptroller's Office at the end of 2009 (too soon, too soon).†He sees it as a an undervalued space in the New York City political landscape ó a mic that he can turn all the way on.†
It seemed to make sense to some people that if the Federal Reserve reigned in monetary policy and caused interest rates to rise, then stocks would suffer as debt financing cost rose for corporations and consumers. Then again, the Fed would only allow rates to rise if it thought the economy was improving. Also, when you look at the historical evidence, rising interest are associated with rising stock prices. "Post-crisis, periods of rising bond yields have tended to coincide with rising equities," said UBS's Nick Nelson. But the pace of the interest rate surge has left many global stock markets in the deep in the red. "[W]e think it was the speed of the move that proved a problem as US Treasuries rose from 1.6% to 2.6% over just 8 weeks," explained Nelson. Still Nelson and the equity strategy team at UBS thinks that it's a mistake to bail on stocks. "We continue to be of the view that rising bond yields, from these ultra-low levels are bullish, not bearish for Global Equities, if they are rising for the right reasons," added Nelson noting that this would be driven by expanding P/E multiples.¬† "The problem over May and June was that the rise in yields was too rapid. The most remarkable thing about about the market moves since the May 6 low in interest rates is that the U.S. stock market (represented by the S&amp;P 500) is actually up 3%. UBS
MarkGregory007 on flickrMillennials have received plenty of media scrutiny for their Internet addictions, their tendency to crash at their parents‚Äô house instead of getting a place of their own, and their unique mix of optimism, openness, and learned cynicism. Their politics have been shaped by the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the turmoil of an¬†Iraq War¬†that they largely experienced on TV screens, and the 2008 financial crisis that trapped them in¬†dead-end jobs.¬† Yet, amazingly, any attempt to fix the deficit or reduce the cost of health care so that U.S. prosperity might continue rests on the shoulders of these 18-to-34-year-olds. Obamacare relies on 2.7 million of them enrolling for insurance coverage at the new¬†government exchanges opening in October,¬†while the congressional Republican budget plan asks them to pay the same amount in taxes as the current projections but get less from the government in return. Here are three factors that will shape whether the millennials ‚Äì like past generations ‚Äì can save the country: THEY NEED MORE MONEY¬†‚Ä¶ SOON¬†¬†Wages will decide everything ‚Äì how many will default on their student loans, how much money they can save for a home, even how much they will¬†pay in taxes to the federal government. It all depends on rising paychecks. Without higher salaries for millennials, baby boomers will struggle to sell their houses to a younger generation. New parents cannot save for their own children‚Äôs education. The trouble is that young college graduates working full-time earned, on average, $34,500 last year, according to the progressive Economic Policy Institute. Adjusting for inflation over the past dozen years, this translates into a shocking loss of $3,200. Their predicament is similar to that of older workers also coping with unemployment and declining salaries, except that this young generation must ultimately shoulder the costs of entitlement programs such as Medicare as their parents retire. ‚ÄúThis is an unmitigated disaster,‚Äù said EPI economist Heidi Shierholz. ‚ÄúAt a time like this, it‚Äôs the younger workers being screwed by the¬†lack of broad-based demand¬†for work to be done.‚Äù The value of a college degree has dropped, even if it remains a far better bet than the alternative of skipping higher education. Economic research shows that the after-affects of entering the workforce in a bad economy can cause more than 10 years of depressed wages. These analyses, however, largely come from the 1981 recession, which pales in comparison to the 2008 financial crisis and a recovery that remains unfinished after four years.¬†‚ÄúA huge swath of these young people just aren‚Äôt going to get the jobs that [can] set them up on their career path,‚Äù Shierholz said. ‚ÄúThat will have a lasting impact.‚Äù Stagnant incomes are not a foregone conclusion. The generation that graduated into the Great Depression ‚Äì after having survived World War II ‚Äì enjoyed the prosperity of the 1950s or 1960s. But when asked what turned around that situation, Shierholz said, ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt have good clean data going back that far.‚Äù THEY MUST FORM NEW HOUSEHOLDS¬†Most eyeballs are focused on home prices. The surge over the past year has become a source of economic strength. But a solid predictor of whether the comeback has legs is measured by the formation of new households. According to a study published by the regional Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland Federal Reserve, 18-to-34 year-olds formed 1.9 million fewer households in 2011 than they should have under normal economic conditions. This means that more millennials returned to their childhood bedrooms, or crowded into apartments with roommates. The housing picture has brightened since 2011, but younger Americans¬†are¬†neither moving out nor moving up. Just 520,000 more households were established between the first quarters of 2012 and 2013. The share of 18-to-34 year-olds as heads of household fell slightly, to 37 percent from 37.1 percent. THEY MUST NAVIGATE TOUGH POLITICAL DEMOGRAPHICS¬†¬†Politicians tends to cater to their bases of power, which is why trimming Medicare benefits for existing retirees is the electoral equivalent of playing with fire. By 2024, millennials will comprise about 35 percent of the electorate, roughly the same share as the baby boomers, according to the Democratic polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research. This matters because current budget projections have this generation financing the Social Security and Medicare benefits of their parents, but without any evidence that they will have the financial means to do so. Raised in an ethnically diverse society and believing in tolerance ‚Äì about 40 percent of millennials are minorities ‚Äì this generation naturally broke for President Obama, with 60 percent voting last November to return him to the White House. Some¬†Republicans¬†believe this group remains up for grabs. The National Republican Congressional Committee, citing a poll by CNN and ORC International, noted last month that just 49 percent of 18-to-34-year-olds described Obama as honest and trustworthy, compared to 67 percent in May. That was before confidence in the administration was shaken by a slew of controversies involving the president‚Äôs ability to manage the IRS and a national security state that has been gathering the email and phone data of most Americans. Still, Pollster John Zogby does not see the generation as crossing over to the GOP anytime soon. ‚ÄúDemographically, at least for a while, there is more of an alignment with the Democratic Party, but a lot of that is going to be by default,‚Äù said Zogby, co-author of a new book about millennials called¬†The First Globals. There is a vocal minority within this age group who lean toward libertarian ideals, a group Zogby identifies as ‚ÄúCollege Educated, Not Going Anywhere.‚Äù They have yet to find the jobs that match the expectations, SAT tutoring, and Suzuki violin lessons of their childhood. But on the whole, ‚Äúimmigration, multiculturalism, multi-nationalism ‚Äì that‚Äôs who they are,‚Äù said Zogby, explaining that Republican politicians are still preoccupied by the question of ‚Äúwho is the real conservative.‚Äù Millennials, however, have yet to assert themselves into the entitlement debate. Republicans have proposed fixes to Medicare that require this generation to pay into the existing system for their parents and grandparents, with the promise of a highly privatized form of Medicare awaiting them that is less generous in its payouts. Democrats have stiff-armed any changes at all to the program, increasing the possibility of conflict between two generations that Zogby described as natural allies otherwise. ‚ÄúThat is what builds intergenerational resentment,‚Äù Zogby said. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre just starting to see it.‚Äù More From The Fiscal Times:8 Worst Fashion Mistakes To Make On An InterviewCan't Afford Retirement? Move To The SticksWhat Happens When Paychecks Go Plastic?
ESPNMatt Eliason is a financial analyst at GE Capital. But on Sunday he upstaged some of the best players in the world by scoring an incredible bicycle-kick goal in the Lionel Messi &amp; Friends charity game in Chicago. Eliason was Northwestern University's all-time leading goal scorer before he graduated in 2011. But he has only played recreationally since then. According to the Wall Street Journal, the game's organizers invited Northwestern coach Tim Lenahan to round up a bunch of his former players to join the game after some high-profile players like Cesc Fabregas and David Luiz cancelled at the last minute. Eliason was one of those players, and he ended up stealing the show. He told the Chicago Sun-Times after the game about the decision to try the bicycle kick, "Once the ball was in the air, I thought I might as well go for it in front of all these fans. Itís not every day that you get to play Messi. So I thought Iíd give it a try, and fortunately it worked out." The video (via Pro Soccer Talk): 
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGold prices have been tumbling. But the ardent gold bulls have been hanging on. The most popular argument that these gold bulls have clung to has been that mining costs will create a floor for gold prices. The idea is that if gold continues to be below the cost of mining, then miners will stop mining and supply will disappear forcing gold prices up. Peter Schiff made this argument late last month. And so did Art Cashin.  However,¬† it's not completely obvious that a mine would shut down just because the market price falls below cost. Jim Rogers, Chairman of Rogers Holdings told Business Insider that the closing of gold mines is a way off: "I've been in the investment world a long time and I know that things can stay below the cost of production for years. It takes a long time for people to believe they have to close their mines. It costs money to close a mine, it costs money to re-open a mine, so people are reluctant to close mines. So you can see any commodity staying below the cost of production for a while, especially if it's something like a mine which is expensive to close, and expensive to open." Rogers is a long-term bull on gold but and doesn't think the sell-off is over.¬† He thinks gold prices have further to fall, and that gold is in the process of making a "complicated bottom."
NewseumHe's back. Eliot Spitzer is done with the wilderness and wants to be the next Comptroller of New York City. He'll probably win. And fortunately for those of us who live in New York City, he'll probably be good at it. The city comptroller has three main responsibilities: overseeing the city's employee pension systems (among the largest in the country), issuing debt, and auditing the city's finances.¬†These are important roles, especially given the extreme stresses that New York City's budget is under today: New York City government has a cost structure that is uncompetitive, unsustainable, and unprepared for economic risk. Legacy costs are crowding out the city's ability to invest in infrastructure and draw in new and diverse businesses.¬†These are exactly the sort of issues that the city comptroller should be raising the alarm about. Unfortunately, New York City Comptroller has historically been a job for Democratic machine politicians of little distinction who hope to use the job to get elected mayor. Seven of the office's eight last occupants have tried to get elected mayor. All but one have failed. If you're a machine politician trying to use the comptroller job as a springboard, you can't be too aggressive in your role as an auditor, less you alienate one of the constituencies you need to back your run for mayor. Comptrollers are captured, and they haven't been promoting the reforms they should be. Of course, Spitzer probably wants to run for mayor, too. But his path to the mayor's seat would be different from the usual comptroller's. He's an outsider who doesn't owe anything to the city's unions, contractors, health care interests, real estate investors, or anybody else. He has a public profile that will rival the next mayor's, whomever that is. And he isn't a mediocrity. Spitzer told The New York Times yesterday that he intends to broaden the role of the comptroller, by auditing not just the city's finances but the effectiveness of government policies overall. In other words, it sounds like he intends to set up a shadow mayor's office. Given the mayoral administration that we're likely to get with any of the front-running candidates ‚Äî lacking imagination and hemmed in by tight fiscal and political constraints ‚Äî a prominent shadow mayor could be very useful. Spitzer showed good instincts on cost-effectiveness issues as governor. As Stephen Smith notes, he was one of the few New York State politicians who even tried to rein in the¬†boondoggle¬†of World Trade Center reconstruction. That effort was cut short by Spitzer's resignation from the governor's office. Spitzer wasn't any good at actually working with the legislature to address the problems he identified, which is a reason to worry that he wouldn't be a good mayor. But city comptroller, like state attorney general, is a job that would suit Spitzer's analyst-and-pitbull instincts well without requiring him to actually lead an administration. One risk is that Spitzer could use the comptroller's office as a vehicle to rebuild his national profile, using the city's pension investments as an excuse to be an activist investor. Spitzer likes to sue people and there are a lot of people you can sue when you run one of the country's largest pension funds. That wouldn't do much to serve the interests of New York City residents. But to the extent Spitzer trains his fire on issues within the city's boundaries, he's likely to add a lot of value. Welcome back, Eliot. It's going to be interesting.
Flickr/clevergrrlGlobal aluminum giant Alcoa will release its Q2 earnings report after the markets close today. This is the unofficial start to earnings season, which is when hundreds of big companies tell us what's going on with their businesses. Analysts expect the company to announce earnings of $0.06 per share, which is what it earned a year ago. Aluminum demand is very sensitive to economic activity, so Alcoa is widely considered a bellwether. And if history is our guide, Alcoa earnings announcement may be able to tell us what the next three months will look like in the stock market, according to Factset's John Butters: Over the past ten years, Alcoa has reported earnings above the mean EPS estimate 48% of the time (19 out of 40 quarters). In the 19 quarters that Alcoa reported actual EPS above the mean EPS estimate, the average price change for the S&amp;P 500 from report date to report date (for Alcoa) is 3.6%. The price of the S&amp;P 500 increased in 15 of these 19 quarters (79%).  In the 21 quarters that Alcoa reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimate, the average price change from report date to report date is -0.5%. However, the price of the index decreased in only 11 of these 21 quarters (52%). During the other ten quarters, the price of the index increased over the next three months after Alcoa missed estimates.† "Recent history shows that when Alcoa has beat estimates, the price of the index has increased about 80% of the time over the next three months," Butters writes. "When Alcoa has missed estimates, the price of the index has actually increased nearly as often as it has decreased over the next three months." Still, a dissonant aluminum market might mean that Alcoa no longer enjoys its bellwether status. Investors may parse Alcoa's report for its comments on market overall, as†low-cost aluminum smelters in China continue to drive growth†in the country's share of global production. FactSet Insight 
It is interesting and very disturbing that no one is addressing the SONGWRITER's situation in this Pandora debacle. Pandora wishes to REDUCE the amount of royalties that songwriters have already seen CUT in 2005. Let me give you an example of what Pandora is paying in royalties to SONGWRITERS--not the performers, but the people who write the songs--the foundation of the music world--- PANDORA ----"Heaven Is A Place On Earth" †(co-written) accounting period for 3 months-----3,112,300 streams My Pandora royalty .................$39.61 AND they want us to take an EIGHTY FIVE PERCENT CUT!!!† Does that give you an understanding of the meager, insulting, outrageous amount of money songwriters are being paid from PANDORA and SPOTIFY and YOUTUBE and GOOGLE †(I received 15 cents from GOOGLE the other day)? PANDORA talks a great deal about their need to make a profit and to survive.... but they could care less about the fate of those creators who already are hurting so badly, they are dropping out of music. FACT: According to the FEDERAL CENSUS, we have lost 45% of our professional songwriters in the last ten years or even less (since the advent of streaming and piracy on the Internet depriving us of earning our LEGAL royalties) So--here is the question: WHY is it alright for PANDORA to want to exist and grow and earn profits while it is NOT alright for the SONGWRITERS to SURVIVE, be respected, earn a fair royalty? PANDORA's model is failing-- because as Steve Jobs recognized much earlier on when he rejected the idea of Streaming Digital radio--they don't have a business plan that gives them a way (such as ad revenue) to earn a profit OTHER THAN NOT PAYING FOR MUSIC! Listen Up Everyone Please: Without the Songwriters who create music for artists who do NOT write their own songs, there will be little if any music when you go to PANDORA OR SPOTIFY OR YOUTUBE.... I am grateful for my success as a Grammy-nominated, hit songwriter....I am grateful that my songs have reached millions of people and meant something to them in their lives.... But I will NOT perpetuate the myth that somehow Songwriters should give their music away for free or let it be stolen by Corporations interested in their own profits by any means possible... Let the voice of the Songwriters Be Heard! †Send a petition --allow us to be represented at all these meetings between the music world and those who would seek to destroy what we have worked so long and hard to achieve in our lives.
REUTERS/Susana Vera Commodities are rallying this morning amid a broader market rally.  Here's a quick round-up: Meanwhile, crude oil prices are down 0.5% down from 14-month high on a stronger dollar. Oil prices had climbed amid unrest in Egypt and on news that workers at the Ras Lanuf and El Sider¬†¬† ¬†export facilities and refineries in Libya had shut down on Friday.
Bloomberg Television This weekend, money management firm PIMCO tweeted out something a little bit sad. Gross: 1 to 2 month performance numbers are a blip on a 40-year performance history. PIMCO marches on a long-term path. The flagship Total Return Fund had its worst month since 2008. Outflows from the fund hit a record in June. This can't be any fun for the folks at PIMCO, but actually it's a sign that PIMCO is doing its job, and giving its investors bond exposure. The fact of the matter is that the bond market has seen moves unlike any in a long time, and anyone who wants exposure to bonds has been whooped by the spike in interest rates. Back in 2011, Bill Gross sent out a mea culpa, because he had bet against bonds, and then bonds proceeded to have a huge rally. That was problematic because investors passively adding money every month to his bond funds thought they were getting bond exposure (which makes sense as part of an overall portfolio strategy) but then it turned out that the fund was not in step with the market. Some sophisticated investors may want to go long and short the bond market as trades, but normal investors in big retail funds, the likes of which are offered by PIMCO, are placing a certain amount of their cash in bonds. When the entire market gets clubbed, any fund that's doing its job will get slammed.
They take advantage of our misunderstanding of the time value of money, of our aversion to reading the fine print, of our childish need for instant gratification and most of all, our conflicted emotional connection to money. Confusing customers about money can be quite profitable if that's the sort of work you're willing to do. A few things to keep in mind:
APEliot Spitzer is attempting a political comeback with a run for New York City comptroller. So what exactly does the New York City comptroller do? It's not nearly as glamorous as Spitzer's previous job ó Governor of New York ó and Spitzer is gunning for what would amount to a huge demotion in the early stages of his comeback attempt. The position is being vacated by John Liu, who is running for mayor. The city comptroller is like the chief financial officer of the city ó or the city's top accountant. It also serves as a watchdog position for the city's mayor ó which would make for an interesting dynamic between Spitzer and Anthony Weiner, if both were to be elected.† That's the primary responsibility of the city comptroller ó to advise the mayor, City Council, and public of the city's financial well being through steps such as budget analyses and audits of city agencies.†The comptroller also makes recommendations on some city programs regarding proposed contracts, as well as on operations, fiscal policies, and financial transactions. Some other responsibilities of the comptroller: Spitzer has already hinted that he plans to go beyond the traditional responsibilities of the comptroller job, in much of the same way he gave new life to the New York State Attorney General position in the early 2000s, when he was dubbed "Sheriff of Wall Street" aggressive prosecution of financial criminals. "This is going to be an office ó if I'm lucky enough to win ó where we can do so much in terms of shareholder power, in terms of corporate governance, in terms of protecting pensions, in terms of making sure the city's money is invested well, spent well," Spitzer told CBS "This Morning" on Monday.  "I want to do to that office what I did to the Attorney General's office ó re-envision it and reimagine it."
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider Former CEO and founder of OMGPop Dan Porter has gone through the full startup lifecycle, taking the leap from a high-profile corporate job to found a company in NYC. It almost went broke, then experienced explosive growth and a well-timed exit. He'll join us at Startup 2013 to share the lessons he learned along the way. How do you handle rocket ship-speed growth? When do you know it's time to get out?¬† What do you do once you have left? You can find out at Startup 2013, NYC's preeminent entrepreneurship conference. At the event, taking place October 24 in New York, startup CEOs and founders will share secrets, real life experiences, and tips to help take your great idea into a fully-funded, successful venture. Other confirmed speakers: Plus, get an amazing morning of classes from General Assembly. You'll select your own curriculum from 15+ carefully-curated classes. For a taste of what you can expect in October, check out last year's agenda. And reserve your spot now because extra early-bird rates expire soon.  If you're interested in joining the Startup community by sponsoring, contact¬†events@businessinsider.com. Follow¬†@BI_Events¬†on Twitter for Startup updates.
Google FinanceThe stock market is extending last Friday's rally with further gains. The Dow is up over 100 points an hour into today's trading session. The economic calendar is pretty light today.† This afternoon, we'll get the Federal Reserve's latest reading of consumer credit balances. After the closing bell, aluminum giant Alcoa will unofficially kick off earnings season with by announcing its Q2 financial results. "Investors seem to be coming around to the view that stronger economic numbers mean a stronger economy as well as a Federal Reserve that will adjust policy appropriately," said UBS's Paul Donovan in a commentary titled "Rationality Returns."
Last week the Kirov-based trial of Russia's most prominent opposition leader Alexei Navalny began to wind up. Navalny, a lawyer who became famous for an anti-corruption blog and his role at anti-Putin protests, is charged with the embezzlement of $500,000 from a state timber company. Many believe the case is politically-motivated, and its importance seems likely eclipse that of last year's Pussy Riot trial, making it the most important Russian trial since that of oligarch and Putin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky ten years ago (Khodorkovsky was found guilty, and remains in prison to this day). After the closing statement of the trial's prosecutors, who asked the judge for a six year prison sentence, Navalny took to the stands to offer his own statement. The full video of the statement is below:  The statement has caused a stir in Russia, leading even those skeptical of Navalny to express admiration for the tone and rhetoric of the speech, and to debate whether they truly lived in a "feudal order." Here's a key passage translated by the Interpreter Magazine: So, I state that I and my colleagues are doing everything so as to destroy that feudal order that is being made in Russia. To destroy the system of power under which 83 percent of the national wealth belongs to a half percent of the population. In that sense, Iím very glad that this trial is underway here in Kirov Region where it is very easy to leave the world of fantasies and fairy tales. Because when youíre in Kirov, or Kumyon or Omutninsk, you see there is no world of fantasies and fairy tales at all. Thereís 15 years of an influx of an enormous amount of oil and gas money ó but what has been invested for residents? Did any of us get the best access to health care? To educational infrastructure? To new housing? Why? What did we get, all of us? And those who are on this side of the defendantsí bench and those on† the opposite side of the defendantís bench? What did we get from all those people? Nothing. We only got one thing. You know, thereís the only product that has become more accessible to the public since Soviet times. Itís vodka. For purchase ability, only vodka has become accessible. So all of us, the citizens of this country, are guaranteed only degradation and drunkenness. And those people who build this feudal system of theirs, on the fact they have seized power, all those FSB generals have got their children into the banks. All those United Russia deputies have sent their relatives to Switzerland somewhere. Theyíve opened foreign bank accounts there. Entire villages in Marbella belong to United Russia members. We will destroy that feudal system which is robbing all of you here. Despite the fact that youíve put me on the defendantís bench, I and my colleagues will defend you in fact, you understand, from all of that. Living in Omutninsk, Kumyon, Kirov, Vladivostok and all the rest. The most dramatic part of Navalny's trial is still to come. His sentencing is on July 18th, and protests are being planned for that day. More dramatic still, Navalny is planning to run for mayor of Moscow, and early reports suggest he has cleared the municipal filter to be able to run. Even if he is found guilty, it is not clear if the sentence will come into effect before the election, and so it is unclear if he will be able to run.
After a steady rise since November ñ sparked first by then-opposition leader Shinzo Abeís campaign calls for bold monetary stimulus, and then fueled by Abeís election as Prime Minister and the implementation of major easing measures in April ñ Japanese equity markets have turned choppy recently. A large selloff pushed the benchmark Nikkei 225 index down 20 percent in mid-June from a May 22 peak, and big swings in prices throughout the past month indicate that some investors are beginning to doubt the marketís staying power. But a July 1 report by Credit Suisse (ìJapan: The Sun is Still Risingî) suggests Japanís rally has legs, and will continue through the third quarter and beyond. In fact, Credit Suisseís global equity strategy team believes the Nikkei will end the year at 15,500 ñ nearly 8 percent higher than it is now. Some of investorsí skittish behavior stems from uncertainty about whether the Bank of Japan (BoJ) is inching away from a full-out war on deflation and negative growth. In June, for example, a BoJ board member suggested that easing should be limited to two years. Credit Suisse Chief Japan Economist Hiromichi Shirakawa pointed out earlier this month in a research note (ìCredible Irresponsibility Needed?î) that some of Japanís central bankers and government officials have also been stressing the need for fiscal restraint through budget cuts, which investors worry could derail monetary efforts to spur economic growth. Japan carries a budget deficit of 7.5 percent of GDP, and the International Monetary Fund said this spring that the countryís debt level is approaching 245 percent of the size of the economy. The concern is that the central bankís massive purchases of Japanese sovereign bonds could push up yields if investors lose faith in Japanís ability to service its debt, which would in turn increase the size of the debt even further, Shirakawa wrote. Government and BoJ officials have argued that the government would need to send a ìcredible messageî about the countryís commitment to fiscal austerity to prevent those kinds of doubts from taking hold. Still, Credit Suisseís global equity strategy team believes the table is set for the BoJ to keep money flowing, further weakening the yen and feeding the rally. One reason policymakers will be tempted to keep the yen cheap is because inflation has continued to fall despite the stimulus to date. Shirakawa is forecasting inflation of only 0.6 percent in 2014, a figure well short of the BoJís target of 2 percent, meaning the central bank may need to drive the price of the yen down even further to meet its inflation goal. The Japanese have other reasons to try to weaken the yen, too. ì(Japanís) assets are denominated in foreign currency, while liabilities are yen-dominated,î the team wrote. ì(Therefore Japan) is in the enviable position of being able to generate taxable wealth via currency weakness.î The weakening yen has also boosted corporate earnings expectations, as a series of upward revisions to Japanese earnings estimates over the last three months shows. Credit Suisse also foresees positive sales growth for Japanese companies, noting that 2013 sales forecasts have already moved up by half a percentage point since Abe took office in December. Between rising profit expectations and Credit Suisseís forecast of sales growth as much as a percentage point higher than the current consensus of 3 percent, Japanese stock prices appear due for another bump come earnings report season. Of course, there are still investors who fear government policy will kill the rally. Besides the concerns that drove the recent market swings, there are longer-term worries, such as whether a hike in the consumption tax rate set to take effect in January 2014 will hurt economic output. But the Credit Suisse report argued that these fears are overblown. Shirakawa said the government will likely nix the consumption tax increase if the economy begins to falter, and the BoJ has shown that it can be proactive if it feels the economy is losing steam ñ the massive stimulus unleashed this spring went beyond buying government bonds to make the central bank a buyer of exchange-traded funds and real estate investment trusts. The BoJ could easily increase its purchases of ETFs and REITs to keep stoking a recovery, and Shirakawa said the central bank may do just that in October. Finally, the BoJ has also implemented a popular loan program that allows banks to borrow cheaply from the central bank in return for good quality collateral, a program that should encourage lending. But the Japanese marketís most powerful secret weapon may be the Japanese people themselves. Domestic investors have been net sellers of equities since the beginning of the run-up in the Japanese stock market, choosing to hold cash rather than buying equities or simply spending the money. If the BoJ meets its inflation target, then Japanese investors may be encouraged to finally start opening their wallets. ìIt is logical that when there is inflation threat, domestic investors seek to move out of cash into property, overseas assets, equities or even purchase real assets. Any of these allocations would help equities,î the report said. In other words, if Japan can keep the yen down and inflation up, its rally may have more room to run.
Tifani SadekTifani and Brian Sadek in front of their home.NOTE: Detroit has now filed for bankruptcy, which we felt made this story even more relevant than when we first ran it a few weeks ago. Detroit's got problems. Its schools are dismal. Its crime rate, while declining, is still scary. And it¬†just defaulted. We recently made a case for why you should ignore all that and instead focus on the things Detroit has going for it. But we wanted to dig deeper. So we called up some folks who recently moved to downtown Detroit and asked them to explain their decision, which until recently many might have said was crazy. They ended up all offering ¬†the same basic rationale: they wanted to live in what is by many measures the cheapest big city in the country. Here, for example, are the values some of our interviewees paid for their homes. The last figure belongs to lawyers Tifani and Brian Sadek, who moved from Chicago to the Woodbridge neighborhood just north of downtown 10 months ago. Mortgage insurance and taxes are quarter of what we paid in Chicago,‚Äù Brian said. ‚ÄúAnd we still have access to world class museums, major sports, downtown events. Brian and Tifani Sadek for Business InsiderA picnic in the Woodbridge neighborhood. For Jeremy Brown and his wife, moving to Detroit came down to a dream ‚Äî literally. One day in November 2011, she had a random dream about Detroit.‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI‚Äôd never even thought about it, never been to Detroit. I did a day of research and was like, ‚ÄòYeah, that sounds good to me.‚Äô I put Detroit weather in my phone, checked that everyday. Everyone told us we were crazy." But they desired similar things as the Sadeks, and the decision was made. "We wanted to be in an urban environment, but at the same time have two dogs and two cats," he said. "We wanted to find way to have space without being forced into the suburbs ‚Äî it would take several years before we'd be able to buy something ‚Äî maybe never. Instead, the couple, who work in real estate, just closed on the 4,000 sq. ft. home. Almost everyone we spoke with credited Quicken Loans CEO Dan Gilbert investments (who is arguably more famous for owning the Cleveland Cavaliers) with driving Detroit‚Äôs commercial revival. We‚Äôve written about his initiative before ‚Äî as have¬†most others ‚Äî but to hear folks on the ground discuss it gives it new meaning. Jeremy Brown for Business InsiderCommunity event in Cadillac Square. "He doesn't just buy buildings, he fills them with companies and workers - over 10,000 workers and 71 companies to date," Tifani said in a follow-up email. "He financially supports cultural events that not only entertain those of us who live in the city but that also¬†bring people from outside of Detroit. He encourages his employees to spend time in the city. He makes downtown "cool" and welcoming to Detroiters and visitors alike. Life in downtown Detroit is not perfect, and the problems are unique and sometimes harrowing. Brown says there is a major market for scrap metal, and thieves are aggressive about stripping as much as they can. People are trying to make ends meet by getting $5 or $10 of scrap, and they‚Äôre causing $5,000 in damage,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs happening all over the place. That's really hurt.‚Äù Jeff Winkler, a Vice President at Morgan Stanley, says he and his family have gone months at a time without functioning streetlights, and occasionally have had to pay extra to get their streets plowed.¬†Jeff Winkler for Business InsiderThe view from Jeff Winkler's block. There‚Äôs also the class division issue, which everyone we spoke with said they were fully aware of. "One of the big problems with Detroit is an us-versus-them mentality,‚Äù said Ryan Southen, a 27-year-old photographer who moved to the city last year. ‚ÄúThe city has had it for decades. There‚Äôs always going to be a little bit of friction, and one thing the city needs to do to move forward is not neglect people who who have been here for new development." But to a person, everyone is committed to their decision ‚Äî not only to sticking around, but raising a family too. "My son just turned 5, and it‚Äôs exposed to him more in 5 years than me in my first 20 years,‚Äù Winkler said. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs been in downtown Detroit more in his first years here than I have in my whole life. I grew up in small town where there wasn't much diversity ‚Äî to him, he doesn‚Äôt know any better. The goal is to get him involved and do things for charity, get him involved with people who aren‚Äôt as fortunate. It‚Äôs an opportunity for him to learn a lot."

The electric car manufacturer helmed by ambitious CEO Elon Musk is up about 240% YTD, and now sits at $121. But Bank of America Merrill Lynch's John Lovallo II and John Murphy are holding firm to their original $39 price target.¬† In a note this morning, they write that there are "300,000 reasons" to be skeptical of Tesla's climb ‚Äî that's how many units the company's current compound annual growth rate implies would be sold in 2020: ... we estimate that a $120 share price implies over 321K vehicle sales in 2020, which is a full 300K units higher than our current 2013e and would represent a 7-year CAGR of 48%. We also note that this analysis assumes TSLA can achieve EBIT margins of about 12.5% in 2020, which would be over 380bps better than the 2012 average of BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Bentley, and Porsche and 400bps better than our European analyst‚Äôs forecasts for this group in 2015. A 48% growth rate has never been achieved by any other auto manufacturer ever: We analyzed the lifecycle of over 130 vehicles categorized as luxury by Ward‚Äôs Auto, the result of which indicate that approx. 70% reach peak volume within the first 8 quarters of launch. In other words, if Tesla‚Äôs vehicles follow a pattern similar to the industry norm, volumes could begin leveling off within the next year, rather than growing into perpetuity as the current share price would suggest. They also warn the Q4 2013 gross margin growth target 0f 25%, even if reached, could end up being the product of an accounting trick:¬† While Tesla has stated that its 25% 4Q13 gross margin target excludes any potential positive impact from Zero Emission Vehicle Credits (ZEVs), it remains unclear if the company intends to include the potential benefit from Green House Gas Credits (GHG) or Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) credits (both listed as ‚ÄúOther Regulatory Credits‚Äù in Tesla‚Äôs SEC filings) in its calculation. They conclude: "While nothing is impossible, particularly with Elon Musk at the helm, we believe these assumptions warrant a healthy degree of skepticism."
REUTERS/Jason ReedIn the world of politics and policy, it's good to be a "former" something ‚Äî¬†at least when it comes to speaking engagements. For former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, who certainly paid his political dues by enduring the worst of the financial crisis and its aftermath,¬†it's time to cash in. The Financial Times reports Geithner recently took home $400,000 for three speaking engagements. From the FT: A speech at a Deutsche Bank conference last month netted him about $200,000, according to people familiar with the situation, underscoring the lucrative fees that former public officials can receive. After leaving the Obama administration in January, Geithner has taken his expertise on the road. Mr Geithner was also the main attraction at Blackstone‚Äôs annual meeting in April, and the following month appeared at Warburg Pincus‚Äôs annual meeting. He was paid no more than $100,000 by each of the private equity groups, according to people familiar with the matter. Of course, he has a long way to go before he's at the top of the speaker fee pack. Bill Clinton and Tony Blair have reportedly earned millions for private speaking events after leaving office, according to the FT. Read the full report at the Financial Times&gt;
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderGoldman Sachs is lowering its forecast for natural gas prices on an unexpected surge in production. The revision sees Q3 prices at $3.85/mmBtu and Q4 at $4.25/mmBtu, from a previous estimate of $4.50/mmBtu for both. Analysts Damien Courvalin,¬†Jeffrey Currie, and¬†Samantha Dart write in a note this morning that two consecutive EIA storage reports reflect¬†"stronger than expected production growth, in part because of debottlenecking in the Marcellus shale." Prices have dropped about $0.50 ‚Äî 12% ‚Äî since May. Futures were around $3.66 Monday. They also note coal-to-gas switching has slowed, though they argue this is bullish long-term and reflects a structural tightening shift in the demand curve.
Glengarry Glen Ross/Newline Cinema"Glengarry Glen Ross" (1992)Every banker, trader, broker etc. we've talked to will barely glance at their Blackberry, let alone their Bloomberg screens over the next couple of days. Everyone is in holiday mode. So while you're kicking it with your loved ones over BBQ and what not, feel free to relax with one of these movies. They'll serve as a reminder for why you actually love working on Wall Street, and why you can't wait for all the stupid relaxing to be over, obviously.
Getty Images / Mike StobeNew York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg will cancel the city's free use of his eponymous business terminals when he leaves office in January, the New York Post's Tara Palmeri reports. There are currently 60 such terminals among the five boroughs. At $20,000 apiece, the bill would come out to $1.2 million.† Bloomberg paid for 35 of the terminals himself when he took office in 2002, Palmeri writes. Read the full story on NYPost.com &gt;
Something interesting happened on Friday. The Bureau of Labor Statistics told the world that U.S. companies were adding jobs at a much faster pace than expected. And stocks rallied and investors dumped so-called "safe-haven" assets like gold and bonds. This is interesting because in recent months and years, there has been an idea floating around that the stock market gains were due to Fed stimulus. And good economic news would discourage the Fed from offering more monetary stimulus Recently, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke explicitly said that the Federal Reserve would begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of mortgage and Treasury bonds should the economy continue to improve in line with its forecasts. Initially, markets freaked out a bit by these comments.¬† Stocks and bonds sold off hand-in-hand. But with stock markets rallying on Friday and today, some are now wondering if investors are now behaving more predictably. "Investors seem to be coming around to the view that stronger economic numbers mean a stronger economy as well as a Federal Reserve that will adjust policy appropriately," said UBS's Paul Donovan in a commentary titled "Rationality Returns." Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker shared a similar sentiment in a note to clients last week as he previewed earnings season, which unofficially begins this afternoon. "[S]econd quarter earnings season is just around the corner and we think it will be more critical than normal," wrote Parker in his note to clients.¬† "Why? Because unlike earlier this year, we now think ‚Äúgood is good and bad is bad,‚Äù meaning the fundamentals will be in focus." Parker believes that expectations for future earnings are too high.¬† And despite warning signs in previous quarters' earnings seasons, the stock market has generally trended higher. This time around, Parker believes that corporate warnings will justify lower stock prices and earnings expectations. If Donovan is right that rationality has returned and Parker is right that bad news is coming, then we may be in for a rough couple of weeks.
Wikimedia Commons The New York Times Peter Lattman reports Thomson Reuters will suspend its service of providing data to an exclusive subscriber list two seconds before they report it publicly. This is according to Lattman's unnamed source. Reuters has been paying the University of Michigan at least $1 million a year to distribute consumer confidence data early to a list of money management customers, he writes. But New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman had opened an investigation into the practice. UPDATE: AG Schneiderman's office announces Reuters has agreed to immediately discontinue is practice of releasing the early data. Read the full report on NYTimes.com &gt;
REUTERS/Alexander F. YuanStaff iron a Chinese national flag while a U.S. national flag is placed in front of a traditional Chinese painting before a meeting between U.S. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Chinese State Councillor Yang Jiechi at Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing May 27, 2013. China's new leadership has been rolling out strict economic policy reforms and they have pushed efforts to rebalance its economy. Meanwhile, credit markets have been tightening, and China's central bank has offered little relief.† All of this comes as weak global growth has slowed demand for Chinese goods. And as a result of all of this, China is slowing. This is bad for news for the U.S. which counts China as its third biggest export market. A report from the US-China Business Council (USCBC) shows that U.S. exports to China grew 294% from 2003 - 2012. This compares with an 111% increase in U.S. exports to the rest of world for the same period. Exports to China have increased from†$16.2 billion in 2000, to $108.6 billion last year. We put together a list of the top 15 U.S. state exporters to China in the past decade. Crops, computer and electronics, chemicals, transportation equipment, and machinery (ex-electrical) were the five biggest exports.
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiAlcoa Inc.'s aluminium plant in Sardinian is pictured in Portovesme, next to Cagliari September 1, 2012.Stocks surged, bonds tanked, and gold melted down after the we got the better-than-expected June jobs report on Friday. The economic calendar is much lighter this week. However, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will be speaking on Wednesday on the Federal Reserve's policy record. This will give Fed watchers some fodder to chew on. Also, earnings season unofficially kicks off with aluminum giant Alcoa releasing its Q2 financial results on Monday afternoon. Historically, this has set the stage for three-month stock market performance. More on that later. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Alcoa announces its Q2 earnings after the closing bell on Monday. This is the unofficial beginning to earnings season. As a global supplier of aluminum, Alcoa is considered a reliable indicator of the economy. But are the company's earnings an indicator of what's to come in the stock market? "Over the past ten years, Alcoa has reported earnings above the mean EPS estimate 48% of the time (19 out of 40 quarters)," said FactSet's John Butters. "In the 19 quarters that Alcoa reported actual EPS above the mean EPS estimate, the average price change for the S&amp;P 500 from report date to report date (for Alcoa) is 3.6%. The price of the S&amp;P 500 increased in 15 of these 19 quarters (79%). "In the 21 quarters that Alcoa reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimate, the average price change from report date to report date is -0.5%. However, the price of the index decreased in only 11 of these 21 quarters (52%). During the other ten quarters, the price of the index increased over the next three months after Alcoa missed estimates." For what it's worth...
REUTERS/Tom Hevezi/Pool Good morning! Here's what you need to know:
Wikimedia CommonsThe big show this week will be a speech on Wednesday from Fed Chair Ben Bernanke. It's titled: "The First 100 Years of the Federal Reserve: The Policy Record, Lessons Learned, and Prospects for the Future‚Äù and there's going to be a Q&amp;A. So he could really talk about anything, including, perhaps, his own future (fingers crossed). Fedspeak is always a market obsession, but lately that obsession has been turned up to 11, given all of the concern about slowing the pace of QE, and how far we are from the first rate hike. Lately the "ZIRP4EVA" crowd has gone pretty silent, and markets are pricing in the possibility of a rate hike some time in late 2014, in part due to shifts in the Fed's language, and in part because the pace of job creation has accelerated. In recent months, the economy has been averaging nearly 200K jobs created, which is a nice step up from the approximately 150K pace of previous months. So Bernanke's speech on Wednesday will be watched ultra-closely. What will he say? Citi's Steven Englander has some thoughts about what he could say that would spook markets the most. A hawkish Bernanke is much less likely than a dovish one, Hawkish comments could take the form of:¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Fed is not surprised or concerned by the bond market moves.¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The economy is outperforming their expectations.¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The Fed does not think the bond market moves will affect activity much.  Most likely his comments take the form¬† of ‚Äòall according to plan‚Äô and ‚Äòmarket way too aggressive in expecting FOMC hikes‚Äô which will have be supportive for bond markets and USD negative, but have a half-life of impact until the next major data point.(retail sales on July 15). At his last press conference, a comment about not being concerned by bond market moves was what really spooked the markets and sent yields soaring. And since then they've soared quite a bit further (though yes, context, 2.7% on the U.S. 10-year is super-low by historical standards). That being said, if Bernanke really tries to talk down rates, it could give this market yet another shot of fuel.
From SocGen, a chart which scarcely needs commentary. SocGen
Library of CongressGoldman's Francesco Garzarelli is out with a new interest rate forecast, in light of surging yields. ...we are revising up our 10-year yield forecasts for the US by 25bp across the forecast horizon out to end-2016. We now see yields entering 2014 at 2.75-3.00%, roughly in line with the forwards and our model estimates, and climbing to 4.00% by 2016 ‚Äì above the forwards.¬† At this point, we are not making changes to forecasts for other markets relative to those published in the June issue of our Fixed Income Monthly. This implies wider yield differentials between the US and the European and Japanese bond markets.¬† As to the reasons leading us to make these changes, we would advance the following observations:¬† The tightening in global monetary conditions is coming from the US. This is not unusual. What represents a departure from previous cycles is that the shift in benchmark rates is taking place mostly from a rebuild of the real term premium, admittedly from depressed levels. All else equal, a rise in long-dated discount factors should have a more material bearing on financial assets with cash flow distributions skewed to the more distant future.¬† Based on our economists‚Äô baseline projections, our macro models for government bonds say that 10-year UST yields should presently be at 2.5%, then rise to around 2.70% by year end and remain roughly at that level through 2014. If we input the Fed‚Äôs macro forecasts into our framework, leaving all else equal, yields end the year roughly at the same level, but break more decisively above 3% by mid-2014. Our new forecasts are in line with the model predictions (and the current forwards) on a 6-month horizon, and higher thereafter.
Just¬†two months ago I mentioned that lumber prices were nearing the housing bubble highs. Since then prices have declined sharply, with prices off about 25% from the highs in early May. Some of the decline could be related to additional supply coming on the market, and some due to less buying from China (several sources are reporting that China has pulled back significantly on buying North American lumber). On¬†additional supply,¬†a few¬†months ago the WSJ had an article about some producers increasing supply:
It‚Äôs not uncommon to see very short-term charts backing extremely near sighted views. ¬†I don‚Äôt know why that is. I guess maybe it‚Äôs a result of the new normal where everyone has an attention span of about 30 seconds. ¬†But it really annoys me. ¬†We often see this type of short-termism surrounding interest rate moves and they‚Äôre generally shown as a way to ‚Äúprove‚Äù that the bond vigilantes are here or the insolvency of the USA is now starting. ¬†Over the course of the last 5 years I‚Äôve repeatedly shown charts countering these arguments that tries to put things in perspective. So, I find it unusual to see Paul Krugman, also an inflation myth debunker and insolvency myth debunker, citing a very short-term interest rate chart to show that there has been a significant and meaningful move in rates as a result of the ‚Äúterrible taper‚Äù. Of course, if you put the recent move into perspective then you get the chart below. ¬†That little tiny move in the bottom right hand corner shows how mortgage rates have moved all the way back to, gasp, their 2011 levels when we were routinely seeing bullish articles about how interest rates are so low and should ease the debt burden on debtors. Now, I wouldn‚Äôt say that the recent rise in rates will have zero impact on the economy, but do I think it‚Äôs going to torpedo the recovery? ¬†No, I think it‚Äôs just a case of traders being traders. ¬†They overplayed their hand on the downside and now they‚Äôre overreacting on the upside. ¬†What else is new? ¬†And why should anyone make a big fuss about a 1% move in interest rates that takes us all the way back to levels that are barely shy of all-time lows? ¬† This looks like another case of short-term thinking gone wrong‚Ä¶. Orcam
Flickr/JasonLangheineIt was not a pretty start to the week for major Asian markets. The Nikkei had started off by rallying 1%, but by the end of the session it fell 1.4%. Shanghai, which has been strengthening a bit, had a rough day, with stocks losing 2.44%. Hong Kong fell 1.3%, and Korea fell 0.9%. Things are looking better in European trading, where Germany's DAX is up 1.5%, and Italy is up 0.7%. It's likely to be a bit quieter week than last week (there's much less economic data coming out). The big headlines will come from Bernanke's speech on Wednesday.
