There is a way that one expects visits with jailed criminals to go: typically, there's guilt, contrition, the accepting of responsibility. Not so with Bernie Madoff, serving 150 years, the executor of the world's most famous Ponzi scheme. As the five-year anniversary of the discovery of his crime approaches — is that even something worth keeping an anniversary for? — The Wall Street Journal's Sital Patel sought out comment from the convicted fraudster. What she found over a two-hour sitdown at a comfy Butner, N.C. prison was a man who basically pointed fingers while raising other fingers, to boot. Haters, it appears, gonna hate. The 75-year-old, dressed in beige polyester pants and shirt with a matching canvas belt, showed no signs of stress. He told the occasional joke and said he was lucky to be in Butner, as it had a reputation of being "very laid back" and is kind of like a "camp." "This is as good as it gets," said Mr. Madoff. He explained that the Federal Bureau of Prisons "put you where you will survive." He would later say that the people he conned should have known better, that they didn't ask good questions (Rob Ford has some thoughts on this), called the whistleblower an "idiot," and reminisced fondly about his days as a financial power player. So excellent was he at financial prognostication, in fact, that he boasted that he saw the housing bubble burst coming. How? Because his young African-American golf caddy was able to buy and sell houses. He said he didn't need credit. He would buy homes and flip them for a profit. I told my wife, 'This is the end.' Of course, history proves that the 75-year-old former investment banker was alas unable to use his crystal ball to foresee his eventual conviction in 2008 for operating a Ponzi scheme that bilked investors out of more than $50 billion. He pleaded guilty to 11 felony counts in 2009, and was sentenced to the maximum 150 years in jail. The profile comes at a time when the Manhattan U.S. Attorney's office is in the process of investigating J.P. Morgan, which enjoyed a two-decade-long relationship with Madoff, for failing to provide regulators with a report of Madoff's suspicious behavior, even though it did with a British agent more than a month before he was arrested. It's likely that J.P. Morgan will be fined. While Madoff does tell Patel that he despairs the fact he's been cut off from his family, including his wife and also-jailed brother Peter, the profile ends on this queasy little note: His son Andrew Madoff refuses to talk to him and won't allow his wife to speak to him either, he told me. Mr. Madoff briefly brought up his other son, Mark, who committed suicide following the revelations of his father's Ponzi scheme. Mr. Madoff said he regretted that happened but showed little emotion.
(Reuters) -Â Internal JPMorgan Chase &amp; CoÂ &lt;JPM.N&gt; emails and computer files being examined by U.S. authorities show that the bank favored hiring people from prominent Chinese families in order to win investment banking business,Â the New York TimesÂ reported on Saturday. The documents show that a JPMorgan program designed to prevent questionable hiring practices was ultimately viewed inside the company as "a gateway to doing business with state-owned companies inÂ China,"Â the TimesÂ said, adding that it had reviewed copies of the emails and computer spreadsheets. In one email, an executive said that hiring sons and daughters of powerful people inÂ China "almost has a linear relationship" with winning assignments,Â the TimesÂ said. A JPMorgan spokesman declined to comment on the report, as did representatives of theÂ U.S. Securities and Exchange CommissionÂ and the office of the federal prosecutor inÂ Brooklyn,Â New York, which are investigating the matter. The TimesÂ said there "is no indication that executives atÂ JPMorgan's headquartersÂ inÂ New York were aware of the hiring practices described in the documents." JPMorgan first disclosed in August that theÂ U.S. Securities and Exchange CommissionÂ was investigating its employment of certain people and its relationships with certain clients. Since then, the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice and have stepped up an industry-wide probe that has been a cause of alarm for global banks. Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;,Â Goldman Sachs Group IncÂ &lt;GS.N&gt; and Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt; are among the banks that have received requests for information from the SEC. It had become a common practice for investment banks to hire people with government connections. This is especially prevalent inÂ ChinaÂ because of the role the rulingÂ Communist Partyplays in the country's business. The law enforcers are examining whether hiring practices violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a U.S. law that bars bribes or special favors to foreign government officials in exchange for business. At issue is whether the banks hired unqualified applicants as a favor to a government official who was in a position to award them business. One person familiar with the SEC inquiry has likened the probe to a previous investigation U.S. authorities conducted into whether oil and gas companies paid bribes to circumvent import regulations inÂ AfricaÂ and elsewhere. (Reporting by David Henry inÂ New York; editing by Gunna Dickson)
Deutsche Bank interest rate strategists led by Dominic Konstam compare the story in 2013 to that in 2012 in a note to clients, writing (emphasis added): In the end 2013 went broadly according to plan, presuming global policymakers indeed do operate with a plan in mind. Stellar returns in core market equities, led by Japan but including the European periphery, were balanced by nondescript mildly negative returns in the less risky asset classes. Europe enjoyed relative currency stability while the yen (finally) meaningfully weakened. The only real casualty has been emerging markets on both the bond and equity sides. 2013 was a year when the more advanced economies made a stand! To some extent that was also payback for EM outperformance in 2012, particularly on the bond side. More importantly though it represented an important and meaningful reversal of the 2012 risk off trade that saw for example Spanish equities drop nearly 5 percent while German stocks rallied 30 percent. Gold and bonds soared. The results of 2013 were a necessary response to the stresses inherent in the results of 2012. The charts below provide a comparison of cross-asset returns in 2013 (on the left) versus those in 2012 (on the right), illustrating the points made above. Deutsche Bank, Haver AnalyticsCross asset returns in 2013 in the year to date (on the left) versus returns in 2012 (on the right).
eflon via www.flickr.com creative commonsASK conspiracy theorists who they think really runs the world, and they will probably point to global banks, such as Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. Oil giants such as Exxon Mobil and Shell may also earn a mention. Or perhaps they would focus on the consumer-goods firms that hold billions in their thrall: Apple, McDonald’s or Nestlé. One firm unlikely to feature on their list is BlackRock, an investment manager whose name rings few bells outside financial circles. Yet it is the single biggest shareholder in all the companies listed above. It owns a stake in almost every listed company not just in America but globally. (Indeed, it is the biggest shareholder in Pearson, in turn the biggest shareholder in The Economist.) Its reach extends further: to corporate bonds, sovereign debt, commodities, hedge funds and beyond. It is easily the biggest investor in the world, with $4.1 trillion of directly controlled assets (almost as much as all private-equity and hedge funds put together) and another $11 trillion it oversees through its trading platform, Aladdin (see "BlackRock: The monolith and the markets"). Established in 1988 by a group of Wall Streeters led by Larry Fink, BlackRock succeeded in part by offering "passive" investment products, such as exchange-traded funds, which aim to track indices such as the S&amp;P 500. These are cheap alternatives to traditional mutual funds, which often do more to enrich money managers than clients (though BlackRock offers plenty of those, too). The sector continues to grow fast, and BlackRock, partly through its iShares brand, is the largest competitor in an industry where scale brings benefits. Its clients, ranging from Arab sovereign-wealth funds to mom-and-pop investors, save billions in fees as a result. The other reason for its success is its management of risk in its actively managed portfolio. Early on, for instance, it was a leader in mortgage-backed securities. But because it analysed their riskiness zipcode by zipcode, it not only avoided a bail-out in the chaos that followed the collapse of Lehman, but also advised the American government and others on how to keep the financial system ticking in the darkest days of 2008, and picked up profitable money-management units from struggling financial institutions in the aftermath of the crisis. Compared with the many banks which are flourishing only thanks to state largesse, BlackRock’s success--based on providing value to customers and paying attention to detail--is well-deserved. Yet when taxpayers have spent billions rescuing financial institutions deemed too big to fail, a 25-year-old company that has grown so vast so quickly sets nerves jangling. American regulators are therefore thinking about designating BlackRock and some of its rivals as "systemically important". The tag might land them with hefty regulatory requirements. If the regulators’ concern is to avoid a repeat of the last crisis, they are barking up the wrong tree. Unlike banks, whose loans and deposits go on their balance-sheets as assets and liabilities, BlackRock is a mere manager of other people’s money. It has control over investments it holds on behalf of others--which gives it great influence--but it neither keeps the profits nor suffers the losses on them. Whereas banks tumble if their assets lose even a fraction of their value, BlackRock can pass on any shortfalls to its clients, and withstand far greater shocks. In fact, by being on hand to pick up assets cheaply from distressed sellers, an unleveraged asset manager arguably stabilises markets rather than disrupting them. But for regulators that want not merely to prevent a repeat of the last blow-up but also to identify the sources of future systemic perils, BlackRock raises another, subtler issue, concerning not the ownership of assets but the way buying and selling decisions are made. The $15 trillion of assets managed on its Aladdin platform amount to around 7% of all the shares, bonds and loans in the world. As a result, those who oversee many of the world’s biggest pools of money are looking at the financial world, at least in part, through a lens crafted by BlackRock. Some 17,000 traders in banks, insurance companies, sovereign-wealth funds and others rely in part on BlackRock’s analytical models to guide their investing. That is a tribute to BlackRock’s elaborate risk-management models, but it is also discomfiting. A principle of healthy markets is that a cacophony of diverse actors come to different conclusions on the price of things, based on their own idiosyncratic analyses. The value of any asset is discovered by melding all these different opinions into a single price. An ecosystem which is dominated by a single line of thinking is not healthy, in politics, in nature or in markets. Such groupthink in finance is a recipe for booms (when everyone wants to buy the same thing) and busts (when they all rush to sell). Though Aladdin advises clients on investment decisions rather than making them, it inevitably frames how they think of market risk. The last crisis had many causes. One of them, which perhaps lay behind all the others, was that investors stopped thinking critically about what they were buying. Too many decided to trust credit-rating agencies, which assured them, for example, that packages of American subprime mortgages were extremely unlikely to default. BlackRock’s models are no doubt better than the clunkers put out by Moody’s or Standard &amp; Poor’s up to 2008: the firm’s relative recent success has proved that. But too many investors relying on a single model spreads an unhealthy orthodoxy and is likely to make the markets more volatile than they otherwise would be. That is probably not a serious systemic risk, for it will be self-limiting: the more money follows BlackRock, the more money there is to be made betting against it. The real danger is for investors. The more they rely on BlackRock’s analysis, the smaller the upside when it gets things right and the greater the downside when it gets things wrong--as, one day, it eventually will. Until then BlackRock’s single-minded focus on mastering risk is to be commended. If its peers in the financial world had taken the same approach in the run-up to 2008, much of the chaos of the past five years would have been averted. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst In a major speech at the International Monetary Fund in early November, Larry Summers argued that the U.S. may need bubbles in the future to sustain strong economic growth.  Top Goldman Sachs economists disagree. In the speech, Summers said that before the financial crisis, the housing bubble was still not enough to create adequate demand. "Too easy money, too much borrowing, too much wealth," Summers said of the pre-crisis period. "Was there a great boom? Capacity utilization wasn't under any great pressure. Unemployment wasn't under any remarkably low level. Inflation was entirely quiescent. So somehow, even a great bubble wasn't enough to produce any excess in aggregate demand." His concern is that we will continue to need bubbles in the future to have strong growth and reach full employment. This is the theory of secular stagnation. Enter Jan Hatzius and David Mericle, top economists at Goldman. They examined Summers's thesis and found little evidence backing it up. "Our view of the recent weakness is more cyclical than secular," they write. "The slow rate of recovery in recent years is roughly in line with the performance of other economies following major financial crises, as shown by Reinhart and Rogoff, and the reasons for the weakness inÂ aggregate demand over the last few years have now begun toÂ diminish." Hatzius and Mericle look at Reinhart and Rogoff's previous research on the big five financial crises in developed countries that were similar to the Great Recession in the United States. They find that the U.S. recovery has been slightly above average in comparison:Â Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research They see the current slow recovery as an effect of the crisis and not an indication of a larger secular problem with the economy. In responding to Summers's argument that the labor market was still loose in the mid-2000s even with the housing bubble, Hatzius and Mericle write that the economy was already near full employment after the 2001 recession and thus employment growth was bound to be slow. They also note that the price of oil and other commodities rose quickly during the period, inhibiting growth. The idea that we will need financial bubbles to sustain full employment is worrisome. Hopefully Hatzius and Mericle are correct.
Princeton.eduSince World War II, the U.S. economy has grown on average nearly 2 percentage points faster under Democratic presidents than Republicans. Two Princeton economists are out with a new study that seeks to explain why. Mostly, the answer seems to be good luck.  Alan Blinder, a veteran of the Bill Clinton Council of Economic Advisers, and Mark Watson, who has been at Princeton since 1995, conducted the study. It found that the average real GDP growth rate under Democratic presidents was 4.35%, a marked increase from a 2.54% growth under Republicans.  The two economists attribute the bulk of the "astoundingly large" difference to random chance. Specifically, they point to oil and productivity shocks as two of the major reasons for the difference, both of which look "a lot more like good luck" than differences in governance. Here's a breakdown of some of the reasons for the gulf in economic growth under Democratic and Republican presidents: Contrary to conventional wisdom, the authors conclude that defense spending is not a major factor for the economic gap. Neither are other cosmetic differences that the researchers looked into — like the height and age of presidents. Taken together, the three above factors — oil price and productivity shocks and consumer confidence — account for between 46% and 62% of the economic performance gap between Republicans and Democrats. The rest is unexplained by the study. Overall, Democrats account for the top four terms of average GDP growth in the post-World War II era. Ronald Reagan's second term is the only Republican entry in the top five. President Barack Obama's first term in office was the lowest of seven Democratic presidencies, ranking 14th of 16 terms overall.
We've been writing a lot about the record levels of smog in Shanghai lately. Thanks to a combination of weather and other factors it's gotten to levels that are genuinely hazardous to health. So how do you survive it? Chinese state broadcaster CCTV put together this infographic with 10 ways to beat the smog, and it shows how miserable it all is. Among the suggestions: CCTV
Robert Kendall via FlickrThe housing recovery has been going strong and home prices have been up for the twentieth straight month. But the pace of home price growth is expected to moderate in 2014. Zillow expects home prices will increase 3% in 2014. But drawing on the projected increases in home prices between October 2013-2014, currently low local unemployment rates, and healthy population growth rates, Zillow has identified what are expected to be the 10 hottest housing markets in 2014.
And yet. Look a little more closely, and it’s hard to get overly excited, difficult to shake the sense that the recovery’s foundation is not exactly rock-solid. The euro zone might only manage to grow 1.3 percent, and youth unemployment in the region remains crushingly high. While that’s a clear improvement over the two-year recession that recently came to an end, deflation remains a serious threat in the region, as well as in Japan. Indeed, inflation remains low in much of the world, a reflection of the fact that many economies aren’t running anywhere close to maximum capacity. In fact, the potential growth of developed and emerging economies alike is eroding, not improving, as populations age and workforces shrink nearly everywhere except Africa. The Financialist So what’s an investor to do? For now, Credit Suisse’s team recommends that investors assume that the investment environment remains similar to 2013 and position themselves to profit from strong financial markets and a continuing economic rebound in the developed world. That means overweighting equities and, within fixed income, risky credit assets. But investors should also watch carefully for signs of disappointing growth. As Credit Suisse analysts said in their 2014 outlook note, “Closer to the Top, Further From the Exit, “We do not expect returns to rise in the event of stronger-than-expected activity but think that they will fall if activity weakens.” Heads, we sort of win, tails we lose. These is not great risk-reward, but  it is the situation at hand. Central Banks Lead the Way Five years after the crisis, the world’s largest central banks – the Bank of Japan, Bank of England, European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve – are still playing a historically disproportionate role in the global economy as well as the capital markets. “The balm of central bank liquidity has offered material comfort first to bonds and now equities,” Credit Suisse analysts wrote in the outlook note. None of the Big Four banks appears likely to hike interest rates next year. But since rates are already near zero, any monetary efforts to juice economies that still need it will require some creativity. The European Central Bank, for example, is contemplating introducing negative deposit rates. Credit Suisse believes the Bank of Japan, which pledged in April to double the size of the monetary base by the end of 2014, will likely increase monthly bond purchases by an additional 30 to 40 percent next year as well as buying billions of dollars in equities. Just as further stimulus seems a near-certainty, so too is the fact that fears of that very stimulus drying up will likely be the primary source of headaches for investors in 2014. That will be a repeat of 2013, when concern that the Fed would begin reducing its $85 billion monthly asset purchases sparked a summer swoon in emerging market stocks and bonds while also playing havoc on spreads elsewhere. Simply put, concerns about when and how much incoming Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen tapers will drive returns in nearly every major asset class over the next six months or more. That puts market participants in a rather strange position. After all, healthy growth in the U.S. is usually good news – for one thing, it stands to boost exports for America’s trading partners. It could also finally convince businesses to start spending again. In fact, higher-than-expected capital expenditures could provide potential upside surprise to Credit Suisse’s global growth forecast, Chief Economist Neal Soss said on a recent call with investors. But too much growth could pose a problem. A surge in corporate spending in the U.S. – especially if employment rises, too – would surely bring tapering sooner, de-greasing the economy’s wheels in the process. In addition, the Fed has set a 6.5 percent unemployment rate as the threshold at which it would consider raising interest rates, and with the latest reading at 7.3 percent, strong growth would surely prompt investor fear of interest rates heading higher, sooner. That would hit particularly hard in the riskier corners of credit markets, where ultra-low rates and the resulting hunt for yield over the last few years have artificially compressed spreads. “It could be a troubling year for financial markets if growth is either too strong or too weak,” Credit Suisse Global Fixed Income Strategist James Sweeney said on a recent call with investors. “I’m afraid the market side of things is going to be tough even though from a macro side, the picture actually looks pretty good.” To avoid a panic, Credit Suisse believes the Fed will get even more explicit in its assurances that rates will remain very low for a long time. The Yellen-led Fed may even go on small asset-buying sprees from time to time post-tapering, moving from the Bernanke model of very infrequent, dramatic action to more frequent, smaller interventions. Disappearing Liquidity The reason the global economy has become so dependent on central bankers, Sweeney argues, is that their stimulative actions have masked the fact that the private sector’s capacity to create liquid markets has been sharply reduced since the financial crisis. Before the crisis, asset-backed securities and swaps of every flavor created liquidity for just about everything. In 2008, however, private liquidity disappeared and central banks and governments swooped in with fiscal and monetary policy to replace it. Fast forward to today: Even if the private sector can find its animal spirits again, regulators demanding higher capital ratios for financial institutions as well as new limits on trading are hampering, rather than helping, the return of privately created liquidity to its central role in the markets. For now, says Sweeney, the private sector is still not yet capable of being the financial intermediary it was before the crisis. The Financialist Having a central bank backstop means the market hasn’t yet priced in the disappearance of private liquidity, Credit Suisse Head of Strategy Research Sean Shepley says. Holding longer-dated debt, shaky credit or illiquid assets no longer pays the premium it once did, and investors aren’t getting a significantly better return by holding risky assets than they are from safe ones. Instead, assets have all been inflating together ­– credit spreads are extremely tight and developed market equities are up 29 percent year-to-date. The danger, Sweeney warns, is that if the Fed reduces quantitative easing in January, as Credit Suisse expects, liquidity could dry up extremely quickly. “We think the central banks have had such a strong foothold that when they adjust policy or even when they talk about adjusting policy, the effect is a cascade across asset prices,” Shepley said on a call about the bank’s outlook for next year. As a result, he cautioned, in 2014 investors need to be properly hedged against a strengthening dollar and higher volatility in interest and exchange rates due to tapering or another economic shock. So there’s good, if qualified, news. As long as the biggest central banks keep rates low and in some cases ease further, equities have room to run, according to Credit Suisse global equities strategist Andrew Garthwaite. They’re still cheap compared to bonds, and retail investors are only starting to reallocate money to stocks. A period of consolidation – though not reaching the 10 percent threshold of a correction – is a possibility, but Garthwaite believes the S&amp;P will hit 1,900 this year. Be prepared for a lot of sound and fury along the way. Source of charts, from top to bottom: Credit Suisse’s “2014 Global Outlook: Closer to the Top, Further From the Exit” and slides from “Guide to Fixed Income &amp; Economic Research 2014 Global Outlook.”
REUTERS/Jim YoungUniversity of Chicago professors Eugene F. Fama (L) and Lars Hansen share a laugh at the end of a news conference after it was announced they won the 2013 Nobel Prize in Economics in Chicago, October 14, 2013. STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - One of the three Americans who won this year's Nobel prize for economics said bloated public deficits on both sides of the Atlantic meant that recession remained a real risk for 2014. Eugene Fama, who shares this year's 8 million crown ($1.2 million) prize with Robert Shiller and Lars Peter Hansen, said on Saturday that highly indebted governments in the United States and Europe posed a constant threat to the global economy. "There may come a point where the financial markets say none of their debt is credible anymore and they can't finance themselves," he told Reuters in the snow-covered Swedish capital, where he will receive his prize on Tuesday. "If there is another recession, it is going to be worldwide." Fama, who has been called the father of modern finance and shared the economics prize for research into market prices and asset bubbles, played down this week's strong U.S. labor market data. "I am not reassured at all," he said. The U.S. jobless rate fell to a five-year low of 7.0 percent in November, and employers hired more workers than expected. "The jobs recovery has been awful. The only reason the unemployment rate is 7 percent, which is high by historical standards in the U.S., is that people gave up looking for jobs," he said. "I just don't think we have come out of (recession) very well," he said. Fama, who argued in 1970 that markets are efficient and that prices reflect all publicly available information, said he will give his prize money to the University of Chicago, where he is a professor. Asked what he thought of current high prices in the stock market, Fama said he believed companies had become much more efficient after the 2008-2009 financial crisis. "The response of companies after the recession was to slim down, get much more effective and they got very profitable, so their prices continue to appreciate," he said. Fama's theory implied that one cannot systematically outperform the market. He said he keeps his personal investments entirely in index funds, a type of mutual fund that tracks the performance of a market index such as the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt;. (Reporting by Mia Shanley and Ilze Filks; editing by Jane Baird)
USFWS PacificThe "loonie" is key to one of Goldman's top trades.Goldman Sachs has unveiled its top six trade recommendations for the year ahead in a series of notes to clients. The trades aren't for everyone and some of them are pretty technical. Many of the recommendations are pair trades (buy one thing, sell another) driven by what is perhaps the most important and widely-expected macro development in the year ahead: a winding down of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program. "The purpose of the Top Trade Recommendation list is, as always, to connect specific and actionable trade ideas to the set of key market themes that are likely to play out over the course of the year and that we expect to form the backbone of our strategic approach to markets for the year to come," says Goldman Sachs managing director Noah Weisberger. "While our initial list will be comprehensive, and connect back to the economic and market forces as we see them currently, we are likely to add to the list of Top Trade Recommendations (along with our usual slate of tactical trade recommendations) as the year progresses, as our views evolve, and as market risks and opportunities shift."Â 
We forecast a low double-digit gain of 10–15% for U.S. stocks in 2014, as measured by the S&amp;P 500 Index. This forecast for a slightly above- average annual return is rooted in our expectations for high single-digit earnings growth and a modest rise in the price-to-earnings (PE) ratio. An improvement in economic growth to an average 3% pace in 2014 should drive solid profit gains and boost confidence in the durability of growth. Contrary to conventional wisdom, and what may be a surprise to those who see low single-digit rates of gross domestic product (GDP) growth as incompatible with solid double-digit stock market gains, GDP does not have to be booming to produce solid gains in the stock market — as 2013 can attest. In fact, there is little relationship between the magnitude of GDP growth and stock market performance. There are perfectly logical explanations for this counter-intuitive fact. Strong GDP can be a sign of an overheating economy that may be due for a recession, and weak GDP may be discounted by the stock market ahead of an actual turnaround. As evidence, over the past 35 years, the S&amp;P 500 posted gains in half of the 16 quarters that GDP was negative. Also, over the same time period, the S&amp;P 500 posted gains in only about half of the quarters when annualized GDP was stronger than 6% and booming. Historically, stocks have posted the most consistent gains when GDP has been around 3%. When GDP for a quarter was within plus or minus a half of a percentage point of 3%, the S&amp;P 500 posted an average gain of 6.5% during that quarter—the highest of any 1% range in quarterly GDP and nearly triple the 2.4% gain when GDP was more than twice as strong. Even more impressively, when GDP was around 3%, the S&amp;P 500 posted a gain in 22 of the 24 quarters [Figure 1]. That 93% batting average stands well above other GDP 1% ranges, even those with stronger growth, and is much higher than the 66% average for the whole 35 year period. Looking back further to a full calendar year of GDP growth, rather than the usual annualized quarterly pace of GDP growth, we can see that 3% remains the sweet spot for economic growth as it pertains to the stock market. Since WWII, U.S. GDP of plus or minus 1% around the long-term average of 3% has produced an average gain of 16% in the S&amp;P 500 and produced a positive return 83% of the time. This is not just true of the United States; around the world GDP and stock market performance have not been closely related. For example, in 2013, the relatively sluggish pace of economic performance in the United States and Europe was not an impediment to much stronger stock market performance than in emerging markets that boast much faster economic growth rates. An example can be seen with Brazil and Spain. Brazilian GDP is expected to be 2.5% in 2013, while the stock market has declined 24.6%, measured by the Ibovespa Index in dollar terms year to date through last Friday. In Spain, GDP is expected to be negative while the stock market in Spain is up 24.3% this year, measured by the IBEX 35 Index also in dollar terms year to date through last Friday. The risk to our forecast is from growth disappointing our expectations, not from policymakers derailing the recovery. Volatility in the months ahead is more likely to come from “growth scares,” when economic data may temporarily disappoint expectations on a path to better growth in 2014, rather than from the antics in Washington. A key lesson from 2013 is that the stock market and economy can overcome many challengesby policymakers, including the fiscal cliff tax increases, the sequester spending cuts, the Fed tapering concerns, and the shutdown and debt ceiling brinkmanship. But a better pace of growth must materialize to find the growth sweet spot for clients; just more bond buying by the Fed is not enough to lift valuations from current levels to propel further gains.
Bitcoin fell from a high of $1,079 to a low of $576 today. This is according to data from Mt. Gox. Also, this represents a breathtaking 46% crash. Currently, Bitcoin is back to the $700 level. This is still down a whopping 35%. The sharp moves come in the wake of China's clampdown on the controversial digital currency. Earlier this week, the People's Bank of China announced it was barring the country's banks from handling the Bitcoin. (That Thursday announcement was followed by a 30% intraday crash.) That was followed by this announcement from Baidu, aka "the Chinese Google": Due to the recent fluctuations in the price of Bitcoin larger unable to protect the interests of users, in response to the risk of state-controlled bitcoin spirit Baidu music accelerate decision to suspend with immediate effect from accepting bitcoin buy accelerate music services. Horrific price volatility has been one of the biggest criticisms. This week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch currency strategist David Woo initiated coverage of Bitcoin, assigning a $1,300 fair value. "We believe Bitcoin can become a major means of payment for e-commerce and may emerge as a serious competitor to traditional money transfer providers," wrote Woo in a 14-page note to clients. "As a medium of exchange, Bitcoin has clear potential for growth, in our view." Here's a Bitcoin price chart from Clark Moody: Clark Moody
