Wikimedia CommonsThe weekend is over and Asian markets are up. The Nikkei was 0.51% higher. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 has climbed 0.75%. ¬† U.S. futures were also pointing up. Japan's trade deficit unexpectedly increased, new data showed, with export growth slowing sharply to 11.5%, versus expectations for 16.1%. This is expected to be a busy week, as the backlog of government data begins to ease. Most prominently, we're going to get the delayed non-farm payrolls reading Tuesday. Read our Sam Ro's full preview for the week here ¬ª
REUTERS/Keith BedfordCostumed participants wait in line to use the restroom during Comic Con at the Jacob Javitz Center in New York.Thanks to a last minute deal, the U.S. avoided hitting its debt ceiling, the government shutdown ended, and some of the delayed economic reports have been rescheduled. The Bureau of Labor Statistics said it would finally publish the September jobs reports on Tuesday. New dates have also been set for the PPI, the CPI, the JOLTS, and the October jobs reports. "The Census Bureau will publish its calendar of re-scheduled reports early in the week," said UBS's Sam Coffin. "Contacts there suggested that the new home sales report would be delayed but that the durables report would not.† Neither was certain, though." "Going forward, some surveys may not take place, potentially creating permanent gaps in the data records for this period," warned Citi's Peter D'Antonio. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary "We have likely avoided a default, a binary outcome that posed great risk to our thesis (even if the likelihood of a negative outcome was small, in our view)," said JP Morgan's Tom Lee. Lee believes the path is clear for the S&amp;P 500 to head to 1,775. "The latest agreement though, only punts an immediate risk to a few short months away and thus should not give rise to much optimism," warned Citi's Tobias Levkovich who sees the S&amp;P 500 ending the year at 1,650. "Investors typically do not like uncertainty and it is hard to determine how these recent almost non-decisions can be seen as reinvigorating confidence aside from some relief that an imminent likely disaster has been avoided. Nonetheless, one cannot respectably believe that things truly have turned for the better as opposed to averting the worst."
REUTERS/ Larry DowningJP Morgan CEO Jamie DimonMultiple outlets are reporting JPMorgan will pay a $13 billion civil penalty for allegedly failing to warn investors about risks in mortgage backed securities trades. It would be the largest civil penalty ever levied, representing more than half of the bank's 2012 profits. But it may still not be enough to shield it from the Justice Department's Sacramento-based prosecutors. The New York Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin reported yesterday¬†the Eastern District of California division wants to continue to pursue criminal charges: "While the deal would put those civil cases to rest, it would not save JPMorgan from a parallel criminal inquiry from federal prosecutors in California, the people briefed on the talks said.  "Under the terms of the preliminary deal, the people said, the bank would also have to assist prosecutors with an investigation into former employees who helped create the mortgage investments." According to Bloomberg, the California case is centered on alleged crimes committed by JPMorgan itself and not by employees of Bear Stearns or Washington Mutual, whose banking units JPMorgan acquired at the height of the financial crisis. For a moment, it appeared the bank would avoid a criminal indictment, but talks over ending the Sacramento probe apparently broke down at the last minute.¬†Sorkin: Mr. Holder told Mr. Dimon that he could not shut down the criminal investigation, reiterating an argument he made when the two met last month in Washington. The associate attorney general, Tony West, was also at that meeting and on the phone call Friday night. If criminal charges do surface, the impact would likely be reputational as well as financial, as specific individuals could be facing charges, Bloomberg's Dawn Kopecki reported in September.¬†¬† Read Sorkin's full story on NYTimes.com ¬ª
REUTERS/Pascal Rossignol Though they are still growing, an index for farmland values has hit its lowest level since January 2010, according to a Creighton University survey. The October reading hit 50.9, which was also down from last month's 54.0 tick. Crop acreage had been on a hot streak for much of 2012. However, both the Fed and Robert Shiller said earlier this year this was almost certainly a bubble about to pop. Now it appears to be doing so.¬†Creighton: ‚ÄúWeaker agriculture commodity prices and poor weather conditions in some parts of the region lowered the farmland price index. Clearly, farmland price growth and cash rent expansions in the months ahead will not be as healthy as has been experienced in the past couple of years,‚Äù said Ernie Goss, the Jack A. MacAllister Chair in Regional Economics at Creighton University.¬† Bankers surveyed by the university now forecast cash rents will grow by 2.5% over the next 12 months, compared with a forecast of 9.3% from six months ago. Iowa Farmer Today reported last month that cash raised when values were soaring is providing some cushion to landowners: "... Most real estate agents don‚Äôt foresee a crash in farmland values even if commodity prices dip lower. "[An¬†Iowa Chapter 2 REALTORS Land Institute¬†rep] says he doesn‚Äôt see a land bubble popping. Instead, he likens the situation to a slow deflation of a balloon." But values could see further damage from a change in the government's biofuels mandate.¬† Spotted by (@chigrl)
REUTERS/Laurent Dubrule Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel (L) and Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron talk during a European Union leaders summit in Brussels June 28, 2013. More than 10,000 Britons are claiming unemployment benefit in Germany because they are not ìhassledî in to finding work there. Ex-pats receive up to £23,318 a year from the German taxpayer at a time when many in the UK complain of EU ìbenefit touristsî heading here to drain public funds. Those Britons claiming in Germany either moved there to claim handouts or had been working there but lost their jobs. Under EU rules, countries must provide state handouts to EU citizens if their own member state has the equivalent benefit back home ñ a policy both Britain and Germany object to. The claimant figure makes up around a tenth of the British expat population in Germany and many have praised the hassle free system in contrast to ìpatronisingî officials in the UK who make people look for work. One, a 28-year-old computer science graduate from Birmingham, worked for an IT firm in Berlin for two months before losing his job and claimed Ä560 (3474) a month for six months. He said: ìIt's quite amazing that you can live here as a foreigner and claim benefits. ìIn Britain I had to put up with patronising officials, some of whom tried to get me to accept a job as a cleaner despite my degree.î He added: ìI much preferred the German system because once you get on it, the money comes in regularly and there is no more hassle.î Matt Johnson, 25, a musician from London, and his girlfriend use handouts to boost their income in Berlin. "It sounds wrong to get on the dole for that reason but our generation has had it much worse than that of our parents," Mr Johnson said. The UK claims it is funding up to 600,000 unemployed EU migrants here but that figure is disputed by the European Commission. There also concerns the picture could worsen when Romania and Bulgaria formally join the EU next year.
The Economist IMAGINE you are in a taxi and the driver suddenly turns violently and speeds towards a wall, tyres screeching, only to stop at the very last moment, inches from the bricks‚Äîand cheerfully informs you that he wants to do the same to you in three months time. Would you be grateful that he has not killed you? Or would you wonder why you chose his cab in the first place? That is the journey Congress has taken the American people on over the past few weeks (see¬†article). The last-minute deal to raise America‚Äôs debt ceiling, avoid a default and reopen the government at least until mid-January, which was signed by the president on October 16th, is welcome only compared with the immediate alternative. For a long time American politicians have poured scorn on their European peers for failing to deal with the euro crisis. This week Washington equalled Brussels on one measure of dysfunctionality and surpassed it by another. The way in which the Democrats and Republicans, having failed to reach any agreement, decided to ‚Äúkick the can down the road‚Äù, was deeply European.  The deal allows the government to stay open till January 15th and the debt ceiling to be raised until February 7th. Just as America‚Äôs economy seems to be recovering, with the promise of GDP growing by 2.7% in 2014, it could face another shutdown of the kind that has just sent consumer confidence to a nine-month low and knocked back growth in the fourth quarter by an estimated 0.6 percentage points. The way in which the Americans have surpassed the Europeans is the unreality of their discussion. The Europeans at least talk vaguely about banking unions and other solutions to their mess. In America the immediate budget deficit‚Äîat 3.4% of GDP‚Äîis smaller than that of many European countries. Indeed the danger is of too much tightening in the short term.¬† But the country‚Äôs long-term fiscal problem is immense: it taxes like a small-government country but spends like a big-government one. Eventually demography‚Äîand the huge tribe of retiring baby-boomers who expect pensions and health care‚Äîwill bankrupt the country. By the IMF‚Äôs calculation, if America is to reduce its debt to what it regards as a sensible level by 2030, allowing for all this age-related spending, it needs a ‚Äúfiscal adjustment‚Äù of 11.7% of GDP‚Äîmore than any other advanced country other than Japan.  Yet the Republicans refuse to discuss tax rises, without which Barack Obama and the Democrats refuse to discuss cuts to entitlements: neither of those things had anything to do with the impasse of the past few weeks. And to what end? Politically, neither Mr Obama nor the Republicans has much to show for their combat: the president has not persuaded his rivals to get rid of the sequester, which continues to squeeze vital functions such as defence and research, while the Republicans have to keep paying for Obamacare, the health reforms they had hoped to kill in this process. It is the political equivalent of the Somme: great damage has been done, but barely any ground gained. The bigger losers politically, though, are the Republicans. Their demand that the Democrats rescind the key parts of many of the laws that Mr Obama has passed over the past five years was the principal reason for a debacle that has embarrassed America. Americans have noticed: the proportion who view them favourably dropped to 28%, the lowest level for either party since Gallup started asking the question in 1992. When the Republicans are a small government party, this newspaper has much sympathy for their views. As long as they remain the no-government one, it is not inclined to take a ride in their cab again.
Wikimedia CommonsRobert ShillerYale University professor Robert Shiller was one of three people to win the 2013 Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences (also known as the Nobel Prize in Economics). Shiller is already a god among economists. He famously predicted two of the biggest bubbles of all time: the dot-com bubble and the housing bubble.¬† Both times, he published an edition of his book Irrational Exuberance, which described and predicted each respective bubble. The theme of this year's award "Trendspotting in asset markets," and the Nobel committee pointed to Shiller's work in forecasting intermediate-term moves in asset prices. "He found that stock prices fluctuate much more than corporate dividends, and that the ratio of prices to dividends tends to fall when it is high, and to increase when it is low," said the Nobel Committee. "This pattern holds not only for stocks, but also for bonds and other assets." Shiller regularly updates his data and makes it available for free online. He is responsible for two charts, that everyone in finance follow very closely. The first chart is of the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio.¬† CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.¬† If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16, the stock market is considered expensive. Shiller has argued that the CAPE is remarkably good at predicting returns over the period of several years. As you can see, the CAPE ratio reached insanely high levels during the dotcom bubble. Yale The second chart is of a long-term look at home prices adjusted for inflation. During the early 2000s, home prices took off, forcing Shiller to publish the second edition of Irrational Exuberance. As you can see, homes are not great assets if you're looking for real returns. "Housing traditionally is not viewed as a great investment," he told Bloomberg's Trish Regan earlier this year. "It takes maintenance, it depreciates, it goes out of style. All of those are problems. And there's technical progress in housing. So, new ones are better. "So, why was it considered an investment? That was a fad. That was an idea that took hold in the early 2000's. And I don't expect it to come back. Not with the same force. So people might just decide, "Yeah, I'll diversify my portfolio. I'll live in a rental." That is a very sensible thing for many people to do." Yale No one will argue that Shiller wasn't deserving of the Nobel prize. If anything, it was long overdue.
Facebook/paceuniversityCollege tuition has reached record highs and grads are still struggling to get jobs and pay off mounds of student debt. So, it's more important than ever to have a ranking that asks a simple question: How much will a college help you succeed in life? Last year, MIT earned the top spot in our list of¬†America's Best Colleges for the third year in a row, with Stanford and Harvard trailing close behind. But have things changed? To create the fifth annual Business Insider list of the Best Colleges, we need your help. We have selected what we consider the 62 best colleges in America and we want you to help us rank them. Please rate at least 10 of the colleges on this list‚Äîand let us know who you're furious that we left off. Also please take this opportunity to sound off on which colleges you think are total ripoffs and which are actually worth your money.
abcnews.go.comGrace Groner was born in 1909 in rural Illinois. Orphaned at age 12 and never married, she began her career during the Great Depression. She became a secretary, lived in a small cottage, bought used clothes, and never owned a car. When Groner died in 2010, those close to her were shocked to learn she was worth at least $7 million. Even more amazing, she made it all on her own. The country secretary bought $180 worth of stocks in the 1930s, never sold, and let it compound into a fortune. She left it all to charity. Now meet Richard Fuscone. He attended Dartmouth and earned an MBA from the University of Chicago. Rising through the ranks of high finance, Fuscone became Executive Chairman of the Americas at Merrill Lynch. Crain's once included Fuscone in a "40 under 40" list of successful businesspeople. He retired in 2000 to "pursue personal, charitable interests." Former Merrill CEO David Komansky praised Fuscone's "business savvy, leadership skills, sound judgment and personal integrity." But Fuscone filed for bankruptcy in 2010 -- the same year Groner's fortune was revealed -- fighting to prevent foreclosure of his 18,471-square-foot, 11-bathroom, two-pool, two-elevator, seven-car-garage New York mansion. This was after selling another home in Palm Beach following a separate foreclosure. "My background is in the financial-services industry and I have been personally devastated by the financial crisis," Fuscone's bankruptcy filing allegedly stated. "I currently have no income." These stories fascinate me. There is no plausible scenario in which a 100-year-old country secretary could beat Tiger Woods at golf, or be better at brain surgery than a brain surgeon. But -- fairly often -- that same country secretary can out-finance a Wall Street titan. Money is strange like that.¬† Less bang for your buck¬†One of the most common calls after the 2008 financial crisis was for America to double down on financial literacy. "We must strive to ensure all¬†Americans have the skills to manage their fiscal resources effectively and avoid deceptive or predatory practices," President Obama wrote in 2011, calling for a new "financial literacy month." But there's a funny thing about financial literacy: There are quite a few Grace Groners and Richard Fuscones out there. They are extreme examples, but the link between financial education and financial outcomes is surprisingly elusive. A paper released last week by a trio of economists looked at 168 separate studies analyzing the effectiveness of financial literacy programs. To sum up their findings: It doesn't work.¬†The authors found "interventions to improve financial literacy explain only 0.1% of the variance in financial behaviors studied, with weaker effects in low-income samples." And what little benefit education offered vanished quickly. "Even large interventions with many hours of instruction have negligible effects on behavior 20 months or more from the time of intervention," they wrote. This is nothing new. Lauren Willis at Loyola Law School has¬†shown¬†that financial literacy programs can actually be harmful to people's financial wellbeing. High school students who took part in a financial literacy course went on have more problems with their finances than students who skipped the course. Low-income consumers who took a class on money management "were less likely to plan and set future financial goals at follow-up than they were at baselines" one year later. As Jason Zweig of The Wall Street Journal wrote, soldiers who took a financial literacy class "ended up significantly¬†less¬†likely to have systematic control over their household budgets." As Zweig bluntly put it, "there's remarkably little evidence that financial-literacy education ... works." Part of the problem here is that defining "financial literacy" and "outcomes" is more art than science. There's a tremendous amount of financial advice out there. A lot of it is bogus. And some people would rather, say, go on a nice vacation than save for retirement. That's not necessarily a bad decision. To each their own. But several studies offer a more convincing answer: Financial education programs don't improve outcomes because they tend to teach fundamental financial concepts, which aren't that important, rather than behavioral issues, which are. Knowledge doesn't equal skill¬†As Willis wrote, "financial education appears to increase confidence without improving ability, leading to worse decisions." Learning the definition of compound interest isn't going to do you much good unless you understand the devastation you'll bring to your wealth by panicking when the market drops. Knowing what a Roth IRA is won't do you much good if overconfidence entices you to take out lots of debt. These basic behavioral differences are what separate the Grace Groners from the Richard Fuscones. Groner clearly understood patience. She understood frugality. She understood the value of a long-term view and how to not panic -- if only subconsciously. Fuscone, it seems, didn't. (To be fair, it's unclear exactly where his financial troubles came from.)¬† The traits most important to mastering your finances aren't typically taught in finance courses. You're more likely to see them in a psychology class. They include things like patience, an even temper, being skeptical of salesmen, and avoiding over-optimism.¬†A lot of people miss this because it's not intuitive. But I think it explains, better than anything else, why so many people are bad with their money.¬†And it extends beyond novices. The majority of highly educated, well-trained investment professionals perform abysmally. This has little to do with their understanding of finance and lots to do with the inability to control their emotions and behaviors.¬† Financial literacy is important. We should continue to push it. But it has to be coupled with a better understanding of the behavioral flaws that actually cause people to make bad decisions with their money. Until this is accepted, we will have more¬†Richard Fuscones and fewer¬†Grace Groners.
It's easy to forget how old photography is.  Given that flying, internal combustion engines, electricity, the telephone, and other staples of modern life didn't get cranking until the late 1800s and early 1900s, it's always startling to be reminded how relatively long photography has been with us. But it got started in about 1800. This picture, a daguerrotype, was tweeted by Paris Savant. It's billed as the first-known picture of Paris. According to Wikipedia, it's also the first known picture with people in it: "Boulevard du Temple", a†daguerreotype†made by†Louis Daguerre†in 1838, is generally accepted as the earliest photograph of people. It is a view of a busy street, but because the exposure time was at least ten minutes the moving traffic left no trace. Only the two men near the bottom left corner, one apparently having his boots polished by the other, stayed in one place long enough to be visible. Parisavant / Wikipedia
REUTERS/Jason LeeA woman drinks a cup of Starbucks coffee as she leaves a store at Qianmen Commercial Street in central Beijing, April 19, 2012. Starbucks Corp wants to make its mainland China expansion a family affair. The world's biggest coffee chain is opening cafes in China at a rate of one every four days in its quest to expand from about 570 shops today to more than 1,500 by 2015. It's becoming increasingly common for upper-middle class Chinese millennials to study abroad in the U.S. At nearly 200,000 undergrads, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education, they're blowing away the rest of the world in packing American universities. ¬† And if and when they return to China, they're bringing America back with them. We spoke with two young professional Chinese, Alice Zhang and Jun Chu, both in their 20s, to talk about how American habits are beginning to infiltrate the upper end of Chinese youth culture. Here's what they told us:¬† Jun: "A huge and still growing coffee culture. Chinese people loved tea and we consumed a lot of tea. Now the younger generations are hooked on coffee! There are Starbucks everywhere (and boy are they expensive! A grande latte is 33 kuai I believe, which translates to 5 bucks!) that might be cheap for Americans - or not - but average Chinese pay is still at developing-world standards. Jun: "Traditionally we want girls to have fair skin, as pale as possible, and as skinny and fragile as possible. Now there are actually women who prefer to look tanned, to have some lean muscles. There's a Chinese term for this kind of beauties - ÁæéÈªë (pronounced as meihei, or dark beauty)."¬† Jun: "I work in an American firm with American bosses. I also work at a public affairs consultancy so it is a fast-paced industry/office-- so I may be biased. I've heard in state-owned enterprises people are still very conservative, group-thinkers, and slow. But my Chinese colleagues are not afraid of expressing themselves, they are more independent thinkers. Instead of shying away, they know the work place (and our generation) is more competitive and they need to be more aggressive and speak up. Note that 90% of my colleagues have overseas education experience or have worked in foreign companies before. So I consider it a western influence." Alice: "Shopping in Ikea with DIY concept, and buying organic food in high end supermarket or getting them from specialized stores. People who studied abroad before sort of bring back or keep these lifestyle they had when they were abroad." Alice: "Emphasis on more on fair and transparent working environment. The promotion standards are more transparent these days. Care more for the long term career development. A relatively clear career path is usually laid out when firms try to recruit people." Alice: "‚Ä¶Esp. among young working population. They'll go to exotic places like Nepal for backpacking hiking, or snorkeling in Malaysia islands.¬†It was very rare in the past. For my parents' generation, they didn't travel that much. And even they did, it was very typical sightseeing and photo taking type." "Traditional Chinese go get dim sum on the weekend, now I see a brunch culture...brunch is more popular among the yuppy urban¬†Chinese. It's not that ridiculous as it is in NYC. I think it is quite expensive for the Chinese standard. Typically $20.00. But again, I am talking about a small yuppy hipster Chinese. A lot of ordinary Chinese people don't do brunch still.... One does see long lines outside certain places."
Fotos GOVBA/FlickrThanks to Obamacare, the health-care industry is going to get a big makeover during the coming years and venture capitalists have wasted no time looking for ways to cash in. "This is the greatest opportunity I've seen in my lifetime. It's the first time we are seeing really fundamental changes happen. And there's a lot of money that can be made as this chaos is sorted out," said Lisa Suennen, the co-founder and managing member of Psilos Group, a health-care-focused venture capital firm. With trillions of dollars estimated to be spent on¬†Obamacare¬†as it gets going and trillions more to be reallocated, it's no wonder VCs see this as a huge opportunity. The Affordable Care Act, which expands coverage to an estimated 32 million uninsured Americans, makes coverage mandatory. With that many people coming online, health-care providers will essentially be forced to find new ways to manage patients and costs, experts say. Consumers will be affected in a similar manner. "Obamacare will do a couple of different things. The No. 1 thing it has already done is it has brought the health-care system to the national stage. People are thinking about how health care is brought to them," said Ted Maidenberg, a general partner at The Social+Capital Partnership. "People will be thinking about better ways to consume and manage health, their pocketbook will be more affected and in general that will have consumers wanting more options. And health-care providers, they aren't going to build more hospitals and hire more doctors. They are going to to have to find new ways to inject millions of people into the system through technology." So venture capitalists are placing their bets on a slew of different companies that they believe will profit from the overhaul of the system and one of the biggest areas some see potential in is the¬†exchanges. (Read more:¬†Here's how health insurance exchanges work) EHealth,¬†a publicly traded company that owns Ehealthinsurance.com, is one of these companies benefiting from the federal mandate. Its stock is up 50 percent since July. Investors are also betting on companies that provide the backbone of support for both new government-run health insurance exchanges as well as the growing sector of private health exchanges. (Read more:¬†Young people may not 'get' Obamacare) The government Obamacare exchanges were established to offer insurance to the uninsured so they can comply with the new mandate to have insurance. The private health exchanges are being used by companies to offer a variety of insurance options to both current and retired employees. GetInsured and Liazon are just a couple of the venture-backed companies looking to power these types of exchanges. Extend Health, which Psilos had invested in, was also a player in the space but was recently acquired by¬†Towers Watson. (Read more:¬†Vast majority of Obamacare exchange visitors don't enroll) "Just like when the Internet first came about, it was the guys who built routers and servers that made all the money it will be the guys building the backbones and enterprise software systems for these exchanges that will make a lot of money," said Suennen. Not surprisingly investors also see a promising future for software companies focused on data-driven solutions in the health-care space. But not all are as obvious as you might think. (Read more:¬†Veeva Systems IPO shows updraft in cloud business) For example, Maidenberg is invested in a company called Propeller Health, which is a company that uses a sensor on an asthma patient's inhaler to collect data about the patient's condition. The collected data can be shared with the physician to remotely monitor the patient's condition and know when a change in treatment is necessary. The doctor can easily monitor a roster of asthma patients with the company's software, which is basically a dashboard that looks a lot like the Salesforce interface. The software helps the doctor to determine who is more likely to be hospitalized based on their behavior and helps the doctor to know when to be proactive about adjusting care. Data companies also will be key in helping companies decide whether or not they should adopt a private exchange or keep their health plans, said Michael Yang, managing director of Comcast Ventures. Basically, employers will need to figure out which health-care option is more affordable for them to provide and that creates demand for companies that can analyze data about their current and past employees, Yang said. Companies that help make the health-care industry more consumer-friendly will likely also get a boost, experts said. And this starts with educating people about their options, Yang said. "Consumer education and marketing of these exchanges is so underserved," Yang said. "The advertising and marketing world could do a lot to help private exchanges and the government market to advertise these exchanges." Yang said his firm is advising all of its ad tech investments to look at exchanges as "newfound" sources of revenue and is encouraging them to seek out opportunity in the space. There also will be a need for finance management products that make it easier for the consumer to understand costs, Yang said. Maidenberg is invested in a software company called Simplee, which is a financial services company that works with clients to simplify billing processes. Simplee is a good play in Obamacare, though, because hospitals have a lot of billing problems, he said. "The bill you receive is often very different from the bill from the physician. And providers tend to have a big receivables issue because of this, because hospital bills are extremely confusing," Maidenberg said. "They can't afford to have the billing issues they currently have." So what Simplee does is work with the hospitals to change the way bills are presented to hospitals and the company has already seen some success. One California hospital that is a Simplee client saw its online bill pay go from 2 percent to more than 30 percent in just six months, Maidenberg said.
The S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high on Friday, leaving investors wondering where the market heads from here. Business Insider recently asked David Bianco for what he considered to be the most important chart in the world. ‚ÄúNormally in the middle of an economic cycle, investment spending is 2 to 3 times GDP growth," said Bianco, Deutsche Bank's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist. "Strong investment spending is what drives S&amp;P 500 sales and non-financial profits. The whole debate about the S&amp;P is about when this turns back up again.‚Äù Capital expenditure growth over the last 12 months has averaged an unusually low 3.5% over the last 12 months. "1967 and 1985-87 are two periods that saw similar mid-cycle capex slowdown," said Bianco. "But, the economic cycle proved to be long lasting and capex growth eventually accelerated." The next update on capex will come on Friday when the Census Bureau publishes its September durable goods orders report. Business Insider / Deutsche Bank
David McNew / GettyPeople don't talk much about peak oil these days, now that the U.S. is enjoying a shale boom and crude oil prices are down about 30% from the 2008 peak. Yet world oil production has basically stalled, with prices still high and emerging market demand rising, meaning the risk of a major energy crisis is still out there. Actuary Gail Tverberg has a leading voice in the peak oil camp for years, notably editing The Oil Drum. She explained the risks of an energy crisis in a recent presentation at the¬†Casualty Actuarial Society In Focus: Elephants in the Room¬†conference. In short, oil supply limits could suppress growth from here on out, moving the world from the stagflation era to 20-50 years of crisis.¬†She advises other actuaries that "financial models in general are wrong" and "failure of financial institutions is likely." The only alternative she sees is the discovery of a "miraculous cheap new energy" ‚Äî and alternatives and nuclear have a long way to go.
REUTERS / Alex WongSen. Ted Cruz isnt done yet. Our government has failed us ‚Äî again. Given the debacle over the last 16 days, it's hard to praise anyone in¬†Washington. Or anything. The shutdown cost the¬†United States¬†$24 billion, according to Standard and Poor's. Consumer confidence dropped by the largest amount since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers. Our partisanship is undermining our international standing and slowing our economy. Worst of all, it starts again in January. Unbowed by poll numbers that show their unpopularity, hard-line¬†Tea Party¬†conservatives are vowing to fight on. "If the American people continue to rise up," Senator¬†Ted Cruz¬†(R-Texas) declared in theSenate¬†Wednesday after the deal was announced to avoid default and reopen the government. "We're going to stop the number one job killer in this country that is Obamacare." We need to applaud the Republicans who stood up to Cruz this week. A civil war is underway in the¬†Republican Party. Democrats can vilify Cruz and the¬†Tea Party¬†as much as they want, but it is only fellow conservatives who can undermine their legitimacy in crimson states and congressional districts. Here's a rough cheat sheet for the GOP civil war: The good: (The bar is low) Mitch McConnell: Facing a Tea Party primary challenge, the¬†Senate¬†minority leader first stayed out of the fray. But his last-minute decision to strike a deal with¬†Senate¬†Majority Leader¬†Harry Reid¬†(D-Nev.) prevented the nation's first default. Yes, McConnell (R-Ky.) could have acted sooner. But it was McConnell ‚Äî more than any other Republican ‚Äî who prevented a default and crushed Cruz's hopes for a¬†Tea Party¬†insurrection in theSenate. Susan Collins,¬†Lisa Murkowski¬†and¬†Kelly Ayotte: These three Republican senators who hail from states with strong¬†Tea Party¬†movements ‚Äî¬†Maine,¬†Alaska¬†and¬†New Hampshire, respectively ‚Äî spearheaded the effort to embrace a compromise that reopened the government on largely Democratic terms. They are expected to be key players in the fiscal negotiations now scheduled for this fall ‚Äî and likely to fail. The¬†U.S. Chamber of Commerce: In a rare moment of unity, the pro-business labor organization sent a joint letter with the AFL-CIO and United Way to President¬†Barack Obama¬†and¬†Congress¬†urging an end to the shutdown and a possible default. More important, the chamber and other business lobbies are talking about funding centrist, business-friendly Republican candidates to run against¬†Tea Party¬†firebrands. Next year's GOP congressional primaries could be just as interesting as the general election. Grover¬†Norquist: A man loathed by liberals for his no-tax pledge turned on Cruz and his fellow "defunders" with a vengeance. "It'd be a good idea if they stopped referring to other Republicans as Hitler appeasers because they opposed the strategy they put forward which failed," Norquist told reporters on Wednesday. "I think if you make a mistake as big as what they did, you owe your fellow senators and congressmen a big apology ‚Äî and your constituents, as well." Charles Krauthammer,¬†Jennifer Rubin¬†and¬†Jonah Goldberg: The conservative commentators for¬†the Washington Post¬†and¬†the National Review¬†all openly criticized the tactic of shutting down the government to kill Obamacare. Krauthammer called the approach "nuts" and "really dumb." Goldberg said the idea "works fantastically well for fundraising when you want to go and run in 2016 for president" but called it a "ludicrous" legislative strategy. Rubin called for the GOP's "sanity caucus" to save the party. "The shutdown strategy's complete flop should demonstrate to all but those determined to create their own counter-reality that the shutdown squad doesn't represent the views of voters or even of GOP voters," she wrote on Tuesday. The bad: Rupert Murdoch and¬†Roger Ailes: Night after night, Fox News sustains the Republican far right. Year after year, it has given the country's most extreme conservatives enormous reach and credibility. Polls showing record low approval ratings for the GOP should give Murdoch and Ailes pause. So far, there is little sign of this. Paul Ryan: In what was an exercise in wishful thinking, I wrote last week that the fiscal conservative might use the debt fight as a way to break from extreme conservatives. I was wrong. Instead, Ryan is trying to have it both ways. Last week, he was one of the first Republicans to drop the defunding of Obamacare as a condition for reopening the government. Yet on Wednesday night, he voted with House conservatives against the bipartisan deal to reopen the government and avoid a default. Ryan and Senator¬†Patty Murray¬†(D-Wash.) will co-chair the bipartisan panel of lawmakers charged with developing a long-term budget plan by December 13. Ryan's no vote on Wednesday suggests that chances of any agreement are low. Marco Rubio: The¬†Florida¬†senator who had courageously embraced immigration reform earlier this year continued the move back to his¬†Tea Party¬†roots during the shutdown. On Wednesday night, Rubio voted against the bipartisan deal. Clearly, Rubio is positioning himself for a 2016 presidential run against Cruz and Senator¬†Rand Paul¬†(R-Ky.), both of whom also voted against the deal. Senators and House members who voted against the bipartisan deal:¬†The Washington Post¬†compiled a breakdown of the 18 senators and 144 representatives who voted against the agreement. Political survival drove the votes of many Republicans from conservative states and districts. It was also clear, of course, that the measure would pass. But anyone who voted against a last-minute, bipartisan deal to avoid the first ever U.S. default is cause for alarm. The ugly: Heritage Action and¬†Club for Growth: The two ultra-conservative, 501(c)4 organizations, formed shortly after the Citizens United decision, have been key funders of Cruz and other hard-line conservatives. Their threats to fund Tea Party primary challengers against those who supported the agreement are unnerving to moderate Republicans. The future: Though the deficit is dropping, the Republicans are right on one issue. The¬†United Statesfaces an enormous long-term debt problem. A grand bargain that involves entitlement reforms and revenue increases is needed. Opinions polls show that Americans are desperate for a government that works. Democrats winning control of the House in 2016 is a short-term solution to the gridlock. But the only real long-term fix is a more unified and centrist¬†Republican Party. (David Rohde¬†is a Reuters columnist. Opinions are his own.)
University of Chicago professor Eugene Fama was one of three people to be awarded the 2013 Nobel Prize in Economics. Fama is known as the "father of the efficient markets hypothesis (EMH)," which asserts that all information is efficiently priced into the markets making it incredibly difficult to profit off of trading in the short run. "These findings not only had a profound impact on subsequent research but also changed market practice," said the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in its press release. "The emergence of so-called index funds in stock markets all over the world is a prominent example." However, Jack Bogle, the "father of index funds" was a bit surprised to hear that Fama would be associated with indexing. "He's clearly a brilliant economist," Bogle told Business Insider in a phone call this week.† "He's right some of the time." "When he had a chance to start an index fund, he did not do it," said Bogle. Rather, Fama was part of the team that started Dimensional Fund Advisors (DFA), a money-management firm that seeks superior returns by increasing exposure to sectors they consider to be undervalued. "Traditionally, managers do one of two things: they focus on picking individual securities, the antithesis of diversification, or they hold many securities but mimic arbitrary benchmarks," writes DFA on its website. "Dimensional chooses a different path. It structures strategies based on academic research rather than on speculation or commercial indexes. Small cap strategies target smaller stocks more consistently. Value strategies target value returns with greater focus." Investing in "arbitrary benchmarks" or "commercial indexes" is what Bogle pioneered as a college student at Princeton and has been offering at a low cost for nearly 40 years. And anyone with the smallest amount of experience in investing knows how rare it is to outperform the indexes, especially when you're paying high fees to managers who believe they can beat the market. "Don't spend too much time with EMH," said Bogle. "Don't focus on EMH, focus on CMH ó the cost-matters hypothesis." "EMH is sometimes correct and sometimes incorrect," he added. Perhaps the most glaring problem people have with EMH is its interpretation of asset bubbles. How can markets be efficient if we experience bubbles? "Dr. Fama doesn't recognize bubbles," criticized Bogle. "It's not very complicated." Indeed, the recognition of bubbles made Yale economist Robert Shiller so famous. Shiller was one of the other economists awarded a Nobel Prize with Fama. Many have noted the irony of Fama and Shiller being awarded at the same time. Perhaps this just reminds us that the debate over EMH is far from over. However, Jack Bogle's position on Fama and EMH is pretty clear. "I have a philosophical disagreement."
REUTERS / Gleb Garanich (Reuters) - KIEV - In 1993, the late Harvard political scientist Samuel¬†Huntington¬†proposed that "the principal conflicts of global politics will occur between nations and groups of different civilizations." His theory that the world was divided into potentially warring civilizations - and later, his book on the topic - have been denounced by legions of critics, mainly on the liberal side. But it had and has retained one group of unlikely fans: Russian nationalists. They saw in his definition of "Slavic-Orthodox culture" (including much of the former Soviet Union and reaching deep into East-Central Europe) a confirmation, albeit from a surprising quarter, of their own view of the world. That is, that Russia is and must remain the central and organizing power of a collection of states that history, religion and culture had predisposed to unity, and to a distinctly separate identity from a West that would devour them behind a front of "spreading democracy." President Vladimir Putin of Russia is an ardent¬†Huntington-ite. His much quoted view that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th century signaled a deeply felt loss of a world in which Russia ruled not so much by force but by cultural and political leadership. In such a view, the nations that comprise that civilization are less important than the civilization itself. For a Slavic-Orthodox state to shift to the West would not be a choice, but a betrayal of the bloc's essence. In a few weeks, the state that lives on the fault line between¬†Huntington's Western and Slavic civilizations will have to make what James Sherr, one of its foremost Western observers, calls "a civilizational choice." Sherr writes that the European Union is about to offer Ukraine an Association Agreement and trade pact that will "provide tangible mechanisms of integration with the EU" - an open invitation to shift the core of Ukraine's statehood to the West. There is another offer on the table, from the east. Russia has constructed a Eurasian Customs Union (ECU) that takes in Belarus to its west and Kazakhstan to its south. The ECU is said to be both rules-based and relatively efficient, "harmonized with international norms and the World Trade Organization regime." Russia is not just inviting Ukraine to join the ECU - it is seeking to frighten it into it, instituting the beginnings of a trade embargo to show what might happen on a bigger scale if its offer were spurned, and threatening higher prices for the gas it supplies to its neighbor. At a meeting in Yalta in the south of Ukraine last month, the Polish Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski said that "Ukraine is on the final lap (to associating with the EU)...we've done it, so can you." But later, Sergei Glaziev, President Putin's economic adviser, mocked both Ukraine and the EU's move, asking its representatives if it really wanted to take a "nearly bankrupt country" under its already damaged wings. Ukraine is surely in a poor state. Part of that is due to the Russian trade embargo, and part due to the slow motion closure or shrinkage of Soviet-era industrial behemoths that have pushed up unemployment. It's also an issue that a regime, known as "The Family," headed by President Viktor Yanukovych, has allied itself to a select group of oligarchs whose businesses are protected by the government. It preys upon the small and medium-sized enterprises that are made offers they cannot refuse - sell (at low prices) or be destroyed. In conversations with young Ukrainian journalists these past few days, I met a wall of cynicism about the future of a country so ill-governed. Mykhailo Minakov, a political scientist at the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy and president of the Foundation for Good Politics, told me that some 30,000 scholars and post-graduates were leaving the country each year - a huge number for a medium-sized (46 million-person) state. Yanukovych, whose presidential bid was enthusiastically supported by Putin, has broken with his Russian counterpart and now presents himself as more and more of a Westerner. The EU deal could give him access to IMF and other funding that he will badly need, and would, at least publicly, treat him with greater courtesy than the evident contempt, or patronizing "friendship," that he gets from the Russian leadership. The Association Agreement doesn't give the EU rights to interfere in Ukraine's governance, so "The Family" can remain, at least at first, largely undisturbed. The Ukrainian president is even said to be ready to bow to EU pressure to free Yulia Tymoshenko, his rival in the 2010 presidential election whom he jailed for "abuse of power" - so long as she leaves the country and doesn't challenge him again. But the "civilizational choice" will be a momentous one. It will likely prompt a furious response from Russia, who will see it not just as treachery but an intrusion of the West into its territory. It will force Ukraine's economy to modernize - rapidly - so that its goods can meet technical and safety standards, which are constantly upgraded by international agreements. It will force a deep reconstruction of education in the country, which has since the collapse of the Soviet Union lost many of the better facets of its pedagogy - disciplined, if rote-like, study - and built too little of value to take its place. It will hasten the closure of the corporate behemoths and shine a harsher light on the activities of "The Family" and its allies. All these are enough to give Yanukovych's hand pause if he is offered an agreement in a few weeks time. And not just his: the EU itself may balk at the last moment. Its members are not all delighted with the prospect of taking on a "bankrupt country" - Glaziev was harsh, but not wrong. Polish, Swedish and German diplomats have wooed Ukraine westwards; but the southern European states are less certain that they want to live with an even more hostile Russia than the one they have already. Choices like this, which lay the technocratic details of trade on top of centuries of religious allegiances, wars, massacres and political turbulence, are dizzyingly hard to make. The effects are likely to be ambiguous for decades, as politicians and others seek to moderate and even deny the consequences of their actions. But if the relevant leaders' pens scratch their signatures across the paper on which the treaties are set out, a major state will move into the West's sphere of influence. Reduced to a zero-sum game of Europe's favorite sport, the Westerners will have won against the Slavic-Orthodox, 1:0.
Philippe Wojazer / REUTERS PARIS (Reuters) - A newspaper open on the bar of this Paris cafe tells of a row over France's Sunday trading rules. But the bar owner, Zhang Chang, says he has little time to follow such debates. He's too busy working. While French workers worry the country's long economic downturn could mean the end of laws banning Sunday trading and enforcing a 35-hour week, Zhang and Chinese immigrants like him are quietly getting ahead the old-fashioned way - 11 hours a day, six days a week. "As I see it, when you work, you're paid. So why stop at 35 hours?" he asks, perplexed by France's landmark law which shaved four hours off the statutory working week in the late 1990s. Zhang owns the Cafe Le Marais in central Paris and is part of a wave of entrepreneurial migrants from China's coastal Wenzhou region who are taking over France's "bar tabac" business. They are doing it by sweat and sacrifice - and by navigating restrictive labor rules, focusing on the bar and restaurant sector that is exempt from the 35-hour rule and the Sunday trading ban, unlike many other industries. That approach, and their work ethos, runs counter to the work-life balance long treasured by many French and vigorously defended by their unions over the past century - but it chimes with others who say it may be time for a change. Some 71 percent of French said in a recent Ifop poll they would be willing to work Sundays if their pay was boosted. And many white-collar French workers and business-owners say that in reality they already work much longer than 35 hours a week. However President Francois Hollande, unwilling to raise the unions' ire, has so far defended the ban on Sunday trading and, despite a reform this year that eased some rigidity in labor rules, has sidestepped the issue of the 35-hour work week. While the debate continues, the Chinese plough on. "We the Chinese think all the unemployment is because people can't work enough," said Xiao, a restaurant owner who declined to give her last name as she dished out Wenzhou specialties such as chewy stir-fried rice cake and beef hot pot to young Paris professionals. Even the dining habits of the French reveal a lack of get up and go, she added. "I have people who linger for three hours after they're done eating. It drives me crazy!" ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT The success of Zhang and Xiao is just another sign of China's growing presence in France, alongside the Asian nation's ownership of famed vineyards, its billion-euro holdings in blue-chips such as energy firm GDP Suez and the daily busloads of Chinese tourists spending hard in Paris department stores. Zhang arrived in 1996 without working papers and - like most of the 150,000 Wenzhou immigrants who came in the 1980s and 90s - worked off-the-books jobs until he obtained his green card. That's a classic pattern among Wenzhou immigrants, who have formed the economic engine of France's Asian community, says researcher Richard Beraha, author of "China in Paris." "They don't expect anything from the French state, since they learned to stay hidden, often arriving without papers," he said. "Unemployment in France is of little concern, because essentially they're all entrepreneurs. It's a state of mind." Wenzhou, a port city 500 km south of Shanghai, is known for a culture of private enterprise, which the immigrants bring with them. Family members furnish labor and capital - it takes seed money of just 50,000 euros ($67,800) to start a takeout food shop, said Beraha, and staffing it with relatives keeps labor costs low. Many are pouring their energies into bar-tabacs - a focal point of French life where locals can drink, buy cigarettes and bet on horses that is being abandoned by many French owners on the grounds it is too labor-intensive for too little profit. Sixty percent of the businesses for sale in Paris are being purchased by Asian buyers, most of them Chinese, said Gerard Bohelay, head of the Paris federation of bar-tabac owners. "I'm the only one left," sighed Patrick Loubiere, whose parents were among many French country people from the central Auvergne region to seek a better life in Paris. They set up Le Celtic bar-tabac, near Zhang's Le Cafe Marais, that he now runs. "The younger generation doesn't want to do it," added Loubiere, who doubts his son will take over the business. "It's too early in the morning for some, too late at night for others. They're getting lazy." Says Yves Boungnong, another bar-tabac owner whose parents emigrated from Laos in the 1970s: "It's not the French who want to work here, it's the immigrants." JEALOUS NEIGHBOURS The takeover has irritated some locals who say it's easier to find bok choy than baguettes in some areas, and protest the reluctance of some Chinese bar-tabac owners to serve French food along with beer and cigarettes. Right-leaning magazine Le Point picked up on this feeling in a recent article about Chinese entrepreneurs which asked "How the devil do they do it?" then listed "five commandments": 1) work 80 hours a week 2) sleep in your shop 3) don't pay your employees as they are family members 4) don't contribute to the system and 5) don't pay taxes. Although an investigation into illegal activity in the Paris bar-tabac industry was opened last year, Beraha said tax evasion is no more prevalent in the Chinese community than in others. Pierre Aidenbaum, mayor of the Third Arrondissement, where the Chinese took over empty Jewish textiles storefronts in the 1950s, attributes such feelings to envy in tough times: "It's jealousy towards your neighbor, who has made it." Conflicts a decade ago between locals and Chinese were resolved after wholesale businesses agreed to shut on Sundays and workshops stopped using sewing machines after 8pm, he said. "We have more problems today with the noise from the cafe terraces than the noise from the Chinese workshops," he said. Still, abuses exist. A 2005 report for the Geneva-based International Labor Organization found workplace rules were regularly flouted in Chinese restaurants and sweatshops and that many used subcontractors hiring illegal immigrants. Those immigrants further down the ladder are often the ones who are really struggling. Often recent arrivals from northeast China, lacking family in France, they are looked down upon by those from Wenzhou and scrape by as nannies, cooks, delivery men and manicurists. Many women struggling to support a family turn to prostitution in order to repay the cost of being smuggled into the country - often more than 12,000 euros - police say. "Economic success does exist, but for a small minority," said Donatien Schramm, who teaches French to new Chinese immigrants. "So many who don't have shops - they have to work in small factories, restaurants, take side jobs." One woman, "Aiyim," said she regretted having made the long, expensive journey to France 12 years ago. Unable to get working papers, she supports herself and a son in China working illegally as a nanny and maid for a French banker, who pays her the equivalent of the minimum wage for around-the-clock work. Asked how she sees her future, Aiyim smiles sadly: "I can't even think about it. I have to focus on working every day." There are signs that French attitudes to longer working hours are starting to shift. In a first for the country, workers from home improvement (DIY) chains recently took to the streets to protest a court ruling ordering them to close on Sunday, when many other stores are also banned from trading. Employees of cosmetics store Sephora are also campaigning to overturn another ruling, which forbade its Champs Elysees outlet to stay open until midnight. But that urge to work is something Bohelay of the bar-tabac group warned needed to be more in evidence in France. "People aren't hungry here anymore," he said. "But they're going to have to get back to work, because the new immigrants are ready to work twice as hard, for twice as long, and they will end up being the bosses." ($1 = 0.7373 euros)
Drew Angerer / Getty WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Despite his win last week in a debt ceiling standoff with Republicans, President Barack Obama has limited ability to achieve his policy goals through legislation, which could result in increased use of executive powers, administration officials and Democratic strategists said. The 16-day partial government shutdown highlighted Obama's challenges in basic governing. Although he refused to concede to Republicans in exchange for reopening the government and raising the U.S. borrowing limit, he could not block the emergence of what he called a "manufactured" crisis. The president would now like to seize momentum to push forward three legislative priorities: the farm bill, immigration reform and a more lasting budget deal. But his chances of progress on those issues, particularly immigration reform, depend on convincing embittered Republicans to work with a White House many of them detest. That leaves Obama more or less at the same strategic juncture he encountered before the shutdown began. "His only play is to just keep being consistent about trying to find ways for bipartisan cooperation on the things that need congressional action and then try to continue what he's been doing for years now ... and that's looking for ways to move the ball through executive action," a senior White House official told Reuters. "In that sense, nothing has changed in our approach except that we and the whole town had to burn however many weeks on this detour - which is a shame." Already this year, Obama has relied on executive actions to enact climate change and gun control policies that had weak congressional support. He could use the same authority to bypass lawmakers on other regulatory questions. But that strategy has limits. Some of the administration's climate rules are being challenged at the Supreme Court, and Obama still needs¬†Congress¬†to enact the major reforms that his advisers hope will define his legacy. "Obama did himself no favors when it comes to his own policy priorities," said an aide to John Boehner, the Republican speaker of the House of Representatives. "His refusal to negotiate in good faith makes it difficult for our members to work with him on other big priorities. Immigration reform, already a huge task, looks even tougher." The error-filled rollout of Obama's signature healthcare program hurts his ability to focus on other domestic policy goals as well. Republicans plan to hammer the administration in coming weeks over flaws that have prevented people from signing up for health insurance through new exchanges. House Republican efforts to delay or defund the healthcare law, popularly known as Obamacare, triggered the partial government shutdown. BUILDING COALITIONS Lawmakers' votes on Wednesday to prevent the United States from going into default showed a narrow pathway to finding bipartisan support. The Democratic-led Senate passed the measure to reopen the government and extend the debt ceiling on an 81-18 vote, while the Republican-controlled House passed it 285-144. That vote tally - 87 House Republicans supported the bill - combined with rock-solid unity among Democratic lawmakers, gives Obama's allies hope he can build other coalitions. "I will look for willing partners wherever I can to get important work done," the president said on Thursday. "And there's no good reason why we can't govern responsibly, despite our differences, without lurching from manufactured crisis to manufactured crisis." The first test of whether lawmakers can avert another crisis comes as a bipartisan panel considers a plan, due by December 13, to reduce the deficit. Under the compromise forged last week, the government would be funded through January 15 and the debt ceiling lifted through February 7. That tight time frame does not allow much room for the president's other policy priorities to gain traction. Democrats believe, however, that Obama's bargaining hand may be strengthened by the thrashing Republicans took in opinion polls over their handling of the shutdown. "This shutdown re-emphasized the overwhelming public demand for compromise and negotiation. And that may open up a window," said Ben LaBolt, Obama's 2012 campaign spokesman and a former White House aide. "There's no doubt that some Republican members (of¬†Congress) are going to oppose policies just because the president's for it. But the hand of those members was significantly weakened." If he does have an upper hand, Obama is likely to apply it to immigration reform. The White House had hoped to have a bill concluded by the end of the summer. A Senate version passed with bipartisan support earlier this year but has languished in the Republican-controlled House. "It will be hard to move anything forward, unless the Republicans find the political pain of obstructionism too much to bear," said Doug Hattaway, a Democratic strategist and an adviser to Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign. "That may be the case with immigration - they'll face pressure from business and Latinos to advance immigration reform," he said. A White House official said Obama's options for using executive action to advance immigration reform were largely exhausted. Last year, his administration relaxed deportation rules for children who came to the United States illegally with their parents. The move helped boost his support among Hispanics, a key voting bloc, in last November's election. If a package of immigration measures does not move soon, Democrats hope the results will show up in Republican defeats in next year's congressional elections. If Democrats regain control of the House, the way could be smoothed for comprehensive immigration reform in the second half of Obama's final term.
SOME NAGGING CONCERNS
Barron'sThis week, you'll inevitably hear some market pundit point to this week's bullish-looking Barron's cover as a contrarian bearish indicator for the stock market. Magazine covers, like those published by Barron's, have been associated with market tops. Unfortunately, the data is anything but scientific. And Barron's has published so many bullish covers during this leg of the rally (see here, here, here, here, here, and here) that it has either destroyed magazines as contrarian bearish indicators or completely diluted them as straight bullish indicators. Perhaps the magazine cover may have some use as an indicator of investor sentiment. But there are plenty of more robust alternative sources for that information. After all, the cover of a magazine is ultimately just the decision of an editor.
