REUTERS/John KolesidisA woman walks past mannequins in a closed shop at central Athens November 15, 2012.The government shutdown has taken a toll on consumer spending, according to Goldman Sachs equity analysts led by Lindsay Drucker Mann.¬† Goldman surveyed 1,000 consumers to ask how the fiscal crisis in Washington, D.C. was affecting their spending patterns. "When asked 'has the fiscal policy impasse in Congress caused you to scale back or eliminate spending?' 40% of 1,000 consumers surveyed responded it had, with 28% indicating 'a little' and 12% 'considerably'," writes Mann in a note to clients. "Of note, 47% of respondents with household income &lt;$35k indicated they felt impacted, compared to only 32% of respondents earning &gt;$100K per household." Two weeks of government shutdown have helped erase two years of consumer confidence gains, as high-frequency measures of sentiment like Gallup's daily Economic Confidence Index have plummeted since the beginning of October. Yesterday, Goldman published the results of a separate, quarterly survey of 2,000 consumers. The report said the disparity in sentiment toward the economy between low- and high-income households in the third quarter was the largest in the history of the survey, which began 2005. Spending patterns in Q3 reflected the widening divergence in sentiment ‚Äî high-income houses spent more, while low-income households pared back.
Futures are rising this evening. Here's a chart from FinViz: FinViz The big news is that a plan by the House GOP to come up with its own debt ceiling bill has collapsed and the¬† Senate leaders are back to negotiating a deal. They've said they're optimistic, and several reports say they're close. If the Senate can pass that tomorrow, then of course it must still go back to the House, where the bill's future is uncertain. But comments from insiders suggest the House GOP might just finally relent and let it pass.
BESTST0RYWINS / YouTubeGerard MinackBefore we could argue that Gerard Minack was the most underrated strategist on Wall Street, he announced his retirement from his then employer Morgan Stanley. His final note, which was published on May 17, caused quite a stir at the time as he perfectly articulated how and why amateurs were so terrible at investing. He also proceeded to explain that this underperformance was basically the reason why pros stay employed. (Read more about it in our May 17 post. ) Four months later, Minack resurfaced with his new shop, Minack Advisors. We asked Minack, an artist with charts, for what he considered to be the most important chart in the world. And we weren't disappointed. "This chart shows listed sector profits relative to GDP. U.S. back at prior peaks," he explained to Business Insider. "A V-shaped profit recovery, despite a lackluster GDP recovery. Elsewhere, profits only recouped half their Great Recession losses, and have been falling (as a share of GDP) since." "Bottom line: there‚Äôs less upside in U.S. profits, more upside elsewhere," he said. "And combine America‚Äôs stretched equity valuations on sky-high earnings, versus below-record earnings and cheaper valuations elsewhere ‚Äî and I‚Äôd rather not be in U.S. equities." Business Insider / Minack Advisors
APSenate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Majority Leader Harry ReidAfter House Republican leadership shelved a vote on legislation to reopen the government and raise the debt ceiling, the two Senate leaders have re-entered into talks and are close to a deal.† Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell are close to a deal, according to spokesmen for both leaders. A Democratic leadership aide said it's "likely†(cross your fingers) that an agreement is coming tonight." That never came, but both sides continue to say it is close. Shortly after 10 p.m. ET, the Senate adjourned until noon on Wednesday. "Senator Reid and Senator McConnell have re-engaged in negotiations and are optimistic that an agreement is within reach," said Adam Jentleson, Reid's spokesman. McConnell spokesman Don Stewart said: "Given tonight's events, the Leaders have decided to work toward a solution that would reopen the government and prevent default.†They are optimistic an agreement can be reached." Reid and McConnell were discussing a possible agreement on Monday that would fund the government through mid-January and raise the debt ceiling through Feb. 7. It also set up a budget conference that would end no later than Dec. 13.  A Democratic aide said the deal currently being discussed would include†an income-verification system for individuals and families receiving subsidies through the Affordable Care Act. But it won't likely include a one-year delay in the law's "reinsurance tax," a provision that is designed to spread risk among insurers and stabilize premiums in the first three years of the law. The aide also said that under the deal, the Treasury Department will still be able to use "extraordinary measures" to work around the debt ceiling in the case that it is not raised by Feb. 7.† "Should be included and allowed," the aide said.
A report by PWC and The World Gold Council entitled 'The Direct Economic Impact of Gold'¬†looks at the global gold trade and its impact on the world economy. According to the report, the 15 largest gold producing countries accounted for around 75% of global output. In 2012, these countries generated a gross value added (GVA) approximately equal to the GDP of Ecuador or Azerbaijan ¬†and 30% of the estimated GDP of Shanghai. Gross Value Added refers to the "economic contribution of those entities engaged in the gold value chain and reflects their contribution to the economies in which they operate ‚Äì and employment,"¬†according to the report.¬† Here is a chart that shows the top 15 gold producers and the value of their GVA in $ billions as well and as a percent of their GDP.  www.pwc.com
AP House Republicans have shelved a vote on legislation to reopen the government and raise the debt ceiling.¬† Rep. Pete Sessions (R-Texas), the chair of the House Rules Committee, told reporters Tuesday night that there would be "no action" on the legislation Tuesday night. "We are going to be prepared tomorrow to make some decisions," Sessions said. The Rules Committee abruptly¬†postponed a hearing on the legislation¬†earlier Tuesday, because Republican leadership didn't have the votes to pass its own plan. The House of Representatives had planned earlier Tuesday afternoon to go ahead the vote, which featured an Obamacare-related provision. With the failure in the House, the action now shifts back to the Senate. Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell are already talking, and aides close to both are "optimistic" a deal will be reached. House conservatives signaled early Tuesday morning their disapproval of a possible Senate deal that would reopen the government and raise the debt ceiling. House Leadership went ahead with plans to move its own legislation, despite no support from Democrats and conservative opposition. Heritage Action, a conservative group that has pushed the "defund Obamacare" movement over the past few months, announced Tuesday evening that it is advising House Republicans to vote "no" on the measure. The details of the House plan changed significantly since the morning. Originally, the plan was to fund the government through Jan. 15 and raise the debt ceiling through Feb. 7. The GOP's final legislation¬†keeps the government funded only through Dec. 15. It also originally included three Affordable Care Act-related provisions ‚Äî a two-year delay of the tax on medical devices, an income-verification process for people applying for subsidies, and a version of the "Vitter amendment" that would bar just lawmakers (not congressional and White House staff) from receiving subsidies for federal health insurance under Obamacare.¬† Two of those ‚Äî the medical-device tax and income verification ‚Äî have been stripped from the legislation. Another ‚Äî the Vitter amendment ‚Äî has been altered back to its original version, which bars staffers from receiving subsidies. House Speaker John Boehner said at a press conference Tuesday morning that "there have been no decisions about what exactly we will do." "We are talking with our members on both sides of the aisle to try to find a way to move forward today," Boehner said. Later, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi told reporters in a press conference that Boehner didn't have the votes for the plan. The White House blasted the reported original plan in a statement late Tuesday morning, saying it was a "ransom" designed to "appease a small group of Tea Party Republicans who forced the government shutdown in the first place." "The president has said repeatedly that members of Congress don't get to demand ransom for fulfilling their basic responsibilities to pass a budget and pay the nation's bills," White House spokeswoman Amy Brundage said in the statement.¬† On the Senate floor Thursday morning, Majority Leader Harry Reid said that the new House proposal "blindsided" him and others in the Senate negotiations. "I'm very disappointed with John Boehner, who would once again try to preserve his role at the expense of this country," Reid said. Boehner spokesman Michael Steel, responded to Reid's comments minutes later, saying that he is "so blinded by partisanship that he is willing to risk default on our debt to protect a 'pacemaker tax.'" President Obama is meeting with House Democratic leaders on Tuesday afternoon, the White House said. Before they walked into the 9 a.m. House Republican conference meeting Tuesday morning, House conservatives complained to Costa. One Tea Party congressman called the Senate plan a "mushy piece of s‚Äî." Another said that if House Speaker John Boehner backs the deal, "he's in trouble." "That seems to be an oxymoron. 'Senate,' then 'plan,'" said Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas). The opposition to the Senate plan is not really a surprise. House Republicans en masse won't be thrilled that the only thing they're "getting" out of this is an¬†income-verification measure for people obtaining subsidies through the Affordable Care Act. It's not a policy victory with which they can go home to their constituents after a more than two-week shutdown.¬† According to Roll Call, about 15-20 House conservatives met in secret with Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) Monday night at the Capitol Hill watering hole Tortilla Coast, where they plotted how to respond to the Senate deal. Given the reactions from House conservatives Tuesday, it's likely that they discussed how to hold firm on their opposition to any deal that does not fundamentally alter Obamacare. And it appears that House leadership is not yet ready to give in to the Senate plan.¬†
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's office sends over this graphic after the collapse of the House GOP's legislation on the shutdown and debt ceiling.† They titled it "Senate to the rescue": Senator Reid's office With the House's legislation now shelved, the focus shifts back to the Senate. The goal is to restart Senate negotiations between Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell where they were before House Republicans decided to take up their own legislation, an aide said.
House Republican leaders canceled plans to call a vote Tuesday evening on a Republican plan to raise the debt limit and reopen the government. They couldn't round up enough Republican votes to pass it. The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza is stunned, for some reason. Absolutely stunning. RT @robertcostaNRO: Confirmed: tonight's vote is dead The only stunning thing is that anyone still looks at House Republicans and says: "You know what would be great? Giving these people more power over public policy." Roughly one-third of this caucus thinks hitting the debt ceiling and shutting down the government are great strategies to try to stop Obamacare. The other two-thirds of the party has realized all along that this strategy sucks, but they could not find any way to stop their party from implementing it¬†‚Äî even though these "reasonable" Republicans outnumber the crazies. Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) was on CNN today saying that his party's strategy for the last month has been lunacy. Well why the hell didn't he do anything to stop it? Why didn't he join with Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.) and stop the shutdown in its tracks on Sept. 30? Where is his sense of responsibility? Can you imagine the situation this country would be in if Republicans controlled both houses of Congress right now? Or if we had a President whose administration gets jerked around by Heritage Action in the same way that House Republicans do? It would be a trainwreck, and "reasonable" Republicans like Nunes would still be on television saying they understand it's a trainwreck, but by golly, operationally, they had no way to stop it. There is no serious argument for Republican governance right now, even if you prefer conservative policies over liberal ones. These people are just too dangerously incompetent to be trusted with power. A party that is this bad at tactics can't be expected to be any good at policy-making. There are a lot of state and local Republican officials I admire, with Gov. Chris Christie (N.J.) at the top of the list. Govs. Brian Sandoval (Nev.) and Susana Martinez (N.M.) are pretty good, too. I even think Gov. Jan Brewer (Ariz.) has a lot of merits, her opportunistic fights against immigrants notwithstanding. What successful Republican governors like Christie have in common is that they have been able to resist their party's base when it demands they do massively unpopular things. Republican members of Congress have no such ability. And for that reason, they cannot be trusted with power.
The U.S. government is in its 15th day of shutdown, and the debt ceiling is just two days away. The warning signs of the many political fiascos plaguing America today were well-telegraphed last month when Challenger Gray &amp; Christmas conducted its survey of planned corporate layoffs. "Restructuring and closings continue to account for the bulk of job cuts, with the sequester, government budget cuts and loss of contract accounting for only around 6% of cuts," noted Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus in a note to clients on Monday. Indeed, the fiscal cliff, the sequester, Obamacare... none of this stuff out of Washington appears to be having an enormous direct impact on companies' hiring and firing plans. That's not to say these forces are non-existant. "The health care sector is adjusting workforce levels due to cutbacks in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements initiated under the Affordable Care Act as well as overall reductions in federal spending due to sequestration," said John Challenger, CEO of Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas. "A prime example of this occurred last month, when the Cleveland Clinic announced plans to reduce its headcount by 3,000, accounting for more than one-third of the health care cuts during the month. It attributed the cuts to lower government payments under health care reform.î But ultimately, hiring and firing decisions are driven by demand or micro forces like restructuring, which in itself could be due to a number of factors. Of course, should the shutdown persist and the U.S. default on its obligations, the problems manufactured by Washington will surely have an impact on the macro forces behind the labor market. Challenger Gray & Christmas
REUTERS/Peter JonesMike Tyson (R) hits Clifford Etienne during their heavyweight bout at the Pyramid in Memphis, February 22, 2003.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Mike Tyson On Sticking To Your Plan (Dan Richards) ‚ÄúEveryone has a plan until they get punched in the face,‚Äù said former boxing heavyweight champion Mike Tyson. Dan Richards points to this quote in his Q3 letter, which is posted on Advisor Perspectives. "Most investors might nod their heads to facts such as the ones above and can agree to a plan for their portfolio, identifying the parameters within which their investments will be managed. Of course, agreeing to your plan is the easy part - the challenge is sticking to it. As former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson pointed out, It‚Äôs easy to keep to your plan when things are going well; it‚Äôs when investors get bloodied from market setbacks that sticking to their plan becomes a challenge. "There are occasions when sticking within the parameters of your plan may feel boring, but history shows that the key to successful investing is having a sensible plan and then sticking to it." Student Debt Is Not The Ticking Timebomb You Think It Is¬†(Manning &amp; Napier) The raw numbers of U.S. student debt are titanic, and¬†our coverage has often reflected their seemingly alarming scale. But Manning &amp; Napier argues that on a macro level and over the medium-term, it may not be that bad: "While it is true that nearly $1 trillion of student loan debt outstanding exists today across approximately 39 million borrowers, our assessment of the potential overall impact is that it is more likely a modest headwind to growth, versus a larger threat to financial markets or the broader economy.¬†In our view, the risk of a true financial crisis stemming from a surge in student loan defaults is very unlikely, due to several factors: Tom DeMark: Markets Are Preordained From Here On Out (Bloomberg/Business Insider) Bloomberg talked to respected analyst Tom DeMark about the state of the markets, and he sees a pattern eerily similar to the run-up to 1929: "The market‚Äôs going to have one more rally, then once we get above that high, I think it‚Äôs going to be more treacherous," DeMark says. "I think it‚Äôs all preordained right now." He feels this is probably irrespective of how and when the crippling impasse in Washington is resolved. "If you look at the new highs and new lows on the [New York Stock Exchange]," he says, "every time we made a higher high, there were fewer stocks in the index participating in that high. It‚Äôs getting narrower." And once that happens, you typically get a collapse. Our Matt Boesler put together a chart showing what DeMark's referring to: Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg What Jack Bogle Got Wrong When He Said Rebalancing Is Not Necessary (Servo Wealth Management) Vanguard Group founder Jack Bogle was recently quoted in Money Magazine thusly: "‚ÄúIf you can ignore market fluctuations¬†(it‚Äôs better not to rebalance),¬†since¬†you‚Äôre likely to get higher returns.‚Äù Servo's Eric Nelson says this is a specious argument (emphasis his): "Where does Bogle miss the boat?¬†¬†Of course a portfolio that becomes much riskier over time has higher returns!¬† This is like saying an 80% to 100% stock portfolio (remainder in bonds) is superior to 60% in stocks because you‚Äôre likely to get higher returns‚Äîtrue, but that comes at the expense of higher volatility, something that was unacceptable given the initial portfolio allocation‚Äôs more conservative mandate.¬†Specifically, by not rebalancing periodically and selling stocks to buy bonds (which is what will happen more often than selling stocks to buy bonds), you eventually will have¬†all¬†equity or at least an equity-dominated¬†portfolio.¬† But if that‚Äôs what you wanted, why not start that way in the first place?¬† Presumably it‚Äôs because you didn‚Äôt need the higher potential returns and didn‚Äôt want to put up with the higher volatility.¬† So if it didn‚Äôt make sense at first, why was it eventually acceptable?" What Is A Nobel Prize In Econ For? (Crooked Timber) Lots of people were puzzled by the fact that this year's Nobel Prize in econ went to two individuals whose views are basically diametrically opposed. Count John Quiggin among them: "The big debate in macro can be phrased as ‚Äúwhere did it all go wrong‚Äù. Robert Gordon says 1978, I‚Äôve gone for¬†1958, while the New Classical position implies that the big mistake was Keynes‚Äô General Theory in 1936.¬†The failure in finance is even worse, as is illustrated by this year‚Äôs awards where Eugene Fama gets a prize for formulating the Efficient Markets Hypothesis and Robert Shiller for his leading role in demolishing it. Microeconomics is in a somewhat better state: the rise of behavioral economics has the promise of improved realism in the description of economic decisions...The result is that prizes are awarded both for ‚Äúdiscoveries‚Äù and for the refutation of those discoveries."
Wall Street bank earnings continue tomorrow with Bank of America reporting at 7:00 a.m., a conference call will follow the results at 8:30 a.m. Analysts expect earnings per share to come in at $0.19 with revenue of $22 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That's down from Q3 2012, when EPS $0.28 with and revenue at $20.7 billion. That all said, if you think we're seeing a depressing trend here, you'd be right. Both JP Morgan and Citigroup missed expectations and reported revenue down from Q3 2012 ó and Q3 is already a notoriously slow quarter for banks. In JP Morgan's case, the carnage was mostly due to legal issues. But both JPM and Citi were hit with issues plaguing the entire Street this quarter ó slowing mortgage businesses and lower fixed income trading revenues. Bank of America, for its part, has spent the last few years transitioning its business away from trading to sleepier businesses like wealth management. But on the mortgage front, Bank of America still could stand to see some pain. Bank of America deals only in retail mortgages, which means that if customers aren't taking out new mortgages or refinancing due to rising interest rates, the bank's business is going to suffer. Watch for that. And remember, Bank of America is still dealing with the legal mess it inherited from Countrywide. Even today Countrywide execs are still in Court attempting to explain themselves, so if Bank of America announces any legal surprises. Well, don't be surprised.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTwitter will list its IPO on the New York Stock Exchange, Bloomberg is reporting. According to CNBC, the stock will begin trading on Friday, November 15 (but that date is "fluid"). Historically, tech companies and start ups have gone with NASDAQ, but many have speculated that given that exchange's recent glitches and Facebook's IPO mishap, Twitter might look elsewhere. Earlier this month, the company filed an S-1¬†IPO, writing that it was on track to make $500 million in revenue this year, though it's losing money. "We believe that there is a significant opportunity to expand our user base. Industry sources estimate that as of 2012 there were 2.4¬†billion Internet users and 1.2 billion smartphone users, of which only 215 million are monthly active users of Twitter," the company wrote in the filing.

She delivered exactly what analysts expected: EPS: of 34 cents, a beat by 1 cent, and revenues (ex-TAC) of $1.08 billion, a decline of 1%, right on expectations. Analysts were predicting earnings-per-share of 33 cents on revenues of $1.08 billion. The stock was largely unmoved at $33.45 on the news. Flat is the new up for Yahoo, which is struggling to find growth as it updates and replaces older products. The takeaway is that it could have been worse: There are a few areas of the business that appear poised for growth, and Yahoo isn't tanking any faster than everyone thought it might be. We didn't get any more specific visibility on the contribution of the $1.1 billion Tumblr acquisition, however. As the quarters go by, people will want to know where the growth is going to come from and whether CEO David Karp and his bloggers will be providing any of that. Tumblr remains conspicuous by its absence from Yahoo's numbers right now, though. Numbers and charts EPS: 34 cents, it's a beat. Revenues (ex-TAC): $1.08 billion, a decline of 1%, right on expectations. Analysts were expecting earnings-per-share of 33 cents on revenues of $1.08 billion. The stock is largely unmoved at $33.45 on the news. For Q4 and full year 2013, here's the guidance: The revenue highlights from the statement show Yahoo is basically still in turnaround mode, as expected. Here's what that looks like in a chart: Yahoo Basically, display ad revenue is down but search ad revenue is a little more healthy. This chart shows how Yahoo's display ad business is basically going in the opposite direction to its search ad business: YahooMayer has warned us not to expect growth until next year. Some other highlights: There's also news on the company's stake in Alibaba, the big Yahoo investment in Asia that is really driving the stock right now: Yahoo also announced today that it has entered into an amendment to the share repurchase and preference sale agreement with Alibaba Group. The amendment reduces the maximum number of shares of Alibaba Group that Yahoo is required to sell in connection with a qualified initial public offering of Alibaba, from 261.5 million shares to 208 million shares. We've got a better explanation of why that's important here. YahooThe backstory Mayer has concentrated fiercely on getting Yahoo's product lineup right, with a focus on mobile and apps. Advertising revenue has taken a back seat to that effort because she believes that only once the user base is happy will meaningful ad dollars flow into the company. Yahoo stuck with the video presentation format it introduced last quarter. We note that Mayer has ditched the over-sized coffee cup she was drinking from in the last call. But she added a water glass and jug to her desk. From the call CEO Marissa Mayer is doing her video conference call with analysts once again ó and this time she's taking questions via email and Twitter! First, Mayer talks up Yahoo's media content offerings, such as Yahoo Screen, which houses the complete Saturday Night Live archive. She's also talking about Yahoo's various apps, which do look a lot better. Yahoo Weather is a sterling example. "We've affectively erased two years of traffic decline": Yahoo Tumblr is also ahead of its own traffic projections, Mayer says. Yahoo is now getting 17,000 revenue per week from people seeking jobs. Now CFO Ken Goldman is speaking. It's his one-year anniversary on the job. Mayer is making a huge pitch that Yahoo is now a mobile first company. "There is a big opportunity ahead to monetize mobile." Now ... questions! Twitter question: When will Tumblr hit the numbers? Mayer: "They have been outperforming their projections." Goldman: "The metrics there have been quite good." No details yet though. Question about programmatic (auction-based advertising that tends to drive prices down): Mayer: "We have been doing a lot around programmatic. There's a real movement inside display to programmatic. We've seen some pricing pressure ... but ultimately stabilizing revenue by improving the yield." The wrapup: 15 major product launches. Traffic up. 800 million users on the core network.
APRail giant CSX announced its third quarter results this afternoon, with earnings per share of $0.46. Economists were expecting an EPS of $0.43. The company also reported $3 billion in revenue thanks to higher volume and pricing gains in merchandise. "CSX posted historically high financial results as it continued to effectively manage ongoing challenges in the coal market and leverage growth opportunities in merchandise and intermodal," CEO Michael J. Ward said in a statement. "The third quarter performance is an ongoing reflection of the company's ability to capitalize on the modest improvement in the economy with a relentless focus on customer service and asset efficiency." Management also said it expects full-year earnings to be up this year. Previously, they expected earnings growth to be flat. The stock is up over 2% in after-hours trading. Railroad companies move a wide variety of lumber, automobiles, and other goods across the country, and are often thought of as an economic bellwether. In particular, CSX links every major metropolitan area in the eastern U.S. Below is a breakdown of what CSX moved last quarter. CSX
Just minutes ago, credit rating giant Fitch lowered the US's AAA credit rating outlook to "negative," warning that it may strip the country of its pristine rating. U.S. futures made a quick violent move up then down during after-hours trading. Here's the move via FinViz: FinViz "The U.S. authorities have not raised the federal debt ceiling in a timely manner before the Treasury exhausts extraordinary measures," said Fitch. "The U.S. Treasury Secretary has said that extraordinary measures will be exhausted by 17 October, leaving cash reserves of just USD30bn. Although Fitch continues to believe that the debt ceiling will be raised soon, the political brinkmanship and reduced financing flexibility could increase the risk of a U.S. default." Here's a roundup of U.S. stock market futures from Bloomberg.com: Bloomberg
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThis just in: credit rating agency Fitch has revised the outlook for the U.S.A.'s AAA credit rating to negative from stable. The news comes just as the latest talks in Washington, D.C. over how to raise the debt ceiling and end the government shutdown seem to be falling apart. "The prolonged negotiations over raising the debt ceiling (following the episode in August 2011) risks undermining confidence in the role of the U.S. dollar as the preeminent global reserve currency, by casting doubt over the full faith and credit of the U.S.," said Fitch in a press release. "This 'faith' is a key reason why the U.S. 'AAA' rating can tolerate a substantially higher level of public debt than other 'AAA' sovereigns." Fitch and Moody's still rate the U.S. AAA, the highest credit rating on the scale. S&amp;P, the other of the three key rating agencies, stripped America of its AAA rating back in 2011 during the last debt ceiling crisis, citing political instability as the key driver of the downgrade. Below is the full text of the Fitch release. --------------------------------------- Fitch Ratings-New York/London-15 October 2013: Fitch Ratings has placed the United States of America's (U.S.) 'AAA' Long-term foreign and local currency Issuer Default Ratings (IDRs) on Rating Watch Negative (RWN). The ratings of all outstanding U.S. sovereign debt securities have also been placed on RWN, as has the U.S. Short-term foreign currency rating of 'F1+'. The Outlook on the Long-term ratings was previously Negative. The U.S. Country Ceiling has been affirmed at 'AAA'. Fitch expects to resolve the RWN by the end of Q114 at the latest, although timing would necessarily reflect developments and events, including the duration of any agreement to raise the debt ceiling. KEY RATING DRIVERS In line with Fitch's previous statements, the RWN reflects the following key rating drivers and their relative weights: High - The U.S. authorities have not raised the federal debt ceiling in a timely manner before the Treasury exhausts extraordinary measures. The U.S. Treasury Secretary has said that extraordinary measures will be exhausted by 17 October, leaving cash reserves of just USD30bn. Although Fitch continues to believe that the debt ceiling will be raised soon, the political brinkmanship and reduced financing flexibility could increase the risk of a U.S. default. - Although the Treasury would still have limited capacity to make payments after 17 October it would be exposed to volatile revenue and expenditure flows. The Treasury may be unable to prioritise debt service, and it is unclear whether it even has the legal authority to do so. The U.S. risks being forced to incur widespread delays of payments to suppliers and employees, as well as social security payments to citizens - all of which would damage the perception of U.S. sovereign creditworthiness and the economy. - The prolonged negotiations over raising the debt ceiling (following the episode in August 2011) risks undermining confidence in the role of the U.S. dollar as the preeminent global reserve currency, by casting doubt over the full faith and credit of the U.S. This "faith" is a key reason why the U.S. 'AAA' rating can tolerate a substantially higher level of public debt than other 'AAA' sovereigns. Medium - The repeated brinkmanship over raising the debt ceiling also dents confidence in the effectiveness of the U.S. government and political institutions, and in the coherence and credibility of economic policy. It will also have some detrimental effect on the U.S. economy. The 'AAA' rating reflects the U.S.'s strong economic and credit fundamentals, including: - Its highly productive, diversified and wealthy economy; extraordinary monetary and exchange rate flexibility; and the exceptional financing flexibility afforded by the global reserve currency status of the U.S. dollar and the depth and liquidity of domestic capital markets - in particular the U.S. Treasury market. The U.S. sovereign credit profile also benefits from the respect for property rights, the rule of law and a high degree of social stability. - Fitch continues to judge that the U.S. economy (and hence tax base) remains more dynamic and resilient to shocks than its high-grade rating peers. Fiscal and macroeconomic risks emanating from the financial sector are generally low and diminishing and becoming supportive of, rather than a drag on, economic growth. Fitch forecasts economic growth to pick up from 1.6% in 2013 to 2.6% in in 2014 and to average 3% over 2015-17, before reverting to its assumed long-run trend growth rate of 2.25%. The projected recovery is supported by easing headwinds from private sector debt deleveraging, a pick-up in the housing market and a gradual decline in unemployment. - The 'AAA' rating also reflects the halving of the federal budget deficit since 2010, which is now approaching a level consistent with debt stabilisation. The Budget Control Act passed in August 2011 implied significant fiscal consolidation and Congress and the Administration have adhered to the automatic spending cuts - the sequester - specified under the Act in the absence of agreement on an alternative and equivalent set of deficit-reduction measures. In addition, the passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act on 1 January 2013, which implied a tax increase of more than USD600bn, has also contributed to the deficit reduction effort. - Fitch's medium-term fiscal projections imply federal and general government (which includes states and local governments) gross debt stabilising next year and over the remainder of the decade at around 72% and 104% of GDP, respectively. This is below the 80% and 110% thresholds that Fitch previously identified as being inconsistent with the U.S. retaining its 'AAA' status. - Nevertheless, public debt stabilisation at such elevated levels still render the US economy and public finances vulnerable to adverse shocks and in the absence of additional spending reform and revenue measures, deficits and debt will begin to rise again at the end of the decade. The U.S. is the most heavily indebted 'AAA' rated sovereign, with a gross debt ratio equivalent to double that of the 'AAA' median. RATING SENSITIVITIES The RWN reflects the following risk factors that may individually or collectively result in a downgrade of the ratings: - Failure by the government to honour interest and/or principal payments on the due date of U.S. Treasury securities would lead Fitch to downgrade the U.S. sovereign IDR to 'Restricted Default' (RD) until the default event was cured. We would also downgrade the rating of the affected issue(s) to 'B+' from 'AAA', the highest rating for securities in default in expectation of full or near-full recovery. Debt securities approaching maturity or those with approaching coupon payments would be vulnerable to a downgrade. The Country Ceiling would likely remain 'AAA'. In the event of a deal to raise the debt ceiling and to resolve the government shutdown, which Fitch expects, the outcome of a subsequent review of the ratings would take into account the manner and duration of the agreement and the perceived risk of a similar episode occurring in the future. It would also reflect Fitch's assessment of the following main factors: - The impact of the debt ceiling brinkmanship and government shutdown on our assessment of the effectiveness of government and political institutions, the coherence and credibility of economic policy, the potential long-term impact on the U.S. sovereign's cost of funding and cost of capital for the economy as a whole, and the implications for long-term growth. - Our assessment of the prospects for further deficit-reduction measures in future years necessary to contain government deficits in the face of long-term spending pressures and place public debt on a downward path over the medium to long term. KEY ASSUMPTIONS Fitch continues to believe that an agreement will be reached to end the current political impasse and raise the U.S. debt ceiling. Even if the debt limit is not raised before or shortly after 17 October, we assume there is sufficient political will and capacity to ensure that Treasury securities will continue to be honoured in full and on time. Fitch's federal debt projections reflect its economic and fiscal policy assumptions and were detailed in the Special Report, 'U.S. Medium-Term Fiscal Projections - An Update' (dated 28 June 2013; see link below). Subsequent to that analysis, the Bureau of Economic Analysis revised the level of GDP up by around 3.4% due to revisions in the way GDP is calculated, including reclassifying spending on R&amp;D and intellectual property as investment. This has had the statistical effect of lowering debt/GDP ratios, but has not significantly affected the trajectory of debt dynamics or its sensitivity to shocks. Since the June review, Fitch has revised down its forecasts for GDP growth for 2013 to 1.6% from 1.9% and for 2014 to 2.6% from 2.8%. Fitch's medium-term fiscal projections incorporate assumptions regarding the medium-term growth potential of the US economy and do not incorporate potential upside benefits from shale gas or downside risks emanating from the eurozone and elsewhere. They draw heavily upon Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projections, including CBO assumptions and judgements regarding the take up of various benefits as well as the rate of growth of health care spending. Financial sector risks are currently judged to be low as reflected by Fitch's stable outlook for the U.S. banking sector. Contact: Primary AnalystEd ParkerManaging Director+44 20 3530 1176Fitch Ratings Limited30 North ColonnadeLondon E14 5GN Secondary AnalystTony StringerManaging Director+44 20 3530 1219 Committee ChairpersonDouglas RenwickSenior Director+44 20 3530 1045 Media Relations: Brian Bertsch, New York, Tel: +1 212-908-0549, Email: brian.bertsch@fitchratings.com; Peter Fitzpatrick, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1103, Email: peter.fitzpatrick@fitchratings.com; Daniel Noonan, New York, Tel: +1 (212) 908-0706, Email: daniel.noonan@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com Applicable criteria, 'Sovereign Rating Criteria' dated 13 August 2012 and 'Country Ceilings' dated 09 August 2013, are available at www.fitchratings.com.
IntelIntel CEO Brian Krzanich.Intel's third-quarter earnings report is out. The chipmaker reported earnings of $0.58 per share, above analysts' consensus estimate of $0.54 EPS. Revenues were $13.48 billion, slightly better than the $13.45 billion expected by analysts. The company offered Q4 revenue guidance in the range of $13.2-14.2 billion versus consensus estimates of $13.99 billion. "The third quarter came in as expected, with modest growth in a tough environment," said Intel CEO Brian Krzanich in a press release. "We're executing on our strategy to offer an increasingly broad and diverse product portfolio that spans key growth segments, operating systems and form factors. Since August we have introduced more than 40 new products for market segments from the Internet-of-Things to datacenters, with an increasing focus on ultra-mobile devices and 2 in 1 systems." Below is the section from Intel's earnings release on Q4 guidance: Shares are moving higher in after-hours trading. Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª
REUTERS/Max RossiAn Alitalia plane approaches to land as starlings fly at Fiumicino international airport in Rome, October 14, 2013.It's day 15 of the U.S. government shutdown. And we're two days away from the October 17 debt ceiling. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
In a new report based on a quarterly survey of 2000 U.S. consumers, Goldman Sachs retail analysts Michael Kelter, Ivan Holman, and Harsh Aneja note that the percentage of respondents aware of Chipotle who say they have visited in the past year came down in the third quarter. Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research Kelter, Holman, and Aneja provide a bit more detail in the report: CMG shows strength -- CMG saw brand score increases in 3Q with improvements on 4†of 5 metrics . We also note that the company has strong value scores, in spite†of high prices relative to other burritos, a reflection of the strength of the brand. This said, we do note that conversion scores did come down this quarter (the 5th metric), which may suggest softness around the edges. This metric measures the percent of consumers aware of the brand who report having visited in the past year. More on CMGís uneven showing -- Another part of survey asks consumers where they are increasing or decreasing their visitation at various concepts ñ something that differs from conversion which simply asks whether they have visited at all. On this metric CMGís results are mixed in that there have been consistent increases in both those who report going more and less often (as opposed to the same amount). About 8% of consumers say they are going to CMG more often vs. 5% two years ago, while 14% of consumers who say they are going less often, up from 10% two years ago. The chart below shows Chipotle shares, which have gone nowhere but up over the past year. Thinkorswim
ReutersAs a manager, JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon doesn't like when colleagues throw each other under the bus, MarketWatch's Sital Patel reports. Speaking at†a†Financial Womenís Association event†last Tuesday, Dimon elaborated on his managerial style and Ina Drew's exit from the bank, sources told MarketWatch. From the report: Dimon also talked about his biggest pet-peeves as a manager. He said in his management meetings anyone can bring anything up. And he hates when individuals comes into his office afterwards wanting to discuss a topic that they didnít bring up in a meeting, as he expects a healthy debate and transparency. He pointed to Ina Drew, the head of the chief investment office, who†lost her job†over the London Whale debacle and said afterwards, internally, some people tried to throw her under the bus. Dimon said he has no tolerance for people jumping on the ìband wagon.î After his†first quarterly loss†and $23 billion set aside for legal fees, Dimon now has plenty of detractors hoping to throw him under the bus. Dealbook's†Andrew Ross Sorkin wrote this morning that many of his opponents are from the "pundit" class, a campaign hedge funder Dan Loeb called a "bloodlust." On the other hand, you have voices like Salon's Alex Pareene trying to convince Maria Bartiromo†that JP Morgan's success for its investors (despite its legal woes) shouldn't mean Dimon is spared.
Earlier, I wondered why, if the Republicans are suddenly so concerned about the country's debt and deficit problem, they also want to delay or eliminate the medical-device tax. Eliminating this tax, after all, will balloon our deficit and debt by $30 billion over 10 years ‚Äî exactly the opposite of what the Republicans say they want. After publishing this question, I got an immediate (and common) response on Twitter: "Because we have a spending problem, not a revenue problem." Now, there may be some good reasons to eliminate the medical-device tax, but this is not one of them. Why not? Because we actually DO have a revenue problem. Let's go to the chart... The first chart, from the St. Louis Fed, shows federal revenue as a percent of GDP. As you can see, it is currently only 16.5% of GDP, well below the 18% average since 1980, and even farther below the peak of about 20%. Business Insider, St. Louis FedFederal revenue as a percent of GDP. It may be that some Republicans want taxes to be even lower than 16.5% of GDP. That's fine. But that does not mean that we have a "spending problem, not a revenue problem." As the chart above shows, we very clearly have a revenue problem. Of course, we also do have a "spending problem," at least relative to the same average. As the chart below shows, our federal spending is currently about 23% of GDP, versus an average of about 21% since 1980. Business Insider, St. Louis FedFederal spending as a percent of GDP. So, yes, if you regard this year's deficit as bad, spending is a "problem." But so is revenue! SEE ALSO: Now That We're Talking About Debt And Deficits Again, Here Are The Facts...
Google FinanceStocks just went deep into the red earlier this afternoon after Reuters reported that U.S. fiscal negotiations had been suspended until House republicans work out a plan to proceed on the debt limit. "It's all fallen apart" on budget talks, said Senator Feinstein according to Bloomberg. However, CNBC's John Harwood later reported that "talks have not collapsed, but Senate waiting to see how Boehner plan progresses; still time to pass bill." The government is currently in day 15 of shutdown, and the U.S. will hit the debt ceiling in two days.
Men don't have to sacrifice comfort in order to be stylish.† This guide, which was first posted to Reddit, shows some trendier alternatives to classic men's shoes.† The designer was kind enough to share the chart with us.† Reddit
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe U.S. Treasury bill market is back to pricing in heightened chances of an imminent default on short-term government obligations as negotiations in Washington, D.C. over ending the government shutdown and raising the debt ceiling break down. "It's all fallen apart," said Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein, causing gold to spike and stocks to head lower. Yields on bills maturing between October 17 and November 14 ‚Äî the most likely timeframe in which the Treasury would miss a coupon payment in the event that the debt ceiling is not raised ‚Äî are rising today. Meanwhile, yields on T-bills maturing after those dates are headed lower.
Forget phones, TVs, cars, and watchesóbring on the connected home! Two years ago Nest CEO Tony Fadell blew everyone away by crossing a home thermostat with a smartphone. Cool! Now heís targeting all the rest of ìthe ugly white plastic crapî controlling most living spaces, from the front door to the bedroom TV. Nestís gorgeous design, native connectivity, and game-changing ambition are no accident: Fadell's previous gig was leading the Apple engineering A-team that built the iPod and iPhone. Thatís what we look for in selecting speakers for IGNITION: Future of Digital: a killer combination of high concept and over-delivery. Hereís what else weíll have on tap: three amazing days of smart talk, cool demos, and extended conversations. IGNITION will be being held Nov.†11-13  at the top of New Yorkís Time Warner Center. Speakers include: We'll also tackle content marketing, life after cookies, socializing television, mobile commerce, wearable computing, and really big data. More than 85 speakers, doing up-close interviews, rousing roundtables, and live demos. Tesla cars! Amazing Central Park views! Andóyes, weíre listeningómore networking breaks. Join us next month to hear from: For a preview of what you can expect next month, check out the latest IGNITION 2013 line-up. And reserve your spot!  P.S. If you're interested in sponsorship opportunities at IGNITION, contact events@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for IGNITION updates.
APJust don't ask me to explain myself. I have my reasons!In the weeks before the Republicans shut down the government, they were demanding that the Affordable Care Act be defunded or delayed. Shortly after they shut down the government, however, the Republicans switched demands. Now, in exchange for reopening the government and not causing the country to default on its obligations, the Republicans are demanding that we address our debt and deficit problem. Our deficit has actually been shrinking fast this year and our debt is not in any way an immediate crisis. ¬†Thanks to our rapidly shrinking deficit, in fact, our debt as a percentage of GDP is actually expected to drop over the next three years. But, still, the Republicans are suddenly portraying the debt and deficit as an immediate crisis that has to be dealt with immediately or... the country will default because the Republicans will refuse to raise the debt ceiling. Given this sudden Republican fervor about debt and deficits, it seems odd that the Republicans are also insisting on one additional demand to re-open the country and avoid default: The government, the Republicans have said, must agree to delay or eliminate the "medical device tax." This tax is expected to raise $30 billion of revenue over the next 10 years. Eliminating this tax, therefore, will of course balloon our deficit and debt by the same amount (that's what happens when you eliminate revenue). But for some reason, the Republicans don't care about that (or at least aren't being vocal about the demand that particular spending be cut as an offset). Could this be because the Republicans actually don't think the debt and deficit is that big a deal? After all, if the Republicans really thought the debt and deficit were such a near-term crisis that they're worth shutting down the government and defaulting over, don't you think the Republicans might want to avoid doing things that increased the deficit?
Instagram/sanfransamWall Streeters drink. It's just a fact. They drink to entertain clients, they drink to entertain themselves (when they have time), and they drink because it's tradition. Wall Street lore has it that before Goldman Sachs went public, its London office had a cellar filled with cases of wine ‚Äî one for each and every child born to a partner. But that's just lore. What's real is that there are rules to drinking like a Wall Streeter. Like any group, they have ideas about the way things should be done, and, more importantly, how they should be drank.
Whiskeys aged for over 30-40 years or more can get pretty expensive. Bottles of selected brands such as Glenfarclas 1955, 50 years old, Glenfiddich 1937, or Dalmore 62 Single Hiland Malt Scotch can cost tens of thousands of dollars. Macallan 194, 64 years old, is the most expensive whiskey in the world, setting the record last year by selling for $460,000 a bottle. We sat down with Tommy Tardie, owner of the Flatiron Room, an upscale bar in New York offering some 750 different varieties of whiskey, to understand what makes one whiskey more expensive than another, and to find out the proper way to taste whiskey. ¬† Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Daniel Goodman.¬† Follow BI Video: On Twitter ¬† ¬†
First Wharton decided to offer the core of its first year MBA program online. Now Harvard Business School is exploring¬†online options as well.¬† Increasingly, it's possible to get an extremely well-rounded business education from the best professors in the world without enrolling in a university or even leaving your house. While online courses won't necessarily give you the pay boost of a traditional two-year MBA and probably won't land you a job on Wall Street, they can give you many of the core skills taught at top universities and business schools. We've found some of the best and most useful free online business courses out there.¬†We've noted which courses are self-paced and which are being released more formally and sequentially. The Coursera, Udacity, and EdX platforms all offer the opportunity to complete coursework and earn a certificate for completing the course, but any of these can be taken more casually.
ThinkorswimTalks in Washington over raising the debt ceiling and ending the government shutdown appear to be breaking down, and markets are reacting a bit. According to CNBC, some Republican congressmen may want to make House Speaker John Boehner's proposal to resolve the issues tougher, which Democrats most certainly will not like. Gold has had a crazy day already, and after a spike on this news, it's now positive. Right now, it's trading at $1281 an ounce, up 0.3%. Earlier, the yellow metal traded as low as $1251 on hopes that Congressional leaders were getting closer to a deal. The whole trading day has been characterized by a series of sharp ups and downs.
JC Penney stock is now down almost 7%, this time after news that the ailing retailer has hired lawyers to deal with shareholder lawsuits. The stock's bouncing around $7.30. Here's why it's taking a beating: Last month, JC Penney announced a public offering of 84 million shares at $9.65. Why do you do that? To raise cash. However, on an investor conference call in August, JC Penney said they were liquid, and expected to have $1.5 billion in cash by the end of the year. Some shareholders are upset about this and have initiated potential claims against the company. Yesterday, the news broke that JC Penney has hired lawyers to deal with that. And what do lawyers cost? Money.† Check out the full press release below (via Yahoo Finance): NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Kirby McInerney LLP announced today that it has been retained by an investor in JCPenney Company, Inc. (ìJCPenneyî or the ìCompanyî) (JCP) to investigate possible claims against the Company for securities law violations on behalf of all persons or entities who purchased JCPenney common stock during the period from August 20, 2013 through September 26, 2013. On an August 20, 2013 investor conference call, JCPenneyís CFO stated that the Company expected $1.5 billion in liquidity at year-end. However, on September 26, 2013, JCPenney announced a public offering of 84 million shares of its common stock, and the next day, the Company priced the offering at $9.65 per share. On this news, JCPenney stock declined from $10.42 to $9.05, a 13% decline. Since that time, the stock has continued to decline. Certain JCPenney investors have charged that the statements by the Company and/or certain of its officers during the above-referenced period violated the federal securities laws and caused injury to investors. If you acquired JCPenney common stock during this period and you are interested in learning more about this matter and any rights you might have with respect to these claims, contact Jess Kelley at jkelley@kmllp.com, by telephone at (212) 371-6600, or by filling out this form. Please bear in mind that some of these rights may be time-sensitive. Kirby McInerney LLP is a New York-based plaintiffsí law firm concentrating in securities, whistleblower, antitrust and consumer litigation. The firm has specialized in complex litigation, including securities class actions, for several decades. Kirby McInerney LLP has repeatedly demonstrated its expertise in this field, and has been recognized by various courts that have appointed the firm to major positions in consolidated and multi-district litigation. The firmís efforts on behalf of shareholders in securities litigation have resulted in recoveries totaling billions of dollars, and the firmís achievements and quality of service have been chronicled in numerous published decisions. Additional information about the firm or the claims against JCPenney can be found at Kirby McInerney LLPís website: http://www.kmllp.com. Contact:Kirby McInerney LLPJess Kelley, 212-371-6600jkelley@kmllp.com
pinguino via flickrChina's largest search service, Baidu, announced it would now accept bitcoin for its Jaisule service from the 14th of October. Jaisule is the firm's firewall and DDOS protection service. The service essentially protects websites from malicious attacks that attempt to crash it by overloading it with external communications requests so that it cannot respond to legitimate traffic. A similar US-based service is Cloudflare.† With a market cap of over $50 billion, the company may be the largest one yet to accept payments in bitcoin. The crypto currency has made impressive recent strides toward going mainstream, with bitcoin ATMs and grilled cheese trucks popping up in Canada and content management system Wordpress accepting payments in Bitcoin.† And it comes as law enforcement ramps up crackdowns on illicit Bitcoin-based groups like Silk Road. Bitcoin has basically made up the value it lost in the wake of Silk Road's seizure and now stands at about $150 on the Mt. Gox exchange. This is the announcement posted by Baidu (translated from Chinese using Google Translate): As a trendy†IT people, as a professional webmaster, and what we can reflect the characteristics of it?†The answer of course is that I have bitcoins!†!†! Bitcoin (Bitcoin) as an emerging electronic money, digital currency in the international arena has been a large degree of recognition, deep into the daily life.†Can be used to buy a cup of coffee can also be directly converted into real money.†In China, bitcoin still be a "fashionable" thing, today, a good news for everyone, from 14 October 2013 onwards, Baidu officially supported music bitcoin accelerated payment.†Baidu acceleration music bitcoin users can use all the music buying accelerated payment services.†Baidu acceleration music innovator as the Internet, has become the first to support cloud services vendors bitcoin, give us a richer payment methods and experience. Future, Baidu will continue to make more music accelerate new attempt to bring more and more convenient payment methods! You can read the announcement here.
It seems to me that the problem is much deeper. In this post, I summarize the two views, and provide reasons why the Predominant View is very far off the mark. We may be headed for a financial collapse that the Predominant View misses completely. Predominant View of our Current Economic and Energy Predicament The world economy under ‚Äúnormal‚Äù circumstances grows. Economic growth can sometimes slow a little, and then a little Keynesian stimulus is needed. Such stimulus would typically include deficit spending and low-interest rates. Perhaps it would include ‚ÄúQuantitative Easing‚Äù as well, since it tends to¬†stimulate interest in buying assets of all kinds. With the Predominant View, economic growth can continue indefinitely, without slowing down or stopping. In fact, the pursuit of economic growth becomes almost a national religion, with Ben Bernanke (probably succeeded by Janet Yellen) as its high priest. With unlimited economic growth, it is easy to have our current monetary system, since debt, and the repayment of debt, ‚Äúworks‚Äù well indefinitely. In fact, we can have pension plans, Social Security, and the many wonders that our financial system can deliver. We also can have more and better technological innovations, because there is always an abundance or the resources needed to make these innovations. The late economist John Attarian describes this secular religion under the name ‚ÄúEconomism‚Äù (Attarian 2005). According to him, under Economism, one‚Äôs life purpose is to attain affluence, so as to maximize access to consumer goods. With this belief, affluence is the universal solution to problems and grievances. Give people enough money, jobs, goods and services, and they will be happy and peaceable. With this view, the big problem in the future in pollution, and in particular climate change caused by carbon dioxide and other gasses affecting the climate. Coal is viewed as particularly bad in this regard, oil is somewhat less bad, and natural gas better yet. Nuclear is a concern for a variety of reasons, including lack of a place for spent fuel. To prevent/mitigate climate change, the view is that we must take steps to reduce fossil fuel usage over the next forty years. The view is that improved technology is likely to be helpful in this regard, because new technology will allow us to become increasingly efficient in our use of fossil fuels. ‚ÄúRenewables‚Äù can perhaps be ramped up greatly. Birth rates can likely be reduced, through increased education of women. If there is a problem with a declining amount of resources per person, this problem can be mitigated by sharing what we have more equally. Perhaps job sharing can become more common, with each worker having part of a job. Sustainable solutions are viewed as ones that use less fossil fuels. The ‚Äúplan‚Äù is to have ever-increasing GDP per unit of energy consumption. The economy will become ever more service-oriented. People will learn to be happy with more services and fewer goods. We can move forward to a sustainable future. With this view of the future, the economy is fundamentally fine. It will return to stronger growth in the near future, perhaps using less energy. The huge amount of stimulus currently being put into the economy through ultra low-interest rates and Quantitative Easing can be dropped back, without adverse results. With the Federal Reserve in charge, and with similar groups in charge in other countries, there is nothing to worry about. Problems with government debt in the US, many parts of Europe, and Japan will somehow take care of themselves, if the various political parties would learn to get along better, and perhaps wait a bit for economic growth to resume on its own. An Alternate View of our Economic and Energy Predicament This story is very different from the Predominant View. Energy is critical to the growth of human civilization, because all types of goods and services require energy for their production. Once built infrastructure has been added, energy needs to be of the specific type used by this infrastructure. In the world today, oil is the single largest source of energy. It is also the most versatile, and because of this, it is the most highly valued energy source. Extraction of oil has become problematic in the last decade, for two reasons: the quantity is not growing very rapidly, and the cost of extraction keeps rising. This rise in cost occurs because we extracted the easy-to-extract oil first. Now we have to move on to the more difficult (and expensive) to extract oil. I have referred to the rising cost of oil extraction as an Investment Sinkhole Problem. We invest more and more dollars (and quantities of resources of various types), but the amount extracted barely increases world-wide. Economists would call the problem declining marginal returns on investment. When oil could be extracted cheaply, there was a huge gap between the cost of extraction and the value provided to society by this oil. Now, as the cost of extraction has risen, the difference between these two amounts becomes much smaller. If we were depending on this difference to help fuel economic growth, we are losing this benefit. Viewed in terms of feedback loops, the huge amount of value added to society by oil over and above its cost of extraction used to lead to a positive feedback loop, favorably affecting economic growth. For example, (a) taxes on oil extraction would provide significant revenue, and (b) with low oil prices, roads could be built very cheaply. Both situations benefitted the economy. Now at a higher cost of extraction, the value added to economies around the world is lower, leading to lower economic growth. At some point, not far way, the cost of extraction will exceed the value that this oil provides to society. At such a point, it will no longer make economic sense to extract oil. Adding more high-priced oil will lead to economic contraction, and quite likely, ultimately, collapse. Joseph Tainter in the Collapse of Complex Societies (1990) tells of many civilizations that reached declining marginal returns of investment and ultimately collapsed. Oil and the Production Function en.wikipedia.orgFigure 1. Graph of total, average, and marginal product, based on a quadratic production function. Economists talk about production functions describing how the economy works. In general, ¬†a ‚Äúproduction function‚Äù for the economy is of the form Q = f (X1, X2, X3, . . . Xn) where Q = Quantity of Output and X1, X2, X3, . . . Xn are quantities of factor inputs, such as labor, capital, and land or raw materials. Using the production factor approach, oil needs to be one of the Xi variables, because it is critical to the function of the economy. Oil is important for transportation, agriculture, as a lubricant, and as a raw material used in making many products such as medicines, fabrics, and asphalt. Substitutes for oil are very limited‚Äìmostly ethanol, which acts as an oil extender. Figure 1 represents the situation where only one the of the inputs, in this case, oil, is allowed to vary. We are rapidly reaching the point where the cost of extracting oil is so high that in total, society is worse off, in terms of the total amount of goods produced by society. On Figure 1, we are reaching Stage 3. The fact that we are reaching diminishing returns with oil is a major reason why world economic growth is slowing. It is also a major reason that many of the heavy oil consuming nations have been struggling with recession-like symptoms. These symptoms are mostly being covered up with deficit spending, ultra low-interest rates and Quantitative Easing. If this stimulus ever stops, there are likely to be huge problems. Debt‚Äôs First Tie to Economic Growth Debt is very much tied in with this story. GDP¬†is a measure of how much is produced, whether or not debt is involved. Thus, if a new house or a new car is built, the value of the car is included in economic growth calculations, whether or not the house or car is bought 100% on credit. ¬†Not only are we reaching limits on oil production (because the cost of extraction is becoming higher), but we are also reaching limits on debt, because economic growth is slowing. ¬†ourfiniteworld.comFigure 2. Author‚Äôs image of an expanding economy. The fact that adding debt is easier in a growing economy than in a shrinking economy is obvious, if a person thinks about it. If the economy is expanding rapidly, it is easy to add debt, because borrowing from the future always looks like it provides a benefit. In fact, it is possible to pay fairly high interest rates, in a growing economy, without profits being badly depressed. Businesses get the advantage of economies of scale, helping their profits and their ability to pay back debt. Reinhart and Rogoff (2008) unexpectedly stumbled across this phenomenon in examining eight centuries of financial crises. They reported, ‚ÄúIt is notable that the non-defaulters, by and large, are all hugely successful growth stories.‚Äù Another situation where debt works well is if the economy is close to flat, but with debt, it is possible to add inexpensive fossil fuel energy. In this case, the value to society in terms of the work performed by the fossil fuels in far in excess of the cost of extracting the fossil fuel energy. This difference can feed back into the system, through cheap infrastructure, rising tax revenue, and even rising wages of workers, helping economic growth along. Thus, even though the economy was not growing at the time of the initial loans (these loans would be to potential consumers, to potential factory owners, and to potential extractors of the energy), the debt did in fact enable growth, by helping the huge difference between the cost of extraction and the value to society of the energy¬†flow through to the economy. ¬†ourfiniteworld.comFigure 3. Author‚Äôs image of declining economy. A shrinking economy can handle much less debt. Businesses, instead of seeing economies of scale, find that fixed costs are increasingly high compared to sales. Thus, their profits tend to shrink, even before debt service is added. Workers experience layoffs frequently, and often find that their new job pays less than their old job. This problem makes debt repayment difficult. If the economy is in fact reaching Stage 3 in Figure 1, because of diminishing returns with respect to oil, additional debt simply pushes the economy toward collapse more quickly. Debt‚Äôs Further Tie to Economic Growth There are two reasons why increasing debt is important for economic growth. First, increasing debt gives governments, businesses, and individuals increased spending power. For example, with a new auto loan or new home loan, a person is able to purchase an automobile or a home. This aspect or increasing debt is referred to as ‚Äúincreasing demand‚Äù‚Äìreally the increased ability to afford goods. If debt is declining, the situation is similar to the situation where few new loans are given‚Äìinstead the old loans simply need to be paid off. If these are home and car loans, the number of cars and homes sold would likely drop back greatly. A second aspect is just as important. The increased demand tends to lead to higher prices. For example, suppose mortgages for homes suddenly dried up. The amount a person could get for selling his house would likely drop. The same problem would happen if car loans disappeared‚Äìthere would be many fewer buyers for cars (even used cars), and the value of cars would tend to drop. The value of commodities in general would likely drop as well, because there would be fewer cars made. The fact that fewer cars are made would feed back and affect steel prices, oil prices, and prices of other components of automobiles. A related issue is that if the amount of debt starts to drop, the feedback loop is such that it tends to encourage more contraction, lower prices, and more debt default. (Like 2008!) Such debt defaults can cause banks and insurance companies to collapse, unless propped up by the government. Lower commodity prices can lead to a cutback of oil production. The expected feedbacks are especially bad if the economy is already reaching Stage 3, in Figure 1. At this point, we have a great deal of oil extraction that is financed by debt. As we get to the more expensive oil, there will be more of this that can never be paid back. The tight oil extracted using fracking from shale formations is quite possibly of this type. The president of Shell Oil Company recently explained what a disappointment its investment in shale oil and gas had been (Financial Times). Brazil is a step further toward bond defaults. It is trying to extract expensive oil from below a salt layer offshore. Brazil‚Äôs second largest oil company recently was not able to make its debt payment, and is now being liquidated (Bloomberg). The debt rating of its largest oil company, Petrobas, was recently downgraded (Financial Times). A person cannot help but be concerned that if we start to see debt defaults, there will be ¬†contagion as prices drop and banks and insurance companies fail. The government is already stimulating the economy using super-low interest rates, deficit spending, and Quantitative Easing. It would seem to be running out of ammunition to fix the situation, if another round of debt defaults start. Former Director of the US Office of Management and the Budget, David Stockman, has recently talked about this issue (King World News). The Electricity Part of Our Predicament Electricity can be produced in many different ways, at vastly different costs. When electricity costs are low, low electricity costs also contribute to economic growth, because the cost of generating the electricity is significantly lower than the benefit to the economy from the electricity.¬†In this respect, electricity is very much like oil. We can think of oil and electricity both as intermediate products, that are not exactly what we as consumers can use. What we want is transportation, or light from a light bulb, or our food cooked. Our salaries only go so far. Once the share of our salaries that must be spent on these intermediate products (electricity or oil) starts increasing, the share of our salaries that can go for the applications we really want must shrink. Similarly, if more of the world‚Äôs resources and manpower go to creating wind turbines and solar panels and nuclear plants, less is available to produce other things. The shift toward renewables has several difficulties: Government Tie to Collapse Issues Governments are perhaps the most vulnerable part of the system, if collapse hits due to continuing high oil prices. Governments are the ones charged with bailing out banks and providing benefits to unemployed workers, at the same time that their own tax revenue is down due to reduced employment. In fact, many of the governments of big oil consuming nations (US, most of Europe, and Japan) are in very vulnerable positions, because their debt levels are very high, and they keep adding more debt. At the same time, they are pulling out all of the stops to keep their economies from collapsing, including very low-interest rates and Quantitative Easing. Because they are already so stretched, it is doubtful that they could do another round of bailouts. The US government shutdown and debt cap limit debate is indicative of very serious problems‚Äìmore than a conflict between two political parties. With slowing economic growth, there is a huge gap between what has been promised and what the government can in fact afford. No government official wants to explain to voters how bad the situation really is. So we end up with gridlock. See my post from November 2012,¬†Understanding Our Oil-Related Fiscal¬†Cliff. Conclusion The Predominant View appears to fall very wide of the mark. Limits on oil and on other resources are a signal that Nature is really in charge, not humans. We can‚Äôt escape these limits. If we try to mitigate climate change by using more renewables, we hit a different kind of limit‚Äìhigh-priced electricity, and the problems it brings. Potential collapse seems to be directly in front of us. The Republican solution of more oil drilling will lead us in the direction of collapse, just as will the Democratic solution of increased debt and more emphasis on low-carbon fuels, particularly for electricity. The limits are just on different axes of the production function. Whether or not we humans would like to be in charge, Nature is in fact in charge. Nature determines timeframes. The timeframe could be very close. It is even possible that the current government shutdown/debt ceiling problems will ultimately lead to US collapse, and perhaps even world collapse. The current Predominant View of our situation is one that puts humans, and in particular current governmental officials, in charge. Historically, governments have had close ties with religion, using religion to further their own purposes. Now, government and religion have almost been fused into one. Perhaps this close tie is the reason why it is so difficult to get a well-reasoned story about our current predicament from those in charge, and why so many people are willing to believe the story we are being told. One thing that the Predominant View misses is the fact that we live in a finite world. This means that growth must at some point slow, and ultimately be reversed. The world operates in cycles; we can‚Äôt really change this. Nothing is permanent. The species that are dominant change, perhaps even humans. The climate changes, although perhaps not as fast as it is currently. Another thing that the Predominant View misses is the fact that energy of the right kinds is absolutely essential for the functioning of the economy. The view that there will be a substitute is more ‚Äúfaith-based‚Äù than it is based on objective facts. The Predominant View also misses the point that the substitute needs to be cheap; high-priced energy is terribly bad for the economy‚Äìit can easily push the economy into Stage 3 of the production function. The fact that high-priced oil is likely to lead to a debt unwind is likely to make the situation worse than it otherwise would be. A major debt unwind is likely to lead to low prices for oil and commodities of all types¬†and significant job loss.¬†This is analogous to the problem the 1930s Depression. The big difference is that in the 1930s Depression, job loss was associated with the falling price of food, as fossil fuels replaced human labor, bringing food production costs down, and leaving many unemployed. (Stiglitz 2010). In that scenario, there was still plenty more cheap fossil fuels in the ground. Therefore, more debt and stimulus programs could re-inflate¬†the economy, because it could lead to more use of cheap fossil fuels in non-agricultural sectors of the economy. We are now at the edge of a very different scenario. We are reaching debt default limits because we have extracted the easy to extract oil. Additional extraction can only be more expensive and thus push us further into Stage 3 of the production function, or more toward financial collapse. ¬†As the economy naturally shrinks, there is no longer a way that more debt can re-inflate the system. Instead, the use of debt must reach a new, much lower equilibrium. Because of debt‚Äôs tie to banks, pension funds, insurance companies, and the rest of the financial system, this is a huge problem. We can think that the growth of human systems, including the economy, will go on forever, but we are almost certainly kidding ourselves. At some point, when Nature decides, new species will dominate‚Äìperhaps plants that can use more CO2. The transition will be the transition Nature dictates. We are kidding ourselves if we think that we can decide to slowly reduce oil and fossil fuel usage over the next 40 or more years. If oil prices drop to, say, $30 barrel because of debt defaults, oil production will drop very quickly‚Äìnot based on some slow decline curve. Natural gas and coal prices will drop dramatically too, essentially putting an end to their production. Jobs will disappear with the lack of fossil fuels. Eighty or ninety percent of us will again need to work in manual food production without fossil fuels. Education, government, and services of all kinds will shrink rapidly. Nature is deciding for us right now what is ahead. We likely will have little choice in the matter. If we do have a choice at all, it is likely to be in the direction of serious back-pedaling, in terms of population, and in terms of learning to live essentially without fossil fuels. The future is likely to be very different from the past. Filed under: Financial Implications Tagged: alternative energy, collapse, debt default, government debt, oil price, production function, recession  Read more posts on Our Finite World ¬ª
If you've walked down the alcohol aisle in the past few years ‚Äî and let's face it, you have ‚Äî you've surely been witness to the flavorific bubble mentality of today's liquor brands. Particularly when it comes to vodka, where you can purchase Three Olives' Triple Shot Espresso, Tartz, and whatever flavor "Dude" is. But I don't care for vodka, so the fact that the area between Smirnoff and Popov looks increasingly like a bag of Skittles hasn't bothered me. I am a gin drinker. In case you haven't noticed, we're in a gin renaissance, and the subsequent flavor explosion is here. At best, Fruit Loop-flavored vodka is the bastardization of a liquor that's supposed to taste like nothing. There's a more sinister explanation, as it's no secret Fruit Loop vodka is more flavor-accessible for young (dare I say underage) drinkers. A similar thing seems to be happening in order to make gin ‚Äî which to some tastes like a Christmas tree and to others like a delicious Christmas tree ‚Äî more accessible. The gin and tonic, once thought of as a more refined and grandfatherly kind of drink, is now de rigueur among what we might derisively call "millennials."¬†As people want more gin, we're seeing more gin flavors. Take Hoxton, one of the biggest gin success stories of the past few years. They pump their liquid with¬†grapefruit, juniper, iris, tarragon and ginger. A Hoxton gin and tonic will taste very different than your more classic Beefeater or Bombay Sapphire. There's also coconut gin, saffron gin, and pretty much any other flavor once relegated to vodka. Some gin purists aren't happy, but then again purists never are. As someone who drinks and occasionally writes about alcohol, here's my message: Stop being a gin snob. Stop being an alcohol snob altogether. If you are one, consider not being one. When done correctly, drinking is supposed to be, you know, fun. Don't be annoying about it. Live and let live, different strokes, and other clich√©s, just stop. If you don't, you risk making gin the next scotch, long considered a more pretentious beverage choice (a title it shouldn't have, since there are perfectly tasty cheap options).¬† Here's the Free Beacon's Sonny Bunch responding to an article I wrote¬†interviewing¬†a local barkeep who had the audacity to say that people should just drink their scotch however they like ‚Äî ice, soda, water, coke, it's all good. However, for the love of god, if you‚Äôre going to pay for that slight upgrade in taste enjoy it and¬†do not drown it in sugary sweet soda. If that‚Äôs how you‚Äôre drinking your Johnnie Walker Blue,¬†you are doing it wrong. I can ASSURE you of this. ALL CAPS ASSURE. I can¬†ALL CAPS ASSURE YOU¬†that Sonny drinks alone. Don't let this happen to gin, the summertime beverage. Gin and tonic! Martinis! Be happy. It's fine if people want to drink flavored gin. It's fine if people want to drink anything, so long as it's not in a harmful way. This is a silly thing to get mad about. And, for what it's worth, Business Insider had the chance to taste a fantastic "classic" gin called Martin Miller's. We drank it straight, something you usually don't do with gin. It was truly smooth, like a higher-end Beefeater.¬†No coconut, no saffron, only a slight hint of cucumber on the finish. So if that's your thing, try drinking Martin Miller's instead of Hoxton, but don't shame the Hoxton-drinkers in the process.
joefoodie/flickrDetroit is several billion dollars in the hole. So, they are not ruling out many opportunities to raise money. This includes enabling the habits of barflies. The Detroit Free Press' Kathleen Gray reports a state senator from Detroit has put forward a bill that would allow downtown bars and restaurants to sell liquor until 4 a.m., two hours longer than current statutes. In addition to helping the city pay some of its bill, it would also make the city more competitive with places like New York, Miami, and Chicago, Gray writes. ‚ÄúWe would be attracting more of the type of people who are going for the entertainment type of lifestyle. We‚Äôve got to be able to offer that to them,‚Äù a Detroit restaurant owner told a hearing in Lansing. ‚ÄúIn Detroit, we have so many things going on that this could help ‚Äî the casinos, hotels, limousine and taxi industries.‚Äù Establishments would have to pay an annual fee of $10,000 ‚Äî 85% of which would go to local police departments, 10% to the state liquor authority, and 5% to the city. As it turns out, the state police chiefs association is opposing the measure, saying whatever money gets raised will be outweighed by having more drunk people everywhere. Click here to read the full story ¬ª
This post is sponsored by†Principal Financial Group. In New York, it's hard to hear the word "free" without waiting to see what the catch is. But†The Principal Financial Group†did, believe it or not, offer free cab rides and free financial advice†ó with its "Take Action On Your Financial Dreams" program. In this video, a general contractor is asked, "What keeps you up at night?" while two other riders are told how to set up their nonprofit to serve the community and its employees.†Watch and see advisors from The Principal giving real-world advice in the most real-world place imaginable: the back of a New York City cab. † Learn more at†Principal.com. Find out†more about Sponsor Posts.
Wikimedia CommonsWith the House pushing its own new debt ceiling plan, the odds of a delay in getting a debt ceiling deal have gone up. Here's Goldman on why things could now go beyond Oct. 17: A deal could still be enacted by October 17, but there are reasons to think it could go a little longer. First, although Congress has taken the October 17 deadline surprisingly seriously, the Treasury will still have funds after that date, and Congress knows this. Second, if the House amends the Senate bill or passes its own instead, this will delay enactment. Third, the Senate could present a procedural obstacle if even one member objects, since consideration can take as long as five days in that chamber. Fourth, if the House is eventually forced to take the Senate plan for a lack of viable alternative, Republican leaders are unlikely to want to hold that vote until the deadline, if not later. There is still a chance Congress will manage to get the debt limit raised by October 17, but a resolution later this week or even this coming weekend also appears possible. Goldman obviously still thinks a deal gets done, but going beyond Oct. 17 raises new risks. Yes, we don't have a debt default, as that just represents the date at which the Treasury's borrowing authority runs out. But if we get to Oct. 17 and there's no instant crisis, suddenly impetus to get a deal might fade. Maybe.
The news that Burberry CEO Angela Ahrendts will leave the company to head up retail at Apple could change the luxury brand's fate overnight.† Ahrendts will be replaced by head designer Christopher Bailey.† The departure comes on the heels of Burberry CFO Stacy Cartwright's exit in January and leaves Burberry without "the two key architects" of its growth, reports Bloomberg News, citing Nomura.† While Bailey is a brilliant designer, it's unclear if he will be a successful executive, writes Bloomberg reporter Andrew Roberts.† "Bailey takes over at a time when the luxury industry is polarizing and must decide whether to move more upscale to challenge brands like Prada and†Louis Vuitton, or target a wider audience with less expensive goods," Roberts writes.† Balancing creative with business will be a huge challenge for Bailey, Mario Ortelli, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein, told Bloomberg.† ìEven for a person as talented as Mr. Bailey, it is hard to have enough time to carry out both of these roles,î Ortelli said.† Investors are also skeptical about Bailey's leadership skillsóBurberry shares tumbled on the news of Ahrendts' departure.† But Dhani Mau at Fashionista makes a case for Bailey's talent. "Bailey and Ahrendts worked together to turn Burberry back into a valuable, high-end luxury brand after years of being plagued by mass market knock-offs, as well as expanding its retail business globally," Mau writes. "Bailey certainly played a role in that beyond just designing clothes, and is undoubtedly commercially-minded." Still, Ahrendt's departure leaves Burberry at a major crossroads.†
North Carolina has 803 Megawatts of solar in development or under construction, according to consulting firm SNL Financial.¬† That's third most in the country behind California and Nevada, enough to power about 300,000 homes at peak hours (the breakdown does not show the residential/commercial/utility breakdown). Check out the map: it's nuts. SNL ¬† Here's a shot of a 6.4 MW farm in western Catawba County from Strata Solar: Strata Solar At 12.5%, the state has the most aggressive renewable portfolio standard in The South, and GTM Research projects it will end 2013 ranking third in the nation for utility-scale solar.¬† The N.C. Solar Center in Raleigh just hosted a conference in which an SVP for a utility equipment maker said the industry in the state and elsewhere was in¬†"almost a panic mode." We've discussed why previously: solar usually results in "disintermediation," and the whole point of a utility is to serve as the medium between a power supply and its user. Charlotte-based Duke Energy, the country's largest utility, has been trying to catch up through its own solar projects. But this appears to be a swiftly moving target.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJapan's Finance Minister Taro Aso (R) touches the cheeks of U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew (L) during a light moment as they gather for a G20 family photo at the start of the annual International Monetary Fund and World Bank fall meetings in Washington, October 11, 2013.Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has warned that the U.S. will hit the debt ceiling on October 17. And this has much of the news-following world confused and totally freaked out that the U.S. will default on its obligations this Thursday. However, many economists like Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart have repeatedly warned that any default would come at the end of the month at the earliest. To clarify, the debt ceiling is when the U.S. Treasury will no longer have the authority to borrow money by issuing bonds. However, it will still have around $30 billion in cash to continue financing its obligation.† It's only after that cash runs out that we have to start worrying. But Lew's communication of the debt ceiling may have helped ignite a sense of urgency that something must be done sooner than later. Reinhart argues that this was actually an important contribution Lew made to the whole debt ceiling debate.† From Reinhart's note: Secretary Jack Lewís main contribution has been to convince legislators that a soft date is scarily hard, keeping politicians negotiating in advance of what they believe is the crack of doom. What the Treasury has explained is that on October 17th, it will only have $30 billion in cash in its account at the Federal Reserve, it will have exploited all extraordinary measures for which there is precedent, and that it will not consider schemes to protect coupon and principal payments at the expense of other Treasury claimants. There are multiple qualifiers in that statement, the most important of which is that the Treasury anticipates still having cash. Default is the event pressed upon the Treasury when the risk materializes of over-drafting at its fiscal agent, the Federal Reserve, which cannot lend directly to the Treasury. With cash still expected in the till, October 17th is really not the event horizon, even before considering expanding the frontier of extraordinary measures before or on that day. So, the secret's out. October 17 is not the drop-dead date.
APWalmart expects its strongest holiday season on record with tablets representing four out of the top five items in layaway so far this year.¬† "I'm excited about the holiday season and I expect this to be the best year ever," Walmart U.S. Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Duncan Mac Naughton said Tuesday at the company's annual meeting with investors and analysts. Walmart launched its holiday layaway program, which allows customers to pay off gifts incrementally over time, in early September. Tablets for sale at Walmart include the iPad, iPad Mini, Samsung Galaxy and Google Nexus.¬† Mac Naughton's prediction for a robust holiday season comes as same-store sales at Walmart U.S. fell 0.3% in the second quarter. The underperformance was partially driven by a staggering 7.5% decline in Walmart's bottom 10% of stores. Lagging demand for electronics, such as big screen televisions, has been a drag on sales, Walmart U.S. CEO Bill Simon said at the investors' meeting Tuesday.¬† Meat, produce, home and apparel continue to be Walmart's best performing categories.¬† That has led to a problem among Walmart's discount stores, which don't offer the grocery options of its supercenters, Simon said. "We've got an issue with our discount stores they continue to underperform," he said.
Mark Metcalfe / Getty ImagesAccording to reporting by Bloomberg, bearish bets by hedge funds have reached their highest level of the year.¬† After being squeezed on their shorts over the past four years as equities rallied, a potential crash this time could prove more profitable for hedge funds as "growth prospects are lower and¬†valuations¬†are higher." The price-earnings ratio for the S&amp;P 500 has risen to 16.3 from 14.1 since the beginning of the year. The ISI index of hedge fund long versus short bets, fell nearly 8% last week, ¬†A decrease in the index indicates an increase in bearish sentiment among hedge fund managers. the ratio is at about the same level as it was in August 2011, the last time a US credit default seemed imminent, which was followed by a 20% slide in the S&amp;P.¬† U.S. Steel Corp, the US' largest steel-maker has been¬†the third-most shorted stock in the S&amp;P 500. The company's stock has gone up 6.7 percent so far in October, compared to an S&amp;P rally of 1.3 percent. Two other companies with high short interest have been Safeway, the grocery store chain and Micron Technologies, the memory-chip maker, whose shares have both been up 24% since last month. Bloomberg's data indicated a short interest of 19% of available shares for Safeway and 10% for Micron Technologies. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúIt is hard to be too critical of being more bearish going into the government shutdown and debt ceiling battle with the market up over 20 percent,‚Äù Howard Ward, the chief investment officer at the $40 billion Gamco Investors told Bloomberg. ‚ÄúWe are not out of the woods yet, so those bets may yet prove worthy.‚Äù Brian Barish, president of the $8 billion Cambiar Investors, told Bloomberg,¬†‚ÄúThere still are people out there who are convinced the whole market and financial system is some house of cards... I think they wind up shooting themselves and their investors in the foot with the permabear mentality, but it persists.‚Äù
ReutersTesla's stock is up almost 5% this morning after a Wedbush Securities report started circulating around the Street. The firm upgraded Tesla from "neutral" to "outperform" based on an in-house survey on how Tesla's Generation III model will be received by car-buyers around the country. Generation III is expected to hit the road in 2017. Wedbush polled 892 main-stream buyers and was "pleasantly surprised that over 20% of respondents indicated they would 'absolutely consider' driving an EV (vs. 65% ‚Äúmaybes‚Äù), and 19% were willing to pay a $5,000 or greater¬†premium for a 90% improvement in fuel economy." According to Wedbush, 19% of those respondents are willing to pay $5,000 more for better fuel economy, so it's likely that $35,000 to $40,000 is a realistic price range for the vehicle. From the report: We are raising 2017 estimates forecasting 150,000 Gen III units, reflecting¬†updated unit expectations 50% above our prior forecast. Following our survey,¬†we now believe in the longer term the Gen III car could be a 300-500k unit product... We are raising our target to $240 (from $180) and upgrading shares of Tesla¬†to OUTPERFORM from NEUTRAL. Our target is based on 30.0x 2017E EPS of¬†$10.10 (vs. $7.55 previously) and discounting back 4 years using a 6.0% discount¬†rate. We believe valuation based on 2017 estimates is appropriate as that is the first year Gen-III vehicle volumes are expected to scale, and view a 30.0x EPS¬†multiple as fair since Tesla should still be in growth mode, leaving room for¬†continued market penetration and vehicle diversification to drive higher earnings. Of course, this entire argument is contingent on a number of factors, first and foremost that survey respondents behave the way they say they will in the survey. Another issue is something that brings the bears out of their caves during every Tesla earnings call. Wedbush wrote: "We expect clusters of catalysts around potential new manufacturing facilities¬†in Asia and Europe as well as further details on the Model X and Gen III¬†vehicles to collectively drive the stock.¬†We expect Tesla management to share¬†detail on plans for future overseas plants such as location and capacity.¬†Detail on¬†the Gen III and Model X platforms may include drivable models and initial orders." Details on overseas plants (beyond the fact that they're coming) are something we haven't seen from Tesla yet. That is, in part, because the company is in a delicate cash position. It's spending a lot of money on capital expenditures to build manufacturing plants and tighten up its supply chain. As¬†Tesla's CFO Deepak Ahuja said on the Q2 earnings call: "We want to be very careful about burning cash," said Ahuja. "We want to stay as close as we can to a free cash flow position... but that's not something we necessarily want to guide to. We're going to manage it... and spend the cap ex where we need to to ensure we're growing at the right pace. So consider both positions as you wish. Here's what Tesla's doing now: 
Bloomberg Businessweek's Sheela Kolhatkar reports that widely-followed market timer Tom DeMark is feeling uneasy about the stock market, as the current pattern seems to be tracking the months leading up to the 1929 crash. Kohatkar relays DeMark's comments: "The market‚Äôs going to have one more rally, then once we get above that high, I think it‚Äôs going to be more treacherous," DeMark says. "I think it‚Äôs all preordained right now." He feels this is probably irrespective of how and when the crippling impasse in Washington is resolved. "If you look at the new highs and new lows on the [New York Stock Exchange]," he says, "every time we made a higher high, there were fewer stocks in the index participating in that high. It‚Äôs getting narrower." And once that happens, you typically get a collapse. The chart below shows what DeMark is looking at. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
APBorders went bankrupt in 2011, couldn't find a buyer, and ended up being liquidated. Now Barnes &amp; Noble is losing tens of millions of dollars each quarter and seeing its stock tank. Meanwhile, Amazon has released a rapturously reviewed new Kindle and seen its stock price reach new highs. A new NBER working paper¬†looks at how people find and buy books in 2013. The shift to digital music has already largely happened, but we're only in the middle of the switch for books. Based on a variety of data on search behavior, things are looking bad for Barnes &amp; Noble and other retailers. First, a chart of declining sales at brick-and-mortar bookstores. Although Barnes &amp; Noble recoups some of that loss through its website and Nook reader, these areas are dominated by Amazon. NBER One of the biggest differences that the researchers found is people are now much more likely to look for books internally within a website or app than to use an external search engine.¬† That's where Amazon has the biggest advantage. Things like one click ordering, Amazon Prime, price competition, and the huge number of other products mean far more people are already on the site. To compare the number of searches on Amazon with other book sites, the authors needed to include another scale that was 10 times larger. Not all of those searches are book related, but many are. NBER The other trend the authors found was that more people are doing their searching and buying within a closed ecosystem, like a Kindle or Nook. Amazon wins this battle too since the Kindle is far more popular. ¬†NBER Barnes &amp; Noble did better at managing the digital transition than many of its competitors. But it can't compete on price, in hardware, or as an ecosystem with Amazon, and it's difficult to see that changing any of those. As for everybody else, the market keeps getting squeezed. Specialty stores, very large urban centers, and things of that sort probably have a future. It's only going to get harder for everybody else. ¬† Read the full paper here¬†
In the unlikely case that legislators allow the U.S. government to run out of cashand †fail to make payments, the world's wealthiest country will join a long list of developed countries who have, at one time or more in their history, defaulted. Taking a long view, Ralph Dillon at Global Financial Data†charted out major countries' 10-year bond yields dating back to 1800. What we see is that some countries have fared better than others during a default. "For the developed markets and global economic powerhouses, those that did default are still here alive and kicking," Dillon wrote to clients. "In fact, some have defaulted 8 times and are still a major player on the world stage." Here's Dillon's breakdown: 1.††††United States 2013? 2.††††Germany 1938,1948 3.††††Japan 1942, 1946-1952 4.††††France 8 times between 1558-1788. Last one in 1812 5.††††Italy 1940. Almost daily speculation of another default since 2008 6.††††Spain 1809, 1820, 1831, 1834, 1851, 1867, 1872, 1882 and 1936-1939. Since 2008, Spanish yields spiked considerably and have been volatile on the back of another default 7.††††Austria 1938, 1940, 1945 8.††††United Kingdom 1822, 1834, 1888, 1932 Global Financial Data
Screenshot, Fashion VideoAngela AhrendtsApple has finally filled a key hole in its executive team, hiring Burberry CEO, Angela Ahrendts, to run its retail stores and online site. This is a critical hire for Apple: The company's retail stores are a major competitive advantage, and since ousting its prior retail chief last October, Apple has been searching for the right person to run the business for almost a year. Few fashion-challenged tech aficionados (myself included) had heard of Ahrendts before this morning, but she's a big star in the luxury world. Born and raised in a small town in Indiana, Ahrendts ascended through the ranks of Warnaco, Liz Claiborne, Donna Karan, and other fashion companies before taking the helm at Burberry in 2006. In her 7 years at the British fashion firm, she has transformed the company's products and business and delivered excellent returns for shareholders. Ahrendts is said to be a workaholic with both an excellent fashion and design sense and analytical business skills, and according to this 2010 Wall Street Journal profile, the people who know her and work with her have great respect for her. One question that arose after the news broke was why Ahrendts would go from CEO of Burberry to SVP of an Apple division ó a seeming step down on the corporate hierarchy. There are likely at least two answers to this. The first is that Apple's retail business is vastly larger than Burberry, with about $16 billion in annual sales vs. Burberry's ~$2+ billion. The second is that, if Ahrendts fits into Apple's culture and does an excellent job running its retail business, she probably has a good chance to become the company's next CEO. Apple's senior executives have begun to emerge from the shadows in the years following the death of Steve Jobs. Although all of them are talented and capable, there is no clear successor-in-waiting. Assuming Apple continues to roll out great products over the next few years, Tim Cook will probably be Apple's CEO for a while. But at a company the size of Apple, it is always helpful to have a handful of strong CEO candidates on the senior executive team to take over when the time comes. Unlike anyone else at Apple (with the exception of Cook), Ahrendts has run a major public manufacturing company whose success depends largely on high-end consumer product design and execution. She is not a "technologist," but Apple's greatest strength has never been raw technology. It has been understanding the intersection of "liberal arts and technology," as Jobs himself described it ó and designing beautiful, intuitive technology products that human beings love. Ahrendts has already demonstrated at Burberry that she can identify great designers and give them enough creative freedom to design and make great products, while also delivering on key business metrics (e.g., designing products that can actually be engineered and then produced on time and on budget). If Apple is to continue to dazzle global consumers with its products while remaining a staggeringly successful and profitable business, it will need both of these skills at the top. It will also need a leader who global consumers find impressive and inspiring. Ahrendts has all of those qualities. So, yes, Apple has finally hired a strong executive to run its retail business. But if Angela Ahrendts works out at the company, she could eventually ascend right to the top.†
It is hard to draw conclusions from the handful of results in the first week of third quarter earnings reports given very company-specific factors. For example, Alcoa posted¬†solid earnings results and exceeded analyst estimates on productivity gains unlikely to be seen among other metals companies. Yum! Brands Inc. missed estimates due to the impact of the avian flu outbreak on Chinese consumers. And JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. took a $9.2 billion charge for legal costs. However, with over 60 companies reporting next week trends will begin to emerge. The six trends we are¬†watching for: Four times a year, investors focus on the most fundamental driver of investment performance: earnings. Unfortunately, like the economy, earnings growth has been sluggish. We hope the third quarter of 2013 begins to mark an acceleration from the string of modest earnings per share growth rates reported in recent quarters as global momentum improves.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWalmart executives say a "tough" and "unpredictable" economy and gridlock in Congress are hurting business.† "When all people hear about on the news is the stalled economy and the debt ceiling, that's not helpful," Walmart U.S. CEO Bill Simon said at Walmart's annual meeting with investors and analysts. "We're battling through that ó†and it is a constant battle." Walmart President and CEO Mike Duke tried to assure investors, however, that "no matter what environment we are in, Walmart will win." "Even in a tough and unpredictable economy, there is strength in our business all around the world," he said.† Same-store sales at Walmart U.S., its largest business, unexpectedly fell 0.3% in the second quarter. Simon said Walmart U.S. feels "pretty good" about profit but is "not satisfied at all" with sales. The underperformance was partially driven by a 7.5% decline in the bottom 10% of Walmart's large U.S. supercenters.† Lagging demand for electronics, such as big screen televisions, has been a particular drag on sales, Simon said. Meat, produce, home and apparel continue to be Walmart's best-performing categories.† To capitalize on the growing demand for low-cost groceries, the retail giant is expanding its Neighborhood Market stores, which are about a quarter of the size of Walmart supercenters and primarily offer meat and produce. The company plans to add more than 400 Neighborhood Market locations in the next three years, executives said.†
Since making these†comments, the twitterati and financial bloggers in multiple languages around the world have been weighing in. People are surprised as to how correlated Berkshire has become with the S&amp;P500. As smart and brilliant as Warren Buffett might be (I have no idea, Iíve never met the guy), heís a closet indexer. The truth is, I was surprised when I ran the numbers. I couldnít believe how irrelevant that stock has now become. It started with a simple phone call from a friend of mine, weíll call him ìUncle Patî. He was asking me for some advice on how to approach a client of his who wonít send him any more assets because heís doing well on his own ñ apparently he has his entire portfolio in Berkshire Hathaway. Uncle Pat is a financial advisor and just looking to grow his business like anyone else. I left that industry years ago to launch my own hedge fund, but I still remember dealing with this sort of nonsense. I told Uncle Pat that Iíd run the numbers for him because I was pretty sure the only reason his client was doing so well was because Berkshire is probably pretty closely tied to the ups and downs in the US Stock Market. Boy was that an understatement. As it turns out, the Berkshire Hathaway A-shares have a +0.98 correlation with the S&amp;P500 over the past year. It has a +0.95 correlation over the past month. Just to put things in perspective, Berkshire has a higher short-term correlation to the S&amp;P500 than the Dow Jones Industrial Average has to the S&amp;P500. You canít even make that up. So why on earth would you ever bother ìdiversifyingî your portfolio by adding another extremely correlated stock to the mix. All youíre really doing is adding exposure, volatility, and risk to your portfolio by adding Berkshire to an already highly correlated stock portfolio. Talk about a waste of time, money and energy. Here are the daily and weekly charts for the B shares in case youíre interested: All Star Charts But the bottom line? Donít waste your time investing in a closet indexer. Just go buy†$SPY†for $8/trade on e-trade or something. And if you want diversification, which most of us do, run the math first and make sure youíre not just adding to exposure that you already have. We look to other asset classes for this like bonds and commodities, and if you look hard enough, youíll find some great stocks with little or no correlation ($AAPL†is actually one of those). So if your broker or advisor thinks itís a good idea to give Warren some of your money, send him that math and tell him how silly that would be. I was just as shocked as you, trust me. But now we know. And knowing is half the battle.
OneWireLegendary hedge fund manager Julian Robertson rarely talks about his early-life career, but in a recent interview with Skiddy von Stade, CEO and founder of the finance career site¬†OneWire, he got candid about his younger days, and touched on some of the key traits he looks for in hiring talent.¬†¬† Robertson founded Tiger Management, one of the world‚Äôs first great hedge funds. It reached $22 billion in assets at its peak.¬† Since Tiger closed in 2000, Robertson has helped seed approximately 40 hedge funds, many of which were founded by former Tiger employees, who are known today as ‚ÄúTiger cubs.‚Äù¬† These individuals have started some of today‚Äôs most successful hedge funds, and include names such as¬†Philippe Laffont of Coatue Management¬†and¬†Lee Ainslie of Maverick Capital, both of whom also appear in OneWire interviews. When asked about the success of his former prot√©g√©s, Robertson responds humbly, insisting, ‚ÄúI‚Äôve loved all the people I‚Äôve been associated with.¬† They‚Äôre terrific, and I‚Äôm very proud of these people.¬† They would have done well, whomever they went with.‚Äù¬† But how has Robertson always found such great talent? ‚ÄúThe most important things [to look for in] hedge fund managers,‚Äù Robertson said, ‚Äúis that they are smart and they are honest.¬† Close behind that is probably competitiveness ‚Ä¶¬†Someone who won‚Äôt lose doesn‚Äôt lose.‚Äù¬† Check out the full interview with Julian Robertson below, and¬†subscribe to OneWire‚Äôs series¬†to learn about more great interviews in the coming weeks, including Sallie Krawcheck, head of 85 Broads and former head of Merrill Lynch and Smith Barney, and Ken Langone, financial backer and co-founder of Home Depot.¬† Now for Robertson: 
Reuters/ Stefan WermuthBarclays' head of compliance and government will take a temporary leave of absence due to "exhaustion and stress," Bloomberg's Jon Menon and Ben Moshinsky report. Hector Sants joined the the British bank in December after the Libor scandal, when Barclays was fined $462 million for submitting false interbank rates. Then-CEO Bob Diamond was fired, and the firm has endeavored to alter its scandal-prone culture. Sants ó a former UK regulator and reportedly a key figure in preventing Barclays from buying Lehman Brothers assets in the runup to the bank's 2008 collapse ó has "been busy" as "Barclays has been working its way through a cloud of legacy compliance agenda," Investec analyst Ian Gordon told Bloomberg. Read the full report at Bloomberg†ª

Davidslog.comBijan Sabet and David Karp after Tumblr sold to Yahoo for $1 billion.One of the largest outside shareholders in Twitter is Spark Capital. That's because Bijan Sabet, the firm's General Partner, led its initial Twitter investment in 2008 back when Jack Dorsey was CEO. Sabet also led investments in Tumblr, which sold to Yahoo for $1 billion and OMGPOP, which was acquired by Zynga for ~ $200 million. How does he help his firm pick home runs? And what's it like behind the scenes of a startup that's trying to grow out of a mess, into a success?¬† Sabet will talk about his experiences investing and growing companies at Startup 2013 on Thursday, October 24. He'll also reveal what investors are looking for in today's entrepreneurs. At¬†Startup 2013,¬†Business Insider will partner with General Assemb.ly to run Startup University. Attendees will soak up business lessons from industry leaders in a series of classes they'll select yourselves. In the afternoon, they'll hear from top entrepreneurs from NYC and the Valley, VCs, and other experts. For a full list of classes and afternoon programming, see the Startup agenda. And after a full day, enjoy a networking reception with stunning views of the Hudson. Grab your tickets (at entrepreneur-friendly rates) before they run out.  If you are interested in sponsorship opportunities at Startup 2013, please contact events@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for Startup updates.
REUTERS/Phil McCartenDaniel Loeb, CEO, Third Point LLCHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who's known for sending vitriolic letters to company CEOs, is defending JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon, Andrew Ross Sorkin reports. There have been a lot of demands lately from various people for Dimon to resign as CEO.†JPMorgan just†suffered its first quarterly loss under Dimon and it continues to face a mountain of legal costs. From Andrew Ross Sorkin:† Daniel Loeb, the activist investor who has made a career out of targeting troubled companies and ousting their chief executives, also sided with Mr. Dimon. ìIn my experience, they are meticulously ethical, and nobody has a more rigorous compliance effort.î He added, ìItís a very large and complex company, and things will happen.î But he said that Mr. Dimon was now ìbeing used as a scapegoat and piÒata to satisfy some kind of bloodlust.î What's more is it doesn't appear that Third Point is a shareholder in JPMorgan based on the fund's latest 13F quarterly filing with the SEC.
There are various headlines out this morning about how any agreement that might come out of the Senate are unlikely to get passed easily in the House. As such, US futures are slipping. FinViz
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Storm clouds pass over the top of the Empire State Building in New York, June 13, 2013.U.S. Empire State manufacturing fell to 1.52 in October, down from 6.29 in September. Economists were expecting the index to come in at 7. "The new orders¬†index rose five points to 7.8 and¬†the shipments index fell three¬†points to 13.1, suggesting that both¬†orders and shipments increased¬†modestly over the month," according to the report. "The new¬†orders index moved in the opposite¬†direction, rising 5 points to 7.8,¬†indicating that orders increased¬†modestly. The shipments index fell¬†3 points, but at 13.1 it pointed to¬†a modest increase in shipments." Click here to see the full release¬†¬ª
David Tepper, who runs†$19 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, was on CNBC's "Squawk Box" moments ago. † The hedge fund manager talked about the markets, the Fed and the government shutdown.† Here's a recap from the show:† They're opening up talking about the Robin Hood Foundation and it's upcoming stacked investor conference.† Andrew Ross Sorkin brought up an op-ed from this summer written by Peter Buffett. †Basically, Buffett said the system provides immense wealth for the few and they later sprinkle it around via charity.† Sorkin asked Robin Hood's executive director David Saltzman to respond that that. †He said Peter Buffett has a "big heart and a big brain" and ended his response with a big grin.† Tepper jumped in and said, "That's bulls--t" before explaining why corporate philanthropy actually matters. Minutes later, Sorkin jokingly told him that he had to watch his mouth.† Tepper responded, "What did I say? What did I say?" Joe Kernen jumped it, "It's not broadcast, it's cable." † Now the interview is going to get into what everyone had been waiting for ó the markets and the Fed.† Kernen is asking Tepper about the Fed deciding not to taper.† "Look, they're not tapering for a long time. Fortunately or unfortunately," Tepper said. He does expect markets to go up, though.† "In the meantime, it might be a little tough for markets to fly up. On the other hand, my basic belief is when you have this large QE the markets will go up."† He added that there's no way the Fed can taper because of the shutdown situation in Washington, D.C.† "As far as the debt is concerned, they should just pass something in Congress that says the debt will be paid always," he said. "Do that and that will make things much, much, much more stable."† He said if we default then everyone's mortgage will be more expensive. That will really hurt Main Street, according to Tepper. As for the default deniers, Tepper called them "so freakin' stupid." "These guys they were great debaters in college. †I'm so glad they were great debaters...They're so smart. They're so smart. That they're so friggin' stupid...so friggin' stupid..."† He added at his firm they always say, "You have to be stupid before you can be smart."† Kernen jumped in and said you can use "muck" and call them "muckers."† Now the conversation has shifted to the stock market.† Becky Quick asked him if they're cheap or at a fair valuation.† Tepper told CNBC that we'll get back toward more normal multiples of 18-20 times earnings.† Tepper came out at the beginning of this year as being extremely bullish on the U.S. stock market†telling Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle†that the U.S. was on†"the verge of an explosion of greatness." He continued to remain bullish on U.S. equities throughout the summer. In August, he told CNBC's Scott Wapner that he continues to be long and finds stocks reasonable.† Tepper has one of the most successful long-term track records of any fund manager. †Last year, he was the highest paid hedge fund manager,†taking home $2.2 billion,†according to†Forbes. Refresh this page for updates.
REUTERS/ Keith BedfordCitigroup missed Wall Street analysts' estimates for their third-quarter earnings results.¬† Citigroup reported $1.02 per diluted share versus estimates of $1.04. Revenue for the third quarter came in at $18.2 billion (excluding¬†CVA/DVA)¬†versus analysts' estimates of $18.615 billion. Shares of Citi were last trading down more than 1.6% in the pre-market.¬† CEO Michael Corbat noted that they weren't able to fully control the revenue, but they have been able to control costs.¬† ‚ÄúWe performed relatively well in this challenging, uneven macro environment. While many of the factors which influence our revenues are not within our full control, we certainly can control our costs and I am pleased with our expense discipline and improved efficiency year-to-date," Corbat said in the release.¬† Here's an excerpt from the release: NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C) today reported net income for the third quarter 2013 of $3.2 billion, or $1.00 per diluted share, on revenues of $17.9 billion. This compared to net income of $468 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, on revenues of $13.7 billion for the third quarter 2012. ‚ÄúWe performed relatively well in this challenging, uneven macro environment. While many of the factors which influence our revenues are not within our full control, we certainly can control our costs and I am pleased with our expense discipline and improved efficiency year-to-date.‚Äù CVA/DVA was a negative $336 million in the third quarter ($208 million after-tax) resulting from the tightening of Citi‚Äôs credit spreads in the quarter, compared to a negative $776 million ($485 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Third quarter 2013 results also included a $176 million tax benefit related to the resolution of certain tax audit items, compared to a $582 million tax benefit in the prior year period (both recorded withinCorporate/Other). In addition, third quarter 2012 results included a pre-tax loss of $4.7 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture (MSSB).5¬†Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the MSSB loss in the third quarter 2012, third quarter 2013 revenues were $18.2 billion, down 5% from the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the tax benefit in both periods, as well as the MSSB loss in the third quarter 2012, earnings were $1.02 per diluted share, down 4% from the prior year period. Michael Corbat, Chief Executive Officer of Citi, said, ‚ÄúWe performed relatively well in this challenging, uneven macro environment. While many of the factors which influence our revenues are not within our full control, we certainly can control our costs and I am pleased with our expense discipline and improved efficiency year-to-date. "We also continued to reduce the size of Citi Holdings, now 6% of our balance sheet, and its drag on our earnings during the quarter. We generated additional capital, primarily through retained earnings and DTA utilization, and our Tier 1 Common ratio increased to an estimated 10.4% on a Basel III basis. Other key capital metrics also strengthened, including our Supplementary Leverage Ratio, which increased to an estimated 5.1%. With the environment remaining challenging, we will continue to focus on all aspects of our business to improve client satisfaction and shareholder results consistent with our strategy," Mr. Corbat concluded. Citigroup revenues¬†of $17.9 billion in the third quarter 2013 increased 30% from the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the third quarter 2012 MSSB loss, Citigroup revenues of $18.2 billion in the third quarter 2013 were 5% below the prior year period. Citicorp revenues¬†of $16.6 billion in the third quarter 2013 included a negative $332 million of CVA/DVA reported within¬†Securities and Banking. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citicorp revenues of $17.0 billion decreased 7% from the prior year period.¬†Securities and Banking¬†revenues declined 2%, or 10% excluding CVA/DVA, and¬†Global Consumer Banking (GCB)¬†revenues declined 7%, while¬†Transaction Services (CTS)revenues were roughly flat, all versus the prior year period. Citi Holdings revenues¬†of $1.3 billion in the third quarter 2013 included a negative $4 million of CVA/DVA. Excluding CVA/DVA and the third quarter 2012 MSSB loss, Citi Holdings revenues increased 28% versus the prior year period, mainly driven by the absence of repurchase reserve builds for representations and warranty claims in the third quarter 2013. Total Citi Holdings assets of $122 billion declined $49 billion, or 29%, from the third quarter 2012. Citi Holdings assets at the end of the third quarter 2013 represented approximately 6% of total Citigroup assets. Citigroup‚Äôs net income¬†increased to $3.2 billion in the third quarter 2013 from $468 million in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the tax benefit in both periods, as well as the third quarter 2012 MSSB loss, Citigroup net income of $3.3 billion was roughly flat compared to the prior year period, as lower operating expenses and lower credit costs were offset by the decline in revenues and a higher tax rate. Operating expenses of $11.7 billion were 4% lower than the prior year period. Citigroup‚Äôs cost of credit in the third quarter 2013 was $2.0 billion, 25% below the prior year period, reflecting a $1.5 billion improvement in net credit losses partially offset by a $827 million decline in net loan loss reserve releases. Citigroup‚Äôs net credit losses in the third quarter 2012 included approximately $635 million of incremental mortgage charge-offs required by OCC guidance regarding the treatment of mortgage loans where the borrower has gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy. These incremental charge-offs were substantially offset by a related reserve release of approximately $600 million. Citi‚Äôs effective tax rate in the third quarter 2013 was 25% (30% excluding CVA/DVA and the tax benefit, compared to 26% in the prior year period on the same basis). Citigroup‚Äôs allowance for loan losses¬†was $20.6 billion at quarter end, or 3.2% of total loans, compared to $25.9 billion, or 4.0%, at the end of the prior year period. The loan loss reserve release of $675 million in the quarter was 55% lower than in the prior year period, reflecting a $4 million reserve build in Citicorp (compared to a $689 million reserve release in the third quarter 2012) and a reserve release in Citi Holdings of $679 million, 16% lower than the prior year period. Citigroup asset quality continued to improve as total non-accrual assets fell to $9.8 billion, a 23% reduction compared to the third quarter 2012. Corporate non-accrual loans declined 10% to $2.2 billion, while consumer non-accrual loans declined 26% to $7.2 billion. Citigroup‚Äôs capital levels¬†and book value increased versus the prior year period. As of the quarter end, book value per share was $64.49 and tangible book value per share was $54.52, 1% and 3% increases respectively versus the prior year period. At quarter end, Citigroup‚Äôs Basel I Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 13.6% and its Tier 1 Common Ratio was 12.6%, while its Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio was estimated at 10.4%. Citigroup‚Äôs estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio for the third quarter 2013 was 5.1%.6 ¬†
Very volatile morning for gold, which mostly has been a terrible performer. Kitco
REUTERS/Sue OgrackiOn Monday, the University of Chicago recognized two more Nobel economics laureates, as Eugene Fama and Lars Peter Hansen¬†(along with Yale's Robert Shiller)¬†got calls from Stockholm.¬† Depending on whether you include people who were no longer affiliated with the university when they won, Chicago has now racked up 28¬†or 12¬†economics prizes ‚Äî far more than any other institution. So how has it become the Michael Jordan of economics Nobels? We reached out to three members of the economics prize's selection committee, and based¬†on their responses, we've come up with three explanations. The "Chicago School" of economics is best known for rejecting Keynesianism and government intervention in favor of allowing the free market and rational individuals to best allocate resources. No one can doubt that school of thought's influence ‚Äî¬†its proponents once took control of an entire country. The question is why the Nobel committee ‚Äî which is made up of people from a country known for its generous welfare state ‚Äî appears to consistently reward such a theory. The answer is, it does not. In an email, Tore Ellingsen of the¬†Stockholm School of Economics said that in no way was a group of Scandinavians endorsing the "Chicago School," at least its ostensibly political component: "...politics never had anything to do with it. But of course that's for future historians to judge, with more knowledge and the benefit of distance. Moreover, although the prize is awarded in Sweden we always aim to reflect the best judgment of the whole profession, broadly defined." Ellingsen's committee colleague,¬†Peter Englund of the Stockholm School of Economics, said¬†that whether because of geography or tradition, Chicago Nobel winners have been among the least inclined to leave academia for political appointments: "Many of the great Chicago economists have had essentially their entire career in Chicago, perhaps more so than in other very good places. It must be something about the place that kept them there. Compared to east and west coast economists they also seem to be less attracted by (attractive for) policy jobs in Washington, which may also be a factor." That retention rate probably has a lot to do with the school's singular commitment to research, and the environment from which it emerges. Which basically means faculty members will rip you to shreds if your work is not good enough. Here's what Per Krusell, another committee member based at Stockholm's¬†Institute for International Economic Studies,¬†told us: "Chicago 'breaths economics' (i.e., the science of economics) in a way I have never felt elsewhere. I gave talks there many times during my over twenty years as a researcher in the US and it was always the most challenging place to present your work because the researchers there are super-focused, stubborn, and smart and driven by understanding the world. "This atmosphere sends signals to all faculty members (especially the young ones but really everyone) that there is one thing that counts, and only one thing: to break new ground in research." Englund also touted Chicago's unique academic environment: "The Prize is given for contributions that are 'door openers' in the sense that they allow us to see the world from a new angle.¬†Such contributions¬†are likely to emerge in research environments that are simultaneously generous to idiosyncratic ideas and maintain a critical and collegial attitude. I think this is a difficult balance to strike. Perhaps Chicago has done it better than many other places." So while it may always remain known for its "Chicago School" in mainstream thought, the university has earned a very different, though perhaps even more gratifying, reputation within academia.¬†¬† Economics Nobels have only been around since 1969 ‚Äî the prize was founded by Sweden's central bank to commemorate its 300th anniversary. Among the 74 all-time laureates, most happen to be clustered among seven-odd schools (again, it depends on how you count).¬† But how were those schools chosen? The prize's earliest recipients were rewarded for having established basic models still in use today.¬† And many happened to pass through Chicago at some point in their career.¬† So as its reputation grew, Chicago was able to become ever more selective about whom it added to its faculty.¬† "The department makes an effort to hire top people with a desire to do basic research," Ellingsen said.¬†

GettyIf things go as planned, sometime today the Senate will announce a deal to reopen the government and lift the debt ceiling. Then: All eyes on the House of Representatives. Analyst Greg Valliere at Potomac Research Group puts it succinctly: BOTTOM LINE: The pivotal event in the next 48 hours will be in the House, where Boehner faces the biggest decision of his career.¬† But even if a deal is done by late this week, another shutdown crisis will loom on Jan. 15, with a new debt ceiling deadline on Feb. 7.¬† Our sense is that stocks can withstand this because the Fed will have to delay tapering amid the uncertainty -- but global investors are watching this carefully, and real damage is occurring to the U.S. brand. Boehner has to decide whether he's going to anger the far right of his party and just push the bill through, or try to keep fighting. Again, this all assumes the Senate passes something. Meanwhile, this is a great line from former Bush adviser Michael Gerson in the Washington Post. referring to what Boehner has to do: But sometimes, it‚Äôs been said, the greatest courage is displayed in standing before a crowd and affirming that two plus two equals four ‚Äî now the main Republican challenge. Political morality is determined not simply, or even mostly, by intentions, but rather by results. There is a virtue in achieving what is achievable ‚Äî in actually making things better than they are.
APSince starting out as an online bookseller in 1998, Amazon.co.uk has expanded year on year and now offers customers more than 100 million items in over 30 product categories, ranging from health and beauty to sportswear and groceries. The company's phenomenal growth is due in part to its technological innovation. From Amazon 1-Click, which dramatically speeds up the ordering process, to Recommendations, which determines customers‚Äô interests by examining their previous purchases and rated items, Amazon has been focused on making the online shopping experience as seamless as possible. ‚ÄúInnovation is part of the Amazon DNA and over the past 15 years we have been constantly adding and refining technology that enhances and improves the experience of all our customers,‚Äù said Xavier Garambois, Vice President of EU Retail at Amazon. ‚ÄúOur focus has always been on providing services that help customers find the right product for them, and then ensuring that ordering and delivery is a fast and seamless process. There are now eight fulfilment centres across the UK where tens of millions of products are readily available to be delivered to customers via processes that not only rely on great technology but also teams of great people." Garambois added that Amazon technology is also providing platforms for UK businesses and individuals to drive success. "The Amazon Marketplace allows thousands of UK businesses to sell their products to customers across the UK and all over Europe whilst programmes like Kindle Direct Publishing are providing independent authors with a shop window of millions of readers.‚Äù To celebrate Amazon UK's 15th birthday, The Telegraph takes a look at some of the company's greatest technological advances over the past 15 years: 1-Click 1-Click is a fast and easy way to order from Amazon.co.uk with one click of a button. 1-Click is automatically enabled after the customer places their first order with Amazon.co.uk. You can set 1-Click so that it remembers key details such as delivery addresses. Recommendations Amazon.co.uk determines customers‚Äô interests by examining the items they've purchased, items they've told Amazon they own, and items they've rated. Their activity is then compared with that of other customers on the site. Using this comparison, Amazon.co.uk is able to recommend other items that may interest them. Reviews Customers can submit written or video reviews for any product listed on Amazon.co.uk to help other customers make purchase decisions. Customers are encouraged to share their opinions, both favourable and unfavourable as Amazon.co.uk wants customers to get the information they need to make smart buying choices. Amazon Wish List Amazon Wish List is a personalised list of all the things that customers would love to own from the Amazon.co.uk website. With Universal Wish List, customers can now add products from any website to their Amazon Wish List with one click. Friends and family are able to view the list and use it to purchase the perfect present. Autorip Amazon AutoRip gives customers free MP3 versions of CDs and vinyl music they purchase from Amazon. When customers purchase AutoRip CDs and vinyl, the MP3 versions are automatically added to their Cloud Player libraries where they are available, free of charge, for immediate playback or download. Additionally, customers who have purchased AutoRip albums at any time since Amazon.co.uk first opened its Music Store in 1999 will find MP3 versions of those albums in their Cloud Player libraries ‚Äì also automatically and for free. More than 350,000 albums, including titles from every major record label, are available for AutoRip, and more titles are added all the time ‚Äì customers can just look for the AutoRip logo. Kindle Kindle is the bestselling e-reader family and this September, Amazon.co.uk launched the All New Paperwhite ‚Äì the sixth generation of Kindle. The Kindle Fire family of tablets also launched in 2012 ‚Äì the Kindle Fire and Kindle Fire HD 7‚Äù, followed by the Kindle Fire HD 8.9‚Äù in 2013. Print on demand / disc on demand To avoid keeping stocks high, less commonly requested items can be printed or made on demand. This process takes place at the fulfilment centre and takes just minutes to complete. Orders can then be processed as normal. The finished item looks almost identical to the original book / disc. Amazon Web Services Amazon Web Services enables web developers to integrate Amazon.co.uk features and content into their websites. AWS provides start-up companies with low-cost, easy to use infrastructure needed to scale and grow any size business. Amazon Cloud Drive Amazon Cloud Drive lets customers securely store their digital files in the Amazon cloud and access them anywhere using the Cloud Drive desktop client or any web browser. Amazon customers automatically start with 5GB of Cloud Drive storage for free, with additional storage available from ¬£6 a year for 20 GB. Amazon Cloud Drive is built on Amazon Web Services, so customers need not worry about losing their photo collection or important documents to a hard drive crash. Random Stow The storage of items in a randomised order at fulfilment centres to maximise the chance of multiple items on the same order being near each other. The fulfilment centre management system knows the location of every item and is able to work out the shortest travel distance to pick the orders. The SLAM (Scan, Label, Apply, Manifest) At the end of the packing process, packages move along conveyor belts to the SLAM where the package is weighed to ensure it is the anticipated weight (and that therefore the right items are inside). The SLAM also scans the barcode on the package and prints and adds an address label to the package. This ensures customer confidentiality, as this is the first time that a customer‚Äôs address is matched up with their package. The whole process takes less than 1 second per package. Amazon Storyteller Amazon Storyteller is a new application from Amazon Studios that lets you turn a movie script into a storyboard. You choose the backgrounds, characters, and props to visually tell a story. A successful storyboard can tell the full story of a script, or capture its essence in short form, like a trailer. The idea is to build an audience for your story and see how people respond to it. Amazon Studios Amazon Studios is the original movie and series production arm of Amazon. Amazon Studios is developing feature films and episodic series in a new way; one that's open to great ideas from creators ‚Äì and audiences ‚Äì around the world. KDP Kindle and Kindle Direct Publishing is revolutionising the books world by giving authors the opportunity to publish their books and earn a larger share of revenue with Amazon.co.uk‚Äôs 70 per cent option. Many authors are using this as a way to get their books in the hands of readers across Europe. Mechanical Turk A crowdsourcing Internet marketplace that enables individuals or businesses (known as Requesters) to co-ordinate the use of human intelligence to perform tasks that computers are currently unable to do. The Requesters are able to post tasks such as choosing the best among several photographs of a store-front, writing product descriptions, or identifying performers on music CDs. Workers (called Providers in Mechanical Turk's Terms of Service, or, more colloquially, Turkers) can then browse among existing tasks and complete them for a monetary payment set by the Requester. 
A new study put together by Macroeconomic Advisors tallies the impact of all the sham "fiscal crises" created by Washington since the financial crisis. These include the various debt ceiling, government shutdown, and fiscal cliff standoffs, none of which were necessary, and all of which had a role in slowing the economy. Here's the press release (via Morning Money). Report Finds that Fiscal Policy Uncertaintyhas Resulted in 900,000 American Jobs Lost Ongoing Brinksmanship and Failure toRaise Debt Ceiling Could Cause Another Recession NEW YORK ‚Äî As Congressional leaders and the President discuss a potential temporary solution to the current fights over the government shutdown and the debt ceiling, the repeated cycle of lurching from crisis to crisis has significant costs to the U.S. economy, according to a new report released today. The macroeconomic analysis, "The Cost of Crisis-Driven Fiscal Policy," quantifies the negative economic impact of governing by crisis, and examines the effects of Washington‚Äôs actions ‚Äî and inactions ‚Äî including events such as sequestration, the government shutdown, and brinksmanship over the debt ceiling. The report concludes that crisis-driven government and the resulting fiscal policy uncertainty has directly harmed the American economy by increasing the unemployment rate by 0.6%, or the equivalent of 900,000 jobs. "The Cost of Crisis-Driven Fiscal Policy" was prepared by Joel Prakken of Macroeconomic Advisers, LLC, a leading independent research firm, for the Peter G. Peterson Foundation. Michael A. Peterson, President and COO of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, said: "This report makes clear that self-created fiscal crises have significant costs to our economy and to American families. These partisan battles not only threaten our fragile economic recovery, but they have not resulted in any comprehensive solution to our real fiscal challenge, stabilizing our long-term debt." "Partisan divided government has failed to address our long-term fiscal challenges sensibly, instead encouraging policy that is short-sighted, arbitrary, and driven by calendar-based crises," said Prakken of Macroeconomic Advisers. "Based on this report's findings, we can assert confidently that the crisis-driven fiscal policies of the last several years have damaged our still-struggling economy. One can only hope that our policymakers will implement more sensible policy in the future." The entire report is available here. Additional top-level findings include: 1. In scenario one, risk aversion rises, financing costs rise, prices of risk assets fall, and the economy enters a recession. Exacerbated by the Fed‚Äôs inability to lower short-term interest rates, growth only begins to rebound at end of 2014 and the unemployment rate rises to a peak of 8.5% before starting to decline. At its peak, 2.5 million jobs would be lost. (Page 10) 2. Scenario two implies a longer and deeper recession than in the first scenario, but one characterized by extreme volatility. Annualized GDP growth fluctuates rapidly between plus and minus 8% until the oscillations diminish in 2015. Unemployment rises to a peak of 8.9% ‚Äî equivalent to 3.1 million lost jobs ‚Äî before trending down. (Page 13) About Macroeconomic Advisers Macroeconomic Advisers is a leading independent research firm focused on the U.S. economic outlook, monetary policy, and fixed income markets. The firm combines rigorous analytical methods with an unmatched understanding of how monetary policy is conducted, offering unbiased and thoughtful analysis of where the U.S. economy is headed. About the Peter G. Peterson Foundation The Peter G. Peterson Foundation is a non-profit, non-partisan organization established by Pete Peterson ‚Äî businessman, philanthropist and former U.S. Secretary of Commerce. The Foundation is dedicated to increasing public awareness of the nature and urgency of key long-term fiscal challenges threatening America's future and to accelerating action on them. To address these challenges successfully, we work to bring Americans together to find and implement sensible, long-term solutions that transcend age, party lines and ideological divides in order to achieve real results. To learn more, please visit www.pgpf.org. - See more at: http://pgpf.org/press/2013/10/New-Study-Measures-the-High-Cost-of-Crisis-Driven-Government#sthash.H8qUGeP1.dpuf
REUTERS/Stephen Lam Marissa Mayer, President and CEO of Yahoo!, speaks on stage during a fireside chat session at TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2013 in San Francisco, California September 11, 2013. Mayer said the Internet company now has more than 800 million monthly active users, which she said represented 20 percent growth. NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Three weeks ago, Yahoo Inc Chief Executive Marissa Mayer strode into a Manhattan hotel and was greeted like a rock star by hundreds of advertising executives who snapped pictures as she sat down for an interview with journalist Charlie Rose. That same audience a year ago would have been grousing that Mayer had not done enough to engage Madison Avenue, which is arguably Yahoo's most important constituent since the Internet company derives more than 75 percent of its revenue from ad sales. "I think that Marissa has gotten a bit of a bad rap," said David Cohen, the chief media officer at UM, the global media arm of Interpublic Group. The industry perceived Mayer as not caring about advertising, choosing instead to focus solely on products, Cohen said. Ad agency executives say that over the past six months Mayer and her team have been working hard to change that perception, courting advertisers at key industry events, hosting lunches and attending meetings with agency representatives that include Yahoo executives like Chief Operating Officer Henrique de Castro, Senior Vice President and head of Americas Ned Brody and Chief Marketing Officer Kathy Savitt. The charm offensive has impressed many on Madison Avenue, but getting advertisers to actually spend more on†Yahoo's Web properties will not happen overnight, industry experts said. The shift to advertising exchanges, which allow marketers to instantly buy placement for their ads across a broad constellation of websites, has pushed down the prices that online publishers such as Yahoo can charge. That was painfully apparent in the second quarter of this year, when Yahoo's display advertising revenue slid 11 percent due in part to a double-digit decline in ad prices. "Advertisers will become more excited if there's clear evidence that Yahoo is growing again in terms of its users and its engagement," said Mark Mahaney, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. Since Mayer became CEO, Yahoo's stock has more than doubled, recently reaching a near 8-year high of $35.06. But analysts say the gains are mostly due to aggressive share buybacks and the impending initial public offering of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group, in which Yahoo owns a 24 percent stake. More than a year into Mayer's tenure, Yahoo's core business remains stagnant. Revenue has been flat or down for the past four years and Wall Street does not expect the situation to improve when Yahoo reports its third-quarter results on Tuesday. Analysts are expecting third-quarter revenue to decline around 1 percent to $1.08 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. A Yahoo representative said the company has built a team to specifically focus on agency relationships and has†recently realigned its sales force according to industry expertise. Yahoo is "working closely with our advertisers to develop opportunities in a more integrated way across our full suite of media, programmatic, video and mobile properties," Yahoo said in an emailed comment. Yahoo is trying to play catch-up to Facebook Inc, Twitter Inc and Google Inc in the fast-growing mobile advertising business, as consumers increasingly access the Web on smartphones instead of PCs, and flock to social media websites that require novel ad formats. Spending on mobile ads grew 145 percent year over year to $3 billion in the first six months of 2013, according to the Internet Advertising Bureau. Mayer has revamped many of Yahoo's mobile apps to make them more attractive to consumers and advertisers. In May she spent $1.1 billion to acquire Tumblr, a popular blogging and social media website. "There's a promise there but it's not ready for prime time today," said Ritu Trivedi, managing director, digital marketplace at MediaVest, a Publicis media agency, referring to Yahoo's mobile ad efforts. Mayer has said that turning Yahoo's business around will be a multi-year process. She has accelerated the pace of product development, and added workplace perks such as free food and top-of-the-line smartphones for employees. But even as the CEO tries to forge closer ties with advertisers, she has made it clear that Yahoo's users come first. That is a big change from the old Yahoo, which was famous for loading its websites with advertising that critics said were overly intrusive and detrimental to the user experience. For instance, Yahoo's new mobile weather app, which takes basic weather feeds and links them with the Flickr photo-sharing service, has sparked interest from advertisers. The app could be particularly appealing to hotel and retail marketers, said Peter Stein, CEO of Razorfish, a digital marketing agency. So far however, Yahoo has kept the weather app ad-free. "Their message has been very direct and on point; they are definitely focused on the consumer," said Ari Bluman, chief digital investment officer in North America for WPP's media buying arm GroupM. Some ad experts say Mayer's prioritization of users before advertisers is a smart move that could ultimately pay off by increasing Yahoo's popularity with consumers. But others say it may not go over well on Madison Avenue in the short term. For instance, Yahoo did a major overhaul of its popular sports home page to coincide with the start of the NFL season this year. One advertising agency executive said they found out about the change a week before the launch, and so the agency had to scramble to re-design ads that would fit with the new format. "Our client was very upset," said the executive, who did not want to be identified because the agency works closely with Yahoo. "I have a six-page typed memo about the problems we had with Yahoo and this one client." A Yahoo representative said that the company has "moved faster in the past year than any time in our recent history" to launch better products and to "evolve" the ads on its websites. "We think this will improve performance for our advertisers over time, and we're working closely with our advertising partners." Still, the overall assessment of Mayer is positive. Tamara Bousquet, senior vice president of media at digital marketing agency DigitasLBi, recalled a dinner she attended in late September with other advertising executives where Yahoo was the topic of conversation. "Every single person around that table thought the company was handled better since Marissa came on board," she said. (This version of the story was refiled to replace "There" with "Their" in the seventh last paragraph.) (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York and Alexei Oreskovic in San Francisco; Editing by Tiffany Wu and Richard Chang)
U.S. Army / Timothy L. HaleA little big picture-look at the market... Despite the debt ceiling, shutdown, and all that, the market has basically remained bulletproof. Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) broke out some numbers yesterday in his latest note to clients about how good some of the indices are faring. Despite broader concerns about Washington, equities in general have recouped almost all of the modest losses; the Russell 2000 stands at a new record high, the Nasdaq is all but at its post crisis high and the S&amp;P 500 stands just shy of making the same claim. Admittedly, some sectors did have difficulties today. Household durables suffered from weakness in homebuilders and WHR, mortgage REITs traded lower on average and EXPE‚Äôs troubles worsened after a downgrade (TDC got hit hard after the close after lowering guidance). But generally it‚Äôs been a fairly positive four days.
Here's the latest from the closely watched ZEW survey of financial market experts in Germany, regarding the state of the economy: The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for Germany has increased by 7.6 points in September 2013. The indicator now stands at a level of 49.6 points (historical average: 23.8 points). "The financial market experts hold the view that the German economy is still gaining momentum. In particular, the experts‚Äô economic optimism has increased due to the improved economic outlook for the Eurozone ‚Äì although recently released economic data for Germany have fallen short of expectations", says ZEW President Prof. Dr. Clemens Fuest. The assessment of the current economic situation for Germany has also improved in September. The respective indicator has increased by 12.3 points and now stands at the 30.6 points-mark. Economic expectations for the Eurozone have increased considerably in September. The respective indicator has improved by 14.6 points to 58.6 points. The indicator for the current economic situation in the Eurozone has increased by 14.4 to a level of minus 59.7 points. ZEW
REUTERS/Jason ReedA staffer in the Dirksen Senate building walks past a scale model of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 7, 2013.This is what I'd like to see (and many other analysts and economists would too): ‚Ä¢ Eliminate the "debt ceiling". It is superfluous. As former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and others have said, the "debt ceiling" is just arithmetic. We have approved expenditures. We have revenue. The shortfall is borrowed. If we don't get rid of the debt ceiling, increase the level through 2014. ‚Ä¢ Pass a¬†Continuing Resolution (CR) for fiscal 2014 that reduces¬†the impact of the sequester. As Republican advisor Mark Zandi said last week: As part of any budget deal, lawmakers should reverse the sequester. The second year of budget sequestration will likely have greater consequences than the first, affecting many government programs in ways that nearly all agree are not desirable. A sizable share of the sequestration cuts to date has involved one-off adjustments, but future cuts will have to come from lasting reductions in operational budgets. ‚Ä¢ In the long run (not this decade), the US will be challenged by health care costs.¬† This requires some adjustments to both spending and revenue.¬† As Mark Zandi said last week: It would of course also be desirable for lawmakers to address the nation‚Äôs long-term fiscal challenges. ... Both cuts in government spending and increases in tax revenues will be necessary to reasonably solve these long-term fiscal problems. As I noted last week, perhaps another super-committee with long term consequences if the committee fails (not more short term cuts like the sequester). The consequences should be distasteful to both parties - and both cut spending and raise revenue in the long term so there is some motivation for the committee to reach agreement. ‚Ä¢ It is important to note that the deficit is declining,¬†and declining rapidly. Over the next few years (the short run), the deficit will not be a problem (great news!), as long as the economy continues to grow (government shutdowns and threats to not "pay the bills" hurt the short run).  Final comment: It is sad, but¬†predictable, that this shutdown and threat to not "pay-the-bills" is happening now.¬† As Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius wrote in April: The federal budget deficit is shrinking rapidly. ... [T]here is still a great deal of room for the economic recovery to reduce the deficit for cyclical reasons. ... In our view, the most important implication from the reduction in the budget deficit for the near-term economic outlook is reduced pressure for further fiscal retrenchment. In another year, the House will have lost¬†the short term deficit as an argument¬†(actually for those paying attention, the short term deficit is no longer a serious concern). However this doesn't mean we shouldn't pay attention to the long term issues,¬†and maybe we could find some common ground on moving forward on those issues - without hurting the short term.
REUTERS/Paul HackettBig hire for Apple, which has been lacking a retail chief. It has just announced the hire of Angela Ahrendts, the CEO of luxury goods company Burberry, to be its new SVP of retail and online stores. Meanwhile, shares of Burberry are tumbling nearly 4% in London trading. For a profile of Ahrendts, who originally hails from Indiana, check out this profile from 2010 in WSJ. Here's the press release on the big hire. CUPERTINO, CaliforniaóOctober 14, 2013óAppleÆ today announced that Angela Ahrendts, CEO of Burberry, will be joining Apple in a newly created position, as a senior vice president and member of our executive team, reporting to CEO Tim Cook.Ahrendts will have oversight of the strategic direction, expansion and operation of both Apple retail and online stores, which have redefined the shopping experience for hundreds of millions of customers around the world. Apple retail stores set the standard for customer service with innovative features like the Genius BarÆ, Personal Setup and One to One personal training to help customers get the most out of their Apple products.ìI am thrilled that Angela will be joining our team,î said Cook. ìShe shares our values and our focus on innovation, and she places the same strong emphasis as we do on the customer experience. She has shown herself to be an extraordinary leader throughout her career and has a proven track record.îìI am profoundly honored to join Apple in this newly created position next year, and very much look forward to working with the global teams to further enrich the consumer experience on and offline,î said Ahrendts. ìI have always admired the innovation and impact Apple products and services have on peopleís lives and hope in some small way I can help contribute to the companyís continued success and leadership in changing the world.îAhrendts will join Apple in the spring from Burberry, where she serves as CEO and has led the company through a period of outstanding global growth. Prior to Burberry, she was executive vice president at Liz Claiborne Inc., and earlier in her career she served as president of Donna Karan International.Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.
Not sure exactly what's up but boy, you really have to feel for gold holders. First they were supposed to do well when the Fed elected not to slow the pace of QE. Then they were supposed to do well during the debt ceiling fight. Instead: Neither. Gold just got smashed again. Kitco
Wikimedia CommonsThere's no getting around the fact that today is going to be critical for any debt ceiling deal, if a deal is to be reached before October 17. There just isn't time left to keep stalling. Markets are going nowhere in the US, with futures down a hair. Markets are a bit higher in Europe, which might represent a little catch-up to the US gains yesterday. Japan also ended higher. As for the US situation, there are reasons for optimism and pessimism. The optimism is that by all accounts, the Senate has been making good progress, and the talk is of an agreement coming out today. The pessimism stems from the fact that a lot of House Republicans are upset, and there's no guarantee that they pass, let alone vote on, anything that comes out of the Senate.
