We are clearly seeing signs of stabilization in the US labor markets as new unemployment claims march toward pre-recession levels (though obviously not there yet). Also as we saw today, small businesses have been increasing the numbers of employees (see Twitter link). However, the nation's labor market is still suffering form weak overall hiring. The pattern of hiring in the US has dislocated in late 2008 and has remained virtually unchanged since the recession (chart below). This relative weakness in hiring is consistent across most industries. Thus far the pace of hiring in 2013 has not been significantly different from other post-recession years. How is it possible that other labor market metrics are showing stabilization while hiring has not materially improved? The answer has to do with declining numbers of layoffs. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of layoffs in the US has been at or below pre-recession levels since 2010. FRED via Sober Look While lower layoffs is a positive sign, a healthy economy is usually driven by improvements in hiring rates. So far however that hasn't been the case in the US. Going forward, the number of hires will be an important metric to track in order to determine if the labor markets are indeed healing.
APPresident Barack Obama released a statement Tuesday night deeming the findings of the IRS Inspector General's report on†the service's targeting of conservative groups "intolerable and inexcusable." In the statement, Obama said he has directed Treasury Secretary Jack Lew to "hold those responsible" accountable. Here's Obama's full statement: I have now had the opportunity to review the Treasury Department watchdogís report on its investigation of IRS personnel who improperly targeted conservative groups applying for tax-exempt status. And the reportís findings are intolerable and inexcusable. The federal government must conduct itself in a way thatís worthy of the publicís trust, and thatís especially true for the IRS. The IRS must apply the law in a fair and impartial way, and its employees must act with utmost integrity. This report shows that some of its employees failed that test.†† Iíve directed Secretary Lew to hold those responsible for these failures accountable, and to make sure that each of the Inspector Generalís recommendations are implemented quickly, so that such conduct never happens again. But regardless of how this conduct was allowed to take place, the bottom line is, it was wrong. Public service is a solemn privilege. I expect everyone who serves in the federal government to hold themselves to the highest ethical and moral standards. So do the American people. And as President, I intend to make sure our public servants live up to those standards every day. The IRS Inspector General's report failed to find any fault beyond "any individual outside the IRS. But it confirmed that the IRS unfairly targeted various†conservative and Tea Party-affiliated groups who were applying for tax-exempt status. The Obama administration has faced a firestorm over a triumvirate of recent issues ó the IRS' inappropriate targeting, new revelations about last year's terrorist attack in Benghazi, and the†Department of Justice's decision to subpoena phone records from Associated Press reporters and editors. On Monday, Obama called the IRS situation "outrageous." "I've got no patience for it. I will not tolerate it, and I will make sure we find out exactly what happened on this," Obama said at a joint press conference with British Prime Minister†David Cameron†on Monday. In a subsequent statement Tuesday night, Lew said that the IRS' targeting "should never have happened and must not happen again."
Wikimedia CommonsGodzilla (1954)Markets just opened in Asia, and they're following the U.S. markets way higher. Of note is Japan's Nikkei 225, which just burst through 15,000. Dow Jones reports this is the first time the Nikkei has been above 15,000 since January 4, 2008. Leading the way is electronics maker Sony, which is up by around 12%.¬† Hedge fund heavy hitter Dan Loeb made a proposal to management to split up the company.¬† Loeb said he was willing to commit a significant amount of capital to support the IPO of Sony's entertainment division. On Tuesday morning, markets were in the red.¬† But they quickly turned around at just before 8:00 AM ET. That was when influential hedge fund manager David Tepper appeared on CNBCand presented his uber-bullish case for stocks.¬† To sum things up, he noted that the global economy was improving and global central banks were easing. He also pointed to the equity risk premium ‚Äî a way to value stocks ‚Äî was at historically high levels, which suggested stocks were cheap. Experts like Aswath Damodaran, Jim O'Neill, Lazslo Birinyi, and Barry Ritholtz have all noted the bullish nature of this metric Nikkei.com
Will stocks have a pullback? Eventually sure‚Äîbut when? This past Friday, May 10, 2013 marked 176 days since a 5%+ pullback in the S&amp;P 500, tying the record for stretches without a pullback in this 50-month-old bull market [Figure 1], so it may be close. Also, in the spring of each of the past three years, a stock market slide of 10‚Äì19% began, and the S&amp;P 500 is about 11% above the 200-day moving average, as it was ahead of each of those slides. These indicators suggest the stock market may be due for a pause or a pullback. ¬† ¬† LPL Financial Of course, as with almost every week, there are a number of catalysts this week that could prompt a stock market slide. This week‚Äôs potential catalysts include: Investing is about being prepared and taking calculated risks. How do we invest if we do not get a pullback ‚Äî or perhaps even more importantly‚Äîwhat do we buy when the pullback occurs? So far this year, ‚Äúdefensive‚Äù stocks‚Äîthose that are less sensitive to economic growth‚Äîsuch as those in the health care and consumer staples sectors, have led the markets higher, and they historically outperform more economically sensitive sectors during a pullback. However, the data may now be signaling a meaningful and durable shift in the market favoring the more economically sensitive sectors that we call ‚Äúcyclicals,‚Äù which includes technology, industrials, consumer discretionary and materials. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the 10 major world economies tracks how data are faring compared to expectations. It rises when economic data come in better than economists‚Äô estimates and falls when it is worse. This index may have stopped the plunge seen in recent months and started to stabilize‚Äîthe economic activity reflected in the data has not improved much, but economists‚Äô expectations may finally be low enough. Historically, when economic data are weaker than expected, investors tend to favor defensive stocks, since they are more insulated from the pace of economic activity, and when data exceed expectations they favor cyclicals. The very tight relationship between the economic surprises and the performance of cyclicals suggests cyclicals may be starting to make a comeback relative to more defensive sectors [Figure 2]. LPL Financial The overall stock market has only seen a couple of 2‚Äì3% dips rather than a 5‚Äì10% pullback this year, but that does not mean there have not been any 5‚Äì10% pullbacks within specific sectors. There have been 5‚Äì10% pullbacks this year in cyclicals such as homebuilders, technology, and even overseas in emerging market stocks. It may be time to begin to buy some of the laggard cyclicals, especially on any pullback in the overall market.
Cannabis CameraCanna Security America, led by Dan Williams, might be the furthest thing you think of when you hear the term "marijuana business." For years, Williams and his partners worked for Envision, a firm that created the security systems at places as mundane as Chipotle Mexican Grill. But after striking off on their own, Williams and his partners have become the go-to firm for the installation of security systems in marijuana dispensaries across Colorado.¬† The firm is so good that state legislators writing up regulations for the marijuana business asked Williams and his associates to weigh in on what a pot shop really needs to remain secure.¬† Security is one of the most crucial pieces of the marijuana industry puzzle. Legalization can only work if the business becomes legitimized and the product is removed from the black market trade.¬† So without top-tier security systems at every stage of the process, the entire legalization process could break down.¬† That's where Canna Security America comes in. We spoke with Williams a few weeks ago, when the firm was working on security regulations in Washington, another state that is grappling with how to implement legalization of marijuana.¬†¬†Here's what he had to say:¬† Business Insider: Could you explain what Canna Security America does? Williams: ¬†So Canna Security America was started in 2009 in Denver, after working on the rule-making committee in the Department of Revenue¬†and helping to formulate the security regulations for medical marijuana in the state. We saw an immediate need for a company that would be able to address the regulations and actually implement them correctly as we saw a lot of other security companies falling away from that.  We actually didn‚Äôt think it would go this far.¬† We started with no funding. At first, it was put in a system, buy some business cards, put in another system, go out and buy a couple ladders, and so on. From there it's developed into a much bigger entity ‚Äî in Colorado specifically ‚Äî as we continue to take over and maintain more and more medical marijuana facilities. Cannabis CameraDan WilliamsBusiness Insider:¬†So how would you say the security needs of a marijuana business differ from the needs of a typical business? Williams:¬†Due to the regulation there's a high amount of standards and codes that have to be met. Everything from placement of certain types of cameras, to different types of DVRs that have to be used, to recording times, to types of wire.  In Colorado we have a twelve page documents in our regulations that outlines it. It kind of reads like a technical manual. During the inspections for licensing, if a location isn‚Äôt up to code in any way, they run the risk of not receiving the license. ¬†In that technical sense it‚Äôs how it's different. In the security sense there are many ways it's different.  We have to deal with internal theft a lot, which is interesting. You‚Äôve got a small product and a secure location with lots of growers and trimmers inside a facility who can easily pocket something and walk out with it.  We try and ensure that that shrinkage is as limited as possible. You have to keep in mind that this is a cash crop. It‚Äôs very expensive to produce and ¬†the owners of the facilities want to make sure their investment is watched over. That‚Äôs where we come into play. Business Insider: Are federal asset seizure laws on your radar? Williams: It‚Äôs not. That‚Äôs more ¬†of an issue in California. We saw initially they started shutting down and seizing ¬†crop and products in the south in San Diego and started to work their way up with closures and the DEA up to a little south of San Francisco. ¬†Then they decided it‚Äôs time to re-regulate, which is what we‚Äôre seeing now.  We haven‚Äôt seen it as a major issue. With us in Colorado, there‚Äôs more of a concern with marijuana possibly leaving and going to the black market. That‚Äôs what seems to be what the media is worried about.  We actually don‚Äôt see that happening ¬†very often. We have very strict guidelines about logging marijuana product out of a grow facility and logging it back into a dispensary to confirm nothing has been lost in between. But I know that‚Äôs on the forefront of everybody‚Äôs ¬†concern right now with regards to regulation, to make sure decriminalization actually works. Business Insider: So how did you folks get involved in the marijuana business? Who started the company? Williams: There‚Äôs three primaries. There‚Äôs myself as president, then there‚Äôs Chris Jensen as director of sales and there‚Äôs David Rutland as director of operations.  Chris and I have worked together in the past for a start-up company in Boulder which then moved to Louisville Colorado called Envision. That was a security company that produced its own software called MPAAS .  Their first client about 7 or 8 years ago was Chipotle Mexican Grille, ¬†and we were asked to come in and manage that client to create standards for Chipotle locations and then to implement systems nationwide for Chipotle. That‚Äôs our background. We have technicians that are all over the country.¬†We branched off from Envision in 2009 and decided to start our own security company locally.  Our first client was a dispensary. The regulations that were being proposed at the time were actually the casino regulations that they hadn‚Äôt adopted yet to medical marijuana.  We reviewed them, marked them up and walked into the Department of Revenue and Dan Hartman, who at the time was in charge of the rule-making committee. After he got through about two or three pages of our notes he said ‚ÄúYou guys have a history in writing security standards, why don‚Äôt you rewrite them and we‚Äôll take a look?‚Äù He ended up adopting them. That‚Äôs how our company went from standard security to medical marijuana security. Business Insider: So how is¬†business? Williams: It‚Äôs going very well. At first the majority of our business was new systems, and new system implementation, specifically CCTV, alarm and door access systems.  When they first put the regulations in place they gave everyone a deadline of July 1, 2011 to make sure everyone was up to code by that date. So we saw a huge wave of new business to install new systems. A lot of out-of-state security companies were coming in, vying for that business. What happened after that wave ‚Äî when they conducted the inspections ‚Äî they found that almost the majority of the systems weren‚Äôt meeting the code. The owners were told their systems would all meet the code by the different security companies, and when they didn‚Äôt they started turning to us. Right now the majority of our business is takeovers and upgrades to make sure everyone meets their licensing regs.¬† Business Insider: So what brings you to Seattle? Williams: This is our third trip out, we originally came out last May.¬†We met up with Representative Roger Goodman and Senator Gene Colewell ¬†who are both proponents of marijuana legalization out here, and we introduced ourselves and it was a little bit of a flag waving campaign. We came back a few months later for the Arcview Network meeting ¬†‚Äì an angel investor group out here ‚Äì and met with them and we pitched to get our first round funding We‚Äôve been trying to hold off on any funding until we could actually show that we were making money. We didn‚Äôt want to give up a large piece of the business at first for a small amount of money when we knew that we would need large investment participation in order to accomplish a national rollout. That‚Äôs what we're doing now.  We‚Äôve been meeting with representative Christopher Hearst, ¬†whose going to be heading up the regulatory side of things for state. Tomorrow we‚Äôre meeting with the liquor control board to discuss the regulations they‚Äôre proposing to adapt to their needs.  Basically we work for whatever regulatory commission that‚Äôs in place and ¬†if they tell us what their goals are, what security measures they‚Äôd like in place, we can translate that into a technical document to improve regulations.¬†

One of the big questions about the viability of Bitcoin, the anonymous, virtual currency that has surged in value this year, is what sort of government oversight and regulation it would have to deal with. We may find out soon. Today, Dwolla, a payment service that had allowed users to transfer funds into and out of accounts at Mt. Gox ‚Äì the world's largest Bitcoin exchange ‚Äì said it's been ordered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to cease fund transfers to and from Mt. Gox. The email below, courtesy of Betabeat, was sent to several Dwolla users today. Betabeat Homeland Security's reason for interfering here is unclear, but because transacting in Bitcoin is essentially an anonymous process, it may be appealing for those looking to conduct illegal activities, and hence, it makes sense that it's a target for regulators. ConvergEx Group strategist Nick Colas recently devoted some space to Bitcoin regulation in a note to clients: If the venture capital community wants to make¬†bitcoin¬†the ‚ÄúNext big thing‚Äù, staving off regulation by bringing the currency into the light is just as important as their other goals.¬† Yes, the U.S. Treasury recently issued some guidance, essentially bringing¬†bitcoin¬†into the regulatory fold.¬† At the same time, regulators do have the facility to make life difficult for¬†bitcoin¬†if they so choose.¬† Recall that they were able to essentially shut down online gambling in the U.S. a few years back by forbidding U.S. banks to fund overseas accounts for the purpose of playing cards or games of chance.¬†¬† ¬† In the end, however, it would be very hard to shut down¬†bitcoin¬†on a global basis.¬† Recall that the system runs on thousands of servers around the world and once money enters the system, the only trace of its existence is a letter-and-number key.¬† Anyone who has that identifier can exchange it for sovereign currency in any country that allows its banking system to plug into a¬†bitcoinexchange.¬† My humble recommendation to venture capitalists to avoid further regulation or an outright ban is to quickly convince global charities to use the¬†bitcoin¬†system for both donations and money transfers.¬† It is, after all, ideally suited to the purpose of taking in money in rich countries and efficiently moving it abroad to places with limited financial infrastructure.¬† According the National Philanthropic Trust, individual Americans gave $218 billion in 2011, the most recent information available, and there are over one million charitable groups operating in the U.S.¬† Presumably they all have bank accounts to process payments and would like a more efficient way to distribute funds. Needless to say, Dwolla users will be anxiously awaiting Homeland Security's reasoning for today's actions.
Japanese money printing has helped weaken the yen and boost Japanese stocks. In an interview with Talking Numbers however Bill Fleckenstein of Fleckenstein Capital said he thinks Japanese easy money and Abenomics in general is "dangerous" for the domestic economy and global markets. "What is going on in Japan is potentially very, very dangerous not just for Japan but for world markets. And, Iím not speaking about the Nikkei. What has taken place in the Japanese JGB [Japanese government bond] is extraordinary. In the last three days, the yield has gone from 60 basis points to 86. Can you imagine what would happen in America if yields on 10-year Treasuries went from 6% to 8.6%? "There are huge derivative books in Japan where thereís been tremendous amount of derivatives written assuming that rates would stay low forever. I think this could be on the verge of blowing up. This may be the start of it, this may get quiet, or it may get ugly right now. That will impact the American bond market and it will affect equities everywhere. So, itís potentially dangerous." Watch the entire interview at Yahoo Finance: 
ReutersTV/YouTubeMost business leaders, when asked to advise new graduates, are encouraging, telling them that though things might be rough now, they'll pick up in time. Not AIG's outspoken CEO,†Robert Benmosche.† He doesn't have much in the way of sympathy for graduates entering a difficult job market, telling Bloomberg's Betty Liu†today that "you have to accept the hand thatís been dealt you in life.†Donít cry about it. Deal with it.î He added he intends to give graduates some tough but needed advice when he gives the commencement speech at Alfred University, his alma mater, later this week: ìThey want me to talk to the students and give them a sense of encouragement, especially with the high unemployment, my advice will be, whatever opportunity comes your way, take it. Take it and treat it as if itís the only one thatís coming your way, because that actually may be the truth.î Harsh advice. But it's not without some truth. The job market for recent graduates is pretty grim, outside of a few fields like health care, computer science, and engineering. Nearly half of students can't find a job in their chosen field, and six times more are working in retail or hospitality than would like to be. Though it's not exactly what you want to hear during what's supposed to be a celebration, this is something new graduates need to keep in mind. With so many people unable to get a job in the area they want right away, the only way in might be through the back door, or by working up through a different job function or organization. That requires the sense of urgency and realism that Benmosche describes.†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from†Business Insider†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Global Market Indices (GMI) Are No Brainers But Most Investors Don't Turn To Them (Capital Spectator) "It's hard to beat asset allocation when defined across a wide array of asset classes. It's even harder if the benchmark re-balances the mix on a periodic basis. The historical record is a reminder that we should think twice about second-guessing Mr. Market's portfolio choices. This sounds like a dumb idea, until you look at the results for a majority of 'smart' money managers." "Another dumb idea that ends up looking rather savvy is keeping expenses low, which is quite easy to do with index mutual funds and ETFs. Replicating GMI with ETFs, for instance, can be done for less than 50 basis points, perhaps a lot less, depending on the products you choose. Many of the active funds in the chart above charge two to three times as much." "The power of broad diversification across asset classes, favoring low-cost index funds, and simple re-balancing is a no-brainer that serves as a robust, investible benchmark. Yet relatively few investors take full advantage of this strategy. That's probably why GMI's competitive results persist: most investors are doing something else. But innovation seems to come at a steep price in relative and perhaps absolute terms." TEPPER: Guys That Are Short Better Have Shovel To Get Themselves Out Of The Grave They're In (CNBC) Appaloosa Management's David Tepper was on CNBC Tuesday making the bullish case for stocks. He says there is "overwhelming" evidence that the economy is getting better.† "I'm definitely bullish. Look, ever see the movie 'My Cousin Vinnie?' So there's this moment at the end of the movie where he is making the case, summing it up. And he sums up so many different things that the prosecution says, case dismissed, because the evidence is so overwhelming. Kind of like that right now. It's so overwhelming. The economy is getting better, autos are better, housing is better, continues to improve except they can't find enough people to work in housing, that's the only thing holding it back right now.† "The Fed, well, before we get to the Fed, Australia just eased, the ECB just eased, Korea just eased, Japan is in massive easing mode, and these United States of America, we just are just amazed at the way these numbers work as we go out further. Ö Guys that are short, they better have a shovel to get themselves out of the grave that they're in." How To Determine Your Retirement Withdrawal Income Rate (Investment News) Many investors are worried about outliving their savings. At the Investment News Retirement Income Summit in Chicago, Wade Pfau, National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies, discussed "whether it is better to base a retirement income withdrawal rate on predictable historical returns or one that focuses on basic retirement needs," according to Investment News. In choosing a strategy to determine the rate, investors should basically realize that it is a choice between the likelihood of failure or "probability based approach," or the scale of failure in the "safety-risk approach." And Pfau doesn't think one method is necessarily better than the other. Investors Are Freaking Out About A Chinese Economic Hard-Landing Again (Bank of America) A string of less than impressive data out of China has raised concerns about Chinese economic growth. A new Bank of America fund manager survey shows that one in four investors thinks a Chinese hard landing is the biggest tail risk. And it is second only to Europe's sovereign debt crisis. BAML Retail Banks Have A Huge Opportunity In Wealth Management (Financial Planning) Retail banks entering into the wealth management business can do so quickly if they can incorporate technological advances. This is because there is a growing class of middle-income investors that can't attract private banks. But retail banks are operating in an extremely competitive environment and to attract new customers they often have to poach them. "This is all about stealing share now. It's not about telling people to bring money from your mattress," Wayne Cutler of Novantas told Financial Planning. 
Flickr/Blake PattersonBloomberg News' Zeke Faux has this fascinating story about billionaire Carl Icahn from his early days on the Street working as a young broker. ¬† This is an unconfirmed story, but we could totally see this happening. ¬†From Bloomberg News: Billionaire investor¬†Carl Icahn‚Äôs first Wall Street job was at Dreyfus &amp; Co., according to his¬†website. A former colleague who asked not to be identified because he still works in the industry said he knew Icahn would be successful when the colleague was trying to pick up a woman at a dance at a Catskills resort and saw Icahn sign up her father as a client. Icahn and Weill didn‚Äôt respond to messages seeking comment. Well played, sir. [Hat Tip: Kevin Roose]
FortuneThis past weekend I had the pleasure of attending the annual shareholder meeting of Berkshire Hathaway. Seeing Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger dish investing wisdom in person was on my bucket list. They didn‚Äôt disappoint. The flight to Omaha gave me an opportunity to read Berkshire‚Äôs annual report, including Buffett‚Äôs famous letter to shareholders. I highly recommend the letter to any investor, regardless of whether you own Berkshire stock. Buffett‚Äôs discussion of dividends (pages 19 to 21) was especially interesting. In three pages Buffett gives investors everything they need to know about dividends. He begins his discussion with a question that has puzzled many: ‚ÄúA number of Berkshire shareholders ‚Äì including some of my good friends ‚Äì would like Berkshire to pay a cash dividend. It puzzles them that we relish the dividends we receive from most of the stocks that Berkshire owns, but pay out nothing ourselves.‚Äù It‚Äôs a fair question, and one that Buffett handles deftly. Through the use of a hypothetical company, he demonstrates that investors are better off if a company keeps all of its earnings rather than pay dividends, so long as it can and will put those earnings to good and profitable use. Buffett compares two hypothetical companies, one that retains all its earnings and one that pays a dividend. Spoiler Alert: the hypothetical company that retained its earnings proved a better option for investors than the one paying dividends. While I‚Äôll spare you the details of Buffett‚Äôs calculations, the conclusion he draws is important for those nearing or in retirement. As a retiree with equity investments, you can generate income in one of two ways. First, you can invest in stocks that pay dividends. Second, you can sell shares of the companies you own. And, of course, a retiree could generate income from a combination of the two. At first glance, dividends seem like an attractive way to generate income. You‚Äôll receive quarterly dividend checks to fund retirement without having to sell any of your shares. There are, however, several advantages to selling shares rather than relying on dividends. First, with dividends, company management decides how much you‚Äôll receive each quarter. The dividend payments may prove to be more than you need or not enough. If you rely on selling shares, you determine how many shares to sell based on your cash needs. Second, taxes generally favor stock sales over dividends. The long-term capital gains tax on the sale of stock held for more than one year is typically less than the ordinary income tax paid on dividends. Further, 100 percent of dividend payments are typically taxable. With the sale of stock, only the portion of the sale representing a gain is subject to capital gains tax. Finally, shares typically sell for a premium over a company‚Äôs book value. In Buffett‚Äôs example, he assumes that a company‚Äôs stock trades at 125 percent of net worth, a very conservative assumption in today‚Äôs market. That means that for every $1 of retained earnings per share, a stockholder could net $1.25 per share on a sale. I‚Äôm not suggesting you should avoid investing in dividend paying stocks, whether for retirement or otherwise. I invest in many, including Apple, Ford, Verizon and Pepsi. (Sorry Warren, Pepsi tastes better than Coke.) The point is to invest in great companies. Many great companies pay dividends, but as a retiree, those quarterly checks may be less desirable than popular opinion would have us believe. Rob Berger is the founder of the popular personal finance blog, the Dough Roller, where he writes about personal finance, investing and retirement, including reviews of his favorite online brokers. 
Flickr/Martin CathraeStocks started the day at an all-time high and only rocketed higher. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,215, +123.5 pts, +0.8%S&amp;P 500: 1,650, +16.5 pts, +1.0%NASDAQ: 3,462, +23.8 pts, +0.6% And now the top stories:
Linette Lopez, Business InsiderStudents are New York City's elite¬†Cooper Union college are not done fighting a plan to charge tuition for the first time in 154 years. To them, this fight is about more than the money. It's about saving an ideal at the heart of one of the greatest institutions in America. That's why they have¬†set up camp¬†in¬†Cooper Union President Jamshed Bharucha's¬†office Occupy Wall Street-style, with no plans to leave. The brouhaha began when the Cooper Union board announced earlier this year that the incoming class of 2014 would have to¬†start paying tuition¬†to make up for the school's $16 million deficit. There are very few schools in the U.S. that do not charge their students any tuition, and of those, Cooper Union is arguably the most prestigious. U.S. News &amp; World Report ranked it the #1 regional college in the county last year. Ask the students or the staff and they'll tell you that this is because the endowment left by the school's founder, Peter Cooper, made it possible for students to be chosen completely on merit. "You make the best snowballs if you have the best snow," said Stephen Baker, Cooper's Athletic Dean. But over the years that endowment, which includes income from real estate holdings like The Chrysler Building, has been squandered. As described by Felix Salmon at Reuters, people have pointed to¬†gross mismanagement, investment decisions that secured immediate cash rather than residual income, low yields, the financial crisis, the housing crash. Flickr/dandelucaCooper Union. As a poster child for school board mismanagement, the Cooper Union students say they believe the board's lack of transparency and communication with the student body is what truly made it possible to grow the the massive deficit in the school's finances since the 1970s. Victoria Sobel, a senior at Cooper's Art School, said she was surprised to find that some Cooper Union board members didn't even know how students at the Art School were selected. "I think it's time we take a more progressive or radical look at board structures and say if they're failing this badly, maybe we need a more sustainable model," said Sobel. What Cooper's board has failed to do above all is to grasp the ideal that matters so much to students, faculty, and alumni. "If Cooper Union is in trouble, then the educational ideal is in trouble," said Engineering School (2012) alum Michael Ketigian. He was standing on the steps of City Hall at a protest last Tuesday, where around 100 students presented a petition to keep the school free. "A Cooper Union that is not free is not Cooper Union," Ketigian continued. "It obliterates ideological sustainability." And make no mistake, the students are willing to obliterate parts of Cooper to sustain their ideal. They recognize that maintaining their tradition means pain. They're willing to see class sizes cut, courses canceled and professors sacked. "What does it actually cost to educate a student?" asked Peter Buckley, a history professor at Cooper Union. In no other business do executives look at the budget year after year and say simply "let's raise the price of our product 7%' without rigorous analysis, he pointed out. Another concern that students have discussed is that donors who already give to the school may not want to continue their generosity now that the school isn't, in essence, also a social project. The development office isn't completely sure how to pitch the school now. "People don't feel comfortable donating to this administration because they feel it may not go to the students," said Sobel. "The feeling of distrust from the community to the administration is a huge stop-gap for potential donors." For that, the students want the President, Jamshed Bharucha, gone. They want consistent communication from the board. They want their school back. And that is why they won't leave Bharucha's office. Google Trends via Twitter user @justinwedesCooper Union mentions have spiked on social media, Google Trends shows.It's an occupation ‚Äî all in all a modern form of protest learned from the massive demonstrations that swept the globe in 2011. Indeed some students marched with Occupy Wall Street. From that experience they learned how to use the methods they're applying now ‚Äî creative demonstrations, a strong presence on social media, and a live feed so everyone can follow along. Their aim is to increase awareness about their problem, and it's working. Google Trends shows a spike in discussion about this issue since the news broke on April 23rd, and then again when the students started protesting in earnest in early May. "It's like a desperation cry," said Ketegian. "We need help." But first they know they must show that they can help themselves.
We're giving you a chance to win a¬†Kindle Fire HD. ¬†Become a newsletter subscriber now¬†to enter. ¬†If you're the lucky winner you will have a host of features at your fingertips. ¬† Entry deadline is May 31. As a newsletter subscriber, you'll get daily updates and alerts on topics that matter most to you.¬†You must subscribe to at least one newsletter to be eligible, so if you haven't already, be sure to choose one or more before submitting your entry. On or after May 31, 2013, we'll announce the lucky winner. You must be a legal resident of the U.S. and a newsletter subscriber to win.
A string of less than impressive data out of China has raised concerns about Chinese economic growth. A new Bank of America fund manager survey shows that one in four investors thinks a Chinese hard landing is the biggest tail risk. And it is second only to Europe's sovereign debt crisis. BAML Chinese growth expectations also went negative for the first time in 14 months. BAML
A string of less than impressive data out of China has raised concerns about Chinese economic growth. A new Bank of America fund manager survey shows that one in four investors thinks a Chinese hard landing is the biggest tail risk. And it is second only to Europe's sovereign debt crisis. BAML Chinese growth expectations also went negative for the first time in 14 months. BAML
Very odd. Despite markets being up, Apple is down over 2.7%. Yahoo Finance There isn't much to explain the move. One trader IMs: Hearing nothing on the Smackdown in AAPL right now - really accelerating† - odd, apple's VIX is DOWN on the dayBest explain I got AAPL was 450 stops being electedAAPL's VIX waking up now, +1%.
WikimediaThe Congressional Budget Office just published its updated budget projections. "If the current laws that govern federal taxes and spending do not change, the budget deficit will shrink this year to $642 billion, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates, the smallest shortfall since 2008," they wrote.¬† This is way down from an estimate of $845 billion in February. "Relative to the size of the economy, the deficit this year‚Äîat 4.0 percent of gross domestic product (GDP)‚Äîwill be less than half as large as the shortfall in 2009, which was 10.1 percent of GDP." Here's an excerpt from the CBO's discussion of what changed since the February projection: The decline in the projected deficit for 2013 stems largely from a boost in estimated revenues as well as from expected payments to the Treasury by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The changes in CBO‚Äôs baseline for the 2014‚Äì2023 period result mainly from lower projections of outlays (primarily for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid). As a result of those changes, CBO now projects that, under current law, debt held by the public will total 74 percent of GDP in 2023, down from the 77 percent the agency projected in February. Here's a summary of the CBO's long-term budget projections: CBO
Matthew Winkler, Bloomberg News editor in chief.Bloomberg has been hit by a scandal involving its reporters using private client data from Bloomberg Terminal users to fuel their coverage of news stories.† Bloomberg has called this behavior a "mistake." But there are still some outstanding questions about exactly what private client information reporters were able to access, as well as whether reporters were encouraged to snoop on clients by senior editors at Bloomberg News or whether they did this on their own without senior management knowing. We have asked Bloomberg to address these questions, but the company has declined to respond on the record. If you're not familiar with Bloomberg Terminals, they are machines targeted toward financial professionals that allow them to access news, data, stock quotes and message one another. They cost about $20,000 per year.† The New York Post revealed†last week that Bloomberg reporters have used private client data from terminal users at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan†for stories.†After Goldman complained about an unnamed reporter pointing out that a partner at the bank had not logged in and inquired if he had left the firm, Bloomberg cut off access to this data for its reporters.† Bloomberg has said that its reporters could only see general functions that its clients were using, not the specific securities the clients looked at or the specific communications the clients sent and received (with the exception of transcripts of calls to Bloomberg's help desk). †Bloomberg also said in several statements that reporters could not see which news stories clients were reading. Gawker, however, has reported that that reporters could look at an individual story and find out who read it and who emailed it. †The function on the Bloomberg Terminal to do this, the Gawker source said, is 2&lt;GO&gt;. An anonymous source who claimed to be a former Bloomberg editor told us the same thing. In other words, this source asserted, reporters could not look at a specific client and see which stories he or she was reading, but they could look at a story and see who had read it. We checked with several sources at Bloomberg about this. All three denied the Gawker report, saying that the 2&lt;GO&gt; function merely shows how many people had read a particular story, not who had read it. Another question that Bloomberg has yet to answer is whether Bloomberg News reporters were encouraged to use private data to spy on clients, or whether they did this on their own. Gawker†has†reported that the spying scandal originated at the top. †According to Gawker, the editor in chief of Bloomberg News, Matthew Winkler, encouraged reporters to check to see if specific bankers were using the "job listings" function on the terminal as a way of detecting whether they might soon being leaving their firms. Bloomberg provided an on-the-record comment to Gawker, but it did not challenge this assertion. ††† Bloomberg has not publicly laid the blame for the spying scandal at anyone's feet. But both Dan Doctoroff, Bloomberg's CEO, and Matt Winkler, Bloomberg's editor in chief, have publicly apologized.
The relentless focus on profits at America's biggest law firms is taking a huge toll on young lawyers, Steven Harper argues in his new book "The Lawyer Bubble." Harper points to a†2007 American Bar Association study finding lawyers at firms with more than 100 attorneys reported being the†least satisfied with their work. Another study called "After the JD"†tracked 4,500 lawyers and found many big-firm lawyers from top 10 schools didn't like what they were doing. After just two years on the job, 60% said they expected to leave within two years. Here's Harper's theory on what might be making these lawyers so miserable. Many people go to law school because they want to become high-power trial lawyers.†But big corporate law firms have become so focused on profits they don't take the time to train attorneys and give them a chance to step inside a courtroom.  Instead, new lawyers face intense pressure to log as much time as possible working for clients, which pay by the hour. (This "billable hour" pressure got a lot worse after The American Lawyer magazine started ranking Big Law firms in the 1980s, Harper says.) The firms themselves often take on huge cases or deals that can be incredibly lucrative but soul-sucking for the legions of young lawyers working on them. From Harper's book: †As for their daily tasks, most big-firm attorneys spend the vast majority of their time on small slices of large cases or transactions. Those matters can be financially lucrative and professionally rewarding for the firm's senior partners, but junior attorneys often feel little connection to an overall mission. One first-year Big Law associate we interviewed described one of his primary tasks ó document review ó as "the most boring experience of your life, but strangely nervewracking." High pay ó the biggest law firms still†start associates at $160,000†ó isn't enough to make lawyers happy. In fact, Harper writes, "a disturbingly large number" of young lawyers would acknowledge their money hadn't bought happiness. He continues: Some would relinquish a portion of their income to work less and achieve a more balanced life, if they thought that option was available to them. For many, their work remains a persistently depressing experience, largely because it seems unfulfilling, unrelenting, or both. The ailing legal industry has made life even worse for some lawyers recently. While the industry has rebounded a bit since the recession, many law schools still have abysmal employment rates for new grads. It's just not as easy for lawyers to get jobs as it was before the recession. Those who are lucky enough to find a job might feel stuck there ó even if going to work makes them sad.
On a weekly basis, I monitor the consensus expectations of industry analysts for quarterly and annual S&amp;P 500 operating earnings. The consensus for Q1 at the start of the earnings season was $25.73 per share. The latest number as of the week of May 9, reflecting all the reported results, is exactly one dollar higher at $26.73. Over this same period, the estimates for Q2, Q3, and Q4 were knocked down $0.79, $0.55, $0.29, respectively, and $1.63 in total. The 2013 and 2014 estimates fell to new lows of $110.98 and $123.39, with the former up 6.9% y/y and the latter up 11.2% y/y. While these y/y growth rates would be fine, I am troubled to see that forward earnings has been stuck around its record high of $115 for the past nine weeks. This is the measure of earnings that I believe drives the market. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Yearning for Earnings. (1) Singing the blues about earnings. (2) Some are reaching for yield, while others are yearning for earnings. (3) Putting a high price on dividend growers. (4) Q1 results depressing estimates for the rest of the year. (5) Stay Home vs. Go Global. (6) Forward earnings stuck at record high in recent weeks. (7) Revenues growth estimates in the low single digits. (8) Analysts still expecting higher margins. (9) Focus on overweight-rated Retailers. (More for subscribers.)
White House Press Secretary Jay Carney is giving one of the biggest press briefings of his tenure, as the Obama administration struggles to answer questions about Benghazi, the IRS targeting of Tea Party groups, and the Department of Justice's seizure of AP phone records.† Faced with repeated questions about the White House's knowledge of the DOJ scandals, Carney reiterated previous claims that West Wing was not aware of the agency's decision to subpoena the AP.† He said that Obama found out about the DOJ seizure of the AP's records from news reports yesterday, but that it would be "wholly inappropriate" for the White House to comment on an "ongoing investigation."† And while he added ó repeatedly ó that the President supports an "unfettered" press, he refused to comment specifically on Obama's reaction to the news that the DOJ had secretly wiretapped AP reporters.† On the IRS targeting, Carney also declined to comment on the investigation, saying that the White House was waiting for the results of a report from the agency's Inspector General. Asked if he could "categorically" say that no one at the White House knew anything about the IRS targeting, Carney said "yes," although he said that the West Wing was informed last month of the investigation into the IRS officials in Cincinnati, who have been accused of targeting Tea Party groups. Carney added that speculation that Obama would have wanted the IRS to target conservative groups "preposterous."† Later, Carney was asked if there was "siege mentality" in the West Wing as a result of the growing number of scandals, he responded "absolutely not."† "I understand the inclination to bunch things together, but you have to separate these issues" Carney said.†
With the S&amp;P 500 at an all-time high, many stock market pundits have grown increasingly cautious. However, the savviest experts are reiterating their bullishness, and they are all pointing to one metric: the equity risk premium. "The equity risk premium is the key to investing and valuation," says legendary NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran, The equity risk premium can be defined simply as the expected return on a broad stock market index in excess of the long-term risk-free rate, which is often measured by a government bond yield. Markets spiked this morning when influential hedge fund manager David Tepper held up a chart of the equity risk premium as he presented his uber-bullish case for stocks during a CNBC appearance. Blogger extraordinaire Barry Ritholtz and stock market legend Laszlo Birinyi each pointed us to Tepper's exact chart last week.† Birinyi confident we'll see the S&amp;P 500 pass 1,700 this year, and 1,900 relatively soon. Jim O'Neill, the now retired economist from Goldman Sachs, has long been bullish on stocks thanks to the equity risk premium.† In the final slide of his final presentation, O'Neill argued, "Current ERP levels continue to indicate that equity markets are still quite attractive in many parts of the world." Liberty Street Economics
Max0rz / FlickrSomething interesting is going on today in the stock market. Stocks are jumping (up about 1%) and yet the VIX (which is a measure of volatility and fear) is also jumping. This is odd, because usually the VIX goes up when markets are falling. What gives? Well it turns out that investors are fearful right now, but they're not fearful of a market decline. Investors are afraid of a "melt higher." That's the opposite of a melt down. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus explains that a lot of options aren't priced for a big jump over the next two days, so if that were to happen a lot of traders would be caught short: We are getting a lot of questions about the upside move in the VIX today, despite the spike higher in Equities.†† While there is certainly a valid argument that people are buying protection against this spike higher (Fade the ìTepper Rallyî) ñ A lot of smart Volatility guys are telling me itís actually due to fear of a ìMelt Higherî.† If we jump 30 SPX handles in the next day or 2, those weekly and monthly SPX options are way too cheap ñ so we have people scooping them up.† Remember ñ the VIX is a gauge of a move UP or DOWNÖ..† Our Options department notes that the May 13.78 implies an daily average move of 86 bps from now until next Wednesday, when the May future expires.† 86bpÖ.† Here is what I cobbled together ñ please feel free to attack me, as my Public School education pales in comparison to the PhDs in ChicagolandÖ† There is chatter that we may see a big announcement from Japanís Abe on Friday on a Phase II growth strategy. Focused on corp tax cuts, deregulation, women in workforce, and investment policy ñ This could drive risk assets higher in the short-term. For more on the risk of a melt-up, see here &gt;
Twitter.com/BobPisaniModels, actors, beauty queens and pro-athletes are taking over the trading floors of BTIG's offices world-wide today.† That's because the brokerage firm is hosting it's 11th annual "Commissions for Charity Day."† During this event, BTIG traders and stars answer client calls to raise money for children's charities. The charities include, March of Dimes, Project Sunshine, Alliance for Lupus Research, The Guardsmen, Capital for Kids, Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research and Solving Kids Cancer, just to name a few. † "Our annual Charity Day has become an event that the celebrities, clients and employees look forward to each year," Steve Starker, co-founder of BTIG said in a statement. †† "Over the years we have seen this event grow with many celebrity traders returning year after year to represent their charitable foundations. We look forward to this year's event being even bigger and better than before." This is definitely one of those win-win type of events and it's a great business idea, too. †The celebs and traders get to have fun on the trading floor together. The clients get the amazing opportunity to chat with stars on the phone. †BTIG's name and brand gets out there and for a good reason. And all the charities benefit from the funds and awareness raised. † So far, the annual charity event has raised nearly $25 million for over 350 nonprofit organizations. † Now let's check out the action on the trading floor. †
Telsa MotorsTesla reported its first quarterly profit last week and has had a stellar run since. Consumer Reports gave it a 99/100 ó the highest rating on record. Last night, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas wrote that the debate on Tesla had changed. "The debate has moved on from questions of viability to measuring the success and sustainable competitive advantage of the business, triggering a dramatic compression of the stockís implied risk premium," he wrote. Morgan Stanley's Jonas and his team have since raised its "15-year discounted cash flow (DCF) derived" price target on Tesla to $103, from $47. Jonas writes that this was driven by 4 key things: This is a great visual breakdown of Morgan Stanley's price target hike: Morgan Stanley † Jonas reiterates that this Tesla is valued on a 15-year DCF (future cash flow and discounts) and that its "valuation multiples do not begin to make sense until at least 2015." Tesla's stock is up 62% since it reported earnings on May 8.
Bloomberg TelevisionLaszlo BirinyiInvestor strategist Laszlo Birinyi, who accurately predicted the S&amp;P 500 would break 1,600, told CNBC on Tuesday he thinks the closely watched index could eclipse 1,900 in the longer term. Expanding on bullish sentiment from hedge fund titan David Tepper, Birinyi said the market is for stock pickers, who should to look at individual companies instead of broad sectors. (Read More: It's a 'My Cousin Vinny' Market, Bullish Tepper Says) "I've been impressed with resilience of this market," Birinyi said on "Squawk on the Street." "The pauses are only temporary, and now we've seen a rotation to the cyclicals. Looking at the market perspective, I still think we're going higher." Birinyi pointed to Autozone, which was hit by a downgrade on Monday but bounced back quickly. "Those are the kind of things I think are more important," he said.  In the near term, Birinyi sees the S&amp;P 500 going to 1,700, but in the longer term (after 2013) he said the index could reach 1,900. He called the 1,900 number "guidance" based on historical parallels, instead of a target. Birinyi's call earlier this year that the S&amp;P would eclipse 1,600 came to fruition, leading to another bullish prediction. He said his firm is currently buying S&amp;P 170 calls on the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF, a bullish options bet that the S&amp;P will hit 1,700. (Related: Cramer: This Is the Short's Worst Nightmare) Birinyi characterized the climb as "a cross country trip," suggesting that there will be stops and starts along the way. "This market is very strong, but I want to take it one step at a time and I want to get to 1,700 before we decide where we're going after that," he said. "People don't realize how strong this market has been," he said. "This has been the strongest advance-decline in the S&amp;P over the last 20 years. What that means is that you want to be picking stocks. I think that's the key here. You want to pick stocks here and not worry about sectors or themes." "When I look at the market, I look at what individual stocks are doing. People have been concerned about things like inflation, and I look at the inflation-sensitive names and they are not reacting the way you would expect them to if that was an issue," he added. ó By CNBC's Paul Toscano. Follow him on Twitter and get the latest stories from "Squawk on the Street" @ToscanoPaul 
Electric vehicle manufacturer Teslaís stock  has rocketed up after the company reported positive earnings and operating cash flow for the first quarter. The stock had been heavily shorted, and short covering evidently fueled the stockís take-off. Color me skeptical. The company was heavily shorted for good reason, and is even more ripe for shorting after the run-up. (Personal opinion. Not investment advice. Youíre on your own about that.) For one thing, although operating results did improve from the (really terrible 3/4Q12), the much hyped earnings number was put into positive territory by two items: a†write-down†of a warrant that Tesla granted the U.S. Department of Energy as part of a $465 million DOE loan to the company, and FX gains (mainly on yen). Not repeatable. And the first seems highly dodgy to me ó a squishy number based on an assumption that Tesla will be able to pay off Iím also skeptical because of the near miraculous nature of the turnaround. Mere months ago, the company was in dire straits: Itís a lucky thing for Tesla Motors shareholders that the U.S. Department of Energy loves the companys loan applications. Without the hundreds of millions of dollars Tesla†has received from the federal government this year, the electric-car makers financials would be gasping for air as 2012 winds down. Given the ugly state of Teslaís finances ó and the companyís sky-high valuation: almost $4 billion ó it will rank among the top candidates in Silicon Valley for a 2013 stock collapse, unless it receives significantly more cash next year. I get a whiff of a company that needed a miracle to stave off disaster. Maybe it got one, but I am always skeptical of miracles whenever accounting is involved. And thatís certainly the case here. The shorts have been bloodied, but theyíll be back. Indeed, this seems like a typical battle in a war between a dodgy company and short sellers. But I am most skeptical because of Teslaís not-really-founder-but-biggest-investor, Elon Musk. Mr. Musk is Occupyís favorite crony capitalist. And Occupy is one of Mr. Muskís favorite movements. Yes, once upon a time Musk started a real business, Paypal (NASDAQ:EBAY), that proved very successful without any government help. That was then, this is now. Musk has three ventures: Tesla, SpaceX, and SolarCity (NASDAQ:SCTY). All are heavily dependent on government largesse. Take Tesla for starters. It received the $465 mm loan from DOE, but it also benefits from a $7500/car federal subsidy for electric cars. Moreover, it benefits from the State of Californiaís Zero Emissions Credit program. In its infinite wisdom, CA mandated that all the major auto companies sell a certain number of zero emissions vehicles. If they donít they have to buy credits from companies that do make them ó namely Tesla. This was also essential in putting the company in the black in Q1, and the company is sitting on $250 mm worth of these credits. IOW, Teslaís profits are courtesy of you, the taxpayer ó and also courtesy of the shareholders of Ford (NYSE:F), GM (NYSE:GM), Toyota (NYSE:TM), Honda (NYSE:HMC), etc. Next consider SpaceX. This venture provides evidence of Muskís love for Occupy: he has promised that this private space venture will go to Mars, and wears an Occupy Mars shirt to make the point. It is also touted as a privately capitalized space venture, which it is, I guess, but it is also almost completely dependent on government contracts. The private money is attracted by the scent of public money. Sorry, but a company that is dependent on NASAís IV for support is not truly a private company: the company is basically a cutout between the investors and the taxpayers. The company has not exactly covered itself in glory. It had serious trouble with its initial launches, including an embarrassing episode in which the ashes of Star Trekís Scotty, James Doohan, were on a SpaceX craft that didnít make it into space: it crashed instead somewhere in the South Pacific. Which I guess would have been great if James Doohan had starred in South Pacific. Donít worry, though. As a precaution, some of Mr. Doohanís ashes were retained, and that part of the beloved actorís remains did make it into space as he desired. And speaking of Broadway and movie classics, Musk is auditioning for a role in a summer stock Music Man with his boosterism of SpaceX: You donít have to be a believer in conspiracy theories to wonder why senior government officials are so committed to going the commercial route in space. Even a cursory review of SpaceX programs and plans reveals reasons for doubt. The questions begin with a business strategy that isnít just disruptive, but downright incredible. Mr. Musk says that he can offer launch prices far below those quoted by any traditional provider ó including the Chinese ó by running a lean, vertically integrated enterprise with minimal government oversight that achieves sizable economies of scale. The economies of scale are possible, he contends, because there is huge pent-up demand for space travel in the marketplace that cannot be met within the prevailing pricing structure. By dropping prices substantially, this latent demand can then be unlocked, greatly increasing the rate of rocket production and launches. When combined with other features of the SpaceX business model, the increased pace of production and launches results in revolutionary price reductions. There isnít much serious research to demonstrate that the pent-up demand Musk postulates really exists, nor that the price reductions he foresees are feasible. He has suggested in some interviews that launch costs could decline to a small fraction of current levels if all the assumptions in his business plan come true, and he has posted a commentary on his web-site explaining how SpaceX is already able to offer the lowest prices in the business. Itís hard to look inside the operations of a private company, but SpaceX does seem to be doing all the things necessary to minimize costs such as using proven technology, building as many items as possible in-house, and hiring a young workforce willing to work long hours. And to his credit, Musk has committed over $100 million of his own money to the venture. However, his rockets have major performance limitations compared with other launch vehicles in the market, and they are not yet rated as safe for carrying people. Becoming ìman-ratedî will necessarily increase the role of federal officials in monitoring SpaceX operations, which is not good news for a business model grounded in minimal government oversight (traditional launch providers say government regulations and overhead charges are a key driver in their own pricing policies). Downright incredible sounds about right. It sounds like a con to me. Especially the whole ìeconomy of scaleî thing. Thatís the kind of thing defense contractors say to get the government to buy more units of a plane or ship. Itís not good economics. And Muskís winning personality was on display when questioned about SpaceXís launch failures: Mr. Musk recently responded to a question from Space News reporter Amy Svitak about the two-year delay in accomplishing that second Falcon 9 launch by observing, ìIn the space business thatís on time.î Perhaps he was irritated by the reporters implied criticism, but it goes without saying that if astronauts on board the space station are awaiting supplies, a prolonged launch delay could spell big trouble. What a guy. Takes your money, and then gets peevish when you accuse him heís blowing it. Then there is SolarCity, an installer of solar panels. The solar industry has raked in $4.1 billion of stimulus money, and the government thinks that SolarCity in particular has played fast and loose with the numbers to get more than it should: Last July, federal investigators subpoenaed†SolarCity,†the largest installer of residential solar panels, as part of a probe into whether solar-power companies received excessive government grants. . . . . Even before the Treasury Departmentís inquiry into grant applications filed by SolarCity and other installers, House Republicans had questioned the programís effectiveness in creating jobs. Congress declined to renew the grant program at the end of 2011, and only projects that were being planned by that date can receive grants today. The government is looking into whether SolarCity and other firms misrepresented the fair-market value of solar systems in order to boost the value of the grants they received. In its suit, SolarCity says two of the companyís subsidiaries received smaller-than-expected grants. The company doesnít say exactly how much funding it applied for originally, but it says the final grants issued by the Treasury Department were $8 million less than was proper under the law. But SolarCity is doubling down on the chutzpah, and suing the government, claiming the government has paid it too little!: Now, SolarCity is pushing back with a lawsuit that alleges the opposite: some of the taxpayer-funded grants it received werenít as big as originally promised. The suit, filed quietly in February in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, comes as SolarCity and other industry players are defending solar-friendly government policies, and it could undermine the industryís message that solar power will soon be viable without government help. Solar businesses have cratered around the world: China, Spain, Germany. The industry is addicted to government support. Elon Musk has a plan to get rich. It involves you. The taxpayer. You pay taxes. The government gives huge dollops of that money to Elon. Elon gets rich. Who could possibly object? Who could deny Elonís genius? He certainly thinks heís a genius. He has no hesitations in telling people so. And there is a kind of perverse genius here. In the Age of Obama he has found the key to riches. Get in good with the government-by, you know, sponsoring an inaugural ball. And then let the government give you the goodies. Then sue the government if they donít give you enough goodies. And then preen before the world, touting your genius-and your environmental credentials. (Pay no attention to that private jet behind the curtain!) (Musk quit the Zuckerberg-created immigration lobbying effort FWD.us because it bought ads supporting politicians who support immigration changes but also had the temerity to support the Keystone pipeline.) What a repulsive man. Repulsive, yes, but sadly, Elon Musk is a Man For Our Age, in more ways than one.
After more than a decade of just the opposite, a little inflation is all most policymakers in Japan are preoccupied with trying to bring about these days. That's why the government has ramped up fiscal stimulus in recent months, and it's also why the Bank of Japan is embarking on a monetary stimulus program unprecedented in scale. Together, the policies are expected to continue weakening the value of the Japanese yen, with the hope that this will contribute to a broad rise in consumer prices. It looks like the plan is starting to work. Citi foreign exchange strategist Steven Englander passes along the chart below, which shows that inflation expectations have been creeping up in the past few weeks. Bloomberg, CitiFX "The inflation expectations reflect a scheduled doubling of the sales tax in 2014/15 to 10%, so it is the recent run-up that is of interest, not the level, which is somewhat artificial," says Englander. "However, the run-up in the last few days in both nominal and real rates may reflect that inflation policy has become more credible, possibly aided by well-publicized price increases by prominent firms." While Englander concedes that rising inflation expectations alone will not improve the structural competitiveness of the Japanese economy, he thinks "BoJ-enforced lower real rates will encourage Japanese investors to pull money from the JGB market (presumably replaced by BoJ buying) and encourage investment in other asset markets both domestically and abroad." "The combination," says Englander, "will tend to reduce the real value of Japanese government debt, which could be a get-out-of-jail-free card for Japanese policymakers."
Google FinanceStocks are surging today, establishing new all-time highs. After barely squeaking out a gain to close at a new all-time high yesterday, the S&amp;P 500 is up a whopping 12 points or 0.7%. U.S. stock market futures weren't looking to good earlier this morning before the U.S. markets opened. However, things quickly changed at around 7:45 after David Tepper, the extremely influential hedge fund manager, reiterated his extreme bullishness. Central to his thesis was that the equity risk premium ‚Äî a way of valuing stocks relative to bonds ‚Äî was very high, thus making stocks look very attractive.
REUTERS/Mark BlinchNorth Carolina could ban Tesla from selling its cars if a bill¬†designed to eliminate "unfair competition" becomes law. The proposed rule, unanimously approved by the state's Senate Commerce Committee last week, would make it illegal for any automaker to bypass dealerships and sell cars directly to consumers. As Will Oremus at Slate points out, Tesla is the only American automaker whose business model is based on selling cars directly to consumers. The bill is sponsored by Republican Sen. Tom Apodaco, and supported by the NC Automobile Dealers Association, according to Raleigh's News &amp; Observer. Tesla's Argument In an October blog post, Tesla CEO Elon Musk laid out his reasoning for skirting the dealer model and putting the time and money into building a network of Tesla stores. By the time most customers go to a local dealer, he wrote, they have made up their mind to buy the same kind of car they had before. If Tesla could only sell cars in dealerships, it would lose the chance to educate consumers about its new kind of car. On top of that, Musk argued, since dealers sell primarily gasoline-powered cars, they have a reason not to push Teslas: Existing franchise dealers have a fundamental conflict of interest between selling gasoline cars, which constitute the vast majority of their business, and selling the new technology of electric cars. It is impossible for them to explain the advantages of going electric without simultaneously undermining their traditional business. An Ongoing Fight The North Carolina bill is the latest salvo in a fight that has been going on for a long time. By October 2012, Tesla was facing lawsuits in New York, Massachusetts, Illinois, and Oregon, accused of violating state laws that protect dealerships. Tesla has made progress. In January, a judge threw out the Massachusetts suit, according to The Car Connection. A New York judge did the same in April. A bill in Minnesota to ban Tesla stores was defeated in March. Last month, Musk took the offensive, traveling to Texas to lobby for a bill that would allow it to sells cars directly to buyers. Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider, and Musk has been surprisingly quiet on Twitter. Vice President of Corporate and Business Development Diarmuid O'Connell told Slate "he‚Äôs hopeful that the state legislature will amend the bill so that it doesn‚Äôt prohibit Tesla from doing business there." Since the bill would impact only Tesla (all the large automakers already sell cars through dealers), it's unlikely the bill will have such an amendment. Here's the strong language and free market argument Musk used to rally supporters in Texas, revealed in an April 2 email obtained by Forbes: It is crazy that Texas, which prides itself on individual freedom, has the most restrictive laws in the country protecting the big auto dealer groups from competition. If the people of Texas knew how bad this was, they would be up in arms, because they are getting ripped off by the auto dealers as a result (not saying they are all bad ‚Äì there a few good ones, but many are extremely heinous). We just need to get the word out before these guys are able to pull a fast one on us For everyone in Texas that ever got screwed by an auto dealer, this is your opportunity for payback. Now that the North Carolina bill has been approved by the Senate Commerce Committee, it will have to pass the full Senate, then the full House, and be signed into law by the governor.
CHICAGO (AP) ‚Äî Donald Trump is known for grilling contestants on his TV show, "Celebrity Apprentice." But he'll be the one in hot seat Tuesday as he takes the stand at a civil trial in Chicago. Several of Trump's companies are named in a lawsuit filed by an 87-year-old investor who says she was lured into buying condos at his namesake Chicago skyscraper with promises of a profit-sharing deal that was later quietly withdrawn. Jacqueline Goldberg bought two condos for around $1 million apiece at the Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower in 2006. She says she and other investors were promised a percentage of profits from banquet hall rentals and other building services. She's seeking unspecified damages. Trump's lawyer says Goldberg signed documents giving Trump executives the power to cancel the profit-sharing offer. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 

The New York Fed just published its latest Quarterly Report On Household Debt And Credit. "In Q1 2013 total household indebtedness fell to $11.23 trillion; 1.0% lower than the previous quarter and considerably below the peak of $12.68 trillion in Q3 2008," said the New York Fed in a statement. This suggests the deleveraging process that has been slamming the economy may not be over. On the plus side, more Americans are staying current on their obligations. "[D]elinquency rates for each form of household debt declined, with about 8.1% of outstanding debt in some stage of delinquency, compared with 8.6% the previous quarter," they add. Here's a summary from the NY Fed: Here's the NY Fed's chart: New York Fed
The New York Fed just released a ton of data on the state of household debt and credit. It included this map tracking the student debt delinquency rate.† West Virginia is the worst, while South Dakota is the best. College graduates have found it increasingly difficult to find work in this economy, which is hindering their ability to repay these obligations. † New York Fed
Heidi Gutman/ CNBCHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, is known for his poisonous pen and brutal letters to company boards and CEOs. † DealBook's Andrew Ross Sorkin has obtained a copy of his latest letter, which was hand delivered†to the CEO of Sony Corp today. † Sorkin reports that Loeb is calling for Sony to spin off its entertainment business via an initial public offering. † The letter is much more toned down than the ones he's sent to other CEOs in the past. Here's a copy via DealBook: † Dear Mr. Hirai: Thank you for agreeing to meet with us. Third Point LLC ("Third Point"), through entities it†manages, is now the largest owner of Sony Corporation ("Sony" or the "Company"), with†exposure to approximately 64 million shares valued at over •115 billion ($1.1 billion) through •71 billion ($700 million) of direct ownership and •44 billion ($440 million) of cash-settled†swaps. We have made a Hart-Scott-Rodino filing with the United States Federal Trade†Commission and have the right to increase our direct ownership. We hope the†recommendations shared with you in this letter will be considered by your Board and adopted†as a thoughtful approach to strengthening Sony. Since taking the helm as Chief Executive Officer in 2012, your stated commitment to†reinvigorating the Company has given us hope that Sony is entering a new era. We applaud†your frequent statements that "Sony Will Change". We similarly support your statements that†you are "fully committed to transforming this company" and that the Company "cannot afford†to waste time" in making the necessary changes required to improve. Sony stands at the crossroads of compelling corporate opportunity and massive Japanese†economic reform. Under Prime Minister Abe's leadership, Japan can regain its position as one†of the world's preeminent economic powerhouses and manufacturing engines. The most†critical of Prime Minister Abe's "Three Arrows" approach will be unveiled next month:†initiatives to create more economic growth in Japan through deregulation and structural†reform. Leading businesses like Sony with leaders like you, Mr. Hirai, can spearhead this†important growth. So while Third Point supports your agenda for change, we also believe that to succeed, Sony†Must Focus. In a spirit of partnership, we offer our timely plan to strengthen Sony. Our Proposal† Sony has stood for innovative engineering and consumer satisfaction for decades. From†televisions to gaming consoles to handsets, Sony epitomizes the proud legacy of Japanese†manufacturing ingenuity, superior product design, and excellent user experience. However,†many casual observers would be surprised to learn that while Sony is electronics, much of its†current value is derived from a hidden gem - Sony's Entertainment division. Like many†conglomerates we have invested in previously, Sony has two strong businesses facing different†challenges side by side, each obscuring the other's true worth. To maximize Sony's overall success, we believe the Company should change the structure of its†ownership of Sony Entertainment. Doing so will strengthen Sony by reducing its burdensome†debt, thereby providing additional resources and capital to Focus on revitalizing the resurgent†Sony Electronics. Step 1: Take Public a 15--20% Stake in Sony Entertainment, Allowing It to Thrive†Independently with the Support of the Sony Parent Company†While Increasing Capital to†Revitalize Sony Electronics† Sony Entertainment is one of the most prestigious entertainment businesses in the world, with†coveted assets in television and motion picture production, an iconic library of movies and†television programming, the leading music publishing business, and an exciting array of†international cable networks. By our estimates, these assets today comprise over 40% of†Sony's enterprise value. While the Entertainment businesses are top performers within Sony,†profit margins fall short when benchmarked versus their US-listed competitors despite†superior scale and leading market positions. We believe the underperformance would be†remedied by a more disciplined management approach to Sony Entertainment. If a minority†stake of Sony Entertainment were listed, it could be used to reward management through the†growth of an equity security specifically tied to a company they control. To give a glimpse of†the hidden value attainable, if Sony Entertainment simply achieved peer group margins,†EBITDA would increase by as much as 50%. In our view, such an increase, at a modest†valuation of 9x EBITDA, would contribute an incremental •625 billion in market valuation or •540 per Sony share. We believe existing Sony shareholders should be given priority to participate in the direct†ownership of Sony Entertainment. Therefore, we recommend that rather than conducting†a standard public offering, spin-off, or dividend, the Company offer subscription rights to†current shareholders. This approach ensures that Sony shareholders' economic interests are†protected: they will have the opportunity to benefit from the division's latent value while†providing the Company with a significant infusion of capital. To ensure the success of the†subscription rights offering, Third Point, which currently manages over $13 billion, is prepared†to "backstop" the initial public offering up to •150 - 200 billion ($1.5 - 2 billion), assuming a†stake of 15 - 20% is taken public, and will request no fees for this financial guarantee. Importantly, by issuing rights for cash and partially spinning off Sony Entertainment, the†parent company would not only receive meaningful liquidity to inject into Sony Electronics†while maintaining control of the spun-off entity (as it has done successfully in the past with†Sony Financial), but also should be able to push down a meaningful but sustainable portion of†its debt onto Sony Entertainment's newly-created entity. These transactions would reduce leverage at the parent company and provide much needed growth capital for Sony Electronics. Step Two: Focus on Industry-Leading Businesses to Bring Growth to Sony Electronics Sony Electronics has suffered frustrating results for the past decade, brought about by low†margins, persistent losses, and weak returns on capital. While it is true that Sony has excellent†products, such as the PlayStation, Xperia smartphones, and mirror-less cameras, several of†Sony's product lines- e.g., personal computers and DVD recorders - lack scale and provide†commoditized products at high costs to secularly challenged markets. Of particular regret is†Sony's venerable TV business which has sadly languished as a loss leader for the Company for†nearly a decade, but now appears poised to return to profitability in coming quarters. Despite†its challenges, we believe Sony Electronics is a source of considerable and†underappreciated value. At current levels, Sony Electronics is valued at •800 billion ($8.0 billion) or roughly 8.0x†management's FY13 EBIT guidance of •100 billion. When considering Sony's strong operating†profit recovery, favorable product cycles, export orientation, and relative balance sheet†strength, we see a strong re-rating potential to multiples of consumer electronics peers like†Sharp and Panasonic. Indeed, peer multiples suggest there is over •525 of value per share not†currently reflected in Sony shares, and potentially another •200 as the movement in the†EUR/JPY relationship begins to be reflected in analyst estimates. By simply focusing on this†discrepancy in market perception, Sony can significantly increase shareholder value before†realizing the benefits of additional structural change. Sony Electronics' many strong businesses, led by dedicated employees, are similarly obscured†today by a lack of Focus. For example, Sony's Image Sensor business is large, rapidly growing,†and profitable, but its contribution is masked by loss-making legacy semiconductor businesses.†We see clear paths to increasing Sony Electronics' value if investors turn their attention to its†profitable franchises and product cycles as management continues to streamline Sony's†product offerings to improve profitability. These initiatives will benefit from the capital†investment made possible by our proposed Sony Entertainment transaction.† The Path to a More Valuable Sony† We believe our straightforward plan to strengthen Sony serves all of its stakeholders -†employees, management, and fellow owners. This plan will reduce debt, increase†profitability, and create significant shareholder value. Leading Japanese equity research analysts at firms including Bank of America Merrill Lynch,†Daiwa, Macquarie and CLSA all agree on Sony's exceptional upside potential if the Company†succeeds in its structural reforms, targeting an average price increase of ~25% for the shares.†Unfortunately, the financial analyst community that follows Sony focuses almost exclusively on†the opportunities and challenges Sony faces in its Electronics businesses, ignoring the value of†Sony Entertainment. Our plan shifts that paradigm and we believe, if managed properly, it†could result in as much as 60% upside to Sony's share price. We see other promising opportunities to increase Sony's prospects. In addition to those we†have highlighted above, Sony has a wealth of other underappreciated assets, including stakes in†Sony Financial, M3, Olympus, and Japan Display. The Company could also review its worldrenowned intellectual property catalog to determine whether any of its patents might be†monetized without harming business prospects (for example, surely the InterTrust patents†could provide significant value in today's market). Sony also benefits from over •1.2 trillion†($11.5 billion) of gross deferred tax assets, possibly offering a meaningful increase to Sony's†book value as the Company returns to profitability. Perhaps most importantly, Sony remains a†leading global brand, signifying quality and innovation, which by itself carries an estimated •910 billion ($9.1 billion) of value (Interbrand, 2012). According to Gartner, Sony's brand†remains one of the top four IT brands consumers are likely to recommend, joining esteemed†peers Google, Samsung and Microsoft. Beyond Third Point's willingness to help facilitate a public offering for Sony Entertainment, we†offer our assistance to implement our proposal and would gladly accept a seat on Sony's Board†of Directors. We believe Sony and its stakeholders can benefit from our experience, "owner's"†perspective, and sound advice on strategy and capital allocation, which we have brought to†numerous public companies in the past. As Finance Minister Taro Aso recently wrote, "in many†big Japanese companies, success in the past led to inflexibility and risk aversion. Strengthened†corporate governance may be needed to change the way they do business and facilitate open innovation."† Third Point would not have made this substantial investment if we did not believe in a bright†future for Sony's global brand, superior technology, and dedicated employees. We are†confident that by acting as partners, Sony will grow stronger. For Sony to Change, Sony Must†Focus. Sincerely, Daniel S. Loeb
Copper futures are down 2.3% to $3.29 a pound on the Comex. China is the world's largest copper market, and the drop is being driven by concerns about China's growth. We just saw a string of poor data, especially fixed asset investment and industrial production for the month of April. JP Morgan now expects Chinese GDP of 7.8% in Q2, down from 8%. They lowered their full-year projection to 7.6%, from 7.8%. Bank of America's Ting Lu sees downside risk to his Q2 forecast of 8.1%. Societe Generale's Wei Yao has been below consensus for some time and maintains her Q2 GDP forecast of 7.8%. Here's a look at what Copper futures are doing: Google Finance
Despite the scandal regarding Bloomberg reporters spying on clients using their terminal, there haven't been many reports about clients actually doing anything about it. But maybe that will change? According to the NY Post, Goldman Sachs is considering making its own encrypted messaging system for traders using Twitter or some other custom technology to reduce its reliance on Bloomberg terminals. This sounds very speculative and far-off, but it's interesting that it's being thought about. Then yesterday, in an unrelated matter, the FT reported that thousands of Bloomberg trader messages were posted online accidentally. And from what we hear up and down Wall Street, those messages (and the messaging function) are the most sacred, private part of the powerful terminal. That means, in creating a messaging client, Goldman would be hitting the Bloomberg terminal where it hurts. From the NY Post: ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a lot of disruptive technology,‚Äù said one person familiar with Goldman‚Äôs thinking. ‚ÄúThis [Bloomberg snooping] has given new energy to those ideas,‚Äù the person said. Goldman also believes that Bloomberg may have used information from its terminals to create products that compete directly with the bank. The Post's report specifically mentions a successful brokerage product Bloomberg created in the 1990s product called "Tradebook." For the full report, head to the NY Post&gt;
idigit_teddyEveryone wants their kid to be good at math, right?  Math ‚Äî and the technology, finance, and engineering careers the follow from it ‚Äî can be lucrative and interesting, but getting a child interested in math isn't easy.¬† Luckily, on Reddit, there's been a string of great discussions about what made devotees¬†interested or skilled at math. We went through some of the most popular submissions from real life math pros about what got them interested or hooked on mathematics at an early age.¬† If you're looking for a place to start, here's list of easy, cheap, or abundant things that got these people hooked early. However, results are not guaranteed. As your future mathematician¬†might tell you, correlation does not imply causation.¬†

Tesla's rally continues. The stock is up over 10% in the first minutes of trading to $97.03. Tesla reported its first ever quarterly profit and crushed earnings expectations on May 8. The stock closed at $55.79. It opened at $70.12 Friday morning. Consumer Reports gave it a 99/100 ‚Äì the highest score ever. Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas said the fundamental debate about Tesla has changed. "The debate has moved on from questions of viability to measuring the success and sustainable competitive advantage of the business, triggering a dramatic compression of the stock‚Äôs implied risk premium." Morgan Stanley raised its price target on Tesla to $103, form $47. Tesla has a short interest of 44.1% as of April 30 and some argue that this is just a short squeeze. Here's a five-day chart from GoogleFinance:
REUTERS/Yuri GripasGeorge Soros believes someone in the euro zone needs to step up and confront Germany. Maybe even new Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta. In a recent speech, billionaire financier George Soros made an assertion aimed at the heart of the euro crisis: Germany should either agree to introduce "Eurobonds" ñ which would mutualize the public debts of all of the euro zone member states ñ or step out of the way and leave the euro, so that the remaining member states could move forward with debt mutualization. Soros argued that the euro was in fact tearing apart the European Union. This line of thinking is already gaining popularity in Germany, as evidenced by the recent success of new political party Alternative f¸r Deutschland (AfD), which shares the same view and is running on a platform that involves complete dissolution of the euro in order to save the EU. For Soros, rescuing the EU doesn't involve dissolving the euro, but instead tackling the key defect in the design of the common currency: the lack of fiscal union (debt mutualization) to go along with monetary union. What Soros and AfD can both agree on is that the current structure of the euro is causing a political rift between "creditor" countries in the core of the euro zone, like Germany, and debtor countries, like Spain, Italy, and other crisis-afflicted member states in the euro periphery. At a new speech given at a press conference in Italy on Sunday, Soros laid out his primary concern about how the euro was destroying the EU (emphasis added): I have been very concerned about Europe. The euro is in the process of destroying the European Union. To some extent, this has already happened, in the sense that the EU was meant to be a voluntary association of equal states. The crisis has turned it into something that is radically different: a relationship between creditors and debtors. And, in a financial crisis, the creditors are in charge. It is no longer a relationship between equals. Much has been made of the way financial crisis has given way to political crisis centered on tensions between creditor states and debtor states in the euro zone. Recently, this political crisis has been complicated by the German election. German politicians don't want to be seen as lenient toward debtor states in financial distress like Italy and Spain, because the German electorate does not have favorable views toward Germany bailing out other countries. This is why political parties like AfD are gaining support. Dissolving the euro means taking a step further away from debt mutualization instead of toward it, as Soros proposes. The AfD plan is something of a nationalistic, anti-European approach to tackling the euro crisis. Debt mutualization, on the other hand, is "pro-Europe" in that it emphasizes further integration ñ but it requires treaty change. "The authorities are trying to deal with the crisis according to these treaties, because they recognize that it is very difficult to change them," said Soros in his Sunday speech. "They are also afraid that public opinion has turned against European integration, so they do not dare to bring up a treaty change." Public opinion does indeed seem to be turning against Europe and toward nationalism, as evidenced in recent elections in Italy, where the new anti-establishment, anti-European "Five Star Movement" took the largest voting share at the polls in February. Soros calls this "the tragedy of Europe." He argues that what Europe needs instead is an anti-establishment, pro-European political movement: This has generated political dynamics that are leading toward the EUís disintegration. People who consider the current conditions intolerable become anti-European.  So we need some kind of political movement that recognizes that conditions are in fact intolerable, but that Europeís problems require a European solution ñ a pro-European but anti-establishment political movement. Recently, conservative German economist Hans-Werner Sinn attacked Soros's original ultimatum for Germany in an editorial on the Project Syndicate website. In an 818-word reply in the comments section of the Sinn article, Soros argued that perhaps Italy could stand up to the Germans. "The heavily indebted countries must channel the rising their citizensí discontent into a more constructive channel by coming together and calling on Germany to make the choice," wrote Soros. "The newly formed Italian government is well placed to lead such an effort."
Bloomberg TV screengrabDavid Tepper is one of the most successful, highest-paid hedge fund managers in the world. On CNBC this morning, he revealed that he's still bullish on stocks, and not at all worried about what the Fed is doing. He thinks the stocks are cheap, and helped by monetary easing, but that there's nothing to worry about with regards to the Fed "tapering" of QE. Basically, it's a big advantage for Tepper that he's a Democrat. What? Here let's explain... In recent years, a lot of Republicans have become "policy bears", people who are convinced that Fed/government involvement in the economy is sure to end in disaster. Rick Santelli is the foremost "policy bear" that you regularly see in the media, but as we saw recently at last week's hedge fund conferences, a lot of the big names in the industry like Paul Singer, Stan Druckenmiller, and Kyle Bass are policy bears as well. Their conservative view of the world has manifested itself, post-crisis, in Fed hate, and a lack of inclination to just ride the great bullish market wave that we've seen since 2009. Tepper is clearly not afflicted by Policy Bearism at all. The Fed doesn't make him raging mad. He doesn't talk about how the Fed is distorting markets beyond all recognition, and how it will end in disaster. He sees the Fed helping the economy, and he buys stocks, and he doesn't get worried about it. Maybe at some point the playbook will change, and Tepper will be out of step. After all, sometimes it's the consevatives who are optimistics (like in the 80s). But at this point, his lack of knee-jerk Fed hate has served him well, and it's allowed him to ride this rally nicely. Being of a Democrat mindset, post-2009 has paid off nicely.
David Tepper is on CNBC arguing that stocks are still a buy. During his appearance, he held up a chart from the blog Liberty Street Economics, which is a blog hosted by the New York Fed. The chart he shows shows the Equity Risk Premium, which is the gap between expected return on stocks vs. bonds. Based on traditional measures of the Equity Risk Premium (ERP) stocks are about as cheap as they've been in 50 years, a function somewhat of ultra-low bond yields. From the Liberty Street Economics blog, here's an explanation of the ERP and the chart which shows that stocks are really cheap. We surveyed banks, we combed the academic literature, we asked economists at central banks. It turns out that most of their models predict that we will enjoy historically high excess returns for the S&amp;P 500 for the next five years. But how do they reach this conclusion? Why is it that the equity premium is so high? And more importantly: Can we trust their models?†††††††††† The equity risk premium is the expected future return of stocks minus the risk-free rate over some investment horizon. Because we donít directly observe market expectations of future returns, we need a way to figure them out indirectly. Thatís where the models come in. In this post, we analyze twenty-nine of the most popular and widely used models to compute the equity risk premium over the last fifty years. They include surveys, dividend-discount models, cross-sectional regressions, and time-series regressions, which together use more than thirty different variables as predictors, ranging from price-dividend ratios to inflation. Our calculations rely on real-time information to avoid any look-ahead bias. So, to compute the equity risk premium in, say, January 1970, we only use data that was available in December 1969.†††††††††† Letís now take a look at the facts. The chart below shows the weighted average of the twenty-nine models for the one-month-ahead equity risk premium, with the weights selected so that this single measure explains as much of the variability across models as possible (for the geeks: it is the first principal component). The value of 5.4 percent for December 2012 is about as high as itís ever been. The previous two peaks correspond to November 1974 and January 2009. Those were dicey times. By the end of 1974, we had just experienced the collapse of the Bretton Woods system and had a terrible case of stagflation. January 2009 is fresher in our memory. Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the upheaval in financial markets, the economy had just shed almost 600,000 jobs in one month and was in its deepest recession since the 1930s. It is difficult to argue that weíre living in rosy times, but we are surely in better shape now than then. Liberty Street Economics Read the full Liberty Street Economics post here, and follow the whole Tepper interview here.
Hedge funder David Tepper is on CNBC this morning. Julia Laroche is covering, but the big takeaway is clear: David Tepper is "definitely bullish" on stocks. He says the case is overwhelming. The economy is getting better around the world. Everyone's easing. They can't find enough people to work in the housing industry and that that's the only thing holding it back. He says he's not at all worried about QE tapering. His only warning is to short-sellers, who he says need a shovel to get themselves out of the grave. Tepper is famous for these appearances on CNBC, and they've become market-moving events. In this case, he's moved the markets to green. For full coverage, see here &gt;
David Tepper, who runs $12 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, was on CNBC's "Squawk Box" making a bullish case for stocks moments ago.¬† U.S. futures rallied on Tepper's comments during his CNBC interview. ¬† Host Joe Kernen started off by asking Tepper if he's still bullish on the stock market. "Sure, I'm definitely bullish." He used the "My Cousin Vinny" movie as an analogy, the court scene in particular. ¬†(Always a great start). Anyway, he says the evidence is "so overwhelming" and that the economy is getting better. Tepper told CNBC that there's $400 billion in the economy looking for a place to go, according to his calculations. ¬† What's more is Tepper says that the market shouldn't be worried about Fed tapering. ¬†He added, "For guys that are short, they better have themselves a shovel to get out of the grave." He said later in the interview that he's¬†"nervous to be short anything." ¬† Speaking of Fed tapering, he says that if there isn't a true taper, we might look like the last half of 1999.¬†He says June is not a bad time to taper down. ¬†June 19 is the next Fed meeting. ¬† Host Mandy Drury asked Tepper if he's just bullish on the U.S. stock market. ¬†He's bullish everywhere. "I think every place is the place to be," adding that he thinks the tail risk has been taken out. Tepper says that he's long Japan. ¬† Then, Andrew Ross Sorkin brought up the topic of Bloomberg. Tepper looked confused and said, "What?" ¬†He said he took the Bloomberg app off his phone because it "sucks the life out of it." ¬†We think CNBC wanted him to talk about the Bloomberg Terminal spying story. Then, Tepper talked about where he's putting his money. ¬†His biggest holding is still Citigroup. ¬† He said that tech is cheap, but you have to be careful. ¬† "I don't like bonds long term, but good luck. ¬†Good luck."¬† Again, Tepper is long Japan. ¬†There are folks who think it's going down. ¬†He says, "Stop. Stupidity is running wild." He says they still own their stake in Apple. ¬†They cut a little bit of it, he added. ¬†He said that bought a little bit of the stock below $400. ¬† "I am waiting to hear what they have to say as far as do they have something revolutionary in the horizon or evolutionary...If they don't have something great and fantastic, make a bigger screen for goodness sake." ¬† He said if they don't do either we've got a problem. ¬†"It's like Houston, we have a problem."¬† He told CNBC they have a "small position" in JPMorgan. However, he wouldn't comment on the breaking up of Jamie Dimon's CEO/Chairman role issue. ¬†He said generally speaking that's something they support, but he didn't make that comment particularly for JPMorgan. ¬† He said the housing market is in what feels like "an early stage recovery." "I think the only thing holding it back...is to get the people back in the labor force." ¬†He says it's not going to go back to where it was, nor should it. He brought up "My Cousin Vinny" again for an analogy for the housing market. ¬†Perhaps we should watch that film again. ¬† Tepper, who has one of the best long-term track records, came out earlier this year as being super bullish.¬†He told Bloomberg TV in January that the U.S. was on "the verge of an explosion of greatness." He was the highest paid fund manager last year and his fund was up 30% in 2012.¬†
LiquidSpaceDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics about which he is talking with traders this morning. US Futures starting under pressure early, with SPX off 30bp ‚Äì Weight continues from Europe (We saw or lows prior to the EU close), as the EU Fins off 1% and the DAX trying to recover after a weaker ZEW survey.¬† U.K. stocks were on track to break an eight-day winning streak on Tuesday, with miners adding pressure a metals are under pressure ‚Äì The Nikkei was under pressure as Y102 provides heavy resistance, and continued rotation away from JGB‚Äôs pressed Interest Rate Sensitive stocks lower.¬† China lost 1% as Shanghai Home sales leap 30% - but the KOSPI jumped 1% on bargain hunting and Strength in Autos.¬† No real bounce in the Nifty after the smack yesterday, despite Indian Inflation coming in near 4Y lows.PIIGS Spreads are basically unchanged, while money is flowing into US 10Y as the Yield retreats from 6week highs.¬† Plosser had hawkish comments on the tape ‚Äì He is the main Hawk on the FOMC, so no surprise there, and the weaker ZEW is weighing on ‚Ç¨, as anticipation increases on more action from the ECB ‚Äì this has a bid under the DXY ‚Äì a natural headwind for commodities.¬†¬† Gold is off 50bp on weaker Indian Inflation, but Copper smacked for 2%+ on recent profit taking.¬† The Oil complex is under pressure as IEA posts their medium-term views, and interesting WTI ourperforming Brent despite the conflicting supply views there. ¬†As a reminder, the Tuesday Winning Streak stands at 17 in the DJIA -¬† Headwinds early getting that streak intact ‚Äì we have the Tepper Interview at 7:40 on CNBC, he is chattered to be bearish on Equities today - Tech will be a velocity group today, with JPM‚Äôs TMT Conference kicking off, and Gartner data released on Smartphone adoption (+ve AAPL and Sammy, -ve Nokia)
REUTERS/Rick Wilking Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
enter_Tpc via FlickrOne in every 905 U.S. homes received a foreclosure filing in April, according to the latest foreclosure data from RealtyTrac. Foreclosure filings were down 5% from March, and 23% from a year ago. While national foreclosure activity fell to a six-year low, pockets of America continued to struggle with foreclosures. We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rate. Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate i.e. 1 in every X homes received a foreclosure filing. We picked the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rate from all the metros measured by RealtyTrac.
A¬†new survey of European public opinion¬†shows that the continent‚Äôs financial and employment crises are jeopardizing European integration. In just the last year, overall support for the European Union fell from 60% to 45%, PewResearch‚Äôs Global Attitudes Project found (CR in this chart is the Czech Republic):  And yet, Europeans still prefer the euro to their old national currencies:  What explains this divergence? The poll‚Äôs authors point to a growing wedge between German public opinion and that in the rest of the EU. The French, like the Spaniards, Italians and Greeks, are becoming more pessimistic about the future and more convinced that unemployment is the continent‚Äôs most pressing problem. That is, they‚Äôre splitting off from their creditor, Germany, about the efficacy of Europe‚Äôs political institutions. The fact that public opinion has not, however, turned against the euro itself is no accident. European economic integration is¬†as much a political project¬†concerned with the continent‚Äôs balance of power as it is an exercise in creating an optimal currency union. As Neil Irwin notes in his book on recent financial crises,¬†The Alchemists,¬†the¬†French only supported the reunification of East and West Germany¬†on the condition¬†that Germany join a supranational currency. What these polls imply, then, is that the peripheral economies believe that Germany and the European institutions will feel bound to promote recovery within the framework of the single currency. Put more simply, they are counting on bailouts. The danger, however, is that, as Matthew O‚ÄôBrien warns, ‚Äúthe politics will¬†turn against the common currency¬†long before that.‚Äù On a lighter note, Pew also came up with a revealing chart of European stereotypes. Germany clearly occupies a special place in everyone‚Äôs heart, but our kudos go to Italy as the only country not to pick itself for ‚Äúleast arrogant‚Äù‚Äîand the only one to pick itself as ‚Äúleast trustworthy.‚Äù  More from Quartz: Click here¬†to sign up for¬†the¬†Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with¬†the¬†latest intelligence on¬†the¬†new global economy.
Reuters/ Steve MarcusTOKYO (Reuters) - A New York-based hedge fund with a reputation as an activist investor has proposed that Sony Corp spin off its entertainment division via an IPO, saying the move could boost the Japanese electronics firm's shares by as much as 60 percent. An IPO of Sony Entertainment, which includes one of Hollywood's leading film studios and one of the world's biggest music labels, would generate funds for Sony's electronics business and help reduce its debt held by the electronics company, Third Point said. Third Point, a $13 billion hedge fund founded by billionaire investor Daniel Loeb, said it would put up 150-200 billion yen ($1.5-$2 billion) to support a public offering for Sony Entertainment. The hedge fund, in a letter to Sony Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai, has recommended Sony sell a 15-20 percent stake by offering subscription rights to existing Sony shareholders. "Our plan shifts that paradigm and we believe, if managed properly, it could result in as much as 60 percent upside to Sony's share price," Third Point said in a statement. An official at Sony said its entertainment businesses are important growth contributors and are not for sale. Third Point said it is the largest owner of Sony, holding shares worth 115 billion yen ($1.13 billion). Sony currently has a market value of close to $18.5 billion. Loeb is one of the most closely watched hedge fund managers in the $2.25 trillion industry. His fund is known for building a sizeable position in distressed Greek government bonds last year and investing heavily in Yahoo shares. Third Point's flagship hedge fund gained 1.4 percent in April, pushing returns to 10.5 percent for the year, according to an investor note reviewed by Reuters. ($1 = 101.7450 Japanese yen) (Reporting by Nathan Layne, Emi Emoto and Chikafumi Hodo; Editing by Edwina Gibbs and Ian Geoghegan) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonThe boom in North American energy (primarily related to shale in the U.S. and oil sands in Canada) is one of the biggest stories in the global economy. A new report from The International Energy Agency (IEA) discusses the consequences of the boom in dramatic fashion, arguing that it's as big of a deal for the world oil market as the rise of China was over the last 15 years. The report describes the U.S. supply "shock" that is sending "ripples" throughout the world, affecting every aspect of the market. This chart from the report drives home how significant the expansion of North American supply (dark green bar) will be relative to the growth expected from the rest of the world in the next few years. IEA Here's the key part from the press release announcing the report: The supply shock created by a surge in North American oil production will be as transformative to the market over the next five years as was the rise of Chinese demand over the last 15, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in its annual Medium-Term Oil Market Report (MTOMR) released today. The shift will not only cause oil companies to overhaul their global investment strategies, but also reshape the way oil is transported, stored and refined.¬† According to the MTOMR, the effects of continued growth in North American supply ‚Äì led by U.S. light, tight oil (LTO) and Canadian oil sands ‚Äì will cascade through the global oil market. Although shale oil development outside North America may not be a large-scale reality during the report‚Äôs five-year timeframe, the technologies responsible for the boom will increase production from mature, conventional fields ‚Äì causing companies to reconsider investments in higher-risk areas.¬† In virtually every other aspect of the market, developing economies are in the driver‚Äôs seat. This quarter, for the first time, non-OECD economies will overtake OECD nations in oil demand. At the same time, massive refinery capacity increases in non-OECD economies are accelerating a broad restructuring of the global refining industry and oil trading patterns. European refiners will see no let-up from the squeeze caused by increasing U.S. product exports and the new Asian and Middle Eastern refining titans.¬† ‚ÄúNorth America has set off a supply shock that is sending ripples throughout the world,‚Äù said IEA Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven, who launched the report at the Platts Crude Oil Summit in London. ‚ÄúThe good news is that this is helping to ease a market that was relatively tight for several years. The technology that unlocked the bonanza in places like North Dakota can and will be applied elsewhere, potentially leading to a broad reassessment of reserves. But as companies rethink their strategies, and as emerging economies become the leading players in the refining and demand sectors, not everyone will be a winner.‚Äù¬† While geopolitical risks abound, market fundamentals suggest a more comfortable global oil supply/demand balance over the next five years. The MTOMR forecasts North American supply to grow by 3.9 million barrels per day (mb/d) from 2012 to 2018, or nearly two-thirds of total forecast non-OPEC supply growth of 6 mb/d. World liquid production capacity is expected to grow by 8.4 mb/d ‚Äì significantly faster than demand ‚Äì which is projected to expand by 6.9 mb/d. Global refining capacity will post even steeper growth, surging by 9.5 mb/d, led by China and the Middle East. For the full report from the IEA, see here &gt;
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Pretty soon, the entire world may have to take notice of the anti-EU/anti-immigration/populist UK party called UKIP, which just did awesome in recent regional elections. A new poll from the Guardian has support for the party surging to a record high. Ukip's 18% is the best it has achieved with any pollster in any of the surveys logged at UK Polling Report. It is all the more remarkable for ICM, whose careful adjustments for voters who decline to reveal their political preference smooths out the wilder fluctuations of the electoral cycle. The Tories are plumbing depths they have not experienced in more than a decade ñ barring a single month in 2002, they have not fallen below 28% since Tony Blair's political honeymoon in 1997-98. The Liberal Democrats, which typically fare better with ICM than other pollsters, have not fallen below today's 11% in the series since September of 1997, the immediate aftermath of Blair's first victory. The rise of UKIP follows the rise of other parties that are rejecting the status quo across the Eurozone. Previously it was the strong showing in Italy by Beppe Grillo's 5-Star Movement that rocked the world. None of this is too surprising given that attitudes in a new poll shows support for the European Project crumbling, especially in the last year. Via Order-Order.
BHP BillitonMore evidence that the mining/commodity boom has crested. The new CEO of global mining giant BHP Billiton, Andrew Mackenzie, tells WSJ that he plans to cut investment spending "quite significantly" and be more diligent about returning cash to shareholders. That BHP had plans to cut capital expenditures was known, however the interview sheds some light on the company's strategy. "If a project, geography or commodity doesn't offer the right returns we will redirect our capital elsewhere or we simply won't invest. That will obviously create an opportunity to have more capital returned to shareholders and that is the balance that I'm very concerned to get right," he said from Spain ahead of a presentation at a mining conference Tuesday. As for what BHP will be investing in: Future investment will target four pillars: petroleum, copper, iron ore, and steelmaking metallurgical coal. BHP is still considering a fifth pillar and has yet to decide whether to proceed with the $10 billion-plus Jansen potash mining project in Canada, Mr. Mackenzie said. BHP became a large U.S. shale oil and gas player with the acquisition of almost $17 billion of producing and exploration assets in 2011, but a year later said it was writing down the value of part of the business by $2.84 billion due to slumping U.S. natural gas prices. Mr. Mackenzie said shale business remains a strong contender for BHP's reduced investment going forward. As it is, the end of the commodity super-cycle has caused a big spike in bearishness towards the aussie dollar, which is increasingly become a big short target. The fact that BHP's next big areas are potash (in Canada) and shale (in the US) underline that the natural resource center of gravity is moving slightly west.
Earlier we reported on a new Pew Global study which shows deepening pessimism about the economy and negativity towards the European Project across Europe, a side effect of the horrible economic situation emanating from the Eurozone crisis. But while depression and anger is the rule, there's one exception: Germany. It is stunning the divergent paths between Germans and virtually everyone else in the EU. These two charts really drive it home. They show that German economic positivity has grown a lot in recent years, and that German approval of various institutions and leaders remains high. Pew Pew For Germany, the status quo is just great.
Flickr / McD22It's another quiet morning, but just as with yesterday, markets have begun to the downside. In Asia, Japan had a rare day where it didn't surge 1% or more (it ended about flat) and China lost 1.1%. In Europe, Italy is off 0.5%. And Germany is off 0.28%. US futures are a hair lower. Today is the one day this week when there isn't any economic data. Instead people will be watching David Tepper's appearnace on CNBC's Squawk Box. His appearances on the show are fairly legendary, as he's made some big market-moving calls there in the past.
