Mario Tama / GettyA reveler smokes at the 2008 Mermaid Parade.The 31st Annual Coney Island Mermaid Parade will kick off at 1 PM on Saturday†with more nipple tassels, body paint, and elaborate mermaid tails than ever.† This year's parade was in jeopardy after damage costs from Superstorm Sandy left organizers scrambling for parade funds, but†a successful Kickstarter campaign raised $115,000 for the show to go on. The ocean-themed celebration is the largest art parade in the world, with thousands of participants flocking to Brooklyn each year to march through the streets in their finest and most scandalous Mermaid attire. This year†parade organizers expect more than 750,000 spectators†ó record numbers ó to line the parade route.
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke speaks to the press following the Fed's two-day policy meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington, June 19, 2013. Stocks, bonds, commodities, and currencies around the world have been going totally crazy ever since Wednesday when Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke suggested that the Fed could begin to taper, or scale back, its stimulative monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. However, his statement had a lot of conditions attached to it. Unfortunately, people have already begun to put words into the Chairman's mouth.† So before any more misinformation is spread, here's word-for-word exactly what he said before and after he laid out a timeline for the taper (emphasis added to the only part people seem to cite): ...Although the Committee left the pace of purchases unchanged at today's meeting, it has stated that it may vary the pace of purchases as economic conditions evolve. Any such change will reflect the incoming data and their implications for the outlook, as well as the cumulative progress made toward the Committee's objectives since the program began in September. Going forward, the economic outcomes that the Committee sees as most likely involve continuing gains in labor markets, supported by moderate growth that picks up over the next several quarters as the near-term restraint from fiscal policy and other headwinds diminishes. We also see inflation moving back toward our 2 percent objective over time. If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year; and if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear. In this scenario, when asset purchases ultimately come to an end, the unemployment rate would likely be in the vicinity of 7 percent, with solid economic growth supporting further job gains, a substantial improvement from the 8.1 percent unemployment rate that prevailed when the Committee announced this program. I would like to emphasize once more the point that our policy is in no way predetermined and will depend on the incoming data and the evolution of the outlook, as well as on the cumulative progress toward our objectives. If conditions improve faster than expected, the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat more quickly. If the outlook becomes less favorable, on the other hand, or if financial conditions are judged to be inconsistent with further progress in the labor markets, reductions in the pace of purchases could be delayed; indeed, should it be needed, the Committee would be prepared to employ all of its tools, including an increase in the pace of purchases for a time, to promote a return to maximum employment in a context of price stability. It's also worth noting here that, even if a modest reduction in the pace of asset purchases occurs, we would not be shrinking the Federal Reserve's portfolio of securities but only slowing the pace at which we are adding to the portfolio, while continuing to reinvest principal payments and proceeds from maturing holdings as well. These large and growing holdings will continue to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates. To use the analogy of driving an automobile, any slowing in the pace of purchases will be a kin to letting up a bit on the gas pedal as the car picks up speed, not to beginning to apply the brakes. I will close by drawing again the important distinction between the Committee's decisions about adjusting the pace of asset purchases and its forward guidance regarding the target for the federal funds rate. As I mentioned, the current level of the federal funds rate target is likely to remain appropriate for a considerable period after asset purchases are concluded. To return to the driving analogy, if the incoming data support the view that the economy is able to sustain a reasonable cruising speed, we will ease the pressure on the accelerator by gradually reducing the pace of purchases. However, any need to consider applying the brakes by raising short-term rates is still far in the future. In any case, no matter how conditions may evolve, the Federal Reserve remains committed to fostering substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market in a context of price stability. Perhaps the most important thing he said here was: ...I would like to emphasize once more the point that our policy is in no way predetermined and will depend on the incoming data and the evolution of the outlook... In other words, any forecasts Bernanke makes is subject to error and revisions. Here's a link to the whole transcript: †http://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20130619.pdf
screengrab from Top Gun"I was inverted." For those of you trying to make sense of this week's financial market turmoil, Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart has an analogy for you. On September 6, 1970, two hijackers attempted to take control of El Al flight 216 from Amsterdam to NY not long after takeoff. The pilot knew that all the passengers and crew were strapped in, except for the hostage- takers moving up and down the aisles, and that there were two armed air marshals on board. He put his Boeing 707 in a deep dive followed by an equally sharp climbóa ìnegative-G pushover.î This toppled the hijackers back, first to the ceiling and then to the floor of the plane, stunning them. The air marshals took over from there. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke attempted the same maneuver on Wednesday with the hurtling piece of machinery known as the global financial market. He may not have been as deft in execution, the machinery is not as structurally sound as a Boeing 707, and far fewer passengers were strapped in. But the tension of the moment is as compelling for investors this week as for passengers on that flight, as was the confusion among both about the pilotís plan. On Wednesday, Bernanke said that the Fed could begin to taper, or scale back, its stimulative quantitative easing plan.† A number of experts warned ahead of time that these types of comments would bring volatility to the financial markets. But others deemed it a calculated risk, as it was probably better for the Fed to give the markets as much of a heads up before it would actually execute such tapering.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 Things Every Bond Investor Needs To Know (Charles Schwab) Bond funds have recently been awash with redemptions. And recent signals from global central banks have created a rout in markets and U.S. Treasury yields have climbed over 50 basis points since May. In this environment Kathy Jones, Rob Williams and Collin Martin of Charles Schwab write that there a few things bond investors need to know.¬† 1. "Tapering is not tightening, and the Fed may not change policy until later this year, but an increase in interest rates is warranted on the prospects of less QE down the road." 2. "Riskier assets are being repriced." 3. "Markets may be overreacting, but breaking up is hard to do." Investors reaching for yield often end up having to liquidate their positions in the early stage of a shift to higher rates. 4. There are opportunities in higher yields. 5. Go over your fixed income portfolio to make sure that the bonds you own match up to your investment goals.  Abnormal Returns Crowdsources A Summer Reading List For You (Abnormal Returns)  Abnormal Returns reached out to some independent finance bloggers and asked them for some good financial books they read in the past year. Here are some of the bloggers and their recommendations.¬† Here are five books that Robert Seawright of Above the Market recommended. 1. Forecast by Mark Buchanan 2. The Storytelling Animal: How Stories Make Us Human by Jonathan Gottschall 3. Investing: The Last Liberal Art byRobert G. Hagstrom 4. The Signal and the Noise by Nate Silver 5. The Success Equation: Untangling Skill and Luck in Business, Sports, and Investing by Michael J Mauboussin. Find the complete list at Abnormal Returns.  The Most Important Chart In The World According To Aswath Damodaran (Business Insider) Business Insider reached out to some of Wall Street's brightest for their most important charts. NYU professor Aswath Damodaran sent over a chart of equity risk premiums in the U.S. "My point is a simple one. Stocks looks reasonably priced only because the treasury bond rate is at historic lows. If the Fed loses its ability to con markets into keeping rates low (and it is a con game), stocks have nowhere to go but down. (For those who are skeptical, look at Japan)." Business Insider FINRA Will Conduct More Background Checks On Arbitrators (The Wall Street Journal)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) will conduct more background checks on arbitrators, according to The Wall Street Journal. This comes after a lawsuit alleging that arbitrator Demetrio Timban, who presided over a dispute brought by Athena Venture Partners against Goldman Sachs, had been indicted in New Jersey for practicing law without a license.¬† FINRA previously only conducted a background checks on arbitrators when they first applied, now arbitrators will be subject to annual checks.  Treasury Bonds No Longer Provide A Hedge To The Stocks In Your Portfolio (Walter Kurtz) "The last time short term correlation between treasuries and US equities turned positive was at the beginning of Fed's QE2 in 2010. At the time both equities and treasuries rallied in anticipation of the new stimulus," writes Walter Kurtz of Sober Look. "Now we are back to positive correlation, except this time the reverse is taking place (at least in terms of expectations). Treasuries no longer provide the hedge for equities portfolios that the markets have become accustomed to (see discussion). It may take another crisis to send the correlation back into negative territory."
By:† Peter Schiff Friday, June 21, 2013 As usual the Federal Reserve media reaction machine has fallen for a poorly executed head fake. It has fallen for this move many times in the past, and for its efforts, it has tackled nothing but air. Yet right on cue, it took the bait once more. Somehow the takeaway from Wednesday's release of the June Fed statement and Chairman Ben Bernanke's press conference was that the central bank is likely to begin scaling back, or "tapering," its $85 billion per month quantitative easing program sometime later this year, and that the program may be completely wound down by the middle of next year. Although this scenario is about as likely as an NSA-sponsored ticker tape parade for whistle blower Edward Snowden, all of the market segments reacted as if it were a fait accompli. The stock market - convinced that it will lose the support of ultra-low, long-term interest rates and the added consumer spending that results from a nascent housing bubble - sold off in triple digits. The bond market, sensing that its biggest and busiest customer will be exiting the market, followed a similarly negative trajectory. The sell-off in government and corporate debt pushed yields up to 21 month highs. In foreign exchange markets, the dollar rallied off its four-month lows based on the belief that Fed tightening will support the currency. And lastly, the gold market, sensing that an end of quantitative easing would eliminate the inflationary fears that have partially fueled gold's spectacular rise, sold off nearly five percent to a new two-and-a-half year low. † All of this came as a result of Bernanke's mild commitments to begin easing back on permanent QE sometime later this year if the economy continued to improve the way he expected. The chairman did not really elaborate on what types of improvements he had seen, or how much farther those unidentified trends would need to go before he would finally pull the trigger. He was however careful to point out that any policy shift, be it for less or more quantitative easing, would not be dependent on incoming data, but on the Fed's interpretation of that data. By stressing repeatedly that its data goalposts were "thresholds rather than triggers," the chairman gained further latitude to pursue any stance the Fed chooses regardless of the data.† † Yet the mere and obvious mention that tapering was even possible, combined with the chairman's fairly sunny disposition (perhaps caused by the realization that the real mess will likely be his successor's problem to clean up), was enough to convince the market that the post-QE world was at hand. This conclusion is wrong.††† †  Although many haven't yet realized it, the financial markets are stuck in a "Waiting for Godot" era in which the change in policy that all are straining to see will never in fact arrive. Most fail to grasp the degree to which the "recovery" will stall without the $85 billion per month that the Fed is currently pumping into the economy. † What exactly has convinced the Fed that the economy is improving? From what I can tell, the evidence centered on the rise in stock and real estate prices, and the confidence and spending that follow as a result of the wealth effect. But inflated asset prices are completely dependent on QE and are likely to reverse course even before it is removed. And while it is painfully clear that expectations about QE continuance have made a far bigger impact on the stock, bond, and real estate markets than any other economic data points, many must be assuming that this dependency will soon end. † Those who hold this belief have naively described QE as the economy's "training wheels." (In reality the program is currently our only wheels.) They are convinced that the kindling of QE will inevitably ignite a fire in the larger economy. But the big lumber is still too dampened by debt, government spending, regulation, and high asset prices to catch fire - all we have gotten is smoke instead. A few mirrors supplied by the Fed merely completed the illusion. The larger problem of course is that even though the stimulus is the only wheels, the Fed must remove them anyways as we are cycling toward the edge of a cliff.† † Although Bernanke dodged the question in his press conference, the Fed has broken the normal market for mortgage backed securities. While it's true that the Fed only owns 14% of all outstanding MBS (the "small fraction" he referred to in the press conference), it is by far the largest purchaser of newly issued mortgage debt. What would happen to the market if the Fed were no longer buying? There are no longer enough private buyers to soak up the issuance. Those who do remain would certainly expect higher yields if the option of selling to the Fed was no longer on the table. Put bluntly, the Fed is the market right now and has been for years. † A clear-eyed look at the likely consequences of a pull-back in QE should cause an abandonment of the optimistic assumptions behind the Fed's forecast. Interest rates are already rising rapidly based simply on the expectation of tapering. Imagine how high rates would go if the Fed actually tried to sell some of the mortgages it already owns. But the fact is the mere anticipation of such an event has already sent mortgage rates north of 4%, and without a lifeline from the Fed in the form of more QE, those rates will soon exceed 5%. This increase will greatly impact the housing market. Speculative buyers who have lifted the market will become sellers. More foreclosure will hit the market, just as higher home prices and mortgage rates price any remaining legitimate buyers out of the market. Housing prices will fall to new post bubble lows, sinking the phony recovery in the process. The wealth effect will work in reverse: spending and confidence will fall, unemployment will rise, and we will be back in recession even before the Fed begins to taper. † In fact, the rise in mortgage rates seen over the last month has already produced pain in the financial world, with banks reporting a rapid decline in refinancing applications. By the time rates hit 5%, the current rally in real estate will have screeched to a halt. With personal income and wage growth essentially stagnant, individual buyers are extremely dependent on the affordability allowed by ultra-low rates. A near 50% increase in mortgage rates, which would result from an increase in rates from 3.25% to 5.0%, would price a great many buyers out of the market. Higher rates would also cool much of the housing demand that has been coming from the private equity funds that have been a factor in pushing up real estate prices in recent years. Falling home prices would likely trigger a new wave of defaults and housing related bankruptcies that plunged the economy into recession five years ago. ††††††† A similar dynamic would occur in the market for U.S. Treasury debt. Despite Bernanke's assurances that the Fed is not monetizing the government's debt, the central bank has been buying nearly 70% of the new issuance in recent years. Already, rates on 10-year treasury debt have creeped up by more than 50% in less than two months to over 2.5%. Any actual decrease or cessation in buying - let alone the selling that would be needed to unwind the Fed's multi-trillion dollar balance sheet - would place the Treasury market under extreme pressure. Since low rates are the life blood of our borrow and spend economy, it is highly likely that higher rates will lead directly to lower stock prices, lower GDP growth, and higher unemployment. Since rising asset prices and the confidence and spending they produce is the basis for Bernanke's rosy forecast, new lows in house prices and a bear market in stocks will likely reverse those forecasts on a dime.† † Lost on almost everyone is the effect higher interest rates and a slowing economy will have on federal budget deficits. As unemployment rises, tax revenues will fall and expenditures will rise. In addition, rising rates will not only make it more expensive for the Fed to finance larger deficits, it will also make it more expensive to refinance maturing debts.†Furthermore, the profit checks Fannie and Freddie have been paying the Treasury will turn into bills for losses, as a new wave of foreclosures comes tumbling in.† † It's fascinating how the goal posts have moved quickly on the Fed's playing field. Months ago the conversation focused on the "exit strategy" it would use to unwind the trillions in bonds and mortgages that it had accumulated over the last few years. Despite apparent improvements in the economy, those discussions have given way to the more modest expectations for the "tapering" of QE. I believe that we should really be expecting a "tapering" of the tapering conversations. † As a result, I expect that the Fed will continue to pantomime that an eventual Exit Strategy is preparing for a grand entrance, even as their timeline and decision criteria become ever more ambiguous. In truth, I believe that the Fed's next big announcement will be to increase, not diminish QE. After all, Bernanke made clear in his press conference that if the economy does not perform up to his expectations, he will simply do more of what has already failed.† † Of course, when the Fed is forced to make this concession, it should be obvious to a critical mass that the recovery is a sham. Investors will realize that years of QE have only exacerbated the problems it was meant to solve. When the grim reality of QE infinity sets in, the dollar will drop, gold will climb, and the real crash will finally be upon us. Buckle up.† This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ª
AP PhotoThere are three types of "geniuses" in the world ó†and we just can't figure out how to employ them. That's according to Dave Logan, who wrote about why geniuses don't have jobs for CBS Moneywatch. We often spurn geniuses in the corporate setting because, apart from their raw brainpower, geniuses can be unprofessional, stubborn, and generally difficult to be around. Logan breaks it down the three types: The first type -- let's call them "gregarious geniuses" -- have an opinion about everything and don't suffer fools (and there are lots of fools in management, so they are often the power structure in companies).†And in some area, they have clarity that lets them see through steel. I know gregarious geniuses that can spot a company's strategic flaw so quickly that you wonder if they've been hacking the executives' emails. And their presentation of the problem implies that everyone involved in setting the initial strategy is an idiot and we should bring back the rack as the only legitimate method of punishment for such epic stupidity. ... The second category is the "isolated genius."†They are at the opposite end of the extroversion continuum, choosing to say so little, making people wonder if they can actually talk. They are usually attracted to technical problems. They don't like teams, and they would rather do work than report on status. When they talk, they do so like an encyclopedia conveys information. Emails get no response or one-word answers. ... The third type is the "unpredictable genius."†A less kind word would be "unstable." On their good days, they seem like ideal executives -- able to take lots of views into account, plot the best course forward, and exude so much energy, the lights are brighter when they're in the room. On their bad days, they are moody, unresponsive, slow, and pessimistic. But we all need geniuses on our team. After all, even a sociopath can bring in major revenue. Logan says we need to have a better idea of how to manage geniuses by 1) having conversations about the ground rules and never giving geniuses a free pass and 2) setting clear development goals.

Getty Images / Stringer After a brutal two-day global market sell-off, we finally got a modest up day.† With little market-moving news, today's rally could be characterized as a "dead cat bounce." First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Heads up: it's been a crazy week for U.S. Treasuries ‚Äì the bonds have sold off substantially since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's Wednesday press conference¬†‚Äì and yields are rising again today. Right now, the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is 2.53%, 11 basis points higher from yesterday's close. Before Bernanke, it was at 2.21%. The bonds are making new lows in the final minutes of trading this week. The chart below shows 10-year Treasury futures today. Thinkorswim
We recently brought you the following chart from the Brewer's Association, the industry group for craft breweries, showing the growth of beer since 1887. If you're a beer aficionado, you have to love seeing the big comeback in the number of breweries there are. Brewers Association But that's not the only chart that beer drinkers will love. The Brewer's Association has shared more of their data, and there's a ton of cool stuff in there. Here are 9 more charts beer drinkers will love... Brewer's Association Brewer's Association Brewer's Association Brewer's Association Brewer's Association Brewer's Association ¬† Brewer's Association Brewer's Association Barth-Haas Group
With China‚Äôs credit-to-GDP ratio over 200%, it appears, as Barclays notes, that the PBoC is acting in line with the government‚Äôs efforts to deleverage, rebalance and position the economy towards a path for sustainable growth. Though they expect that the PBoC is likely to stabilize the interbank market in the near term (perhaps by more of the same 'isolated' cash injections), short-term rates are likely to remain elevated, at least for a while, possibly leading to the failing of some smaller financial institutions. With the small- and medium-sized banks having grown considerably quicker than the larger banks, having been more aggressive on interbank business (i.e. alternative channels to get around lending constraints), the following banks are at most risk of major disturbance of the funding markets remain stressed leaving the potential for retail bank runs or greater fragmentation in the commercial bank market. Via Barclays: A tipping point The current liquidity squeeze has roots in a gradual tightening of liquidity in the banking system earlier in the year, but the tipping point was the abrupt drop in FX inflows in May (and likely in June) precipitated by the global unwind of the carry trade and the crackdown on unauthorised FX inflows by Chinese authorities. As the level of excess reserves dropped, banks started to hoard cash, in our view. Unlike the recent past, the PBoC has not injected funds into the system through reverse repos. On the contrary, by issuing small amounts of bills this week, the bank has signalled its tolerance for the deleveraging process that ensued. Based on our projections, we do not think the liquidity situation will improve in the coming weeks barring strong FX inflows, which we think are very unlikely in the current environment. The distress in China‚Äôs fixed income markets is palpable. In the absence of prompt policy action, we expect the sell-off in rates to spread to bonds and other fixed income markets. The market will clear over time, but not before a significant level of deleveraging, in our view. The rout in the fixed income market started at the end of May and accelerated after the three-day Dragon Boat Day holiday (10-12 June), as liquidity conditions did not ease. We think a confluence of several factors has created the tension in the funding market, which has now spilled over into bonds and equities, in our view. The following sequence of events played a role, in our view: The growth rates of small and medium-sized banks were faster than the large banks (the ‚Äúbig 4‚Äù banks). Moreover, they have higher interbank assets as a percentage of total assets than the big banks. We believe this was mainly because: 1) the small and medium-sized banks were more aggressive on interbank business, which was used as an alternative lending channel to get around the lending quota, and LDR and capital constraints; and 2) they are more dependent on interbank funding to support their business growth. ¬† In particular, we believe some mid-sized banks, such as Minsheng Bank and Industrial Bank, are using credit risk product-based (such as, discounted bills and Trust Beneficiary Rights [TBRs]) reverse repos and repos to arbitrage regulatory requirements. Such assets, which we believe have a much higher default risk than bonds-based reverse repos/repos, grew rapidly at these banks over the past two years.  Minsheng‚Äôs reverse repo under discounted bills increased 376% y/y in 2012 and Industrial Bank‚Äôs reverse repo under discounted bills and TBR increased 61% y/y in 2012.  ¬† In our view, the regulators are more likely to tighten these products in future. ¬† Source: Barclays
Flickr / dekstopBitcoin exchange Mt. Gox has released a follow-up statement explaining why they've suspended U.S. dollar withdrawals. The reason is that their new, unnamed banks are having difficulty processing the volume of orders Mt. Gox now takes in for the digital currency. This was further complicated by Bitcoin's Wells Fargo getting frozen last month: The pressure we brought onto the bankís resources finally gave in, and we are now working with them to find an alternative method (hence the suspension). We would have preferred to give notice if we were able to, but it was sudden for us as well. They also ask for sympathy from Bitcoin users: Mt. Gox is certainly not a martyr, but it would be hard to argue that we arenít "taking one for the team" as far as Bitcoin is concerned. We are a big target, and are absorbing the frustrations of Bitcoiners, regulators, banks, and a media that still doesn't quite understand what Bitcoin is. This is a job we are happy to fill, and not just because we are compensated for it. Our hope is that, once Bitcoin finds its place, we will be able to say that we made a difference in sorting it all out in the early days. New exchanges, business models, merchants, traders, and consumers †are rising up to innovate and create a whole new way of doing business. A lot of lawyers are getting new cars in the meantime too. The site says it hopes to restarts debit next month.
The stock market is jumping this afternoon: the Dow is now up 100 points, or 0.7% today. Apparently Jon Hilsenrath, the ace Federal Reserve reporter at the Wall Street Journal who many view as a Fed mouthpiece, has a new piece on deck arguing that dovish signals from the FOMC monetary policy meeting on Wednesday were overlooked. RT @wsjmarkets: *WSJ's HILSENRATH - Analysis: Markets Might Be Misreading The Fed's Messages RT @wsjmarkets: *WSJ's HILSENRATH: Analysis: Overlooked 'Dovish' Signals In Bernanke Press Conference A few minutes before the WSJ Hilsenrath tweets, MNI's Fed reporter, Steven Beckner, sent a few headlines across newswires. The MNI headlines said that sources at the Fed were not shocked by the market's reaction to the tapering signal given by the central bank on Wednesday, but that lasting losses in stocks and rising yields could end up being harmful. The sources at the Fed said the central bank should delay tapering if worse financial conditions hurt the economy. Speculative stuff, and anonymous sources ‚Äì but markets are moving. Nonetheless, the bond market is getting smacked to close out the week.
House of CardsThe Conference Board ‚Äî¬†a group that produces a leading consumer-confidence survey¬†‚Äî will suspend its practice of letting journalists have a half hour sneak peek¬†of its report out of fears the information could slip early to traders, the Wall Street Journal reports. The group had given a head start to a cadre of reporters so they could prepare their stories, a fairly typical media practice. Now The Conference Board will just publish its consumer-confidence numbers on its website and send out a news release when the report goes live. From the Journal: The advent of high-speed computerized trading has pushed investors to seek market-moving information a fraction of a second before their competitors. To meet this demand, many media organizations, including Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones &amp; Co., have set up systems to feed data directly into traders' computers, allowing elite investors to trade on the information ahead of the broader public. That development, combined with recent instances of suspicious trading ahead of media embargoes, has prompted a broad re-evaluation of how this data is disseminated. The decision comes in the wake of a recent CNBC report that¬†Thomson Reuters had released information¬†from a University of Michigan consumer confidence survey two seconds early to traders willing to pay a fee. "We basically became concerned that while it might be perfectly legal to monetize the data in certain ways, that it could contribute to the perception that the playing field wasn't level," The Conference Board's president Jon Spector told the Journal. Read the full report from the Wall Street Journal&gt;
Last week we wrote that Bernanke could not be happy with the way long bond rates reacted to his press conference answer that the Fed could begin lessening its rate of bond purchases in the next few months, and that he would attempt to sooth the market in yesterdayís press conference following the FOMC meeting.† Well, he tried, but ended up making things worse, at least in the perception of the markets.† The Chairman attempted to allay fears by setting specific dates and economic parameters for reducing and eventually eliminating the latest bond purchase program that, until recently, was assumed by the market to be open-ended.† He further took pains to assure the markets that just reducing the amount of purchases was not the same as tightening and that the fed funds rate would not likely be increased before early in 2015.† He also assured one and all that the decisions would still be data-dependent, and subject to adjustment. Investors, however, took what Bernanke apparently thought was increased clarity to mean greater hawkishness, and, as a result, bond yields soared as stocks tanked.† In addition the markets gave far greater importance to the potential reduction of bond purchases, whereas the Fed attached greater significance to the continuing expansion of their balance sheet.† (On a separate topic, we also donít want to overlook the financial and economic turmoil in China as an important contributing factor to the market drop.† Weíll have more to say on that in upcoming comments.) That said, there are some puzzling aspects to the reasons Bernanke gave for cutting the program.† Although he referred to an ìimprovingî economy, the Fed slightly reduced its 2013 GDP forecast range.† The more optimistic outlook was actually based on its forecast for 2014, which is still over six months away and, therefore, more speculative, particularly in view of the Fedís poor forecasting record.† In each of the last three years the Fed forecast a strong second half economy, and each time their prediction fell short.† Indeed, both QE1 and QE2 were stopped, but had to be restarted again with the current program. In our view, economic growth is not improving as the Fed and many others appear to believe.† The Fedís 2014 economic forecast seems to us as highly optimistic and is unlikely to be met.† In that case the FOMC reduction of the pace of bond purchases may be started much later than they are currently projecting.† The Fedís reduction of its inflation forecast also lends credence to our belief that QE may go on for longer than the Fed is indicating.† Growth has been tepid throughout the recovery and, if anything seems to be decelerating.† When asked where the improvement is, most observers cite housing and autos.† While housing has improved for now, vehicle sales have been flat since November, and major segments of the economy such as consumer spending, disposable income, production, employment and capital spending, are still in the doldrums. The belief that economic growth is improving is not supported by the numbers. For the four quarters ending March 31st GDP grew by 1.8%, within the range of growth since the first quarter of 2010.† The second quarter is expected to come in at slightly under 2%, continuing the sluggish pattern.† Consumer expenditures for the year ended April 30th were up only 2.1% on a disposable income increase of only 1.1%, as the savings rate declined from 3.5% to 2.5%.† Since April 2010, consumers have had to reduce their savings rate from 5.3% to 2.5%, just to maintain a tepid rise in spending.† The savings rate is almost down to where it was in 2007, meaning consumers will have to depend increasingly on income that is barely rising. Job growth is also weaker than many believe.† The three-month moving average of payroll employment is 155,000, the weakest of any moving three-month period since October.† Both the 4-week and 8-week average of new weekly unemployment claims have moved up, while wages and hours were flat in the latest reporting period.† Growth in durable goods orders is†also decelerating.† Year-to-year gains in the period ended April 30th were 2.4%, compared to 7.6% last year and 7.9% two years ago.† May industrial production rose only 1.6% over a year, a significant drop from the 4.5% in May 2012. All in all, we believe that economic growth will be too slow for the Fed to reduce QE as early as Bernanke indicated in his press conference, and that the low rate of inflation supports this view.† However, a delay in slowing down the bond purchase rate is not likely to help the market as a deteriorating rate of economic growth along with lower earnings expectations and the threat of deflation is consistent with a falling market.† In our view, the market top has been made and an imminent bear market is in store.
ETFs have become Wall Street's way of buying the world. You want exposure to Indonesia? Boom! Here's a basket of Indonesian companies. How about homebuilders? Here's a basket of companies in that industry down to the guys that make the mattresses in your bedroom. So naturally investors have bought into emerging market darling Brazil, but in the midst of this week's chaotic protests, those investors have been taking a serious beating. Over the last 5 days, the iShares MSCI Brazil Capped Index (EWZ) is down 9.4% (22% year to date). You can see on the chart that things truly got ugly when the protests started a few days ago, but it's also important to keep in mind that ETFs have gotten swept up in the bond selloff that's taken hold of the market since Bernanke spoke this week. Yahoo Finance It's a double whammy, and things are just ugly. Another thing to know here is that EWZ is really heavy on 2 stocks (they make up 26% of its weight). Those stocks are Vale and Petrobras. Both have been having a really nasty year which has been exacerbated exponentially by this week's demonstrations. First up, Vale, the world's largest iron ore producer. The stock is down 36.67% year to date and over the last five days has fallen 5.4% in the last five days. That isn't just because of what's going on in Brazil either. Vale has a ton of exposure to China, and the slow down we've seen there is also taking its toll on the stock. On to Petrobras, Brazil's state oil producer. The stock is down 13% over the last five days, and year to date it has fallen 28%. Wall Street's perma-bear, Jim Chanos, has made a short argument for both these stocks ó Vale, of course, has exposure to his most famous short, China. Petrobras, on the other hand is slightly more complicated. Chanos said at last year's London Ira Sohn Investment conference that the government's suppression of oil prices was suffocating Petrobras' profitability. Basically, someone's got to pay for all that expensive drilling and equipment... or as Chanos put it at the conference, ìPeople worried that Lula was a socialist, well, Dilma is a socialist." Of course, there have been some big time funds on the other side of this trade ó most notably, the biggest hedge fund in the world, Ray Dalio's Bridgewater. According to government filings the firm owned 2.8 million shares of EWZ earlier this year, but it seems even he's getting out. Now Bridgwater only holds about 21,000 shares ó chump change for a hedge fund of its size. We'll write about good news later.
Dylan Ratigan has had a long and interesting career in media. He was the Global Managing Editor for Corporate Finance at Bloomberg, he helped develop CNBC's Fast Money and Closing Bell. Most recently he was the host of his own, The Dylan Ratigan Show. And then a year ago Ratigan left it all to work on a veterans job initiative. But when Ratigan was just starting out he got his first lucky break while smoking cigarettes with Susan Bloomberg (yes, that's Mayor Bloomberg's ex-wife)... Produced by Business Insider Video
Oil prices are way down today. Brent prices were off -1.9% to $100.27, while West Texas Intermediate declined -2.0% to $93.27. Citi's Timothy Evans notes the US dollar index is 0.5% higher today, which has sparked more risk-off trade flows many commodity markets including oil.¬† "The price weakness in oil, particularly in contrast with the performance of the equity market, helps call attention to these weak physical fundamentals that have long been ignored," he writes. Plus, he says, the market remains oversupplied, especially in the U.S. FinViz
Bloomberg has launched an amazing web app that allows users to rank countries by gasoline prices. "The average price of a gallon of gas in the U.S. is $3.52 but that's chump change compared to Turkey, where it's $9.98 a gallon, or $9.97 in Norway, with The Netherlands a distant third at $8.95," Bloomberg rankings deputy leader Mary Lowengard said in a release. "In fact, the U.S. ranks 51st out of the 60 countries in terms of the cost of a gallon of gas, putting in perspective that $65 you had to shell out." The tool lets you rank countries according to average price of a gallon (which you can also view in liters), the percent of a day's wages that it would take to buy that gallon, and the percent of annual income spent at the pump. It reveals that the Netherlands has the highest overall gas prices, but that wage earners in India have to shell out most for it. Each country's situation is laid out by reporter Tom Randall. Bloomberg says it hopes to produce a version exclusively for U.S. states. Here's a screenshot of the tool: Bloomberg
Earlier this week, bond god Jeff Gundlach made a big call on the 10-year. From Barron's, here's what Gundlach said on CNBC: It seems that everything gets indigestion when bond yields get above 2.20. If bond yields fall, I think its initially positive for stocks‚Ä¶. If you from 2 to 2.50, bond investors can lose 4%, but you lose less if you shorten your duration‚Ä¶. I really do not think you‚Äôre going to see 2.50 on the ten-year any time in 2013‚Ä¶.¬†I don‚Äôt think we‚Äôre going to see bond yields return to 1.38% again. Welp, that did not turn out to be correct. BREAKING: Treasury 10-year yield rises to 2.5% for first time since 2011
screengrab via YouTube"...and like that: he's gone." After two huge stock market sell-offs, some traders were speculating that we could see a "dead cat bounce" today. But so far, the bounce has been pretty unremarkable. After trading up 100 points at the open, the Dow has lost all of its gains. All three major stock market benchmarks have gone into the red. Recent volatility in the markets appeared to be triggered on Wednesday afternoon when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested that the Fed could soon begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its extraordinary stimulative bond-buying program, aka quantitative easing. For those who missed it, here are Bernanke's exact words: "Going forward, the economic outcomes that the Committee sees as most likely involve continuing gains in labor markets, supported by moderate growth that picks up over the next several quarters as the near-term restraint from fiscal policy and other headwinds diminishes. We also see inflation moving back toward our 2 percent objective over time. If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year; and if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear." These comments were immediately followed by a surge in interest rates and a collapse in the stock markets, two trends which appear to be continuing into today. The 10-year Treasury yield is currently at 2.5%, the highest levels since 2011. In an unprecedented move, the St. Louis Federal Reserve published a statement this morning articulating the concerns of Fed President James Bullard, who disagreed with how Bernanke communicated tapering. President Bullard also felt that the Committee‚Äôs decision to authorize the Chairman to lay out a more elaborate plan for reducing the pace of asset purchases was inappropriately timed.¬† The Committee was, through the Summary of Economic Projections process, marking down its assessment of both real GDP growth and inflation for 2013, and yet simultaneously announcing that less accommodative policy may be in store.¬† President Bullard felt that a more prudent approach would be to wait for more tangible signs that the economy was strengthening and that inflation was on a path to return toward target before making such an announcement. In addition, President Bullard felt that the Committee‚Äôs decision to authorize the Chairman to make an announcement of an approximate timeline for reducing the pace of asset purchases to zero was a step away from state-contingent monetary policy.¬† President Bullard feels strongly that state-contingent monetary policy is best central bank practice, with clear support both from academic theory and from central bank experience over the last several decades.¬† Policy actions should be undertaken to meet policy objectives, not calendar objectives. It's still early in the day.¬† Maybe things will turn around. Google Finance
Brazil's Bovespa is down nearly 2% to 47,258. About a million Brazilians took to the street across 80 cities, prompting president Dilma Rousseff to call an emergency meeting. The protests were sparked a week ago over a hike in bus fares but have¬† mushroomed since. "We view these protests as a wake-up call that the government needs to continue catering to the new demands of the rising middle class," wrote Barclays' Marcelo Salomon.¬† "It is not enough to increase social transfers or create stimulus programs to push consumption up. Brazilians are now clamouring for a leaner and more efficient government, one that spends tax revenues in a sound manner, according to their needs. A necessary condition of¬† the uprising was the use of social media, which allowed for a leaderless movement to bring to the streets this incredible demonstration of power." Brazil's measure of inflation, the¬†IPCA-15 price index climbed 0.38%, above expectations and annual inflation ticked up to 6.67%. Brazil's central bank has a two percentage point tolerance against its 4.5% target. On Thursday, Brazil's central bank sold currency swap contracts to help support the real which continues to be down 12% against the U.S. dollar since May. President Rousseff's approval rating has fallen to 55%, according to the CNI/Ibope opinion poll. Here's a look at Brazil's Intraday chart from Bloomberg: Bloomberg
AP Photo/Isaac BrekkenDear Banker, Most months we manage to cover our costs and have a little extra left over.¬†¬†Sometimes I send the bank an extra $500 or $1,000 toward paying down our mortgage balance, which has another 21 years to go.¬†¬†Once I sent close to $5,000.¬†¬†Does this make sense?¬†¬†‚Äì Manny T., Chicago, IL Dear Manny, Congratulations on doing the first-order hardest thing in personal finance ‚Äì produce a monthly surplus in your household.¬†¬†Wealth for you ‚Äì while not inevitable ‚Äì is made possible by this monthly surplus. I appreciate your question whether you should ‚Äì or anyone should ‚Äî pay off a mortgage early with small interim payments of principal. This perennial question generates as many strongly held opinions as there are mortgage holders.¬†¬†There‚Äôs a¬†thoughtful discussion to a similar question prompted on this personal finance site. Like most interesting personal finance questions, the answer depends on a combination of personal psychology and finance math.[1]¬†¬†Your own personal relative weighting of this combination may lead you to a different ‚Äòcorrect‚Äô answer than that of someone else.[2] My own short answer is that while paying off your mortgage principal in small early increments does not make much sense from a pure financial math perspective, it can be the totally correct thing for certain psychological reasons. Therefore, while I don‚Äôt advocate paying off a mortgage this way, I fully acknowledge that for people with a different psychological approach than me, the incremental payments make plenty of sense. The math side of things ‚Äì forward rates First, it‚Äôs helpful to understand mechanically what happens when you make an extra, partial, principal payment on your mortgage. After making your regular monthly payment, let‚Äôs say you send an additional $1,000 to the bank for principal.¬†¬†The bank ‚Äì actually the mortgage servicing company, but let‚Äôs not nitpick ‚Äì applies that principal to the furthest-away-in-time mortgage payment.¬†¬†In Manny‚Äôs case, his $1,000 payment gets applied toward a payment due 21 years from now. In other words, Manny‚Äôs total mortgage principal gets reduced by $1,000, but not in any way that affects his current monthly mortgage costs.¬†¬†He‚Äôs still obligated to make regular mortgage payments next month.[3] You may have read, not entirely incorrectly, that when you pay debt principal early you get a guaranteed return on your money equal to your interest rate.¬†¬†If you have a 6% mortgage, the conventional wisdom goes, you get a 6% ‚Äúreturn on investment‚Äù when you pay off your mortgage. But this is not entirely correct either, in purely financial math terms. I‚Äôm going to assume Manny‚Äôs mortgage (obtained 9 years ago) has a 6% interest rate.¬†¬†Since he‚Äôs eliminated by early payment the obligation to pay 6% interest on his borrowed money 21 years from now, we could more precisely say he‚Äôs invested the equivalent of $1,000 at ‚Äú6% interest rate, 21 years forward.‚Äù That may seem like an odd turn of phrase, except that the bond markets operate precisely this way ‚Äì on today‚Äôs interest rate (you might call this the ‚Äòspot‚Äô rate) as well as tomorrow‚Äôs forward rates (incorporating the idea for example, of 1 year interest rates, one year from now, stated as ‚Äú1 year rates, 1 year forward.‚Äù) We don‚Äôt all have to be bond geeks to make good decisions about early mortgage payments, nor do we need to know exactly what I mean with this clarification, except you should understand the following:¬†¬†We don‚Äôt know with very much precision what prevailing interest rates will be 21 years from now.¬†¬†As a result, it‚Äôs not as obviously a ‚Äògood trade‚Äô to pay off your mortgage at 6%, precisely because it‚Äôs not actually true that you‚Äôre locking in a ‚Äú6% return‚Äù on your money today. 21 years from now a 6% mortgage interest rate may be extraordinarily high or it may be extraordinarily low (I‚Äôm agnostic on the issue) but the imprecision around the question of forward rates makes it less obvious what your effective ‚Äòreturn on investment‚Äô really is, or what you should reasonably expect to earn on your money 21 years from now. One major and obvious exception to my clarification on ‚Äúforward rates‚Äù is that if you pay off your full mortgage balance early ‚Äì entirely eliminating the need to make future monthly payments ‚Äì then indeed you did lock in a 6% ‚Äòreturn‚Äô on your money.[4] Inflation scenario as an illustration of forward rates To return to the problem of unknown forward rates for a moment, it may be helpful to think of specific, possibly extreme, scenarios.¬†¬†I‚Äôve written before¬†that the combination of home ownership with a mortgage can be a very powerful inflation hedge.¬†¬†One way of seeing that is through the concept of forward rates. A future high inflation rate can illustrate the ‚Äòforward rates‚Äô problem.¬†¬†If future inflation, say 10 years from now, runs at an annual 15% rate, with prevailing mortgage interest rates around 18%, then it becomes obvious that locking in a 6% return on your money in the final years of your mortgage was not a good idea, from a personal financial math perspective.¬†¬†In my example you might have earned 18% just leaving your money parked in a money market account.¬†¬†That kind of future interest rate can show us why we should be less sure of ourselves that earning a 6% return by paying of a mortgage early is the right decision, from a purely mathematical perspective. More on the math side of things ‚Äì comparative rates of return I have not yet addressed the most common financial math reason why people claim you should not pay off your mortgage in small early chunks of principal payment. Specifically, many argue that you may be able to earn a higher return on your money ‚Äúin the market‚Äù than you can by eliminating personal debt and locking in the rate of return of your mortgage‚Äôs interest rate. This is possibly true, although it depends on specific scenarios, like the following: The Psychological approach ‚Äì Arguing against myself So I‚Äôve made the case that locking in a specific return on your money ‚Äì by paying down mortgage debt ‚Äì is not as clear-cut as it first appears, from a purely finance-math perspective. However, I do think the psychological aspect of making early mortgage payments should not be forgotten.¬†¬†We are all humans,[6]¬†responding irrationally to myriad inputs.¬†¬†For many of us, money left on a monthly basis in the checking account gets spent, so the key to not spending is to not leave extra money lying around. If Manny‚Äôs realistic choice every month is between sending $1,000 to the bank to pay his mortgage early or instead ‚Äì like many of us ‚Äì to spend $150 more on Amazon Prime downloads, $300 on jewels in Farmville and $273 on One Direction concert tickets, leaving just a $277 surplus at the end of the month, then the choice is clearer.¬† All the possible market returns in the world cannot undo the simple fact that paying off debt¬†guarantees¬†an incremental increase in net worth.¬†¬†If you can‚Äôt stop yourself from spending your surplus ‚Äì and this really comes down to the psychological imperative: ‚Äúknow thyself‚Äù ‚Äì then paying off the mortgage in small extra increments makes total, perfect, unassailable sense. And then there‚Äôs risk tolerance In addition, there‚Äôs the ‚Äúknow thyself‚Äù imperative applied to risk tolerance.¬† Investing money in the market ‚Äì instead of paying down debt ‚Äì makes an increase in net worth possible, even likely, but has no guarantee.¬†¬†If you hate losing any amount of money ever, then by all means pay down all of your debts before investing in anything risky. Earning a 6% return by paying off your mortgage[7]¬†early may sound much better than shooting for a possible 10% compound annual return but with a possibility of a 25% sudden loss in any given year. Few investments in the long run are worth 3AM insomnia.¬†¬†A fully paid-off mortgage may do more for encouraging restful sleep than all the Posturepedic¬†¬†mattresses in the world. Please see related post¬†On Mortgages Part I ‚Äì I Am a Golden God [1]¬†My bond sales mentor memorably told me once that bond sales consists of 5% bond math and 95% child psychology.¬†¬†Personal finance strikes me as a similar deal, although probably even more weighted toward the psychology part of the spectrum. [2]¬†And since I‚Äôm always looking for an excuse to quote Jack Handey, let‚Äôs review this gem: ‚ÄúInstead of having ‚Äòanswers‚Äô on a math test, they should just call them ‚Äòimpressions,‚Äô and it you got a different ‚Äòimpression,‚Äô so what, can‚Äôt we all be brothers?‚Äù [3]¬†I‚Äôm assuming for the purposes of this example that Manny has sent the money to the bank to be applied to principal since that‚Äôs how his question is phrased, rather than specifying something like ‚ÄùI‚Äôm paying the next 3 months early.‚Äù¬†¬†Presumably that‚Äôs also possible, but non germane to the question. [4]¬†At this point further math geeks will point out that the tax-deductibility of mortgage interest means that your effective interest rate is probably closer to the 4% than 6% rate, making your effective ‚Äòreturn on investment‚Äô lower than it seems. [5]¬†As always, if you can get an employer match for 401K contributions then that use of money trumps everything except paying off high interest-rate credit card debt. [6]¬†All of us, that is, except for my Rihanna-bot, who takes care of me in my old age, on my hovercraft.¬†¬†She‚Äôs not human, just human-like. [7]¬†Yes, closer to 4% after taxes, and yes, actually ‚Äú6% 21 years forward.‚Äù
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci A combination picture shows demonstrators with their faces painted and wearing a Guy Fawkes mask during a protest against the Confederations Cup and President Dilma Rousseff's government, in Recife City June 20, 2013. Hosting the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics ‚Äî which has never happened in the same country within three years ‚Äî has been touted as Brazil's chance to "show the world it has more to offer than just street parties and first-rate football." ReutersBut over the past week, amid the World Cup's ongoing preliminary tournament, the people have told their government that public services trump even"O Jogo Bonito" (i.e. "The Beautiful Game"). "What am I protesting for?" Savina Santos, a 29-year-old civil servant in Sao Paulo, said to Reuters. "You should ask what I'm not protesting for! We need political reform, tax reform, an end to corruption, better schools, better transportation. We are not in a position to be hosting the World Cup." It's telling, given how much Brazilians love f√∫tbol, that more than a million of them are¬†embedding their message in the fabric of the World Cup experience. Here a protester/fan at the Confederations Cup Group A soccer match between Brazil and Mexico is holding up a sign that reads, "We want hospitals up to FIFA's standard": REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach The "Fifa standard" is a reference to the "first world standard" required by FIFA for World Cup arenas, which has not extended outside of the massive stadiums. "Ending the Cup next year, we'll be forgotten again in our reality typical of the outskirts of Fortaleza," Professor Raymond John Smith, 55, who lives tens of meters from $520 million Estadio Castelao, told BBC Brazil (translation via Google). Not only that, but construction has caused situations like losses of running water in nearby neighborhoods ‚Äî forcing the poor to sacrifice for the pomp. "Since we started the works [near my street], my house started flooding whenever it rains," 31-year-old domestic worker Lucineide Cavalcanti Lima told BBC. "The World Cup did not help the residents, only worsened our situation." Despite all that, the protests are still remarkable given Brazilian culture. Isa, a blogger who grew up between New York and Bangkok before living in Sao Paulo (i.e. Latin America's largest city), eloquently explains: Brazilians don't like to get worked up about things. They like to sit back, and relax, and would rather sweep issues under the rug if they can possibly avoid confronting them and as long as things look pretty. This has allowed corruption to run wild in the background as the government prepared a pretty face for the world in the foreground. ... The trigger for the protests was a small increase in bus fare, but the real reasons for discontent lie in decades of corruption and high taxes coupled with low services - I once heard it described as "France's taxes but Somalia's services". Most cities have already rescinded the hike in transportation fares - a small victory - but the protests continue. REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciDemonstrators carry a banner made of Brazilian national flags during a protest against the Confederations Cup and President Dilma Rousseff's government, in Recife City June 20, 2013. Importantly for protestors, the confluence of bubbling public gripes and the hosting of the world's two biggest sporting events in three years suggest that the vigorous movement may have staying power. From Isa: The protestors are primarily young, white, upper-class students with few strong political ties ... The question will be whether they have the conviction to keep this up, and whether those that suffer the true consequences of corruption in Brazil - the poor, the lower-class, the uneducated - will join them. Let's hope their what-can-we-do attitude doesn't get the better of them. Editor's note: This 10-second clip is a pithy illustration of the connection between the people and O Jogo Bonito: 
APAthens' stock market is down -6.11% after the Greek government was thrown into turmoil and a report said the IMF could suspend bailout payments. Major Greek banks are down -7.53%, and the National Bank of Greece is down more than -9%. Yield on the Greek 10-year note spiked +5.90%.¬† The Democratic Left party ditched PM Antonis' Samaras' ruling coalition today to protest his decision to shut down Greek broadcaster ERT, leaving him with a slim and unstable majority to pass austerity measures.¬† Meanwhile, the FT's Peter Spiegel reported yesterday Eurozone banks were refusing to roll over Greek debt, prompting the IMF to warn on freezing its funding round.
Bloomberg Risk TakersDr. Michael Burry is apparently plotting a comeback to the hedge fund world. ¬† Burry, the former hedge fund manager who accurately predicted the housing market crisis and is featured in Michael Lewis' book "The Big Short," is looking to raise money to start a new fund, the Wall Street Journal's Juliet Chung reports. According to the Journal, he's looking to raise between $100 and $200 million.¬† The medical doctor-turned-hedge fund manager had incredible annualized returns during his eight years of running Bay Area-based Scion Capital Group. Burry‚Äîwho has a glass eye, Asperger's Syndrome and likes to play the guitar‚Äîracked up returns of¬†472%¬†since the fund's inception in 2000. He crushed it on his bet against the subprime housing market.¬†In 2007, he returned 166% for investors. ¬†¬† After that, he didn't get inundated with phone calls from people wanting to invest. Instead, he told Bloomberg "Risk Takers" that he didn't receive a single call. ¬†¬† Burry then returned¬†investor money in 2008 to focus on investing his own money.¬†
Yesterday's big selloff exposed a weakness in one of Wall Street's darling products, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), the FT reports, and no one really saw it coming. ETFs are a baskets of goods that can be traded like a single asset. They've become really popular on the Street over the last decade to the point where you can buy an ETF of almost anything ‚Äî gold, kinds of companies, groups of countries (like emerging markets)... the list goes on. And just like everything else, they got killed yesterday (the list below is just a small sampling). The problem wasn't just that ETFs got swept up in the general panic of the moment. It was that as traders sold off and ETFs got cheaper, the discount between the price of the ETF and the assets that made it up widened. Suddenly, everyone wanted to redeem those underlying assets from banks like Citi and State Street. Now you can imagine what happened next (from FT): One Citi trader emailed other market participants to say: "We are unable to take any more redemptions today‚Äâ.‚Äâ.‚Äâ.‚Äâa very rare occurrence due to capital requirements we are maxed out on the amount of collateral we have out." A person familiar with the situation said it was a temporary suspension affecting only some clients, caused by the significant amount of sell orders. Citi declined to comment. State Street said it would stop accepting cash redemption orders for municipal bond products from dealers. In short, people couldn't get their money, and there is fear that this selloff will continue. While all of this was unexpected, it wasn't necessarily unheard of. In 2010, the Kauffman Foundation put out a report saying that ETFs were more dangerous than even high frequency trading (this was in the aftermath of the Flash Crash) and cause a flash crash themselves. @TarhiniTrade via StockTwitsFYSpecifically, Kauffman said that the problem with ETFs was that they end up driving the price of the underlying assets that make them up. The actual value of the asset ceases to matter as the activity of the ETF takes it over. That, Kauffman said, could cause what we saw yesterday ‚Äî "failure to settle" (market participants freaking completely out because they can't get their money). Investors are starting to talk about this too. It's usually just a quick comment here or there about how, in the future, the most taxing job of a Wall Street analyst may be to get under the hood of an ETF and see what's really going on in there. This is one to watch. ¬†
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTobias Levkovich, Citi Global financial markets got rocked this week after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested that he could begin to taper, or gradual reduce, the Fed's stimulative quantitative easing program. Among other things, the CBOE volatility index ó aka the VIX, aka the "fear index" ó spiked above the 20 level for the first time in months. For the contrarians, a high level of fear in the stock markets suggests that it's time to buy. But not so fast, says Citi's Tobias Levkovich. "Investors may be encouraged by a VIX reading above 20 but they shouldn't be," he warns in a new note to clients. "Factors such as tapering, international economic disappointments and challenges for a quicker anticipated equity market leadership shift into global cyclicals suggest that the environment may not be that conducive for a new rally effort quite yet." Levkovich currently expects the S&amp;P 500 to end the year at 1,615. "The longer term Raging Bull Thesis remains unchanged but 2H13 earnings estimates may need to be trimmed before stocks can rebound," he added. "Sentiment is not set up for a big turn now and there is earnings estimate risk that plausibly restrains near-term enthusiasm. Further dislocation is possible with downside risk in the 1,550 area." "[H]istory argues for caution with below random outcomes," he added.  Citi Research
Walter Hickey / BI ¬† Monopoly is one of the most classic, fundamentally American games. It's about extorting your enemies for capitalist gain, ¬†avoiding taxes, trying to keep out of ¬†jail and ‚Äî suspiciously ‚Äî the banker usually wins. Seriously, what's more American than that? Anyway, most people have a conceptualization of the board that actually puts them at a significant disadvantage during the course of the game. They play as if all spaces are created equal, and there's only one direction of flow on the entire board.¬† This is how most people see the Monopoly board, as a loop that you go round and round: Walter Hickey / BI ¬† But as we talked about yesterday in our exploration of the math behind Monopoly, that's hardly the case. You're more likely to land on some spaces than others. You shouldn't just be targeting [through trades and buys] the properties that are most expensive, you should be targeting the properties that get landed on most often, the properties that will return your investment most significantly.¬† And the key to that is understanding Jail.¬† The Jail square sucks people in from the rest of the board ‚Äî from Chance, Community Chest, and the Go To Jail spaces, not to mention the people that roll doubles thrice ‚Äî and deposits them on the tenth space, like this: Walter Hickey / BI ¬† As a result, the spaces between Jail and Go To Jail are more likely to get landed on than the spaces between Go To Jail and Jail. ¬† By buying and developing the spaces that people are most likely to hit when exiting the most commonly hit space on the board ‚Äî #10 Jail/Just Visiting ‚Äî you can get a consistent avenue of victory.¬† Obviously, this is a strategy, not a tactic. You can't control where the die send you, but you can control what trades you aim for. ¬† So just keep in mind that all spaces aren't created equal, and the flows of the Monopoly board look a little closer to this than anything else: Walter Hickey / BI
Wikimedia CommonsThree former managers of a Japanese wagyu farm were arrested Tuesday on suspicion that they lead a beefy, $4.34 billion ponzi scheme that defrauded 73,000 investors, the Wall Street Journal reports. Wagyu ‚Äî¬†the "caviar of beef" ‚Äî¬†retails for hundreds of dollars a pound. As the myth goes, farmers add beer to the coddled cows' food and massage them with sake to prevent muscle cramps. The managers of the Agura farm offered investors a "wagyu beef ownership system" with promised annual returns of 8%. They claimed the investors would profit from the calves born to purchased cows. From the Journal: In reality, there weren‚Äôt as many cows as the number sold. According to the former managers, the farm had to file for bankruptcy after being hit by the double whammy of falling beef prices and lower sales following¬†the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident. (The farm is located less than 100 kilometers from the Fukushima plant.) That left 73,000 investors with losses totaling around ¬•420 billion ($4.34 billion), according to lawyers for the plaintiffs. Agura had reported to investors that they kept 90,000 to 100,000 breeding cows. Investigators found the number wasn't quite as meaty ‚Äî¬†at 60,000. The case may be one of the biggest consumer fraud episodes in recent Japanese history. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal&gt;
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisGreece was thrown back into chaos Friday after the country's Democratic Left party ditched Athens' ruling coalition, IBTimes' Renee Maltezou reports. The move came in protest of¬†of PM Atonis Samaras' decision to shutter the country's public broadcaster.¬†Earlier, BBC reported talks to reinstate ERT, which last Tuesday had all of its assets seized and entire staff laid off, had broken down. Greek 10-year yields temporarily hit 11.34%, the highest level since April, but have since come down slightly. The Democratic Left was the coalition's smallest, and Samaras will maintain a slim majority in parliament. DL officials have not yet decided whether they will still offer "external support" of votes to keep the country's bailout terms on track, IBTimes says. The Wall Street Journal's¬†Stelios Bouras, Ed Ballard and Tommy Stubbington say support will be offered "on a case-by-case basis." The party had given an imprimatur of leftist support to the Troika's harsh bailout terms.¬†As we wrote earlier this week, Samaras' decision to close Greece's equivalent of PBS without consulting coalition members has now caused the goodwill he'd built up to vaporize.¬† The move is also really bad timing. The FT's Peter Spiegel reported that Eurozone banks are refusing to roll over Greek debt, prompting the IMF to threaten to withhold its part of the Troika's bailout package. Troika leader¬†Jeroen Dijsselbloem has denied there are any hiccups.
The recent volatility in the global financial markets has been quite scary. But when you step back, you'll notice that the S&amp;P 500 is only down by around 5% from their highs of the year. In a new note to clients, Goldman Sachs's David Kostin includes this chart of S&amp;P 500 maximum drawdowns since 2010. These are the biggest stock market moves from their highs to their lows for each year. As you can see, we've witnessed double-digit maximum drawdowns in 2010, 2011, and 2012. So if this year is like the previous three years, then we have further down to go. Goldman Sachs
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who got a lot of attention for his choice words he used in a brawl on CNBC with his rival Bill Ackman, has graced the social media world with his presence by joining Twitter yesterday.† So far, he has nearly 7,000 followers. †The activist investor hasn't started following anyone yet. † His first said "Twitter is great. I like it almost as much as Dell." †Because he Tweeted about a company he's trying to take private, Icahn had to file a 14A securities filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.† Daily Intelligencer's Kevin Roose points out that whoever has to copy and paste Icahn's Tweets and submit them to the SEC has the best job ever. † Check it out:† SEC.gov
Yes you. The guy reading this right now. We're talking to you as you sit there in your slightly off-color socks with your scratched up belt looping too far out of place. It has come to our attention that some men do not know how to dress themselves, but with simple instruction and some tweaks, it would not be hard for them to get it right. The current minimal effort being put forth by men to dress themselves beyond "meh" is leading to a style failure of epic proportions with everyday professional men - both inside and out of the office. You professional men should care about how you dress, because expectations are getting higher. And just for you we've decided to put together a show-and-tell list of men that have impeccable style. These are the guys who know how to dress. Let these stylish men be your guides. Follow them through the dark of night and into the dawn of matching socks. Not all of these names are widely recognizable, and not all these styles are going to be right for you, but pay attention to the fit, color coordination and the themes behind matching the right items of clothing for good effect.¬† For more illustration and advice for style points, search their names. Spend some time Googling. YouTubeing. Study. Learn.¬† Impress.¬†  Every man should know who Nick Wooster is. Period. Formerly at GQ and JC Penny, Wooster not only looks great in everything from casual wear to suits with awesome twists, but he also has a bunch of interesting¬†YouTube videos about fashion¬†you can watch. He'll give you advice. Take it.  Hamish Bowles is Vogue's International Editor at Large. He's daring, yes, and maybe that's not your thing, but he will teach you how to properly use a pocket square.  Prince Harry keeps it clean and simple. Perfectly cut suits, solid colors, button downs. If you're not the kind of guy that wants to rock the boat, you should pay attention to what he throws on. Harry makes it look easy.  Not everyone can be a hotelier with properties in the hottest cities in the world, we get that. However, if you want to see how classic style with a bit of flare is done, Balazs is your man. He's the king of the casual suit with no tie, and the perfect fitting jacket.  If you ever in your life have considered looking like a gentleman, you must know Ozwald Boateng. The British designer learned how to cut cloth from his girlfriend when he was 16, and eventually opened a shop on London's famous Savile Road. He's known for clean, modern suiting, and Sundance even made an 8 part documentary about him called¬†House of Boateng. AP This man can wear anything ‚Äî suits, tuxes, sweats, tees. Watch him closely, because he always has a perfect fit.  Sergio Ermotti is the CEO of UBS and his suits are flawless.  Grenier doesn't deviate much from the t-shirt and jeans and that's totally fine. Why? Because his clothes actually fit him and some of his t-shirts are pretty cool.  Do not laugh. This comedian has great taste in clothing. He's a performer, so obviously his outfits may be a little louder than your average dude would like, but he always pulls them off. Always. Cool colors, the right cut for his size, and awesome textures ‚Äî TREAT YO'SELF! YouTube Muytjens is the menswear designer for J Crew. I think we're done here. vipflash / Shutterstock.com Jagger now, Jagger then ‚Äî it doesn't matter. His sense of style is impeccable. For all you 'I-don't-care-I-love-it' types out there, follow Jagger. He makes scarves look Rock n' Roll. Christopher Polk / Getty Images This actor has come along way from his tragic long hair during '3rd Rock From The Sun'. Now he's all grown up and makes awesome decisions about suits, tees, and just about anything else guys put on their bodies. So there you go. Take cues from these guys, notice what they're doing, and slowly you'll see their style improving your life. You're welcome.
Already today is not looking that pretty. After yesterday's big losses, there was a bounce this morning. That bounce is evaporating a bit. The market is still set to open with gains, but they're really meh. From Yahoo Finance: Yahoo Finance
David Tepper, who runs a $12 billion distressed-debt hedge fund, Appaloosa Management, emailed in some comments to CNBC's "Squawk Box" this morning after global markets got crushed yesterday. "All of the concern in the markets is because the Fed sees the economy stronger in the future," Tepper wrote adding that the Fed's forecast shows that they will wait for a lower unemployment rate to raise interest rates. He added that he thought that the Fed should start to taper.† "Bottom line: When the dust settles only one place to be óó STOCKS."† This is right in line with his previous comments. †Tepper has been bullish on equities for a while now.† Tepper, who has one of the best long-term track records and was up 30% in 2012, came out earlier this year as being super bullish.†He told Bloomberg TV back in January that the U.S. was on†"the verge of an explosion of greatness." Just last month, he continued to make†a bullish case for stocks on CNBC.
Bloomberg TVOn Wednesday, Ben Bernanke came out guns blazing. He said that plans to "taper" the pace of Fed purchases were going ahead, and that the rise in interest rates was not a big concern to the Fed. And so the market tanked. What was Bernanke going for? According to Jefferies David Zervos, this is really all about injecting a little bit of uncertainty into the market to ward off excessive speculation. [Wednesday's] pronouncements appear to be a conscious effort to inject uncertainty into a fixed income market that feeds on certainty. He was taking a cue from the great Hyman Minsky. By acting against a market that had become too complacent, he was attempting to force out the dangerous and excessive leverage in the system. And while that may feel a little painful right now, we may end up being very thankful that the Committee took the actions it did Wednesday in the name of preserving future financial stability.¬† Our path to recovery does not rely on 6 guys and Bloomberg levering up spready EM, mortgage or corporate debt. Our recovery comes from individuals taking on real investments, in real economic endeavors. Increasing the funding opportunities for companies that innovate, put a real return on capital, generate real growth and create real jobs is the primary goal of QE. That is the portfolio balance channel at work. And the side effects related to too much leverage in bond markets have been a thorn in the side of developed market monetary policy implementation for decades. The Fed seems to have learned this lesson and it has decided to purge some of the QE demons from the fixed income markets early, before its too late and we have a souped-up version of 1994 on our hands. The beauty, says Zervos, is that the Fed is still there to ease further if needed: If economic prospects sour, they will buy more bonds and stay lower for longer. Ben said as much Wednesday. So the "Bernanke Put" is very much alive and well. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub --&gt;
RexThink what this guy does is evil? Then you're probably in your 20s.Some interesting findings from Pew Research on the National Security Agency spying and leak scandal... First, more Americans think Edward Snowden's leaks have served the public interest than hurt the public interest. But, most Americans still want Snowden thrown in jail. Pew Research Second, young people are more pro-Snowden and anti-government than older people. Young people (18-29) think Snowden's leaks are in the public interest, and they don't want him prosecuted. They also don't like the NSA's data collection. Older people, meanwhile (50-64), think Snowden should be tossed in the slammer and are okay with the NSA collecting data. The 30-49 year olds, meanwhile, are somewhere in the middle. Is this because young people are naive and idealistic and older people are wiser and more mature? Or because younger people want to improve the world and older people are defending the world they have created and are responsible for? (You be the judge!) Pew Research Meanwhile, in a poll that suggests that politics has much more to do with team loyalty than positions on issues (at least this issue), support for the NSA's spying has flip-flopped by party since 7 years ago. Tea-party Republicans used to love spying, back when a Republican President was doing it. Democrats, meanwhile, were opposed. Now, Tea Party Republicans hate spying. And Democrats love it. Pew Research SEE ALSO: How To Use Math To Crush Your Friends At Monopoly
The last time short term correlation between treasuries and US equities turned positive was at the beginning of Fed's QE2 in 2010. At the time both equities and treasuries rallied in anticipation of the new stimulus. Now we are back to positive correlation, except this time the reverse is taking place (at least in terms of expectations). Treasuries no longer provide the hedge for equities portfolios that the markets have become accustomed to (see discussion). It may take another crisis to send the correlation back into negative territory. Sober Look ¬†
Alaska Volcano Observatory/Brandon WilsonMarkets are rising today after the big declines yesterday and Wednesday. The big event this week was, of course, the FOMC announcement, wherein Ben Bernanke confirmed the Fed's intention to "taper" the pace of bond purchases, provided the economy remains on its current trajectory. So what does the landscape look like now? Citi FX analyst Steven Englander explains the 6 big themes that are dominating global markets: 1)¬†¬†¬† The degree of Fed optimism on the US economy, its clarity on the proposed path of winding down QE and the apparent giving up of the objective of restoring employment-population ratios that reflect the pre-2008 trend. From a markets perspective this came across as a much more hawkish Fed.¬† In addition to this major theme, we have a continuation of themes that were earlier in play‚Ä¶¬† 2)¬†¬†¬† EM underperformance, especially among commodity producers. The weak China data overnight and concern about liquidity add to the headwinds EM and commodity currencies face.¬† 3)¬†¬†¬† Low, but rising yields and risk premium. There is a crucial difference between yield increases in the US where the economy is improving, and elsewhere where readings are worsening or, at best, as weak as expected.¬† 4)¬†¬†¬† Long USD positioning seems to have dropped off the map as a factor, possibly because positions had been greatly wound down going into FOMC.¬† 5)¬†¬†¬† Euro and UK stabilization ‚Äì but these are also the regions where the central banks may be most aggressive in trying to counter the headwinds form tighter US liquidity.¬† 6)¬†¬†¬† Abenomics losing its unspoken fourth arrow ‚Äì extremely easy liquidity outside as well inside Japan. The question now is what measures the Japanese authorities can take to get Japanese stimulus back on track. For more on what's going on this morning, see here --&gt;
Mike Ehrmann/Getty ImagesGood morning, happy summer solstice, here's what you need to know: BONUS: Don't miss all the goodies our sports crew compiled after the Heat won the NBA Finals last night.
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderThe choice of dentists everywhere.It's always instructive to step outside the techo-chamber to see how the normal (real) world thinks. A couple of months ago, at a Radio Shack, I did that and learned that folks weren't buying many iPhone 5s because Apple wasn't offering the awesome discounts that Samsung and other handset companies were offering on their top-of-the-line phones. This illustrated the challenge that Apple faces in reaching the fastest-growing part of the smartphone market--people who don't already have smartphones. And, yesterday, I had another instructive brush with the normal world. I was waiting for an elevator, with my face in my little iPhone, when a dentist I know bounded up with his own (huge) phone. The dentist looked over at my puny iPhone and said (paraphrasing), "You still have an iPhone? †Ugh. Best move I ever made was ditching that thing." Then he held up his own phone, the screen of which was covered with orange squares. "My IT guys gave me this," he said. "I love it. So simple. Everything you need is right on this screen. I'm so glad to be done with that Apple crap." I asked the dentist what kind of phone it was. I could see that it had a huge screen, which is what I usually notice when I'm standing next to someone with a new big smartphone while I'm holding my old little iPhone. But beyond that I had no idea what I was looking at. Smartphones all pretty much look the same these days. It was a Nokia Lumia, he said. Running Microsoft's operating system. He scrolled through the screen and proudly showed me how all the stuff he needed was right there. He also changed the colors of his tiles from orange to blue to show how easy that was. And then he demo-ed a couple of other things he loved. The Microsoft phone did look simple and convenient. It didn't necessarily look drastically more simple and convenient than the iPhone (and, in my experience, unlike my dentist friend, most mass-market consumers don't actually like to customize things). But it looked simple and convenient. What was most interesting, though, was how excited the dentist was to be "done with Apple." And he was also glad, he said, not to have had to buy "that other phone," which I soon gathered was a Samsung. So maybe there's hope for Microsoft yet!
APGreece is¬† getting clobbered today. The Athens Stock Exchange is down over 2.6%. Yields on Greek bonds are jumping. What's going on? The big news is that the coalition government (which came into power in the summer of 2012) is deteriorating. The small Democratic Left party has threatened to withdraw from government, following the attempt to shut down a public broadcaster, a move which has caused a massive political crisis. Also not helping was an FT report (which has been denied) about the IMF playing hardball with the next Greek aid payment.
Wikimedia Commons Believe it or not, Chairman Ben Bernanke may not be the most dovish person at the Federal Reserve. When the Fed published its FOMC statement this Wednesday, it noted two dissenters to the decision. One of those dissenters was St. Louis Fed President James Bullard, who thought that monetary policy should be more dovish. In an unusual move, Bullard published a press release this morning on why he dissented.† Among other things, he believed it was a mistake for the Fed to talk about tapering, or gradually reducing, quantitative easing (QE). "President Bullard also felt that the Committeeís decision to authorize the Chairman to lay out a more elaborate plan for reducing the pace of asset purchases was inappropriately timed," said the St. Louis Fed in the release. "President Bullard felt that the Committeeís decision to authorize the Chairman to make an announcement of an approximate timeline for reducing the pace of asset purchases to zero was a step away from state-contingent monetary policy." Most believe that the Fed's talk of a "taper" timeline was the catalyst for the global financial market sell-off this week. Here's the full release: ST. LOUIS ñ Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard dissented with the Federal Open Market Committee decision announced on June 19, 2013.† In his view, the Committee should have more strongly signaled its willingness to defend its inflation target of 2 percent in light of recent low inflation readings.† Inflation in the U.S. has surprised on the downside during 2013.† Measured as the percent change from one year earlier, the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) headline inflation rate is running below 1 percent, and the PCE core inflation rate is close to 1 percent.† President Bullard believes that to maintain credibility, the Committee must defend its inflation target when inflation is below target as well as when it is above target.President Bullard also felt that the Committeeís decision to authorize the Chairman to lay out a more elaborate plan for reducing the pace of asset purchases was inappropriately timed.† The Committee was, through the Summary of Economic Projections process, marking down its assessment of both real GDP growth and inflation for 2013, and yet simultaneously announcing that less accommodative policy may be in store.† President Bullard felt that a more prudent approach would be to wait for more tangible signs that the economy was strengthening and that inflation was on a path to return toward target before making such an announcement.In addition, President Bullard felt that the Committeeís decision to authorize the Chairman to make an announcement of an approximate timeline for reducing the pace of asset purchases to zero was a step away from state-contingent monetary policy.† President Bullard feels strongly that state-contingent monetary policy is best central bank practice, with clear support both from academic theory and from central bank experience over the last several decades.† Policy actions should be undertaken to meet policy objectives, not calendar objectives.While President Bullard found much to disagree with in this decision, he does feel that the Committee can conduct an appropriate and effective monetary policy going forward, and he looks forward to working with his colleagues to achieve this outcome.
Yesterday, Tesla unveiled a new 90-second "Battery Swap" service. To allay fears about long charge times for batteries, the company says that Model S drivers will be able to go to any service station this year, and swap their depleted battery for a fresh battery for a price of $60-$80, and that the whole process takes just 90 seconds. That's cool, but what's really cool is watching the presentation, and seeing how masterful a presenter Elon Musk is. In the clip below, Elon and Tesla have a car drive into the stage, getting its battery swapped ultra-fast, while a video of an Audi driver filling up his gas tank plays in the background. Not only is the swap they've set up faster, Tesla actually has a second driver come and get a battery swap on stage, which makes for some great showmanship. Not since Steve Jobs has any CEO combined innovation and showmanship like this. 
(Reuters) - The possibility of rising interest rates rocked the U.S. municipal bond market on Thursday, with prices plunging in secondary trade, investors selling off the debt, money pouring out of mutual funds and issuers postponing nearly $2 billion in new sales. "The market got crushed," said Daniel Berger, an analyst at Municipal Market Data, a unit of Thomson Reuters, about the widespread sell-off. Yields on top-rated 10-year bonds and highly rated 30-years on Municipal Market Data's benchmark scale both spiked 20 basis points. Those on 10-years ended the day at 2.48 percent, the highest since October 2011, while those on 30-years closed at 3.78 percent, the highest since December 2011. Yields move inversely to price. Berger said it was the largest one-day yield increase since December 2010. "It's a bit of a follow-through from the market's disappointment from what they were hoping to get from the Fed and a continued reflection to the fragile state of fixed income markets," said Jonathan Lewis, chief investment officer for Samson Capital Advisors. On Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank could soon reduce its bond buying if the U.S. economy shows signs of strength. The comments sent the yield on the U.S. 30-year Treasury bond to its highest level since September 2011. Municipal bonds often follow Treasuries. Even before Bernanke's comments, investors had been pulling out of the $3.7 trillion bond market, worried the era of low interest rates was near an end and the central bank would begin "tapering." Since May 1, yields on triple-A bonds have risen by 80 basis points on 10-years bonds and by 99 basis points on 20-years. The turmoil rippled through the primary market, with four sales totaling $1.763 billion postponed on Thursday due to market conditions. "Given recent volatility and heavy supply in the market, the city intends to remain flexible on the timing of the sale," said James Lanham, deputy city treasurer for Philadelphia, which moved its $400 million general obligation bond sale to an undetermined date. Most likely issuers will wait for the market to stabilize in the next few days or weeks before coming back. Even though rates are rising, they are still relatively low and "very attractive for borrowing," said Darci Doneff, managing director in underwriting and trading at Piper Jaffray. But rising rates could finally bring an end to the surge of refinancing that has lasted more than a year, she said. For the year through the end of the May, refundings totaled $87.52 billion, compared with only $56.5 billion in new money sales. "That could be a significant drop," said Doneff. "That could be a major impact on the forward supply." A SHOCK FOR MOM-AND-POP INVESTORS In the last month, investors have sold off longer-term bonds to buy shorter-term debt and retail buyers have pulled money out of municipal bond mutual funds, which have seen declining returns the last two months. The funds reported $2.22 billion of net outflows in the week ended June 19, up from $1.6 billion of outflows in the previous week, according to data released by Lipper on Thursday. It was the biggest outflow since the week ended December 19. In the last four weeks, outflows amounted to $5.4 billion. "We've continued to have a weaker June in munis from this tapering talk," said Chris Alwine, head of municipal bonds at The Vanguard Group, which has $100 billion in assets. "Our view is that the market has over reacted to this talk." Since April 30 through June 19, municipal bond funds at Vanguard and PIMCO have both seen returns ranging from -0.19 percent to -3.61 percent. The lower end of that range was all in short-term funds. Retail investors, often referred to as the "mom-and-pop buyers" because they tend to be retirees, favor municipal bond funds as safe havens. "Muni bond investors are in for the shock of their lives," said financial advisor Ric Edelman. "For the past 30 years there hasn't been interest rate risk." That risk can be extreme. A one-point rise in the interest rate could cut 10 percent of the value of a municipal bond with a longer duration, he said. Many retail buyers, though, are not ready for the change and "when it starts, it will be too late for them to react," he said, adding that he was encouraging investors to look at their portfolio allocation and make changes to protect themselves from interest rate risks now. LOOMING BUYING OPPORTUNITY June and July are the peak months of the year for cash flowing to investors from muni bond payments and redemptions. Investors could see the lower prices as a buying opportunity. "People are no longer thinking reasonably about the value of the market," Lewis said. Investors are leaving just as municipal bonds grow very cheap. His firm manages municipal bonds for institutional investors, who he said will find the ratios to comparable Treasury securities, which are taxed, appealing. On Thursday, 30-year municipal bonds yielded 108 percent of similar Treasuries, the highest since August 2012 and far above the average of 99.3 percent. "With equities selling off significantly now, I would expect to see some support in the Treasury market," said Alwine, adding that would influence the municipal market. (Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Additional reporting by Caryn Trokie in New York; Editing by Tiziana Barghini and Andre Grenon) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
This news clip has 20 seconds of video showing just how gigantic last night's protests in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil were. 300,000 people apparently came out in the city alone. As you can see, the crowd just goes on forever. Following last night's protests, the President of Brazil has called for an emergency cabinet session. 
RIO DE JANEIRO (AP) ‚Äî Police and protesters fought in the streets into the early hours Friday as an estimated 1 million Brazilians swarmed through more than 80 Brazilian cities in the biggest demonstrations yet against a government viewed as corrupt at all levels and unresponsive to its people. President Dilma Rousseff called an emergency meeting of her top Cabinet members for Friday morning, more than a week after the protests began. Rousseff, who has a standoffish governing style, has been almost entirely absent from the public eye, making only one statement earlier in the week that peaceful protests are part of the democratic process. But the protests that raged across Brazil late Thursday and into Friday were spiked with violence as people vented anger over a litany of complaints, from high taxes to corruption to rising prices. At least one protester was killed in Sao Paulo state when a car rammed into a crowd of demonstrators, after the driver apparently became enraged about being unable to drive along a street. In Rio de Janeiro, where an estimated 300,000 demonstrators poured into the seaside city's central area, running clashes played out between riot police and clusters of mostly young men with T-shirts wrapped around their faces. But peaceful protesters were caught up in the fray, too, as police fired tear gas canisters into their midst and at times indiscriminately used pepper spray. Thundering booms echoed off stately colonial buildings as rubber bullets and gas were fired at fleeing crowds. At least 40 people were injured in Rio, including protesters like Michele Menezes, a wisp of a woman whose youthful face and braces belie her 26 years. Bleeding and with her hair singed from the explosion of a tear gas canister, she said she and others took refuge from the violence in an open bar, only to have a police officer toss the canister inside. The blast ripped through Menezes' jeans, tearing two coin-sized holes on the back of her thighs, and peppered her upper arm with a rash of small holes. "I was leaving a peaceful protest and it's not the thugs that attack me but the police themselves," said Menezes, removing her wire-rim glasses to wipe her bloodshot eyes. She later took refuge in a hotel, along with about two dozen youths, families and others who said they had been repeatedly hit with pepper spray by motorcycle police as they also sheltered inside a bar. Protesters said they would not back down. "I saw some pretty scary things, but they're not going to shake me. There's another march on the 22nd and I'm going to be there," said 19-year-old university student Fernanda Szuster. Asked if her parents knew she was joining in the protests, Szuster said: "They know and they're proud. They also protested when they were young. So they think it's great." She added, though, that she wouldn't tell her father the details of the police violence. "If he knew, he would never let me leave the house again." In Brasilia, the national capital, police struggled to keep hundreds of protesters from invading the Foreign Ministry, while the crowd set a small fire outside. Other government buildings were attacked around the city's central esplanade. There, too, police used tear gas and rubber bullets trying to scatter demonstrators. Clashes were also reported in the Amazon jungle city of Belem, Porto Alegre in the south, the university town Campinas north of Sao Paulo and the northeastern city of Salvador. "This was meant to be a peaceful demonstration and it is," artist Wanderlei Costa, 33, said in Brasilia. "It's a shame some people cause trouble when there is a much bigger message behind this movement. Brazil needs to change, not only on the government level, but also on the grass-roots level. We have to learn to demonstrate without violence." The protests took place one week after a violent police crackdown on a much smaller demonstration complaining about an increase in bus and subway fares in Sao Paulo galvanized Brazilians to take their grievances to the streets. The unrest is hitting the nation as it hosts the Confederations Cup soccer tournament with tens of thousands of foreign visitors in attendance. It also comes one month before Pope Francis is scheduled to visit Brazil, and ahead of the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics, raising concerns about how Brazilian officials will provide security. Mass protests have been rare in this country of 190 million people in recent years, and the mushrooming demonstrations of the past week caught Brazilian government officials by surprise while delighting many citizens. "I think we desperately need this, that we've been needing this for a very, very long time," said Paulo Roberto Rodrigues da Cunha, a 63-year-old clothing store salesman in Rio. Despite the energy on the street, many protesters said they were unsure how the movement would win real political concessions. People in the protests have held up signs asking for everything from education reforms to free bus fares while denouncing the billions of public dollars spent on stadiums in advance of the World Cup and the Olympics. "We pay a lot of money in taxes, for electricity, for services, and we want to know where that money is," said Italo Santos, a 25-year old student who joined a rally by 5,000 protesters at Salvador's Campo Grand Square. But many believe the protests are no longer just about bus fares and have become larger cries for systemic changes. "This is the start of a structural change in Brazil," said Aline Campos, a 29-year-old publicist in Brasilia. "People now want to make sure their money is well spent, that it's not wasted through corruption." ___ Associated Press writers Marco Sibaja in Brasilia, Bradley Brooks and Stan Lehman in Sao Paulo and Ricardo Zuniga in Salvador contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Remember back when QE started and we saw charts of high powered money going vertical all over the place and everyone who didnít understand modern banking said that the reserves would flood out into the economy causing high inflation or even hyperinflation? † And do you also remember how most of those same people also said that the only way youíd be able to protect yourself from this hyperinflation was by owning hard assets like gold or silver? † Well, the inflation never came. †The most recent reading of 1.7% pretty much proves that weíre much more Japan than we are Weimar (and yes, even independent gauges confirm the low inflation story). †And now the portfolio recommendations are falling apart as wellÖ. Itís one thing to be wrong about the way banking works and the way inflation might spread. †But most of these people were explicitly recommending a substantial overweight in gold and silver as well. †And theyíve †been annihilated in recent years. †Gold is down 33% from its 2011 highs. And silver is down a staggering 60% since the time I started referring to it as a bubble. †These are massive moves and if youíve been substantially overweight these metals in your portfolio then youíve experienced substantial pain based on sheer misunderstandings by people who are posing as experts. The thing that really drives me crazy about this is that so much of this has come from the ideologically driven groups who were really selling nothing more than fear and hatred of the Fed and the government. †Look, I know the government hasnít done everything right and I am certainly no Federal Reserve apologist, but that doesnít ever justify bad analysis and specific portfolio recommendations that are simply irresponsible. †And thatís all weíve seen here. †People selling an ideology based more on politics than knowledgeÖ.
Wikimedia CommonsYesterday was a total bloodbath in the market. Today, markets are generally green. The difference: The People's Bank of China reportedly stepped in and eased the massive liquidity crunch in the Chinese banking market that was sending China's version of LIBOR (SHIBOR) higher. The intervention reduced she SHIBOR rate significantly, and today markets are higher in Europe and in the U.S. futures market. It's not a massive snapback, but for now, things are calm. Incidentally, Chinese stocks fell another 0.5%, hitting brand new lows.
The Nikkei is up nearly 2%, after being down as much as 1.74%. Japanese stocks climbed on the back of yen weakness and as U.S. futures turned positive. The Shanghai Composite which was down as much as 0.96%, pared some of its losses and is now down 0.38%. China's money market rates declined on reports that the Chinese central bank injected 50 billion yuan into the market. Yahoofinance
Yesterday we pointed out a sharp rise in money market rates in China. Today we've seen a decline in SHIBOR or the Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate ó the benchmark interest rate used in lending activities between banks. The Shibor fix for June 21 shows that the overnight rate is down 495.20 basis points to 8.4920%. This compares with 578.40 basis point increase yesterday to 13.44%. Bloomberg reported earlier that money market rates had declined after the People's Bank of China injected 50 billion yuan through short-term liquidity operations. The one day repo fell 384 basis points to 7.90%, the biggest drop since 2007. Here's a quick look at today's quote, and yesterdays. SHIBOR SHIBOR But there isn't much reason to celebrate. Just because PBOC made this problem "go away" for the moment, doesn't mean the real problem is solved.  VERY interesting that overnight and 7-day SHIBOR fell, but 14-day and 1-month rates rose http://t.co/XofQA7OGNj serious stresses remain  The liquidity squeeze in China first began ahead of the Dragon Boat festival earlier this month. Spikes in interbank rates are common right before holidays.†  The rise in money market rates was also attributed to a decline in speculative activities after tightened FX curbs, the crackdown on illegal bond trading, and banks' filings to the PBOC and the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) to meet their loan-to-deposit ratio. FT Alphaville's Izabella Kaminska (@izakamisnka) has a great piece that argues that the rise in money market rates could be attributed to the unwind of the Chinese over-invoicing carry trade. The argument so far has been that the Chinese central bank is "punishing some small banks which had previously taken advantage of the stable interbank rates to finance their purchase of higher-yield bonds," according to Ting Lu. Earlier this week China withdrew 4 billion yuan in liquidity through two bill issuances. But Dong Tao at Credit Suisse pointed said "this wrestling, in our view, has heightened systemic risk in the financial system, creating policy uncertainty and has further induced market volatility." He also argued that these rates haven't affected the "real economy" yet and that state owned enterprises (SOEs) are still flush with cash, though the small and medium enterprises are "struggling with liquidity."  In recent weeks, concerns have mounted about a looming credit crisis in China. Fitch's Charlene Chu warned that China's credit bubble was unlike anything in modern history. Meanwhile, Societe Generale's Wei Yao warned that China faces its own Minsky moment.  As for the surge in money market rates, Tao thinks† the SHIBOR has peaked but that rates will remain elevated.
