Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer is retiring and his replacement will be announced soon. The board will discuss it on Tuesday, during Microsoft's annual shareholder's meeting, the Wall Street Journal reports. One of the front runners is Ford CEO Alan Mulally, known for overhauling Ford's culture. Turns out, Mulally has already tried to do the same for Microsoft. He was the mastermind behind Ballmer's reorg last summer. Ballmer hoped the reorg would change Microsoft's culture of fiefdoms, where employees and business units were pitted against each other, into one big happy family that worked together. Ballmer even named the reorg "One Microsoft." Mulally helped Ballmer plan it in a Seattle-area Starbucks on Christmas Eve, according to an interview with Ballmer by the Wall Street Journal's Monica Langley: Mr. Ballmer brought a messenger bag, pulling out onto a table an array of phones and tablets from Microsoft and competitors. He asked Mr. Mulally how he turned around Ford. For four hours, he says, Mr. Mulally detailed how teamwork and simplifying the Ford brand helped him reposition it. A lot of people are rooting for Mulally to become the next Microsoft CEO. Some people thought Ballmer was emulating Mulally with his reorg plans but looks like Mulally was in on the plans from the beginning.
Wikimedia Commons Panera Bread has a four-step plan to combat slowing sales and rising competition, according to a recent research report by Goldman Sachs.¬† The plan is meant to "improve service and ultimately the overall customer experience," the analysts write. These four changes will take effect in 2014:¬† 1. Adding labor. Panera Bread is hiring more employees. It also plans to give current workers more hours. This will ease the burdens on staff and give them more time to assist customers.¬† 2. New equipment. The company ¬†is spending millions to add new food preparation equipment, which will also reduce wait times, according to the note.¬† 3. New menu. The brand is eliminating some "hard-to-produce," items, according to Goldman. "Among other benefits, this new menu, which has already been tested, is meant to reduce consumer confusion/indecision that slows down the line at the point of sale during peak periods," the analysts write.¬† 4. Catering hubs. Instead of running its catering business out of stores, Panera Bread will build hubs that will service three or four locations. This will keep employees focused on customers. ¬†
Boeing opened up the Dubai Air Show with a bang this weekend, unveiling its long-awaited 777X commercial jet and announcing it had already sold 259 to four airlines, worth more than $95 billion.† The 777X is a refreshed version of the 777, with a longer, composite wing and a new GE engine. Those tweaks promise to make it†12% more efficient that the competition, a big plus in an industry where high fuel prices make it hard for airlines to eke out profits. The 777X family includes two jets: the 777-8X and 777-9X.†The 8X will offer a range of over 9,300 nautical miles and have room for†350 passengers.  The bigger 9X will have a range of over 8,200 nautical miles and have room for 400 on board. And if airlines choose to pack that many passengers in, they'll benefit from "the lowest operating cost per seat of any commercial plane." Three of the four customers announced in Dubai are based in the Middle East. Emirates ordered 150 of the new jets, Qatar Airways got 50, and Etihad Airways went for 25. Germany's Lufthansa ordered 34.† The 777X is now in development. Boeing expects to being production in 2017, and start deliveries in 2020. †Where the plane will be built is an open question. Last week, Boeing workers rejected a new labor deal that would have secured the job for Seattle. Boeing says the 8X will compete with the Airbus A350-1000, while the 9X "is in a class by itself."† †Here's the 9X and 8X together: Boeing The 777X jets will be powered by the GE9X, which Boeing calls "the most advanced commercial engine ever." Boeing Boeing
Salesforce.com's CEO Marc Benioff has something to say about Steve Ballmer's decision to leave Microsoft: You're right, Steve. Time to go. Benioff was commenting on an article that appeared in the Wall Street Journal on Sunday, where Ballmer, Microsoft's CEO, described his decision to retire: "Maybe I'm an emblem of an old era, and I have to move on," the 57-year-old Mr. Ballmer says, pausing as his eyes well up. "As much as I love everything about what I'm doing," he says, "the best way for Microsoft to enter a new era is a new leader who will accelerate change." Benioff agrees and says the problem isn't just with Microsoft.  "The world has changed. The companies that are struggling in the market today have not gone cloud. They have not gone social. They have not gone mobile. They are still trying to sell the same old stuff," Benioff said to analysts during a quarterly conference call. Benioff didn't name names but said there's a whole bunch of CEOs, particularly in enterprise, who have been in the corner office for eons. We can think of a few: Oracle's Larry Ellison (36 years), Cisco's John Chambers (nearly 19 years) and EMC's Joe Tucci (almost 14 years). To some extent, the list could even include IBM's Ginni Rometty, who has been at IBM since 1981, although she's only been CEO for about two years. Ballmer admitted he's "too representative of the past," Benioff says.† "For a lot of these companies, that quote could be about them." Interestingly, Benioff isn't against aging CEOs per se, just against CEOs that don't adopt new technology with the times. He'd like to see Bill Gates come back as Microsoft's CEO, something Gates has said he's not going to do.
Bitcoin momentarily reached $900. Just as soon, it fell back to $583. Now it is at $650. Bitcoin got two major lifts. First, Ben Bernanke submitted a letter to the Senate saying digital currencies like Bitcoin¬†"may hold major promise." Then this afternoon, the Senate held its first hearing on the state of digital currencies and whether they pose a threat to consumers. The answer was basically "no," and Bitcoin traders regarded the prospect that it could become more mainstream as bullish. Finally, the FT's Izabella Kaminska suggested something slightly more bizarre may be afoot: that a cartel of souped-up Bitcoin miners had taken control of creating new Bitcoins, which are produced by computers solving complex math equations, and that more "conventional" miners need the price to move higher to justify the cost of their investment. Just 36 hours ago, Bitcoin was at $500. This is getting crazy. Chart: Clark Moody
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Who Want To Pursue Active Management Need To Be Able To Stomach Short-Term Underperformance (Vanguard)¬†  Vanguard's Jack Bogle championed passive investing, where investors aim to track the performance of a major index like the S&amp;P 500. A new white paper from Brian R. Wimmer, Sandeep S. Chhabra and Daniel W. Wallick at Vanguard looked at 1,540 actively managed U.S. domestic equity mutual funds that were available to investors in 1998 and studied their performance over the next 15 years.The authors found that of the 1,540 funds, 55%, or 842, survived the 15-year period; 700 funds were merged or liquidated; and 18%, or 275 funds, "survived and outperformed their style benchmarks." "Furthermore, our analysis illustrated that nearly all the funds that beat their benchmarks over that 15-year period suffered at least five individual years of underperformance," they write. "Our findings strongly suggest that investors should refrain from using short-term performance as the primary criterion for divesting (or investing in) an active mutual fund."¬† Instead, they argue that investors should only consider active management if they are willing to weather "numerous and potentially extended periods during which their fund will lag its benchmark." 2 Bubble-Like Developments In The Markets (Dr. Ed's Blog)  Even though Janet Yellen said she doesn't "see a risk to financial stability," Ed Yardeni of Dr. Ed's Blog sees two bubble-like developments in markets. 1. Emerging market debt ‚Äî Analysts are expecting another record year of bond issuance. "Tapering chatter during the summer nearly burst the bubble in emerging market debt. Since the 9/18 decision not to taper, more air has been pumped into it." 2. Corporate bonds ‚Äî Some companies are using proceeds from bond sales to repurchase shares. This "artificially inflates earnings per share," according to Yardeni. "That‚Äôs a bubble-like development if stock prices are getting a significant lift from debt-financed share buybacks rather than actual earnings growth." Advisors Should Use This Tactic To Maximize A Deployed Soldiers Income (The Wall Street Journal)¬†  Advisors can help maximize a deployed soldier's income by depositing it in the Department of Defense's Savings Deposit Program (SDP), Dylan Ross a financial-planning counselor told Kelly Kearsley of The Wall Street Journal. The soldier's income would be tax free and the SDP guarantees a 10% annual interest rate. "The key is to frontload these accounts so that you can get as much of that 10% interest as you can," Ross said. Female Advisors Are In A Better Position For Future Success (FA Mag)  A new study from PriceMetrix has found that female financial advisors have a better shot at future success than male advisors. "Bigger clients and more consistent pricing, not to mention a higher proportion of female clients, are significant advantages," says Doug Trott, president of PriceMetrix told FA Mag.¬† The survey found that the typical female advisor has 56 high-net-worth households (i.e with $250,000 or more in assets) and 72 smaller households. The average household has $178,000 in investment assets. In comparison, male advisors have 51 high-net-worth households, and 78 smaller ones. The average household has $152,000 in investment assets. Here's What Has Been Driving The Stock Market Since 1960 (Deutsche Bank) The S&amp;P 500 is up 26% so far this year and has been driven up by multiple expansion. Deutsche Bank has a chart that shows what has driven S&amp;P 500 returns since 1960. Company Financial Reports. Standard and Poor's, Deutsche Bank
APIf you're going to gamble, Sheldon Adelson would prefer you not do it home alone.¬† The Washington Post's Peter Wallsten and Tom Haburger report¬†the Las Vegas Sands CEO will launch a campaign early next year portraying Internet gambling as dangerous to children and unfairly targeting the poor.¬† ‚ÄúIn my 15 years of working with him, I don‚Äôt think I have ever seen him this passionate about any issue,‚Äù Andy Abboud, Adelson‚Äôs top political adviser, tells the post.¬† That might be because the online gambling, if legalized, has been projected out as a $50 billion industry, if sports betting gets included. ¬† In 2011, a Justice Department ruling allowed states to enact their own online gambling statutes. So far Nevada, New Jersey, and Delaware have legalized it, and more than a dozen additional states have also looked into doing so. Adelson and his wife spent nearly $100 million on Republican causes in the 2012 election, with mixed results. The Post says he is hoping Congress will issue a national ban, and has already hired three former high-powered elected officials, including former New York governor George Pataki, as lobbyists. "This could be our 'Joe Camel' moment," Abboud said. Click here to read the full story on WashingtonPost.com ¬ª
VALUATIONS MATTERWe went back to the historical record to see what average and median S&amp;P 500 returns do based on various P/E multiple starting points. Nice to see the results making sense ó it is typical to see a bigger springboard for future returns from periods when the multiple is low, and vice versa. The best returns historically are when the starting point is a single-digit multiple, and the worst, not surprisingly, is when the P/E multiple is north of 25x; though anything over 16x is generally consistent with single-digit returns thereafter ó whether on a one-year or three-year horizon ó which is where we are right now. In other words, there is nothing to suggest the onset of a bear market, though sentiment and valuations are problematic near-term. But this is no time to extrapolate the outsized 20%+ returns generated in 2012 and 2013 into the future. Gluskin SheffThen again, valuations would have to exceed 20x to trigger the ultra-low expected returns in equities to render the asset class as less appealing than government bonds at current yield levels (at least out to the 10-year T-note ó the only maturity that can really be described as alluring, in a relative sense, is the 30-year bond). A similar analysis can be done for the bond market. Instead of using P/E ratios, we used yield ranges on the 10-year T-note as the starting point for future returns. This time, the higher the coupon at the start, the greater the yield protection and the greater potential for capital gains if prices rise (since yields have greater leeway to do so in the higher yield backdrop). We have already seen bond investors get burnt repeatedly on a one-year return basis when yields dip below 2%; and when they are in a 2-3% range as they are now, median returns on a one-year and three- year basis are low to mid-single digits. Only when the starting point is 6% or higher, and if the Fed ends up being successful in its radical reflationary quest then who knows, is the bond market typically in a position to generate returns that top mid-single digits. Equity investors have had to endure the busted bubbles in the past decade, but for the most part, have been spoiled since the end of that secular bear market in 1982. The same can be said for much of the bond market over the same time horizon. In both asset classes, expected returns are going to be likely ratcheted down in the future, so the case of active as opposed to passive investing will be in vogue, and at the same time this should also be fodder for hedge funds that truly hedge. Outside of that, what happens at the surface can be expected to be quite boring, but it will be the ideas beneath the surface ó from yield curve plays to credit strategies to sector rotation ó that will generate the returns we have become accustomed to seeing this cycle among the major indices. 2014 TO LOOK BETTERLook, we didnít have to endure a fiscal cliff this year, but it was a steep hill nonetheless. The early-year tax bite. The sequestering. And the government shutdown. The economists at Morgan Stanley estimate the cumulative impact of the retrenchment to have drained 175 basis points from headline real GDP growth this year. The last two times in post-war history that we saw such intense fiscal drag as this year, the U.S. economy slipped into recession. So yes ó it was a rough year. Real growth slowed from 2.8% in 2012 to what looks like 1.6% in 2013. But do the math ó absent the fiscal drainage, the economy would have expanded 3.4%. While there will be some offsetting compositional shifts next year ó less contribution from inventories and housing and likely more from business investment and net exports ó this is the sort of growth we can look forward to in 2014, especially since there will be substantially less need to maintain such an acutely constraining budgetary policy. Already in just four short years, the deficit has been sliced from 10% of GDP to 4% and poised to hit 3% in the coming year. The good news? It looks as though the budget panel is working towards replacing the severe across-the-board sequestering with more modest spending and revenue measures. As for the consumer, either the market will end up forcing the employer hand to share the income spoils or the heavy hand of the government (minimum wage hikes ó not just federal but check out what is happening with Seattle airport workers now where a ballot initiative may well see the minimum wage there surge to $15 an hour from a $10-13 range right now). More money to spend, by hook or by crook, is the key to the consumer spending outlook for the coming year. Coupled with the extra de facto tax break from lower energy costs, things are looking much better. So in that vein ó whoís going to be needing QE any longer in 2014? A FEDERAL RESERVE OF THE PEOPLE, BY THE PEOPLE, FOR THE PEOPLEThe economists at UBS did a great job digging out Janet Yellenís last public comment when she was nominated by President Obama back on October 9th: While I think we all agree, Mr. President, that more needs to be done to strengthen this recovery, particularly for those hardest hit by the Great Recession, we have made progress ... while we have made progress, we have farther to go. The mandate of the Federal Reserve is to serve all the American people, and too many Americans still canít find a job and worry how they will pay their bills and provide for their families. The Federal Reserve can help, if it does its job effectively. We can help ensure that everyone has the opportunity to work hard and build a better life. Wow. Talk about rhetoric that promises even more radical reflationary efforts. At a minimum, the status quo ... recall her March 4th comment that ìat this stage, I do not see any (ed note: costs) that would cause me to advocate a curtailment of our purchase programî. But those earlier comments tell me that a Yellen-Fed promises me to be very activist in the name of bringing social justice to American families. I recall someone named Pierre Trudeau trying to be all things to all people in Canada during the late 1960s and 1970s, but at least he used fiscal policy to achieve that goal. The problem with the U.S. economy is not that it suffers from a lack of liquidity, a lack of asset inflation or a lack of inflation for that matter. It is about irresponsible fiscal policy, excessive regulation and a health care plan that seems to have many people confused that are impeding the economyís performance, and it is tough to believe that Federal Reserve asset purchases are really an effective solution. But Fed policy certainly has evolved since it was established in 1913 to ensure financial stability as a lender of last resort. From stabilizer of markets a century ago it is now the maker of markets as it now owns half of the market of long-dated government bonds, not to mention emerging this cycle as a buyer of mortgage paper for the first time ever ó in Canada, the housing market is supported directly by a Crown Corporation (CMHC), not the central bank. But the Fedís activities, roles and mandates have evolved over time, and even though it was Congress that amended the Act in 1977 to provide the monetary authority with the dual goal of ìmaximum employmentî and ìprice stabilityî. Paul Volcker realized that both goals were mutually compatible, not separate, and knew that the pursuit of the former would bring the latter. But barely a year into the Greenspan era, things started to change as the Fed became increasingly respondent to what was happening on Wall Street ó reacting aggressively to the 1987 crash despite a booming economy, the 1989 Savings and Loan crisis in four states, the 1994 Mexican default, the 1998 LTCM fiasco ... to name a few. Hence the term ëGreenspan putí. Then Ben Bernanke went more than a step further to prevent another Great Depression (at least in his mind) just a couple of years after he labeled the cycle he was presiding over as the Great Moderation, and directly intervened in bank takeovers, taking bad assets on its balance sheet, and then embarking on a series of QE measures to influence investor portfolios in the quest for a wealth effect that works better in theory and academia than it does in practice and the real world. And now, we will have a new Fed that seems dedicated to eradicate social ills, like a declining participation rate, even if there is precious little it can do on its own to prevent it from declining. And itís not just about discouraged workers who some day will resurface in the labour market. Itís about a system of government benefits that distorts the incentive to work.
The Bitcoin craze keeps getting crazier. Moments ago, the digital so-called crypto-currency spiked to a high of $788. This is up 51% from its intraday low of $519, according to Bitcoin site Mt. Gox. Earlier today, the U.S. Senate heard testimonies on the state of digital currencies. "Presiding Sen. Tom Carper compared the current moment in digital currencies to the early days of the Internet, and Secret Service agent Edward Lowery made an indirect analogy to attitude towards credit cards during their '80s boom," reported BI's Rob Wile. "[W]hile these types of innovations may pose risks related to law enforcement and supervisory matters, there are also areas in which they may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system," said Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. Check out this insane price chart from Clark Moody. Clark Moody
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner made her first public statement to Argentines since undergoing brain surgery that kept her sidelined during last month's crucial elections (which were brutal for her party). It's a thank you video to everyone who helped her in her recovery, posted by Clarin. After thanking the hospital staff and tons of well-wishers, CFK goes on to introduce viewers to an adorable puppy named Simon (after Simon Bolivar, of course). The story is that Simon was supposed to be given to her by Hugo Chavez before he died. The dog is a special breed, and the national dog of Venezuela. At one point, Simon starts to nip at CFK's hair and she jokes, "you can't do that, or we'll have to break off ties with Venezuela." Now, if you think this is some kind of ridiculous political stunt, you're probably right. If you think that it might just work, though, you'd be right about that too. With this dog, CFK is not only adding a positive, ridiculously cute element to the presidential brand, but she's also showing her support for the Chavez legacy ahead of Venezuela's crucial elections on Dec. 8. Puppy. Power. If you speak Spanish, watch the video below. If you don't, put it on silent and watch anyway, this dog is adorable (the puppy shows up around minute 4:45). 
We do not sow. ‚Äì House Greyjoy motto, ‚ÄúA Game of Thrones‚Äù "The Lion In Winter""I know. You know I know. I know you know I know. We know Henry knows, and Henry knows we know it. We‚Äôre a knowledgeable family." ‚Äì Prince Geoffrey, ‚ÄúThe Lion In Winter‚Äù It would be ideal if we could have an uncontrolled flow of information. ‚Äì Poindexter, former Director of DARPA Information Awareness Office It‚Äôs SCIENCE, Mr. Felix! ‚Äì Poindexter, cartoon boy genius Sentiment is affect. Sentiment is emotion. Sentiment is fickle and transitory. In the context of investing, Sentiment is how you feel about a stock. Sentiment is NOT how you feel about a company, and sometimes it can be difficult to separate our feelings about a company from our feelings about a stock. Difficult, but necessary. Your feelings about a stock, as opposed to your feelings about a company, should be completely determined by your beliefs about other investors and their feelings about the stock. In the lingo ‚Ä¶ your preference functions for stocks qua stocks are entirely exogenously derived and epiphenomenal. There is no rational internally-developed¬† preference for one stock versus another stock, any more than I prefer a $5 chip from Harrah‚Äôs to a $5 chip from Caesar‚Äôs Palace. The only thing I care about is whether other investors, for whatever reason, will value the Harrah‚Äôs chip at $6 tomorrow. But each of these other investors is thinking about his or her feelings about stocks in the same way that you are. And you all know it. And you all know that you all know it. The strategic interaction of all investors trying to figure out how all other investors feel about a stock, each of whom knows that everyone else is going through the same decision process, is Sentiment. Any strategic interaction is a game, in the formal sense of the word. Every game has rules, and every game has a smart way to play and less smart way to play. What are the rules for the Game of Sentiment? And how can we play the game smartly? In 1935, John Maynard Keynes bemoaned the Sentiment game as dominating markets to such a degree that ‚Äúgenuine long-term ¬†expectation is so difficult today as to be scarcely practicable.‚Äù ¬†Sound familiar? Keynes described the Sentiment game as a ¬†‚ÄúNewspaper Beauty Contest‚Äù, a media promotion that was ¬†familiar to his readers (this was, after all, the heyday of the Miss ¬†America contest and ‚Äúbathing beauty‚Äù pageants everywhere), ¬†less so to us. Here‚Äôs how it works. missamerica1933.comA newspaper would run a page of photographs of pretty girls, and readers were invited to mail in a ballot with their choice of the ¬†prettiest. If you picked the girl who got the most votes, you were entered into a drawing for some sort of prize. Voting for the girl you think is the prettiest is what Keynes would call the first degree of decision-making. Now it doesn‚Äôt take a lot of thought before you realize that choosing the girl who you truly believe is the prettiest is probably not a winning strategy. To win, you need to choose the girl who gets the most votes as the prettiest, and your personal preferences aren‚Äôt nearly as useful in that task as figuring out who everyone else is going to vote for as the prettiest. Voting for the girl you anticipate more people will consider to be the prettiest is what Keynes would call the second degree of decision-making.¬† But there‚Äôs a big problem with the second degree. It assumes that everyone else is making a first degree decision, that everyone else is making a choice ‚Äúon the merits‚Äù of the photographs and you‚Äôre the only one smart enough to think about the average preference of the group. As a result, you quickly realize that everyone will be thinking exactly like you are, so you need to make a third-degree decision ‚Äì who will get the most votes when all the voters are basing their votes on who they think will get the most votes? This is the Sentiment game! Note that this third-level decision probably has nothing to do with the relative or objective prettiness of the girls. If ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù that the brunette with the biggest smile tends to win, then that‚Äôs where you should place your vote regardless of your personal preference or your knowledge of everyone else‚Äôs personal preferences. It‚Äôs the ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù component of the contest ‚Äì regardless of what the contest is fundamentally supposed to be about ‚Äì that determines voting behavior and contest winners. To get beyond the third degree of decision-making requires a superior identification of whatever it is that ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù. As Keynes wrote, ‚ÄúWe have reached the third degree where we devote our intelligences to anticipating what average opinion expects the average opinion to be. And there are some, I believe, who practice the fourth, fifth and higher degrees.‚Äù So ‚Ä¶ how do we practice the fourth, fifth and higher degrees of decision-making? How do we identify the context and strength of what ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù? How do we win the Sentiment game?  What Keynes called the Newspaper Beauty Contest is known to modern game theory as a variant of the Common Knowledge (CK) game. To illustrate how this game is played on a fundamental level, I‚Äôll use another classic example: The Island of the Green-Eyed Tribe. Tony ProbstOn the Island of the Green-Eyed Tribe, blue eyes are taboo. If you have blue eyes you must get in your canoe and leave the island at dawn the morning after you learn the awful truth. But there are no mirrors or reflective surfaces on the island, so no one has actually ever seen the color of his or her own eyes. It is also taboo to talk or otherwise communicate with each other about eye color, so if anyone saw that you had blue eyes he wouldn‚Äôt tell you. Similarly, when you see a fellow tribe member with blue eyes, you are not allowed to tell him the true state of his eye color. It‚Äôs a small island, so every tribe member knows the eye color of everyone else, but not his or her own eye color. A Missionary comes to the island one day and announces to everyone, ‚ÄúAt least one of you has blue eyes.‚Äù What happens? Let‚Äôs take the trivial case of only one tribe member having blue eyes. He has seen everyone else‚Äôs eyes, and he knows that everyone else has green eyes. Immediately after the Missionary‚Äôs statement this poor fellow realizes, ‚ÄúOh, no! I must be the one with blue eyes.‚Äù So the next morning he gets in his canoe and leaves the island. But now let‚Äôs take the case of two tribe members having blue eyes. The two blue-eyed tribe members have seen each other, so each thinks, ‚ÄúWhew! That guy has blue eyes, so he must be the one that the Missionary is talking about.‚Äù But because neither blue-eyed tribesman believes that he has blue eyes himself, neither gets in his canoe the next morning and leaves the island. The next day, then, each is very surprised to see the other fellow still on the island, at which point each thinks, ‚ÄúWait a second ‚Ä¶ if he didn‚Äôt leave the island, it must mean that he saw someone else with blue eyes. And since I know that everyone else has green eyes, that means ‚Ä¶ oh, no! I must have blue eyes, too.‚Äù So on the morning of the second day, both blue-eyed tribesmen get in their canoes and leave the island. The generalized answer to the question of ‚Äúwhat happens?‚Äù is that for any n tribe members with blue¬†eyes, they all leave simultaneously on the nth¬†morning after the Missionary‚Äôs statement. Note that no one ¬†forces the blue-eyed tribesmen to leave the island. They leave voluntarily once public knowledge is¬†inserted into the informational structure of the tribal taboo system, which is the hallmark of an equilibrium shift in any game. Given the tribal taboo system (the rules of the game) and its pre-Missionary ¬†informational structure, new information from the Missionary causes the players to update their ¬†assessments of where they stand within the informational structure and choose to move to a new equilibrium outcome.¬† Note also the role of time in this example. It takes time for strategic observations to take place (the other blue-eyed tribesmen didn‚Äôt leave right away) and time for strategic calculations to occur. The more ambiguity associated with the Missionary‚Äôs message or the more tribesmen who have blue-eyes, the more time required for behavior to move the system to a new equilibrium position. Both of these concepts ‚Äì message ambiguity and prevalence of non-conforming players ‚Äì play a crucial role in the operationalization of CK game theory into practical investment applications. But the most interesting aspect of the CK game played on the Island of the Green-Eyed Tribe is the role of the Missionary. It is the public statement of information, not the prevalence of private information or beliefs, that forces movement in the CK game. The public statement is what creates Common Knowledge,¬†even if all of that knowledge was already there privately. Everyone must see that everyone else sees the ¬†same thing in order to unlock that privately held information and drive individual decisions and behavior.¬† The context of what ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù is whatever the Missionary says it is. The strength of what ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù is a function of the Missionary‚Äôs credibility and the loudness of¬†his voice. For better or worse, as investors we love Missionaries. Our reaction is almost never this: epsilontheory.com But almost always this:¬† epsilontheory.com Who are our Missionaries? Well, there are the obvious choices:¬† epsilontheory.com But the more precise answer is that the role of the Missionary is served by any signal that is propagated widely enough and publicly enough so that everyone thinks that everyone has heard the signal. The important thing is NOT that lots of people actually hear the signal. The important thing is that lots of people believe that lots of people heard the signal. The power source of Common Knowledge is not the crowd seeing an announcement or a press conference. The power source of Common Knowledge is the crowd seeing the crowd seeing an announcement or a press conference. This is why sitcom laugh tracks exist. This is why American Idol is filmed in front of an audience. This is why the Chinese government still bans any media mention of the Tiananmen Square protests more than 20 years after they occurred. The power of a crowd seeing a crowd is one of the most awesome forces in human society. It topples governments. It launches Crusades. It builds cathedrals. And it darn sure moves markets. How do we ‚Äúsee‚Äù a crowd in financial markets? Through the financial media outlets that are ubiquitous¬†throughout every professional investment operation in the world ‚Äì the Wall Street Journal, the Financial¬†Times, CNBC, and Bloomberg. That‚Äôs it. These are the only four signal transmission and mediation channels¬†that matter from a financial market CK game perspective because ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù that we all subscribe¬†to these four channels. If a signal appears prominently in any one of these media outlets (and if it appears¬†prominently in one, it becomes ‚Äúnews‚Äù and will appear in all), then every professional investor in the¬†world automatically assumes that every other professional investor in the world heard the signal. So if¬†Famous Investor X appears on CNBC and says that the latest FOMC announcement is a great and¬†wonderful thing for equity markets, then the market will go up. It won‚Äôt go up because investors agree¬†with Famous Investor X‚Äôs assessment of the merits of the FOMC announcement. The market will go up¬†because every investor will believe that every other investor heard what Famous Investor X said, and¬†every investor will be forced to update his or her estimation of what every other investor estimates the¬†market will do. The greater the signal strength (from an Information Theory perspective) of Famous¬†Investor X‚Äôs words, the greater the change in each investor‚Äôs estimation of every other investor‚Äôs¬†estimation, and the more the market goes up. That‚Äôs how the Sentiment game works. The key to winning the Sentiment game, then, is to listen to all of the signals emanating from all the Missionaries in the world, human and otherwise, as they are mediated through the Big Four channels, and calculate the impact of these signals on investor estimations of all other investor estimations before the actual decision-making process occurs. That may sound like an impossible task, but it‚Äôs really not.¬† ¬†Just putting together the listening system would have been a logistical challenge even a few years ago, both in terms of data access and computer processing power. Today this part of the solution is almost trivially easy and cheap. And while I‚Äôd like to claim that the underlying estimation updating algorithms are ferociously complex, the truth is that we‚Äôre talking about a pretty simple Bayesian approach.¬† Fortunately for me, what remains less than trivial is to operationalize Information Theory appropriately in order to gauge the relative strength of this signal versus that signal, this Missionary versus that Missionary, in order to process quickly the market‚Äôs Bayesian update within the CK game structure. I‚Äôve written extensively about what I think is the appropriate framework for just such an application of Information¬†Theory, so I won‚Äôt repeat that here. But you don‚Äôt have to take my word for how to win the Sentiment game ‚Ä¶ that a keen ear and a quick Bayesian update can carry the day ‚Ä¶ because we all know people who are already using this strategy successfully today. We call them good traders.¬† What I‚Äôm proposing to do systematically is exactly what effective, alpha-generating traders do non-systematically every day. They have internalized an ability to gauge whether a piece of news hitting the market has legs or should be faded. Maybe it‚Äôs an earnings announcement; maybe it‚Äôs a jobs report; maybe it‚Äôs an FOMC announcement. Maybe they trade e-mini‚Äôs; maybe they trade currency futures; maybe they trade stocks. Regardless of the signal context or the security implementation, what all effective traders have in common is the ability to, as Keynes wrote, ‚Äúguess better than the crowd how the crowd will behave.‚Äù Keynes would call these traders effective players of the Newspaper Beauty Contest. I would call them effective players of the Common Knowledge game. We can all call them effective players of the Game of Sentiment, and they are one of the last sources of pure alpha in this world.¬† There‚Äôs an obvious business opportunity for Epsilon Theory in the full-blown systematization of the alpha-capture process described above ‚Ä¶ an externalization of the internalized abilities of effective traders across their various niche-y specialties. But one thing I‚Äôve learned in 25 years of operationalizing content analysis on a massive scale is that an experienced human is still far and away the most accurate and quickest interpreter of meaning in these public signals that are at the heart of any CK game. Computerized systems, particularly learning or adaptive systems, are wonderful for solving various pieces of this puzzle, and they can provide extremely useful tools and guidelines for the entire puzzle. But an experienced human has a knack for contextual pattern recognition of content meaning and salience that cannot be duplicated by either a computer or a roomful of less-experienced humans. All this suggests an alternative model for applying Epsilon Theory to alpha mining, one where the Epsilon Theory tools and algorithms support effective traders to make them better at what they have already intuited ‚Äì that they are playing a complex game with thousands of other market participants, some human and some not, where the decision-making processes of those participants in response to some new signal are somewhat predictable. This is what traders have always done, well before there was even a concept of a stock market or securitization.¬† Traders are all about buying something, anything, for two copper coins and selling it for three. They are doing this in an environment where lots of other traders are trying to do the same thing, where everyone is playing the same game, and where your ‚Äúedge‚Äù is your ability to assimilate informational signals of all sorts and translate that into an anticipation of everyone else‚Äôs behavior. This is the game that has been played for thousands of years, and the basic rules are the same whether you‚Äôre sitting in Hong Kong in 2013, New York in 1935, or Tyre in 800 BC. But traders today are like those Phoenician captains in 800 BC roaming the Levantine coast in their little wooden ships looking for their next score ‚Ä¶ they have a good ear for news, a good nose for the weather, and a good eye for a bargain, but they‚Äôre doing all this by the seat of their pants and with rudimentary tools based on na√Øve empiricism and personal experience. Can you imagine what a Phoenician trader could have done with a decent astrolabe, much less a weather forecasting service? Just thinking about trading activities within the right theoretical framework ‚Äì recognizing that what traders do in their everyday life is to play a game with a certain set of Information Theory rules and a certain set of Game Theory behaviors ‚Äì will pay dividends in ways that it‚Äôs impossible to predict in advance. This is why theory matters. Once you put a smart person on the right theoretical path ‚Ä¶ once you show him or her how to see the world in a new light, one that illuminates and makes clear behaviors and decisions that were formerly shrouded in myth or custom ‚Ä¶ well, there‚Äôs just no end to what‚Äôs possible.¬† I‚Äôm not¬†sure of the best way to implement this sort of hybrid system, where both human traders and Big Data systems work together under a common theory of how the Game of Sentiment is played. There are many variations on this theme that could be composed, from selling astrolabes as a tool to predicting the weather as a service to forming a network of a few skilled traders and arming them with tools that no one else has. But whatever the final composition, it‚Äôs a melody that rings true to my ears, and one that I hope you‚Äôll follow with me at Epsilon Theory.
CNBCWe're going to go ahead and declare Kelly Evans the winner in the whole Maria Bartiromo leaving CNBC thing.† Evans is the most obvious choice at the financial news network to replace Bartiromo. Gawker called her the next "Money Honey" a couple years ago.† She's insanely knowledgeable about markets and economics, putting her a cut above a lot of the talent that appears on TV. According to a network statement, Evans will be the host on an "interim basis" with Bill Griffeth of "Closing Bell" at 3 p.m. ET. Evans, 28, joined CNBC in early 2012 from The Wall Street Journal. While at The Journal, she worked as an economics reporter. She also†wrote the "Ahead of the Tape" column and hosted the daily "News Hub." Evans began her career at CNBC in the London bureau before quickly being brought back stateside for "Squawk on the Street."† She's been a standout at CNBC. She would frequently anchor "Closing Bell" when Bartiromo was away.† She's also a star in the digital world, and a favorite of the Twitterati.
Jeremy Grantham's Q3 letter to GMO clients is out. The legendary investor, has long been cautious on stocks, predicting low to negative average annual returns over the next seven years. But with with signals suggesting bubble-like conditions in the market, Grantham speculates we could see stocks explode higher before sinking deep into a bear market. "My personal guess is that the U.S. market, especially the non-blue chips, will work its way higher, perhaps by 20% to 30% in the next year or, more likely, two years, with the rest of the world including emerging market equities covering even more ground in at least a partial catch-up," writes Grantham. "And then we will have the third in the series of serious market busts since 1999 and presumably Greenspan, Bernanke, Yellen, et al. will rest happy, for surely they must expect something like this outcome given their experience," he added. "And we the people, of course, will get what we deserve. " This is not to say he recommends timing the market. "Be prudent and you‚Äôll probably forego gains," he warns. "Be risky and you‚Äôll probably make some more money, but you may be bushwhacked and, if you are, your excuses will look thin. Your call. We of course are making our call." From Grantham's letter: Timing Bear MarketsMy personal view is that the Greenspan-Bernanke regime of excessive stimulus, now administered by Yellen, will proceed as usual, and that the path of least resistance, for the market will be up. I believe that it would take a severe economic shock to outweigh the effect of the Fed‚Äôs relentless pushing of the market. Look at the market‚Äôs continued advance despite almost universal disappointment in economic growth. Exhibit 3 shows the economic forecasts for major economic countries made a year ago by the IMF compared to what actually happened. Only Japan was a modest pleasant surprise at 0.7% ahead of forecast and the U.K. and Switzerland scraped home by the skin of their teeth. Everyone else fell short. There have been few such occasions when such broad disappointment with economic growth still allowed the U.S. and most other major economies to make material upward moves in their stock markets. It is yet another testimonial to the global reach of the Fed‚Äôs stimulus of equities (as was the very substantial decline in emerging market equities on just talk of tapering!). In equities there are few signs yet of a traditional bubble. In the U.S. individuals are not yet consistent buyers of mutual funds. Over lunch I am still looking at Patriots‚Äô highlights and not the CNBC talking heads recommending Pumatech or whatever they were in 1999. There are no wonderful and influential theories as to why the P/E structure should be much higher today as there were in Japan in 1989 or in the U.S. in 2000, with Greenspan‚Äôs theory of the internet driving away the dark clouds of ignorance and ushering in an era of permanently higher P/Es. (There is only Jeremy Siegel doing his usual, apparently inexhaustible thing of explaining why the market is actually cheap: in 2000 we tangled over the market‚Äôs P/E of 30 to 35, which, with arcane and ingenious adjustments, for him did not portend disaster. This time it is unprecedented margins, usually the most dependably mean reverting of all financial series, which are apparently now normal.) By June this year, markets felt relatively quiet and under the surface there was still a considerable undertow of risk aversion in the institutions. The Russell 2000 and the GMO High Quality universe1 were both just level with the S&amp;P, all up 16%. Normally we would have expected the Russell to outperform handsomely. However, since then speculation has perked up so that today, the broad U.S. market is up 20% and the Russell 2000 is a more typical six points ahead while stocks in the GMO High Quality universe are several points behind. We have also had a sharp and unexpected uptick in parts of the IPO market in the U.S., so I would think that we are probably in the slow build-up to something interesting ‚Äì a badly overpriced market and bubble conditions. My personal guess is that the U.S. market, especially the non-blue chips, will work its way higher, perhaps by 20% to 30% in the next year or, more likely, two years, with the rest of the world including emerging market equities covering even more ground in at least a partial catch-up. And then we will have the third in the series of serious market busts since 1999 and presumably Greenspan, Bernanke, Yellen, et al. will rest happy, for surely they must expect something like this outcome given their experience. And we the people, of course, will get what we deserve. We acclaimed the original perpetrator of this ill-fated plan ‚Äì Greenspan ‚Äì to be the great Maestro, in a general orgy of boot licking. His faithful acolyte, Bernanke, was reappointed by a democratic president and generally lauded for doing (I admit) a perfectly serviceable job of rallying the troops in a crash that absolutely would not have occurred without the dangerous experiments in deregulation and no regulation (of the subprime instruments, for example) of his and his predecessor‚Äôs policy. At this rate, one day we will praise Yellen (or a similar successor) for helping out adequately in the wreckage of the next utterly unnecessary financial and asset class failure. Deregulation was eventually a disappointment even to Greenspan, shocked at the bad behavior of financial leaders who, incomprehensibly to him, were not even attempting to maximize long-term risk-adjusted profits. Indeed, instead of the ‚Äúprice discovery‚Äù so central to modern economic theory we had ‚Äúgreed discovery.‚Äù (Memo: ‚Äúprice discovery‚Äù is the process that happens in an open and competitive and unregulated market, where the interplay of supply, demand, and cost structures determines the efficient price. ‚ÄúGreed discovery‚Äù is the process by which a vastly and unnecessarily complicated financial system is exploited by expert insiders. These insiders have far more knowledge than the lambs ‚Äì formerly known as clients ‚Äì and without adequate regulations the lambs are defleeced in a surge of ‚Äúrent seeking.‚Äù) In the meantime investors should be aware that the U.S. market is already badly overpriced ‚Äì indeed, we believe it is priced to deliver negative real returns over seven years ‚Äì and that most foreign markets having moved up rapidly this summer are also overpriced but less so. In our view, prudent investors should already be reducing their equity bets and their risk level in general. One of the more painful lessons in investing is that the prudent investor (or ‚Äúvalue investor‚Äù if you prefer) almost invariably must forego plenty of fun at the top end of markets. This market is already no exception, but speculation can hurt prudence much more and probably will. Ah, that‚Äôs life. And with a Fed like ours it‚Äôs probably what we deserve. Inconvenient ConclusionBe prudent and you‚Äôll probably forego gains. Be risky and you‚Äôll probably make some more money, but you may be bushwhacked and, if you are, your excuses will look thin. Your call. We of course are making our call. Postscript 1What can go wrong for the market? There is a slow and for me rather sinister slowing down of economic growth, most obviously in Europe but also globally, that could at worst overwhelm even the Fed. The general lack of fiscal stimulus globally and the almost precipitous decline in the U.S. Federal deficit in particular do not help. What are the odds in the next two years? Perhaps one in four. Postscript 2Hot off the press, for a less serious moment at our client conference comes the latest update (or data mining, if you prefer) of the... ta da...Presidential Cycle. Since October 1977 when GMO started, 36 years have passed. In that time ‚Äì when logic and experience say you stimulate to help the next election ‚Äì the third year has been over 11‚ÅÑ2 times the other three added together and years one and two, when you should be tightening, have been commensurately weak. For the weakest five cycles, the average of years one and two was negative but for three cycles it was strong, even very strong. These three cannot be blamed totally on the Greenspan-Bernanke regime‚Äôs tendency to overstimulate, Read the whole letter at GMO.com.
AP ImagesThis is a total bombshell for the financial media world.¬† CNBC's "Money Honey" Maria Bartiromo is headed to Fox Business Network, Matt Drudge first reported while she was anchoring "Closing Bell" this afternoon.¬† CNBC has confirmed this for us.¬† "After 20 years of groundbreaking work at CNBC, Maria Bartiromo will be leaving the company as her contract expires on November¬†24th. Her contributions to CNBC are too numerous to list but we thank her for all of her hard work over the years and wish her the best," CNBC's Brian Steel¬†said in a statement to Business Insider.¬† This summer, New York Post's Claire Atkinson reported¬†that Bartiromo, whose five-year contract is about to expire, had been in discussions with Fox Business Network and CNN. Bartiromo joined CNBC in 1993. She was the first journalist to report live from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.¬† "After twenty great years of having a front row seat to some of the most important economic stories in the world, it‚Äôs hard to sum up the gratitude and appreciation I have for the team that helped make it happen. I am incredibly proud of what we have been able to accomplish. ¬†I want to thank all the people at CNBC who have been with me on this journey, and of course the viewers and investors everywhere for making me love every minute of it," Bartiromo said.¬†

Revenue was $1.08 billion, marking the first time Salesforce.com has delivered a quarter at over $1 billion. CEO Marc Benioff says it's the first time any cloud computing company has produced a $1 billion quarter. And that's a slight beat. Analysts were expecting $1.06 billion, according to Yahoo Finance. The company is offering guidance of on revenue for the fourth fiscal quarter of $1.124 billion to $1.129 billion, a GAAP net loss per share of 25 cents to 24 cents, a non-GAAP EPS profit of 5 cents to 6 cents. That guidance is right in line with what analysts polled by Yahoo Finance expect for next quarter. Full year guidance is $4.050 billion to $4.055 billion. It also offered guidance for 2015 of of $5.15 billion to $5.20 billion, analysts were expecting on average $5.19. † Here's the press release: Salesforce.com Announces Fiscal 2014 Third Quarter Results SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 18, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the world's #1 CRM platform (http://www.salesforce.com/), today announced results for its fiscal third quarter ended October 31, 2013. (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130612/SF30598LOGO) "Salesforce.com is the first enterprise cloud computing company to deliver a $1 billion quarter, with outstanding third quarter revenue growth at 36%," said Marc Benioff, Chairman and CEO, salesforce.com. "Given the strong customer response to our next generation social and mobile cloud technologies, I'm delighted to announce that we expect to deliver our first $5 billion year during our fiscal year 2015." Salesforce.com delivered the following results for its fiscal third quarter: Revenue: †Total Q3 revenue was $1.08 billion, an increase of 36% year-over-year, benefited in part by the acquisition of ExactTarget which closed in July 2013.† Subscription and support revenues were $1.00 billion, an increase of 36% year-over-year.† Professional services and other revenues were $72 million, an increase of 50% year-over-year.† Earnings per Share:† Q3 diluted GAAP loss per share was ($0.21), and diluted non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.09. The company's non-GAAP results exclude the effects of $142 million in stock-based compensation expense, $49 million in amortization of purchased intangibles, and $13 million in net non-cash interest expense related to the company's convertible senior notes, and is based on a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 27%.† GAAP EPS calculations are based on a basic share count of approximately 600 million shares. Non-GAAP EPS calculations are based on approximately 640 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter, including approximately 26 million shares associated with the company's convertible 0.75% senior notes due 2015. ††† Cash: †Cash generated from operations for the fiscal third quarter was $138 million, an increase of 30% year-over-year. †Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at $1.09 billion. Deferred Revenue: †Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of October 31, 2013 was $1.73 billion, an increase of 34% year-over-year, benefited in part by the acquisition of ExactTarget. Current deferred revenue increased by 38% year-over-year to $1.69 billion, benefited in part by longer invoice durations.† Non-current deferred revenue decreased by 26% year-over-year to $48 million. Unbilled deferred revenue, representing business that is contracted but unbilled and off balance sheet, ended the third quarter at approximately $4.20 billion, up 40% year-over-year. As of November 18, 2013, salesforce.com is initiating revenue and EPS guidance for its fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014. In addition, the company is raising its full fiscal year 2014 revenue and updating its EPS guidance previously provided on August 29, 2013. The company is also initiating revenue guidance for fiscal year 2015. Q4 FY14 Guidance: †Revenue for the company's fourth fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of $1.124 billion to $1.129 billion, an increase of 35% year-over-year. GAAP net loss per share is expected to be in the range of ($0.25) to ($0.24), while diluted non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.05 to $0.06. †The non-GAAP estimate excludes the effects of stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $145 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $47 million, and net non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, expected to be approximately $12 million.† EPS estimates assume a GAAP tax rate of approximately negative 1%, which reflects the estimated quarterly change in the tax valuation allowance, and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 36%. †The GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average basic share count of approximately 609 million shares, and the non-GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average fully diluted share count of approximately 654 million shares. Full Year FY14 Guidance: †Revenue for the company's full fiscal year 2014 is projected to be in the range of $4.050 billion to $4.055 billion, an increase of 33% year-over-year. GAAP net loss per share is expected to be in the range of ($0.45) to ($0.44) while diluted non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.33 to $0.34. †The non-GAAP estimate excludes the effects of stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $512 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $147 million, and net non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, expected to be approximately $47 million.† EPS estimates assume a GAAP tax rate of approximately 31%, which reflects the estimated annual change in the tax valuation allowance, and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 35%. Note that the tax valuation allowance adds complexity, causing potential volatility in our forecasted GAAP tax rate. †The GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average basic share count of approximately 598 million shares, and the non-GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average fully diluted share count of approximately 635 million shares. Full Year FY15 Guidance: Revenue for the company's full fiscal year 2015 is projected to be in the range of $5.15 billion to $5.20 billion.† The company will provide its expectations for FY15 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS when it announces its fourth quarter fiscal year 2014 results in February 2014.
">BloombergTalking Biz News has a list of journalists that have been laid off by Bloomberg News, and contrary to reports, the list doesn't just include reporters in sections like sports and lifestyle. This weekend the New York Post reported that the company would lay off 50-100 reporters on Monday. And while we haven't don't know the exact numbers, it's clear that some hard news hitters have gotten the boot. Like Elliot Blair Smith, who was an investigative and projects reporter, Rich Jaroslovsky was a technology columnist and reviewer for Bloomberg News and Bloomberg Businessweek, Tim Homan covered Congress for Bloomberg in Washington, D.C, and Charles R. Babcock was an editor on the projects &amp; investigations team at Bloomberg News. Not a soft news person among them. For a longer list at Talking Biz News, head here&gt;
cspanBitcoin is back at new all-time highs as the Senate wraps up a hearing on digital currencies. The price on the Mt. Gox exchange were at $700 and rising. The hearing began with three law enforcement officials discussing their agencies' successful crackdowns on the currency. However, there were no indications they were stepping up crackdowns or opening new regulatory fronts. They said current statutes were adequate for prosecuting criminals. Presiding Sen. Tom Carper compared the current moment in digital currencies to the early days of the Internet, and Secret Service agent Edward Lowery made an indirect analogy to attitude towards credit cards during their '80s boom. The Senate Committee On Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs session is entitled, "Beyond Silk Road: Potential Risks, Threats, and Promises of Virtual Currencies." You can watch it live here ¬ª¬† But the combination of Bitcoin's rise in price and the seizure of massive illicit e-commerce site Silk Road, on which Bitcoin was the primary medium of exchange, has put it in the sights of regulators. (A site billing itself as the new version of Silk Road has already gone live.)¬† "Whether or not virtual currencies prove to be a boom or a bust, I think it‚Äôs clear that some folks just want a chance to try and play by the rules," Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.) said in his published opening remarks. "That‚Äôs difficult to do if the rules or proper authorities aren‚Äôt clear or if the future is uncertain.¬† It‚Äôs also difficult if a large number of bad apples are allowed to spoil the bunch.‚Äù We'll be updating this space with news from the hearing.  Of course, we'll also have our eye on prices.¬† Here's who will testify: CLICK HERE FOR UPDATES ¬ª Sen. Carper's opening remarks were pretty boilerplate. Jennifer Shasky Calvery, the head of the Treasury Department's financial crimes enforcement division, said $8 billion-worth of BItcoin transactions have already been processed. U.S. Attorney Mythili Raman says Bitcoin's efficiency can be appealing to consumers, but that those same features make it equally appealing to criminals. Raman is touting Justice's crackdowns on digital currencies. Justice seized 170,000 Bitcoins when it took down Silk Road. She says she they are now working with Virtual Currencies Emerging Threats Working Group to spot illicit merchants.¬† Want to ensure virtual currencies do not become a haven for criminal activity. As you can see from the witness list above, the Feds are testifying first, followed by Bitcoin industry folks, so all the scary stuff is getting fronted. Now the Secret Service's Edward Lowery is speaking.¬†"Digital currencies challenge" law enforcement authorities' ability to carry out mission. Sen. Carper compares the current moment to the early days of the Internet, asks Feds whether it's a good corollary. Calvery says it's an apt comparison. "Innovation is a very important part of our economy," she says. Challenge is to have "balance" and "smart regulation."¬† Secret Service agent Lowery makes indirect comparison to early days of credit cards. Current statutes appear to be adequate for charging criminals misusing digital currencies, first panel says. Calvery compares Bitcoin to prepaid bank cards. Raman: other agencies, foreign and domestic, have been invited to join¬†Virtual Currencies Emerging Threats Working Group. Calvery: we don't care whether Bitcoin is a currency or commodity; we are charged with targeting money laundering. The first hearing wraps. Panel II begins at 4:30 pm. The first speaker is the head of the International Centre for Missing &amp; Exploited Children, who spoke to the difficulties of tracking Bitcoin transactees. Next is Bitcoin Foundation general counsel Patrick Murck, who talks about how much of the demand for digital currencies comes from consumers living in countries with weak banking sectors. He also points to California and Georgia as states that have most aggressively sought to make Bitcoin more mainstream. Jeremy Allaire, the CEO of Circle is up now, talking about how conducting transactions in 2013 is more expensive and cumbersome than it should be. Finally, former journalist and George Mason professor Jerry Brito compares Bitcoin to 3-D manufacturing and drones' dual capacity for good and evil. Also notes that unlike Liberty Reserve, Bitcoin records all transactions, an obstacle for would-be criminals. Murck talks about resistance Bitcoin businesses face from banks, basically saying they get a scarlet letter if they have the word Bitcoin anywhere in their documentation. Murck: digital currencies remain a high-risk environment for most consumers. The hearing ends. This was a huge step toward the mainstreaming of digital currencies like Bitcoin ‚Äî and it seems likely Bitcoin will become the only game in town ‚Äî and Bitcoin markets seem to view this as a bullish development.¬†
CoinbaseBitcoin had an insane day, rising more than $140, on volumes of close to 1 million transactions. As a result, Coinbase, which acts as the market-making intermediary for hundreds of retail outlets who accept Bitcoin, reached its buying limit. Here's the message the site left to clients an hour ago as transcribed by ycominbator: Due to higher than normal buy volumes, we are unable to provide exact price quotes right now. Instead of pausing buys entirely, we decided to give people the option to purchase bitcoin at the market price in a few days. Once your USD funds arrive, we will exchange them to bitcoin at the market price at approximately Friday Nov 22, 2013 at 07:56AM PST. Note that you can cancel your order at any time up until your bitcoin arrive from the transfer history page. The market price of bitcoin changes frequently. Below are some recent prices to give you an idea. These do not guarantee what the price will be in a few days." Insanity.
REUTERS/Stephen LamA chain of block erupters used for Bitcoin mining is pictured at the Plug and Play Tech Center in Sunnyvale, California, October 28, 2013.At one point in the morning, we saw Dow 16,000 and S&amp;P 1,800. But that rally was short-lived. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
(Reuters) - Activist investor Carl Icahn said on Monday he is "very cautious" on the stock market, saying he could see a "big drop" because earnings at many companies are fueled more by low borrowing costs rather than the strength of management. Icahn, speaking at the Reuters Global Investment Outlook Summit, also hinted at his ongoing plan for Apple Inc, the most valuable U.S. stock by market value, saying that he does not want to fight with management at the iPhone giant but has no plans to walk away from his investment. Icahn, who runs Icahn Enterprises, is urging Apple to buy back $150 billion worth of shares, which the company has not committed to. Icahn owns approximately 0.4 percent of Apple's outstanding shares. The 77-year-old billionaire investor's views on markets and individual companies are widely followed in light of strong returns he has generated after his involvement in different companies. Icahn said that in the last five years, investors who bought shares of companies in which his firm took a position on a company's board and held it as long as an Icahn representative stayed on the board would have earned 28 percent on an annualized basis. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss and David Gaffen; Editing by Leslie Adler)
The shoemaker in Turkey, the potato seller in Vietnam, and the weaver in Bolivia are among the billions of low-income entrepreneurs who make the world go round. They are also the type of people who can benefit significantly from microfinance. Every year, the Consultative Group To Assist The Poor (or CGAP) hosts a photo contest asking entrants to submit photos based around the idea of microfinance. The purpose of the contest is to give amateur and professional photographers a chance to show the different ways that poor households manage their financial lives and make their lives better through financial inclusion.¬† ‚ÄúPhotos of society and social inequality can help eliminate poverty by creating social awareness,‚Äù explained Mohammad Rakibul Hasan, the 2010 CGAP Photo contest winner and a judge on this year‚Äôs panel. Housed at the World Bank, CGAP is an advocacy group that works with development agencies, foundations, and national governments to advance the lives of the poor by improving their access to finance.
Business Insider / Will WeiThe sell-off in Tesla is getting worse and the stock is now down 11% to $120.72. This is well down from the Sept. 30 closing high of $193.37. The stock has been taking a beating on numerous reports of Model S fires. The company also missed analyst expectations on vehicle deliveries in its Q3 earnings report. Last week three Tesla employees were injured by hot metal after a low-pressure aluminum casting press malfunctioned. Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves has previously said that "there has understandably been significant profit-taking over the last few weeks by investors that have made substantial returns over the last 6 months." Now law firm Wohl &amp; Fruchter is investigating the electric auto maker on concerns about the quality of its earnings. From the press release: "The law firm of Wohl &amp; Fruchter LLP is investigating potential federal securities law claims against officers and directors of Tesla Motors, Inc. (Tesla) (TSLA) in connection with alleged violations by Tesla of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules governing the disclosure of financial metrics that do not comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)." Elon Musk has previously said he thinks the stock is overvalued. The stock is up 270% year-to-date. Here's a look at the five-day chart: Google Finance
UBSInflation is low in the U.S. And much of this trend is due to the rapid cooling of medical care and medical products price inflation, which has seen structural changes like improved hospital efficiencies, increased use of generic drugs, and declining hospital readmission rates. However, this brief era of decelerating medical cost inflation may be ending. "From June to September, the 3-month annualized rate of change for medical goods inflation has jumped from -0.4% to +4.8%, health care services have risen from -0.5% to +1.3%, and financial services inflation has bounced from +0.2% to +2.6%," noted UBS's Drew Matus. Matus sees core price inflation accelerating in 2014, which would also give the Federal Reserve less room to continue its ultra-easy monetary policy. But it's still too early to begin freaking out. The Affordable Care Act could deal another blow to inflation. "If Obamacare succeeds in lowering health care costs further then it will have important implications not only for fiscal policy, but the disinflationary impulse will also continue to provide a favorable backdrop for the Fed to maintain its uÃàber-accommodative policy stance for longer," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine.
Not every restaurant review deserves a preview, but to understand the importance ó and strangeness ó of M. Wells Steakhouse, you need a little background. The restaurant opened softly in Long Island City, Queens last week, but there's already been significant buzz about the restaurant in the food community for months. Earlier this fall, Eater included it on a list of 'most anticipated' fall openings. Since then, we've been watching and waiting... M. Wells Steakhouse is a project by†chef Hugue Dufour and spouse Sarah Obraitis. Their first project M. Wells Dinette, has been a cult classic in NYC since its opening in 2010. After a rent dispute it moved into MOMA PS1 as a lunch spot (to much rejoicing), and its mix of eclectic comfort food has been going strong ever since. Think: Foie Gras Bread Pudding. Now Dufour and Obraitis are turning that same predilection for the bizarre to a steakhouse, and they know its going to be a gamble. Dufour told New York Magazine earlier this fall ó ìOpening a steakhouse is worrisome for me,î he says. ìPeople have strong opinions." We'll let you know what we think after we eat there. What we know so far, though, is that the restaurant is located in an abandoned garage. There's a tank of live trout, an open kitchen (odd for a steakhouse), and soon there will be be a catamaran sitting in the restaurant soon if Dufour has his way. On the menu you'll find steakhouse classics like Bone-in Ch‚teaubriand and shell fish platters, but then you'll also see some weird twists. The menu includes fois gras stuffed gnocchi, a bone-in burger, and creamed sea-spinach. For steakhouse aficionados it will be a love-it-or-hate-it restaurant ó it will be a total sin or a completely refreshing twist. That said, what's the point of opening a restaurant if you're not going to do something different ó even if it's with something as perfect as a steakhouse.
AirbusEmirates, the Dubai-based airline, has ordered 50 Airbus A380 jets, it announced Sunday at the Dubai Air Show. The $20.2 billion deal is a reversal of fortune for Airbus, which had not sold a single A380 in 2013. Just a few weeks ago, Reuters reported, the plane maker¬†was considering cutting A380 production to avoid building planes it could not sell.¬† The double-decker A380 has been in service since 2007 and is flown by ten airlines. The world's largest passenger jet, it can cover 8,500 nautical miles on a full tank. It usually seats about 500 passengers, though it can fit more than 800.¬† Emirates, recently dubbed the world's best airline, is the biggest A380 customer, with 39 currently in service. Unlike most airlines, which are drawn to leaner, more efficient jets, it¬†has expressed interest in an even larger plane ‚Äî perhaps even one with three levels.¬† While the sale is good news for Airbus, the European plane maker has been roundly beaten by its arch rival Boeing at the Dubai show. Emirates placed the A380 order just minutes after ordering 150 jets from Boeing.¬†
The S&amp;P 500 is already up 26% since the beginning of 2013, and almost all of those returns have been driven by an expansion in the multiple investors use to value the market as opposed to actual growth in companies' earnings. "Year to date, 75% of the S&amp;P return has come from its [price-to-earnings ratio] expanding to 16.5x from 13.7x trailing EPS at 2012 end," writes Deutsche Bank chief U.S. equity strategist David Bianco in a note to clients. "Excluding 2009, this is the largest [valuation multiple]†contribution to market return since 1998. Before assuming further [multiple]†expansion we think it is important that investors be confident in healthy EPS growth next year. Hence, we encourage frequent re-examination of the capex and loan outlook upon new data points." The chart below decomposes S&amp;P 500 total returns for each year since 1960 into the contributions from multiple expansion, earnings growth, and dividend yield. "In our view, further S&amp;P [multiple] expansion from 15x 2014E EPS today would be justified if long-term Treasury yields slowly rise as the Fed tapers, but plateau below historical norms (~4% 10yr, ~2% 10yr TIPS or less)," says Bianco. "The less the Fedís balance sheet expands in 2014 the less the risk that yields rise above historical norms when QE ends or when the Fedís balance sheet contracts." Company Financial Reports. Standard and Poor's, Deutsche Bank
‚ÄúBlack Friday is the Special Olympics of capitalism.‚Äù Currently, the only thing saving October from being invaded by the Gingerbread latte is the Pumpkin Spice latte. Nonetheless, with Hanukkah so early this year, I thought I‚Äôd go ahead and release my Christmas (ahem, Holiday) Wish List a bit early. ‚ÄúAlmost time for children to learn a valuable life lesson. Santa loves rich kids more.‚Äù The Neiman Marcus Fantasy List is for alcoholic Dallas Botox queens and Tallahassee trophy wives, and the FT‚Äôs ‚ÄúHow To Spend It‚Äù has zero credibility after a notoriously dubious British banker‚Äôs rental property portfolio found its way front and center under rather questionable circumstances. Not to mention the fact that this year‚Äôs Financial Times Gift Guide includes things like the Magimix vegetable shredder. I have one; it‚Äôs great. But still, last time I checked, the insert isn‚Äôt called ‚ÄúHow To Spend It On Your Maid.‚Äù And my apologies, there are no gift ideas for women in here. If you don‚Äôt know what to buy a woman for Christmas, you‚Äôre an idiot. ‚ÄúThis Christmas, I went to Jared ... He works at the Graff on Madison.‚Äù And for the avoidance of all doubt, I have received nothing in exchange for compiling this list: No freebies. No kickbacks. No discounts. Nothing. So here goes ‚Ä¶ Edison Marine1. Something to runabout. It‚Äôs no Aquariva Cento, but the Edison Marine Classic Cruiser is the perfect runabout. It‚Äôs all-electric, so think zero emissions ‚Äî sort of like a Tesla for the water. It‚Äôs hand-made in America from beautiful solid African mahogany, with exquisite attention to detail, and a dual prop that ensures a smooth, yet powerful ride. It might not have the provenance or sex appeal of many of its Italian predecessors, but it's stunning nonetheless and, at $120,000, slightly more affordable. ‚ÄúIf you want to die rich, abide by The 3 F's: If it flies, floats or f---s, rent it, don't buy it.‚Äù This could very well be an exception to the rule. Saddleback Leather2. Something practical for the stocking. Most iPhone cases destroy the user experience. So, ditch the case, and enjoy the iPhone the way that Steve Jobs intended you to. At $30, it‚Äôs hardly a big-ticket item, but this rustic leather pouch from Saddleback is the perfect way to protect your naked iPhone when not in use. ‚ÄúI don't have an iPhone case. I'm not irresponsible or poor.‚Äù While you are at it, pick up one of their awesome weekend travel bags. Not that you‚Äôll need it, but it comes with a 100-year warranty. Pro-Hunter3. Something that gets strange men to chat with you. ‚ÄúWearing a Rolex is like driving an Audi: It says you've got some money, but nothing to say.‚Äù Every man should own at least a couple decent watches, even if he never wears them. Try going out on a limb with a unique take on a classic look. I love the retro Pro-Hunter Military Rolex Submariner. It‚Äôs a hefty ¬£12,000, but then again, you don‚Äôt want to be just another guy with a Rolex. If that‚Äôs too contrived, then there‚Äôs always the limited edition Blancpain Aqua Lung at around $8,000 for some understated masculinity. After all, it‚Äôs Vladimir Putin‚Äôs watch of choice. And who‚Äôs tougher than that guy? ‚ÄúPutin's been playing chess, while Obama's been playing golf.‚Äù Ari Perilstein/Getty Images4. Something to fight over in the divorce. ‚ÄúWhy would I marry? It's betting some chick half my net worth that I will love her forever.‚Äù You didn‚Äôt have to see the "Three Studies of Lucian Freud" auction to know that art can be a great investment. One of my favorite artists right now is Alec Monopoly, an unidentified street artist who speaks through the board game character of the Monopoly Man. Or there‚Äôs the complete Bull Profile Series lithograph screen prints by Roy Lichtenstein, which will set you back a cool ¬£140,000 at the Sims Reed Gallery in London. If you‚Äôre a long-only ‚Äúhedge‚Äù fund guy, and you buy something, drop me a line so I can bid it at a 50% discount this time next year. Asprey5. Something that should pay for itself. If chess is the game of Kings, backgammon is the game of Pharaohs. Widely regarded as the oldest board game in the world, it is the unique combination of luck and skill that makes it so much fun. $5,000 for this Asprey Backgammon Set may be pricey for a board game, but you can win back its price tag in a few hours. Srulirecht 6. Something they don‚Äôt sell at Herm√©s. For the John Gray (9 ¬Ω Weeks) in you ‚Ä¶ Who knew a scarf could be such a conversation piece? At ‚Ç¨3,600, it had better be. This one-of-a-kind just so happens to be made using the silk gland of a spider, courtesy of some crazy Icelandic company, Srulirecht. If that‚Äôs too impractical, there‚Äôs also a ‚Ç¨4,100 belt made from dolphin skin and reindeer leather, which comes with a hook for alternate use as an autoerotic asphyxia device. Send the belt to Russell Brand and hope he uses it without the appropriate safety precautions. Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images7. Something for fathers and sons. Most people I know have been on safari at least once. Carnival Cruise ships now basically dock at the Galapagos Islands. And Bill Ackmann won‚Äôt shut up about Myanmar. So, why not travel by horseback across the land of Genghis Khan, camping and fishing for the largest freshwater trout in the world. Sweetwater Travel organizes some of the most exotic fly-fishing trips in the world, most notably in Mongolia. As I said before in ‚ÄúHow To Be A Man,‚Äù every man should learn how to fly-fish. YouTube8. Something to point at Piers Morgan. ‚ÄúGuns don't kill people. Assh---s kill people.‚Äù Everyone has heard the story ‚Ä¶ A Texas oilman is at a Las Vegas roulette table, sitting across from Kerry Packer. ‚ÄúDo you know who I am? I‚Äôm worth fifty million bucks,‚Äù he says. Packer stares back, shrugs, and says, ‚ÄúFifty million? I‚Äôll flip you for it.‚Äù That Texan is the kind of horse‚Äôs ass who buys a Purdey or Holland &amp; Holland shotgun. So go Italian. Stick with Fabbri, or if you‚Äôre on a budget, Perazzi is the gun of choice of Dick Cheney, and will run you about $15,000 and up. Every man should own one. Business Insider9. Something to mark a special occasion. ‚ÄúIf you abstain from smoking, drinking, and using drugs, you don't actually live longer. It just seems longer.‚Äù It‚Äôs far from the most expensive bourbon on the market, but when the Pappy comes out, you know it‚Äôs a special occasion. John Carney said "whiskey will never love you back," but giving the gift of Pappy will ensure someone‚Äôs eternal love. Paying retail should be a point of pride, but good luck finding it. Bonhams10. Something that Steve Cohen doesn‚Äôt have. On Nov. 19, Bonham‚Äôs is having their Distinguished Fossils auction in New York. At $200,000, I‚Äôd go for the Triceratops skull (pictured). The full skeleton will probably set you back $800,000. Out of my price range would be the T-Rex skeleton ($2 million) and the famous Montana dueling dinosaurs ($8 million). Buy that for me, and I'm yours... ‚ÄúMy professor at Wharton always said, ‚Äòyou can marry more money in 5 minutes than you can make in a lifetime, even at Goldman Sachs.‚Äô‚Äù Paula Bronstein/Getty ImagesAn original $1,200 Ronald Reagan cuff link.12. Something to collect and pass down. Enamel cuff links ‚Ä¶ Silver ice bucket ‚Ä¶ Ship‚Äôs decanter ‚Ä¶ Any or all make excellent gifts that last a lifetime and then some, and are unlikely to ever lose value. Besides a watch and wedding ring, cuff links are the only acceptable form of jewelry for a man to wear in the office. But remember, stay away from the family crest rings. Asprey is the British standard in luxury goods going back to 1781. And on Madison Avenue, it‚Äôs right near the Tom Ford store. ‚ÄúEvery time I see a guy with a pinky ring, I want to stab him in the eye with his fountain pen.‚Äù Dimension Films13. Something for the confident intellectual ... ‚ÄúBad Santa‚Äù is right up there with ‚ÄúChristmas Vacation‚Äù and ‚ÄúTrading Places‚Äù as a timeless holiday classic. Yes, I know it‚Äôs on basic cable every year, but watching the censored version is like eating a bacon vegan burger with a side of onion rings. This should be required Christmas viewing for the entire family. And watch it twice for every time you are forced to sit through ‚ÄúLove Actually.‚Äù And since it‚Äôs impossible for Business Insider to go a day without mentioning their boss, Jeff Bezos ‚Ä¶ why not order it today on Amazon.com?
REUTERSVietnam's President Truong Tan Sang gestures as he waits for the arrival of visiting Chinese Premier Li Keqiang at the Presidential Palace in Hanoi October 14, 2013.A Vietnamese banker and his business associate accused of embezzling $25 million of state money have been sentenced to death, Al Jazeera reports. State media organizations said that the two were among 11 defendants in a trial looking at the falsification of legal documents from April 2008-March 2009. From Al Jazeera: Vu Quoc Hao, 58, the one-time chief of a finance subsidiary of the state-owned Vietnam Agribank and building firm boss Dang Van Hai, 56, were sentenced to death on Friday, according to state television. "They were given the sentences for embezzlement of assets, mismanagement, abuse of power and fraud, causing serious consequences to the state," it said. The other nine defendants were jailed for up to 14 years for violating state economic regulations, the report added. Vietnam's government has promised to crack down on the corruption that currently riddles the country, according to the report. Read the full report at Al Jazeera ¬ª
Vanity Fair's recent profile of Dan Loeb called the controversial hedge funder "Napoleonic," "Machiavellian," and the "Kanye West of Wall Street." It wasn't the nicest characterization. But then again, Loeb has a knack for skipping the niceties in his famously caustic activist letters. Now Vanity Fair is going after Loeb again, this time with a hilarious parody of his activist letter shtick. The victim? The Girl Scouts of America. "I have cc'd this letter to everyone on the Girl Scouts of the USA board, for I wish to make clear that I find your mismanagement of Girl Scout Cookie sales to be epic and appalling, starting with the disastrous discontinuation of Lemon Chalet Cremes on your watch," the fake Loeb writes to Anna Marie Chavez, Girl Scouts CEO. "I am calling for a seat on GSUSA's board, and for your immediate resignation on the grounds of incompetence, the inordinately waxy chocolate coating on this year's batch of Thin Mints, and your organization's unconscionable failure to develop a cheddar-flavored savory cookie since the botched Golden Yangles experiment of the 1980s," he goes on. "Loeb" (authored by David Kamp) goes on to inform Chavez that he has taken a 19% stake in Girl Scouts and begun the process to find her replacement. Read the full letter at Vanity Fair ¬ª
But conventional monetary policy canít push rates that low. The dreaded Zero Lower Bound. Thus, Summers concludes, ìWe may well need, in the years ahead, to think about how we manage an economy in which the zero nominal interest rate is a chronic and systemic inhibitor of economic activity, holding our economies back, below their potential.î The argument is based on two observations: first, even before the Great Recession and Financial Crisis, US GDP output and job growth was mediocre despite the lending-mania that inflated the housing bubble. Summers: ìWas there a great boom? Ö Somehow even a great bubble wasnít enough to produce any excess in aggregate demand.î Second, four years after the end of the panic, GDP remains far below its prerecession trend and the share of the US adult population with a job remains depressed. †While the Great Recession is officially over, Summers paraphrases Yogi Berra: ìIt is not over until it is over.î And based on how the vast majority of Americans are doing, it isnít over. St. Louis Fed FRED/AEISo thatís the diagnosis. Whatís missing is the ìwhyî and the ìwhat next.î Summers doesnít specify his answers to those questions, but his reference in the speech to economist Alvin ìThe American Keynesî Hansen may provide clue. In the late 1930s, Hansen worried that America would never really recover from the Great Depression and return to prosperity. He worried it faced ìsecular stagnationî ó a phrase Summers embraces ó due to declining population growth and slowing technology innovation. Boosting growth, he said, might require large, permanent budget deficits. Summers might well see things the same way today as Hansen did then. As Paul Krugman points out, the population aged 18 to 64 is forecasted to barely grow the next decade. And Obama White House economists argued earlier this year that economic growth ìis likely to be permanently slower Ö because of a slowdown in labor force growth initially due to the retirement of the post-World War II baby boom generation, and later due to a decline in the growth of the working age population.î Whatís more, many economists today worry about a ìgreat stagnationî for technology innovation, noting a productivity slowdown starting in the late 1970s. But surely Summers couldnít buy into Hansenís solution ó lots more government spending? Not with a $17 trillion US budget deficit? He might. Economist and frequent Summers collaborator Brad DeLong has been writing on the same topic. In one recent blog post, DeLong asked, ìSo where is the demand to push the economy into a large boom going to come from?î He then shows a chart highlighting a decade-long decline in government purchases as a share of GDP. DeLong also thinks itís likely that the US can just keeping borrowing and borrowing îand never have to pay it back because the economy grows faster than interest accrues. In which case the U.S. government looks much more like the Renaissance Medici Bankñan organization you are happy to pay to keep your money safe, rather than a debtor from whom you demand a healthy return.î In other words, time for more fiscal stimulus. Summersís thesis deserves greater analysis ó particularly his view of the prerecession 2000s economy ó than I can provide a single blog post, but a few observations: 1. Regarding the problems of the ZLB, Summers is too dismissive of unconventional monetary policy, especially in conjunction with an expectation- altering move by the Fed to begin targeting the level of total spending, or nominal GDP, in the economy. While Summers says Fed bond buying canít go on forever, quantitative easing has been rendered less effective that it could have been because of a lack of a NGDP level target. Monetary policy could be doing much more to help the economy reach its potential. If Summers thinks we need higher inflation to produce those negative interest rates and higher demand, there is good reason to believe the Fed and other central banks can provide it. 2. Not only was Hansen proven wrong by the postwar boom, but it is particularly notable that at the exact time he was worried about an innovation slowdown, the economy was going through an innovation boom. The productivity research of Alexander Field finds the years 1929 through 1941 were exceptionally innovative ones ìwith the consequence that a significant fraction of the productivity foundations of the postwar epoch were already in place before 1941.î We may well be going through a similar period right now thatís not being captured by current productivity metrics. And AEIís Stephen Oliner, a former Fed economist, writes in a recent paper that slower productivity growth is largely explained by reduced contributions from IT, after the tech boom from the mid-1990s to about 2004. But he also points out that chip innovation is continuing at a rapid pace, ìraising the possibility of a second wave in the IT revolution [and] that the pace of labor productivity growth could rise to its long-run average of 2º percent or even above.î Of course, some economists like Tyler Cowen think the result of the innovation will mean vastly more income inequality and an extreme thinning of the US middle class. 3. If we are worried about slowing population growth and labor force supply ó certainly a problem in Japan ó then perhaps it is time to embrace higher immigration (with an emphasis on high skill), reduce the anti-child bias in tax policy, and reduce disincentives to work in our welfare policy, including Social Security. 4. Japan is combating its Lost Decade(s) with ìthree arrowsî: easier monetary policy, fiscal stimulus, and regulatory reform. Maybe America needs three arrows of its own: NGDP level targeting (including a period of higher inflation), pro-labor force reform (immigration, fertility rates, work incentives ó especially for long-term unemployed), and pro-innovation reform (education, tax policy, regulation, public investment). Summers diagnosis might be wrong, but we should assume it isnít.
Flickr/Eric ChanFor thousands of furloughed federal workers, the 16-day government shutdown wasnít just a public display of Congressional dysfunction ó it was the trigger of a personal financial crisis. According to the administrators of the Thrift Savings Plan (the federal version of the 401(k)),†over 8,200 federal employees†made hardship withdrawals from their retirement accounts during the shutdown. But that statistic is paltry compared to the number of†all†Americans with a 401(k)-like retirement plan that unexpectedly withdrew cash back in 2010:†one in four. Those numbers expose a toxic trend ó and a major policy failure ≠ó that is threatening the finances of families across the country: Millions of Americans wonít be able to live off of their savings in retirement because theyíre surviving off of them right now. The good news: thereís a new solution on the table ó a bill introduced by Representative Jose Serrano (D-NY) this summer that would help millions of Americans secure future retirement funds ó and cultivate savings for today. It would, in other words, help Americans to build a cushion that lasts more than 16 days. But before we examine Serranoís solution, itís critical to understand how we got to this crisis point: Why are a quarter of Americans dipping into retirement savings early? Families tap into their retirement accounts because when disaster strikes, they have no other savings options. Data from the Survey of Consumer Finances shows that the typical household has only about $3,000 on hand. This drops to an abysmal $500 from families below the poverty line.† (The withdrawal behavior is particularly common among unemployed or underemployed workers; the Transamerica Center for Retirement†Studies estimates that†one-third of that population†has taken cash out early). This is why the retirement fieldís preferred solution of simply tightening withdrawal restrictions on accounts misses the point: Retirement savings will continue to leak out of their accounts if families donít have other ways to plug holes in their budget. And the safety net created by savings ó which helps a family build resiliency to hardship, and can propel kids from a low-income family onto a higher socioeconomic ladder as adults ó will continue to fray. Washington gets that ó and thatís why encouraging savings has long been a policy priority. The problem is, legislators are crafting the†wrong†policies to help families save. Right now, for example, the government invests†half a trillion dollars a year†into helping Americans save and build wealth.†Yet out of that half a trillion dollars, not one cent goes toward flexible savings, and what goes toward retirement savings flows to the top of the income ladder. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the†top 20 percent of income earners†will capture two-thirds of the $140 billion in subsidies for retirement alone this year.†This isnít just because these are the people who can most afford to save and are most likely to have an employer-sponsored retirement account: itís also because the tax code values their savings at a much higher rate. If a family earning $25,000 and $200,000 each save $1,000 in a 401(k), the tax benefit to the first is $150 and the benefit to the second is $330. So, lower- and moderate- income families get less support for the retirement savings theyíre able to accumulate, and they get no support for the flexible savings theyíll need to keep it there. APRep. Jose SerranoLuckily, thereís a better option on the table. The Financial Security Credit Act of 2013, introduced in July by Representative Jose Serrano (D-NY), would offer a new, inclusive, and innovative way for low- and moderate- income families to save.†At tax time, every dollar a tax filer set aside from his refund would be matched with fifty cents, deposited directly into his account. If he didnít already have an account, he could just check a box to set one up. And significantly, the Financial Security Credit would support savings from retirement to an emergency fund, giving families the flexibility to decide what is best for their financial situation. Itís simple, itís targeted, and itís overdue. And, importantly, it also works. In 2008, New York City launched a pilot to test this model. It was a runaway success. Even though the average family had an income of just $18,000 and most didnít even have a savings account before participating,†eighty percent of households that started the program†also finished and came away with almost $600 of their own money before the match was added.†Since then, the program, called SaveUSA,†has been expanded to Tulsa, Newark, and San Antonio†and is showing similar results. People have a lifetime of needs before they get to retirement. Helping them build the flexible savings that they can use along the way will ensure that thereís more left when they get there. And it will help guarantee that financial threats during that journey, of the government shutdown variety or otherwise, wonít be able to shake that security. Making It Work For Women Oxford Needs A Jewish Friend The Ingredients For Future Edisons
Bitcoin has surged again, to $675, a new all-time high. It's now back to $666. The surge was likely fueled by comments submitted by Fed Chair Ben Bernanke¬†voicing support for digital currencies: "...while these types of innovations may pose risks related to law enforcement and supervisory matters, there are also areas in which they may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system." Nor do they appear not to be heeding analysis from Izabella Kaminska, who says we are witnessing a massive short squeeze. Prices were below $600 just a few hours ago, and since trading in the currency began today it's¬†moved up about $145. Chart:¬† clarkmoody
GONZALO FUENTES/ReutersFrench police officers cordon the area next to newspaper Liberation's headquarters in Paris, November 18, 2013. REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesPARIS (Reuters) - Police were hunting a lone gunman on the loose in central Paris on Monday after he opened fire at the offices of a left-wing newspaper and a major bank before hijacking a car to take him to the Champs-Elysees avenue.††††††††††††† The shaven-haired assailant, who police said was filmed by video-surveillance cameras, fired shots at the office of Liberation daily, seriously injuring a photographer's assistant before fleeing, police and staff at the newspaper said.††††††††††††† About 90 minutes later, he opened fire outside the suburban headquarters of Societe Generale in the La Defense business district 10 km (6 miles) west of the centre, wounding no one, police and a spokeswoman for the bank said.††††††††††††† There was no immediate indication of his motive.††††††††††††† Shortly afterwards, the same man hijacked a car nearby and forced the driver to drop him on the Champs-Elysees Avenue in central Paris, the driver told police.††††††††††††† Police said the description of the car-jacker fitted that of the gunman, who was armed with a hunting rifle or similar weapon. Cartridges found after both attacks corresponded.††††††††††††† "As long as this person is still on the loose and we do not know the motives, this represents a threat," Interior Minister Manuel Valls told reporters outside Liberation's offices. "We must move fast."††††††††††††† A police helicopter hovered over the Champs-Elysees area to help in the manhunt after the gunman melted into the crowd.††††††††††††† President Francois Hollande, on an official visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories, said "all means" would be deployed to catch the attacker.††††††††††††† APThis photo taken from a footage of a security camera on Friday, Nov. 15, 2013, and released by the Paris Prefecture de Police, Monday, Nov. 18, 2013, shows a man pointing a shotgun at employees of the BFM TV station in Paris, France.The Paris prosecutor, Francis Molins, says a lone gunman appears to be behind a shooting at a Paris newspaper office that gravely wounded a photographer, and three other attacks.Earlier, Liberation managing editor Fabrice Rousselot said witnesses described the assailant as a short-haired man in his 40s. Police said he was "of European type".††††††††††††† The wounded photographer's assistant was hit in the chest, a police official said.††††††††††††† "He walked in, fired twice and left," Rousselot told reporters.††††††††††††† Deputy editor-in-chief Fabrice Tassel said in a tweet that the young male victim was fighting for his life in hospital.††††††††††††† Police deployed outside the offices of other media outlets in the French capital.††††††††††††† The mid-morning incidents came days after an armed intruder entered the offices of the BFM TV channel, threatening journalists before disappearing. Police said video surveillance footage showed it was the same man.††††††††††††† Liberation's offices near the Place de la Republique in east-central Paris were cordoned off as forensics experts investigated.††††††††††††† (Reporting by Gerard Bon, Brian Love, Lionel Laurent and Nicolas Bertin; Editing by Mark John and Paul Taylor)
Dr. Ed's BlogPresumably, among the risks of QE are speculative debt-financed asset bubbles. However, last week, Janet Yellen said, ‚ÄúAt this point, I don't see a risk to financial stability, although there are limited signs of a reach for yield.‚Äù She said that based on current valuations, stocks aren‚Äôt ‚Äúin territory that suggest bubble-like conditions.‚Äù I see more bubble-like conditions than Janet Yellen does. Her lack of concern may be justified currently, but by expressing it she increases the odds of triggering melt-ups in asset markets, especially if she turns out to be even more dovish than Bernanke, as I expect. Consider the following: (1) Emerging market debt. The result of the widespread ‚Äúreach for yield‚Äù is that debt sales by emerging markets rose to $439 billion this year through October, within reach of last year‚Äôs record of $488 billion. According to the 11/6 FT article on this subject, ‚Äúrecord debt sales from the developing world have rebounded after a summer of turmoil and the US budget crisis stunted demand, leading analysts and bankers to predict the second record year of bond issuance in a row.‚Äù Tapering chatter during the summer nearly burst the bubble in emerging market debt. Since the 9/18 decision not to taper, more air has been pumped into it. (2) Corporate bonds. The Fed‚Äôs Flow of Funds data show that the outstanding amount of corporate bonds issued by nonfinancial corporations rose to a record $6.1 trillion at the end of Q2-2013. That‚Äôs up by a record $625 billion y/y. That may not seem like a bubble since corporations may be using some of the proceeds to reduce their short-term debts, and have lots of liquid assets. However, corporations also are likely to be using some of their bond proceeds to buy back shares, which artificially inflates earnings per share. That‚Äôs a bubble-like development if stock prices are getting a significant lift from debt-financed share buybacks rather than actual earnings growth. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Party On, Dudes! (1) Yellen and Gatsby. (2) Yellen is in no rush to taper. (3) Benefits outweigh the costs of QE for now, she said. (4) No bubble in stocks, she said. (5) Bull following lead of FOMC‚Äôs doves. (6) Record bond issuance as investors reach for yield. (7) Yellen‚Äôs first press conference on March 19 should be bullish. (8) Yellen may have to nurse economy from Obamacare disaster. (9) Yellen stocks. (10) ‚ÄúDallas Buyers Club‚Äù (+ +). (More for subscribers.)
Steven Perlberg/Business InsiderThis summer, the world's distilleries battled at the International Wine and Spirit Competition. The event, now in its 44th year, aims to "promote the quality and excellence of the world‚Äôs best wines, spirits and liqueurs," according to its website.  Naturally, scotch had its own, competitive category. The judging process at the competition is rigorous. Wines and liquors are subject to both professional blind tasting and chemical and microbiological analysis. The best bottles score between 90-100 on the judges' scale, but a few receive special recognition: Gold Outstanding. And as a result, they received elegantly-written endorsements such as: "A treasure chest of liquid gold!" From blends to single malts to single barrels, 18 Scotches took home a Gold Outstanding award at the competition.
The CFTC has ordered MF Global to pay out $1.2 billion to customers that lost money when the brokerage firm collapsed in the fall of 2011 under the leadership of former New Jersey Governor, Jon Corzine. After those customers are paid, the firm will pay an additional $100 million as a civil penalty. Here's the CFTC's release on the matter: The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) obtained a federal court consent Order against Defendant MF Global Inc. (MF Global)requiring it to pay $1.212 billion in restitution to customers of MF Global to ensure customers recover their losses sustained when MF Global failed in 2011.The consent Order, entered on November 8, 2013 by U.S. District Court Judge Victor Marrero of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, also imposes a $100 million civil monetary penalty on MF Global, to be paid after MF Global has fully paid customers and certain other creditors entitled to priority under bankruptcy law. The Trustee for MF Global obtained permission from the bankruptcy court to pay restitution in full to customers to remedy any shortfall with funds of the MF Global general estate. The consent Order arises out of the CFTC‚Äôs complaint, filed on June 27, 2013, charging MF Global and the other Defendants with unlawful use of customer funds (see CFTC Press Release 6626-13, June 27, 2013). In the consent Order, MF Global admits to the allegations pertaining to its liability based on the acts and omissions of its employees as set forth in the consent Order and the Complaint. The CFTC‚Äôs litigation continues against the remaining defendants: MF Global Holdings Ltd., Jon S. Corzine, and Edith O‚ÄôBrien. Gretchen Lowe, Acting Director of the CFTC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement, stated, ‚ÄúDivision staff have worked tirelessly to ensure that 100 percent restitution be awarded to satisfy customer losses. The CFTC will continue to ensure that those who violate U.S. commodity laws and regulations designed to protect customer funds will be vigorously prosecuted.‚Äù The CFTC‚Äôs Complaint charged MF Global, a registered Futures Commission Merchant (FCM), with violating provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC Regulations intended to protect FCM customer funds and requiring diligent supervision by registrants. Specifically, the Complaint charged that during the last week of October 2011, MF Global unlawfully used customer segregated funds to support its own proprietary operations and the operations of its affiliates. In addition to the misuse of customer funds, the Complaint alleged that MF Global (i) unlawfully failed to notify the CFTC immediately when it knew or should have known of the deficiencies in its customer accounts, (ii) made false statements in reports it filed with the CFTC that failed to show the deficits in the customer accounts, (iii) used customer funds for impermissible investments in securities that were not considered readily marketable or highly liquid in violation of CFTC regulation, and (iv) failed to diligently supervise the handling of commodity interest accounts carried by MF Global and the activities of its partners, officers, employees, and agents. The CFTC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorneys‚Äô Offices for the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of Illinois, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. The consent Order recognizes the cooperation of the Trustee for MF Global and requires the Trustee‚Äôs continued cooperation with the CFTC. CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Sheila Marhamati, David W. Oakland, Chad Silverman, K. Brent Tomer, Douglas K. Yatter, Steven Ringer, Lenel Hickson, and Manal Sultan. Staff from the CFTC‚Äôs Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight, Division of Clearing and Risk, and Office of Data and Technology also assisted in this matter.
REUTERS/ Tim ChongThe beautiful thing about Bitcoin, digital currency enthusiasts will tell you, is that it doesn't have a central bank. So with eyes on today's Bitcoin Senate hearing, where does the world's most powerful central banker stand on the elusive cryptocurrency? Now we know.†Ahead of the meeting, U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has released a letter†to help guide the senate. Quartz's Zachary Seward called it a "cautious blessing," with Bernanke acknowledging the Fed doesn't have the authority to supervise virtual currencies, but that they "may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system.î Here's Bernanke's full letter†(via Quartz): Dear Senators:Thank you for your recent inquiry regarding virtual currencies. As you noted, virtual currencies have been receiving increased attention from U.S. authorities over the past several months. Historically, virtual currencies have been viewed as a form of ìelectronic moneyî or area of payment system technology that has been evolving over the past 20 years. Over time, these types of innovations have received attention from Congress as well as U.S. regulators. For example, in 1995, the U.S. House of Representatives held hearings on ìthe future of moneyî at which early versions of virtual currencies and other innovations were discussed. Vice Chairman Alan Blinderís testimony at that time made the key point that while these types of innovations may pose risks related to law enforcement and supervisory matters, there are also areas in which they may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system. Although the Federal Reserve generally monitors developments in virtual currencies and other payments system innovations, it does not necessarily have authority to directly supervise or regulate these innovations or the entities that provide them to the market. In general, the Federal Reserve would only have authority to regulate a virtual currency product if it is issued by, or cleared or settled through, a banking organization that we supervise. Given the Federal Reserveîs authority and the manner in which virtual currencies have developed, the Federal Reserve has focused primarily on a supervised banking organizationís role in the productsí sale and distribution, as well as the applicable regulations, such as Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) /anti-money laundering (AML) requirements. Policies, Procedures, Guidance or Advisories In March 2013, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued guidance to clarify that an administrator or exchanger of virtual currency is generally considered a money transmitter under definitions and therefore subject to BSA requirements?í The Federal Reserveís supervisory expectations and guidance related to compliance for bank transactions using virtual currencies have been incorporated into the Electronic Cash section of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) Examination Manual. The overall objective of the guidance and examination procedures provided in this section is to assess the adequacy of a bankís systems to manage the risks associated with electronic cash and managementís ability to implement effective monitoring and reporting systems. The section further lists applicable risk factors and risk mitigation steps for banks to consider. The Federal Reserve supervision staff has onñgoing initiatives with the FFIEC member agencies to identify additional areas of concern that require heightened attention by the banking organizations we supervise. Ongoing Coordination In May 2013, the US. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) named Liberty Reserve S.A. as a financial institution of primary money laundering concern under Section 311 of the USA PATRIOT Act (Section 31l).4 ëAccording to the announcement, Liberty Reserve, a webñbased money transfer system or ìvirtual currency,î was specifically designed and frequently used to facilitate money laundering in cyber space. This action also marked the first use of Section 311 authorities against a virtual currency provider. The statutory language of Section 311 requires Treasury to consult with the Federal Reserve Board when these special measures are being developed and proposed. Therefore, Federal Reserve Board staff participated in coordination and consultation efforts leading up to the designation of the virtual currency provider, Liberty Reserve, under Section 311. Specific Plans or Strategies As noted above, the Federal Reserve plans to work with other FFIEC member agencies on electronic cash and related issues such as virtual currencies, as needed, for banking organizations. The Federal Reserve will continue to monitor developments as part of its broad interest in the safety and efficiency of the payment system. We also stand ready to cooperate with other agencies in fulfilling their mandates, as appropriate. I hope you find this information helpful. Sincerely, [Ben Bernanke]
Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty"Thats why I stick to acting!‚Äù  Wahlberg exclaimed after realizing his math error."Blue Bloods" star Donnie Wahlberg may not want to quit his day job. The former New Kid On The Block proposed a simple-sounding fix for HealthCare.gov¬†‚Äî¬†the troubled website for the Affordable Care Act¬†‚Äî¬†on Friday via Twitter and the Internet had a field day. ‚ÄúWhy dump 600,000,000 taxpayer dollars into healthcare website?‚Äù he posted to his over 514,000 followers. ‚ÄúWhy not dump $2,000,000 in the pockets of 300,000,000 U.S. taxpayers instead?‚Äù Wahlberg continued, ‚ÄúThat is not a bash on our president. I respect and admire him. Just doing the math." Great plan, Wahlberg! Except for the fact that¬†600,000,000 divided by 300,000,000 is two. Realizing his mistake, Wahlberg apologized and laughed it off: "I know my math is f***ed. Ha Ha Ha! Thats why I stick to acting!‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThats only $2 a person. Enough for half an aspirin! Screw it. Forget what I said! Load up the website and healthcare for all!‚Äù Wahlberg's tweets have since been deleted, but he did leave us with these: People really need help and care and I don't feel good making light of it. Even in a self deprecating manner. I don't use twitter to bitch ‚ù§ I will say this though... My math may be bad but it's better than most of our politicians!
Nobel Prize-winning Yale economist just Tweeted he plans to offer his introductory "Financial Markets" course free on the web next semester via Coursera, the massive open online course platform.¬† The class is billed as, "An overview of the ideas, methods, and institutions that permit human society to manage risks and foster enterprise." He last taught it in 2012. Shiller is an evangelist for finance, having¬†recently argued young people with a moral purpose should work for Goldman Sachs. In the video accompanying the course offering, he says,¬†"Finance is a technology for making things happen."  And the workload is billed as 6-12 hours a week. We just signed up ‚Äî you can do so here ¬ª
In the next few musical notes Iíll share Tchaikovskyís music and what Iíve learned about him. There are several theories as to why Tchaikovsky died at age 53. The theory I heard when I was a child in Russia was that he died from cholera ñ probably from drinking contaminated water. However, there is another theory about his death: that he committed suicide. Tchaikovsky was a Russian national treasure, a symbol of Russian greatness, something the propaganda machine could point at and say, ìMaterialistic Americans have their poisonous hamburgers (and a chicken in every pot, and toilet paper, andÖ), but we got art.î This is also why the propaganda machine would censor a little-known fact about its national hero: Tchaikovsky was gay. Today we see headlines about Putinís homophobia, but as much as itís convenient to blame it on Putin, it is not him but his country (admittedly, a very general statement). I did not learn of the existence of gay people until I was 17, and what I was told about them by my friends and the media was not much different from what the majority of Russians perceive today: that all gay people are AIDS-spreading pedophiles, so that being gay is a contagious. Also that one can become gay by observing gay behavior and that gays are responsible for the ongoing depopulation of Russia. (This is a new one and contains more than a kernel of self-denial: drinking unto death is the more likely explanation for Russian population shrinkage.) Russian homophobia goes back centuries and was in full flight in the late 19th century, the Tchaikovsky era. Tchaikovsky hid his gay ìflawî all his life. Many think the cholera story was a cover-up of his suicide. Tchaikovsky was caught out having an affair with Duke Stenbock-Thurmorís nephew. The duke was going to write a letter of protest to the Czar. This would have supposedly brought disgrace to Tchaikovsky. A ìcourt of honorî made up of his former classmates in St. Petersburg ordered Tchaikovsky to swallow poison. He did. Or so the story goes. Weíll never know which theory is true, the cholera or the suicide, but we do know that being in the closet all his life had an impact on his music. This †will bring us, by and by, to Evgeniy Onegin (also known as Eugene Onegin). Almost everything we know about Tchaikovsky today (and this is true about most classical composers) we learn through his letters exchanged with relatives and friends. In one letter to his brother when he was in his twenties, he says that he needs to get married. Not because he wants to have a family, but to help maintain his cover story. ìIíll marry anyone that will have me.î Shortly after, he got a fan letter from one of his former students at conservatory. She confessed her love for him. Tchaikovsky did not remember her, but they met. This is where the story gets murky. She wanted to marry him. He tried to explain to her that he was not interested in women and that it would be a fake marriage. Either he did not communicate that part that well or she did not understand it. They got married. She wanted more from him that he could give her. He could not physically stand her. His brother made up a story that doctors had told Tchaikovsky that his wife was making him sick. They separated. At about the same time Tchaikovsky received a letter from Nedezhda von Meck, a very wealthy widow of a railroad magnate, who was also a fan of his music. Von Meck wanted to be his pen pal. She also ended up being his sugar mama (she supported him for thirteen years). They became close friends and exchanged over 1,000 letters. He dedicated his Symphony Number 4 to her. (Iíve written about that symphony here). But they never actually met! There is a reason why I am writing about this. At about the time when Tchaikovsky received letters from his future wife and Nedezhda von Meck, he read Pushkinís Eugene Onegin. (For those who did not go in for the Russian classics, Pushkin is the godfather of Russian literature, the Russian Shakespeare, if you will.) Anyway, Tchaikovsky was asked many times to compose an opera based on Eugene Onegin. He always declined, because he felt the bar raised by Pushkin was too high. But one sleepless night he read Eugene Onegin and became infatuated with the ìletter sceneî (see how this all starts to make sense?). Tatyana, who is love with Onegin, is writing him a letter, confessing her love for him. It is a deeply emotional scene, and this is the scene that pushed Tchaikovsky into writing the opera. Her felt a significant personal connection to it. We saw Eugene Onegin in ìLive in HDî broadcast from the Met last month. To my great surprise, my son loved this opera (in some cultures, taking a twelve-year-old to see opera would be considered child abuse). So today I want to share with you a few excerpts from this opera: Letter Scene by Anna Netrebko (the performance we saw). Here is another version of that scene by Kristine Opolais (notice the completely different stage set) Lenskyís Aria by Rolando Vilazon (one of my favorite performances) Prince Gremlinís Aria (Alexeiís Tanovski sang it in the performance we saw at the Met)
By all accounts Facebook put up a big Q3 when they reported on Oct. 30th.† Upside in daily active users, mobile usage and mobile revenues nearing 50%, operating margins jumping 7% year over year to 49%.† Despite continued execution on their plan to monetize the growing mobile user base, the stock has been stuck below the levels it traded at prior to the earnings print largely due to their mention of slowing usage among young people and the companyís reluctance to boost ad loads in usersí Newsfeeds which has largely been the reason for revenue gains in the last couple quarters. If you are one to look at FBís shares with a bit of skepticism, those two points above that the company pointed out as concerns in a very forthright manner on their earnings call should be the cornerstone of your bearish thesis. Youth Engagement First things first, the youth issue is an issue because on FBís Q2 call, CEO Zuckerberg stated (via Techcrunch:) ìbased on our data, that just isnít true.î Zuckerberg said on todayís earnings call that ìwe believe we have close to fully penetrated the US teen demographic for a while,î and that teens remained steadily engaged with Facebook this year.î But letís take the convo back to just before FBís May 2012 IPO as the company spent $1 billion to buy Instagram the photo sharing network with 13 employees and no revenues. †This was fairly eye-popping and in some ways might have helped to destabilize the bullish thesis leading up the IPO and causing a bit of the volatility immediately after as some investors might have questioned FBís ongoing positioning in the quickly changing social media space. †Fast forward 18 months and the move in hindsight was genius, and some are calling it their ìTrojan Horseî with the youths today. †If Instagram had fallen into the hands of Google or Yahoo, FB might be in a far bigger pickle as they are scrambling to attract and engage younger users. †Which is why last weekís WSJ report that FB tried to recently buy short message social network Snapchat for $3 billion made sense so soon after the company acknowledged that they ìdid see a decrease in daily users specifically among younger teensî on their Q3 call on Oct. 30th. I suspect these flavor of the month social networks will continue to be aggressively courted by the likes of FB, MSFT, GOOG, YHOO and TWTR, and I would expect the prices to be paid to hit some fairly silly levels for companyís with no revenues and executives that still use a boatload of Clearasil face wipes on a daily basis. IF FB canít figure out the ìteen thingî they could very well go the way of Myspace, and one 13 year old last week on her Mashable account offered a fairly obvious but interesting assessment of what the youths today want in a social network titled ìIím 13 and None of My Friends Use Facebookì. †As a father of soon to be teenage girls who have connected devices I think it is safe to say by their initial forays on the web that they have little interest in Facebook, but both want Instagram accounts. AD LOADS The other pillar of the bear case is that advertising in social networks may suffer the same fate as banner ads did more than a decade ago, which for all intents and purposes caused the real death of most of the dot.com bubble companies back in 2000. †While FB has had its share of issues relating to privacy of users data of the last few years, users should be fairly happy that the company has decided to keep the ratio of ads in the Newsfeeds at about 1 per 20. †While this is less intrusive for users, this was not met well with investors who see this as the primary driver for revenue growth. †This will be a work in progress to find the proper equilibrium, but I suspect when the social media bubble bursts (and it could go on for years) backlash against inserted ads will likely be the culprit. Ok, thatís the fairly well known bad news at this point, but as some bullish analysts have pointed out, per Business Insider quoting Citi analyst Michael May, the company has many drivers to pull in the near term for revenue growth: Facebook is still the largest social media company in the world, and by far the largest market cap company in the sector ($122 billion). †Its many advantages are well known. †But as it searches for incremental revenue streams, there are a few budding risks. †Facebook is trying to use its pocketbook to nip the competition in the bud. †Whether that works in the long run is much less clear.
NMA, YouTube Over the weekend, it was reported that Bloomberg was suspending reporter Michael Forsythe for reasons related to the company's situation in China, where it is supposedly limiting the amount of¬† investigative reporting it will do. According to the FT, the suspension is related to him being a suspected leaker of the company's plans to curtail its reporting. So naturally the folks at Next Media Animation (AKA the Taiwanese animators) made this amazing video depicting Forsythe as the hero who stood up at Tianenman and the tank driver as Bloomberg Editor-In-Chief Matthew Winkler. Here's a few screenshots from the video, and then below is the video. NMA, YouTube NMA, YouTube 
Mark O‚ÄôDea took Fronteer Gold from a $1 million shell in 2001 to a diversified mine developer that sold for $2.3 billion to Newmont in 2011. The Vancouver-based, 45-year-old Newfoundland-born geologist also created Aurora Energy in 2006, and sold its Labrador uranium assets for $260 million to Paladin Energy in 2010. Along the way the accolades rolled in: 2000 Goldcorp Challenge runner-up, 2007 Globe and Mail‚Äú40 under 40‚Äù honoree, 2011 AMEBC Murray Pezim Award winner, 2011 finalist for EY Entrepreneur Of The Year,¬†2013 inductee to Casey Research Explorer‚Äôs League. Mr. O‚ÄôDea is an entrepreneur mining investors should follow. We touched base with Mark by phone on Friday to discuss his philosophy and recent ventures. (Listen: Mark O‚ÄôDea CEO.CA Podcast Link (MP3). O‚ÄôDea speaks modestly about the Fronteer experience: ‚ÄúIt came at a time when the market really lent itself to exploration companies that were good at finding deposits and could create value in the ground fairly quickly.‚Äù The model for company building has had to evolve since the height of the 2011 bull market, when O‚ÄôDea sold Fronteer. Today, investors are more concerned with profitability than size. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs less about making a deposit as big as you possibly can, and less about value in the ground, and a lot more about making a project smaller, more nimble, less capital-intensive, and more profitable.‚Äù O‚ÄôDea is involved in two new companies. The more advanced, True Gold Mining (TSXV:TGM), is developing the Karma project in Burkina Faso, West Africa ‚Äî a country that‚Äôs become one of the best jurisdictions to build a mining business, he says. True Gold has progressed through typical permitting issues ‚Äî social, water, native rights, etc. ‚Äî that characterize mining in the Americas, moving Karma forward with broad community support. After just a year, True Gold is already at the mining permit phase. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt imagine that pace in any other jurisdiction,‚Äù says O‚ÄôDea. ‚ÄúIn the next few months we‚Äôll have our feasibility study completed,‚Äù he continues. ‚ÄúWe should be approaching final permitting by year-end, followed by a production decision, project financing decision, and then mid next year we‚Äôll start development.‚Äù And True Gold has attracted some impressive investors. Both Teck Resources (TSX:TCK.B) and Liberty Metals &amp; Mining engaged in months of due diligence before coming on board, sold in part by Karma‚Äôs rapid progress. ‚ÄúIt was advanced enough to be quantified in terms of creating a mining project,‚Äù O‚ÄôDea explains. ‚ÄúThe amount of capital needed to build the mine was not a lot ‚Äî $130 million or so.‚Äù True Gold is also a favourite of Exploration Insights (EI) editor Brent Cook. In a September 29, 2013 alert to EI subscribers, Mr. Cook wrote that ‚ÄúTrue Gold‚Äôs Karma deposit is one of the most advanced, simple low cost gold mining projects on the market‚Ä¶ Financing should not be a problem, and if all goes well, Karma could be in production by late 2015. If all goes better than well, True Gold may not be building the mine itself.‚Äù Note Mr. Cook, Teck, and Liberty each paid more than the current market price for True Gold‚Äôs shares, which last traded at $.31. The three resource giants‚Äô involvement in True Gold is an endorsement for other investors, but Mr. O‚ÄôDea will have to live up to his track record in this market. Potential in the mining space isn‚Äôt worth what it used to be. O‚ÄôDea‚Äôs second company, Pilot Gold (TSXV:PLG), has assets in both Nevada and Turkey. O‚ÄôDea speaks favourably about the mining environment in Turkey, comparing it to Burkina Faso. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôve been in Turkey for ten years now, operating there in joint venture deals with Teck, and we‚Äôve had a lot of success. The exploration potential there is tremendous; there‚Äôs a huge endowment of gold and copper that we‚Äôve been able to get on the map and drill off. Right now we‚Äôre advancing two projects with Teck, both fantastic in their own right.‚Äù O‚ÄôDea says to expect steady newsflow from Pilot Gold over the coming year. Just this morning, the company announced impressive drill results at its Kinsley Mountain gold project in Nevada (News Release). When we asked Mark for his thoughts on gold, he clarified that gold itself hasn‚Äôt performed too poorly, but gold equities have badly suffered relative to the actual price of gold. We are very close to a bottom now, O‚ÄôDea thinks, and investors will soon return to the sector. ‚ÄúBusinesses have been taking measures to clean up their acts. Mining companies have been rationalizing assets, and paying down debts. There have been big systemic improvements in the whole sector which will herald more investment in the next year.‚Äù O‚ÄôDea likes a couple other commodities as well. ‚ÄúWe have copper exposure in Turkey and we also have exposure to nickel in a private nickel company that we formed a year ago (True North Nickel).‚Äù The company is exploring in the West Raglan Belt, a nickel mining region in northern Quebec. Early drill results are encouraging, and O‚ÄôDea says that when nickel fundamentals look promising, they‚Äôll roll the company out. We asked O‚ÄôDea who else we should be paying attention to. Not surprisingly, he likes companies that share attributes to True Gold. For development-stage companies, O‚ÄôDea mentioned Sulliden (TSX:SUE), Kaminak (TSXV:KAM) and Probe (TSX:PRB). O‚ÄôDea says he respects B2Gold (TSX:BTO) and Alamos (TSX:AGI) for delivering on their promises. He also clarified that he doesn‚Äôt own any of the names he shared with us.Finally, we asked the geologist if he still spends much of his time prospecting out in the field. With a cheerful chuckle he responded, ‚ÄúThe only thing I prospect for these days is investors‚Äù. We thank Mark O‚ÄôDea for joining the CEO.CA Podcast, and encourage listeners to check out True Gold Mining and Pilot Gold for more information.
Christine Armario/AP It's very easy to hype solar, which we've been doing for much of the year. Capacity is irrefutably going up, and prices are collapsing. However, the absolute capacity figures remain relatively low compared with conventional generation. And in most cases, even large-scale solar is still not cost competitive with traditional sources of electricity. There's basically one thing holding solar back: storage. Here's the problem: To run a commercially viable power plant, you need a continuous source of fuel. For run-of-the-mill power plants, this is basically not a problem ó you just keep ordering up more†coal, or natural gas, or uranium isotopes.† But in a cruel paradox of nature, you actually can't control the supply of solar ó or wind, for that matter ó despite their infinite abundance. Sometimes it's cloudy, or the wind is not blowing, or it's nighttime. And electric grids cannot function unless they are able to balance supply and demand. An imbalance results in voltage fluctuations, or worse.† Germany is already running into problems with this, as its solar capacity has skyrocketed. Soon, solar will be capable of meeting most of the country's electricity demand between 12 p.m. and 2 p.m.†As Citi's Jason Channell writes, "any further installations beyond this point could push structural solar power supply above demand and cause permanent mid-day grid instability." Here's what he's talking about ("double penetration" refers to Germany having doubled its solar capacity): Without batteries, that bulge is literally disruptive because it eats into conventional baseload generation, the backbone of current supply needs.† Citi There are two ways to address this problem. One way is to address the electricity grid itself. That is indeed happening ó whenever you hear about "smart grids," it refers to folks trying to find better ways of eliminating gaps in electricity supply and demand.† The other avenue is batteries. With storage, "any excess generation above the natural run rate of conventional baseload is [captured] (Figure 20) and spread across the day (Figure 21)," Channel says. Check it out: Citi So why don't we have large-scale batteries yet? Mainly, solar hasn't been widespread enough to justify what remain very expensive technologies.†That's obviously on the verge of changing, but the most promising type of large-scale renewable storage system, lithium-ion battery packs, still costs†$1000 per kilowatt hour, according to Channell. The average fridge uses about 5 kilowatt hours a day. However, thanks to investment from the electric vehicle industry, lithium ion costs continuously come down. We also just told you about a pilot project in Maryland that uses lithium ion batteries to modulate the solar generation from panels installed on a nondescript office building's rooftop. Lots of businesses are working on this problem, and other potential solutions include liquid metal batteries, which use relatively cheap components and manufacturing processes;†and compressed air storage, where kinetic energy gets turned into pressurized air that's pushed underground.† We're still in the earliest stages of widespread storage deployment, and we're likely to see some kind of convergence between smart grid and battery solutions as more renewable capacity emerges. That latter bit is not in doubt.
Wall Street is constantly putting out analyst reports and changing stock price targets, on top of every bank's all-important quarterly estimates on company earnings. But the problem is that not all estimates are created equal.¬† Wall Street consensus is better on some stocks than it is on others, and in fact, for a bunch of stocks, its estimates are just consistently off. Business Insider reached out to Estimize ‚Äî a company that aggregates estimates off The Street, from a community fo 3,000 portfolio managers, independant researchers, traders, asset managers and more ‚Äî to get a sense of which stocks are the hardest for Wall Street to nail. Estimize touts that its consensus is 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street's, and that on the following list of stocks, the difference is kind of striking. So these are the stocks where Wall Street loses its mojo ‚Äî you'll recognize a few of them: In the charts below, you'll see the difference between Estimize's consensus an actual stock's earnings per share, and Wall Street's estimates. The green line is each company's actual reported earnings per share. Estimize's consensus is represented by a blue dotted line, and the black dotted line is Wall Street. All charts go back quarterly, to fall 2011. Check out LinkedIn's chart below: Estimize Goldman Sachs' chart is pretty interesting as well: Estimize Now this isn't to say that you should throw out your analyst reports. What it is to say, though, that you've got to do your own homework business, especially when the professionals are missing the market too.
Wikimedia CommonsIn other party tricks...Here is a fun math party trick. Tell someone to pick a number between 1 and 1,000. Your goal is to guess the number. For each guess you make, your friend tells you one of three things: you guessed the number, your guess was high, or your guess was low. Amazingly, if you guess properly, it is possible to get to any number your friend chooses in 10 or fewer guesses. The trick to this is to constantly be cutting the amount of numbers you have to consider in half. This process demonstrates binary search, a foundational concept in technology. But more on that later. Suppose your friend chooses the number 334. Your First Guess: In this game, your first guess should always be 500, halfway between 1 and 1000. So, you guess 500, and your friend tells you that their number is lower. Now you know that the number is somewhere between 1 and 500, and you have knocked out everything between 500 and 1000. You have, in one guess, already gotten rid of half the possibilities. Your Second Guess:You know that the number is between 1 and 500, so you again take the halfway point between these two, and you guess 250. Now your friend tells you your guess is too low, so you know the number is somewhere between 250 and 500. In just two steps, you have knocked out 750 numbers, and are just looking at about 250 numbers, a quarter of our original set. Keep Doing This: Your next guess is halfway between 250 and 500, or 375. Your friend tells you this is too high, so now you know that the number is between 250 and 375. You have reduced your range to about 125 possibilities. The fourth guess is the midpoint of 250 and 375: Unfortunately, this is a decimal number - 312.5, but we can simply round up to 313. This guess is too low, but we have again eliminated half the remaining numbers, leaving us with the 61 numbers between 313 and 375. Your fifth guess is halfway between 313 and 375: 344. Again, this is too high, but you're down to the 30 numbers between 313 and 344. Your sixth guess is halfway between 313 and 344: 328.5, rounded up to 329. Too low. You know the number is between 329 and 344, leaving just 14 possibilities. Your seventh guess is halfway between 329 and 344: 336.5, rounded up to 337. Too high, but you're getting close ‚Äî only the seven numbers between 329 and 227 are left. Your eighth guess is halfway between 329 and 337: 333. Juuust too low. But now there are just three remaining possibilities ‚Äî you know the number is between 333 and 337, so it must be one of 334, 335, or 336. Your ninth guess is the middle option of 335, and you are told that your guess is too high. And now you know that the number is between 333 and 335. There is only one such number, and so your tenth, and final guess, is 334, your friend's number. This process will work for any number between 1 and 1000, and you will always find the number within 10 guesses. This game is a simple example of a binary search process. This works well for any ordered list, like a directory of employees at a corporation, ordered by name. Suppose we are trying to find a particular name on the list. We start by comparing the desired name to the middle name in the list. If they match, then yay! We are done. If the middle name comes after the desired name, we throw out the second half of the list, and just look at the first half. If the middle name comes before the desired name, we do the opposite ‚Äî dump the names before the middle name, and just search the second half of the original list. Then we just keep repeating this process, throwing out half the remaining names each time, until we find our name. This is such a simple, recursive process that it is ideally suited to being run on computers, and this is indeed how most database systems search through sorted lists of data. One of the coolest things about binary search is that the number of steps you need to find your target increases logarithmically with the size of the set you are looking in. What this means is that if you double the size of your set, you only wind up adding one extra step. If I wanted to find a number between 1 and 2000, my first guess is going to be 1000 (halfway between 1 and 2000), and then I'll be looking at either the numbers between 1 and 1000 or between 1001 and 2000, and we are back where we started ‚Äî trying to find one number among a thousand numbers. Extending this out, if we wanted to find a number between 1 and 1,000,000, we actually only need 20 steps to get to the number. For those of you familiar with logarithms, this is because the base 2 logarithm of 1,000,000 is just under 20. Processes like this that add steps at a logarithmic rate with respect to the size of the input are pretty rare ‚Äî usually, if I double the size of my input, I at least double the number of steps I need to take to solve my problem, and often need to add many, many more steps than that. Binary search is a great example of using a very simple concept ‚Äî repeatedly cutting my search region in half by always guessing the middle number ‚Äî and getting a very powerful tool from that concept. This is one of the central, big ideas in math: Start with a simple notion, and discover all the interesting, often surprising, implications of that notion.
Clarkmoody Bitcoin is surging day after day, and believers in the virtual currency are feeling a sense of increasing vindication. Further cementing the meme that bitcoins are becoming "for real" are today's hearings in the Senate about their use. But maybe instead of becoming real, Bitcoin is collapsing before our very eyes. That's the provocative thesis put forth by Izabella Kaminska of FT Alphaville. When she looks at the above, she doesn't see mass adoption: She sees a gigantic short-squeeze caused by a state of crisis in the world of Bitcoin. Among her points: All of this creates a situation where the traditional players in the market are totally scrambling to either buy obtain bitcoins (because of the shortage) or have been pushed out of mining. On this last point, she writes: To keep conventional miners incentivised to stay in the mining operation ó at least until everyone transfers to the new technology ó the price has to go up instead. However, as the chart above shows, prices are not yet high enough to keep conventional miners in the game. The consequences of that, we would imagine, are that the mining peer network may have been greatly reduced, creating something of a cartel-like effect, due to the lack of competition. The super spike suggests the market is now evolving to somehow attract back conventional miners so as to defend the decentralised market from the destablising effects of miner concentration ó more easily done now that there is a supply deficit which is potentially choking the system. This can only be done, however, with higher prices and/or the roll-out of the new technology. Kaminska is one of the smartest thinkers in the game on this stuff. Go read her full post, and then read all of the other posts she's written about the subject.
Wikimedia CommonsShanghai hairy crabsGovernment officials in China used to live the high life. In order to grease the wheels of the government's machinery, companies often gifted them expensive treats like grain spirits and mooncakes, or fancy dinners featuring delicacies like hairy crabs.† But with the government's austerity drive launched under president Xi Jinping last year, and reinforced by reforms announced at the Third Plenum this month, the trade in these gifts has all but vanished, according to reporting by the FT.† From the article:† "Ling Zhiping, owner of Lingís Crab House near Yangcheng lake, says his business is down nearly half so far this season, which traditionally runs from October 20 until the end of this month. Mr Ling is one of no less than 340 floating crab restaurants, many several stories high, clustered along two short streets in the Xiefangyuan area near the lake. ìIn previous years, 40 per cent of our sales were from government consumption but this year that 40 per cent is completely gone,î he says. In 18 years of crabbing, he says he has never seen things this bad." But crab sellers hope that the cleanup in government will correct the inflated prices of these delicacies, making them more accessible to the common man. The FT quotes†Rong Wei, director of the Kunshan Bacheng Yangcheng Area Crab Industrial Association as saying,†ìCrabs should be something that ordinary people can afford and the austerity ban will bring the market back to normal.î† Sellers are already adjusting their business models for a post-government austerity world, as demand from high-end companies dries up. The proprietor of the Old Friend crab restaurant in Xiefangyuan, Boss Li, says, ìNow, I am flying to other cities promoting our crabs to hotels. They require small to mid-sized crabs ñ not high-end crabs ñ because they sell to the mass market.î† Now Check Out†19 Crazy Things That Only Happen In China&gt;&gt;
REUTERS/ Kim Kyung HoonThe buzz out of China lately is over the the decisions made after the "Third Plenum" late Friday. The country's new reforms include ending forced labor camps, easing the one-child policy, and introducing economic and judicial reforms. The news has been met with relative glee, and Asian markets rallied. But BAML's Ting Lu says that investors should curb their enthusiasm over the "decision," writing that it wasn't even that big of a surprise. While it will "arouse enthusiasm" from those craving reforms for many years ó and markets will "remain bullish for a few more days" ó things will cool off pretty quickly once people realize how difficult it will be to implement reform. From the note: We believe the current leadership did a great job in delivering such a comprehensive collection of reform plans. Given all the social, economic and political constraints, this ìDecisionî is perhaps the best reform package we can get at the moment if we take into account the fact that these new leaders only took office in just one year. In this regard, Chinese new leadersí efforts, strength and political skills should be highly praised and appreciated, in our view. However, some of the messages in the ìDecisionî may conflict with each other, some reform goals are still too vague, some reforms might be just intermediate steps towards a truly appropriate system for China, and some reforms might not be effectively carried out. Itís great to see many reform ideas passed in this party plenum, but dust has not settled yet. In our view, regarding historical importance, this 3rd Plenum could be ahead of many other plenums (including some 3rd plenums) post the Cultural Revolution, but might still be behind the 3rd Plenum of the 11th CPC Central Committee in 1978 and the 3rd Plenum of the 14th Central Committee in 1993.
The opening bell just rang on the NYSE to kick off another week of trading in North America, and the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average have opened at all-time highs. The S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1802, up 0.2%, while the DJIA is trading above 16,020, up 0.4%. Meanwhile, 10-year Treasury futures are up 0.1%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.69%, one basis point lower from Friday's close. Gold is trading at $1282 an ounce, down 0.4%, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil is trading at $94.40 a barrel, down 0.1%.
Wikimedia CommonsGiant African land snailGDP growth depends on several factors, including growth in the labor force, improvement in labor force productivity, and expansion of public and private capital.¬† And according to Credit Suisse's Neal Soss, recent trends in these factors don't bode well for the future of economic growth in the economy.¬† This continues a trend of economists who believe that the US economy is in structural decline, and will not escape sluggish growth for a long time to come.¬†The first chart shows that labor productivity slowed from 3.5% in the late '90's to under 1% today.¬† Credit Suisse Chart number 2 shows the decline in labor force participation, as the US' aging population continues to drop out of the the workforce.¬† Credit Suisse Chart 3 shows the slowdown in private capital accumulation, measured through net business investment as a share of GDP. According to the report, "This ratio fell to multi-decade lows in the wake of the Great Recession, and the rebound since has been tepid. Slower growth in capital accumulation today is a downside factor for productivity in future years." Credit Suisse The final chart shows the decline in government investment in infrastructure. While 2009-10 stimulus supported government infrastructure, it has since "declined sharply as as state and local finances deteriorated." Credit Suisse 
REUTERS/Jason ReedJPMorgan Chase chief executive Jamie Dimon (R) talks with Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein before testifying in front of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington, January 13, 2010.Newsweek's Jeff Stein has a story exposing the CIA's National Resources Division, the domestic unit tasked with gathering information on Americans who have traveled to (what the CIA deems) suspicious places. But tucked away in the story is this interesting nugget about banking giants Jamie Dimon and Lloyd Blankfein.† "NR," as the agency is known, loves keeping in touch with Wall Street's†top brass. And Wall Street's top brass, as it happens, is†just fine with being fawned over. From Newsweek: It also knows some titans of finance are not above being romanced. Most love hanging out with the agency's top spies - James Bond and all that - and being solicited for their views on everything from the street's latest tricks to their meetings with, say, China's finance minister. JPMorgan Chase's Jamie Dimon and Goldman Sach's Lloyd Blankfein, one former CIA executive recalls, loved to get visitors from Langley. And the CIA loves them back, not just for their patriotic cooperation with the spy agency, sources say, but for the influence they have on Capitol Hill, where the intelligence budgets are hashed out. How cozy. Read the full story at Newsweek†ª
The stock market's 29% year-to-date gain is pretty mindblowing. Perhaps more mindblowing is how much stocks have been outperforming bonds. This is an important consideration if you care about asset allocation. "Equities have trounced 10-year US Treasuries by 37 percentage points (29% vs. -8%)," noted Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in a new note to clients. Goldman Sachs "Investment Grade bonds returned -3% while High Yield credit returned 7%. S&amp;P 500 has outperformed by 32 and 23 percentage points, respectively," said Kostin. Goldman Sachs This is what happens when you have a Federal Reserve committed to keeping interest rates low in its efforts to stimulate the economy.
WARSAW¬†(Reuters) - Global economic losses caused by extreme weather events have risen to nearly $200 billion a year over the last decade and look set to increase further as climate change worsens, a report by the¬†World Bank¬†showed on Monday. A¬†United Nations' panel of scientists has warned that floods, droughts and storms are likely to become more severe over the next century as greenhouse gas emissions warm the world's climate. "Economic losses are rising - from $50 billion each year in the 1980s to just under $200 billion each year in the last decade and about three quarters of those losses are a result of extreme weather," said¬†Rachel Kyte,¬†World Bank¬†Vice President for Sustainable Development. "While you cannot connect any single weather event to climate change, scientists have warned that extreme weather events will increase in intensity if climate change is left unchecked." Reinsurance company¬†Munich Re¬†has estimated total reported losses from disasters were $3.8 trillion from 1980 to 2012, attributing 74 percent of those to extreme weather. More than 3,900 people have been killed in Typhoon Haiyan which hit the¬†Philippines, one of the most powerful storms ever recorded. The typhoon threw a spotlight on the impact of climate change and coincided with the start of November 11-22 talks in¬†Warsaw,¬†Poland, where governments are trying to draw up a plans to slow its effects. Many nations have said the typhoon matched trends towards extreme weather and was an example to spur action in¬†Warsaw, which is meant to lay down the outlines of a global deal in 2015 that will enter into force from 2020. But the U.N. panel of climate scientists says it has only "low confidence" that human emissions have already contributed to the intensity of cyclones, which include typhoons and hurricanes, since 1950. As part of the talks, governments are discussing a mechanism to help poorer countries cope with losses and damage from climate change. Although weather-related disasters can affect all countries, the most severe economic and human losses are expected in rapidly growing countries, such as those in¬†Asia, which are building their economies in areas vulnerable to floods, droughts and extreme temperatures, the¬†World Bank¬†said. The average impact of disasters on such countries equaled 1 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) from 2001 to 2006 - ten times higher than the average for high-income countries, the¬†World Bank¬†said. But climate impacts will especially cripple poorer countries. Hurricane Tomas in 2010, for example, devastated St Lucia and caused losses of 43 percent of GDP. To help avoid unmanageable future costs, governments should focus on making their countries more resilient to disasters, even though that might require up-front investment, it added. (Editing by Louise Heavens)
Every debate about the stock market ultimate boils down to one question: is it cheap or expensive? The answer to that question depends on what metric you're looking at. Perhaps the most common way of considering stock market value is by looking at prices relative to expected earnings. After all, profits are the mother's milk of stocks. FactSet's John Butters examines the forward 12-month price/earnings (P/E) ratio in historical context. And depending on the time frame you're looking at, the stock market looks both overvalued and undervalued. From Butters: The current forward 12-month P/E ratio is above both the 5-year average (13.0) and the 10-year average (14.0). The P/E ratio has been above the 5-year average since January, while it has been above the 10- year average for the past ten weeks. With the forward P/E ratio well above the 5-year and 10-year averages, one could argue that the index may now be overvalued. On the other hand, the current forward 12-month P/E ratio is still well below the 15-year average (16.2). During the first two to three years of this time frame (1998 ‚Äì 2001), the P/E ratio was consistently above 20.0, peaking at around 25.0 at various points in time. With the forward P/E ratio still below the 15-year average and not close to the higher P/E ratios recorded in the early years of this period, one could argue that the index may still be undervalued. The biggest problem with measuring value based on expected earnings is that those expectations usually prove to be very inaccurate. Regardless, the debate over whether to buy or sell rages on. FactSet

REUTERS/John KolesidisA Golden Dawn rallyATHENS (Reuters) - A Greek anti-establishment group has claimed responsibility for a drive-by shooting this month that killed two supporters of the far-right Golden Dawn party and raised fears of an escalation of political violence. The previously unknown group "Militant People's Revolutionary Forces" said the attack had been carried out in retaliation for the fatal stabbing of anti-fascism rapper Pavlos Fissas, to which a Golden Dawn sympathizer has confessed. Police could not confirm the authenticity of the claim, which came on the eve of rallies to commemorate the 40th anniversary of a bloody student uprising against the military junta that ruled Greece at the time. "The brazen murder of Pavlos Fissas was the drop of blood that made the glass overflow," the group wrote in an 18-page letter filled with anti-establishment invective published on the news website www.zougla.gr . It called the rapper's killing a "turning point". "The armed attack-response ... is the starting point of the people's campaign to send the neo-Nazi scum of Golden Dawn where they belong, to the dustbin of history," it said. The shooting of the two young Golden Dawn supporters outside the party's offices in Athens on November 1 came at a time of growing public anger against a party widely regarded as neo-Nazi and accused of attacks against migrants and leftists. Golden Dawn denies accusations of violence and rejects the neo-Nazi label. It denies any involvement in Fissas's killing. An opinion poll released on Saturday indicated that support for Golden Dawn had grown since the two men were gunned down. The party, Greece's third most popular in surveys, had shed almost a third of its support after Fissas's death in September. The poll by ALCO for Sunday's Proto Thema newspaper, conducted on November 12-15, put support for Golden Dawn at 8.8 percent, up 2.2 points in a month but still below the 10.8 percent it enjoyed in June. A government crackdown on Golden Dawn after evidence linking it to Fissas's killing has led to party leader Nikolaos Mihaloliakos and five more of its lawmakers being charged with belonging to a criminal group. Mihaloliakos and two of the lawmakers have been remanded in custody until their trial. (Reporting by Karolina Tagaris; Editing by Kevin Liffey)
Brendan Smialowski/AFPEuropean Banking Authority (EBA) chief Andrea Enria, shown September 25, 2011 in Washington, DC, says too many European banks survived the financial crisis.Too many European banks survived the financial crisis, the head of Europe's banking regulator said in a newspaper interview on Monday. "I'm convinced that too few European banks were dismantled and disappeared from the market," European Banking Authority (EBA) chief Andrea Enria told the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an interview. "Barely 40 (disappeared), compared with around 500 in the United States," he said. "Governments wanted to keep their banks alive and that has hampered the healing process" of Europe's financial system, Enria said. The EBA organised a series of stress tests for European banks in recent years which have been criticised as being too lenient. Europe is currently in the process of setting up a new banking union to strengthen its financial system. And Enria is favour of putting in place truly Europe-wide structures, he told the Financial Times. "You need European decision mechanisms rather than having always a committee-type of decision in a crisis," he said. "Committees in a crisis donít work because you have conflicts." And he added: "They give us responsibilities but they put so many national safeguards on every task we need to do that sometimes I am concerned we will not be able to perform [them]." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Win McNameeFormer U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy GeithnerGood morning! Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Adrees LatifRed Bull Formula One driver Sebastian Vettel of Germany receives a drink from a crew member during the third practice session of the Austin F1 Grand Prix at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, November 16, 2013.The stock market ended last week at a record high, even as the economy continues to be anemic. "From the perspective of central banks in most advanced economies, neither inflation rates nor activity indicators are at desired levels, though they are closer in the US and UK than in the euro area," said Barclays' Julian Callow on Friday. "Suppressed inflation spells easy policy." But not everyone agrees with Callow's assessment of inflation. (See below.) "Thirteen economic reports will be released next week, as government agencies work off the shutdown-induced data backlog," noted Credit Suisse's Neal Soss. "The highlights: Retail sales should post a moderate gain, as flat auto sales intersect with a decent Halloween selling season. CPI should touch a four-year low in year-on-year terms and existing home sales are projected to fall." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary The stock market continues to climb to new highs. And even the bears are starting to flip. JP Morgan's Tom Lee just raised his year-end target on the S&amp;P 500 to 1,825: "In our view, the case for continuing to maintain a positive stance on equities remains in place given: (i) improving economic momentum to support upward EPS revisions (pent-up demand in U.S. housing, autos, construction, capex and a recovery in the euro area); (ii) attractive relative value (particularly vs. corporate bonds), (iii) supportive monetary policy and (iv) sentiment that is not excessively bullish.† We continue to believe that the U.S. is in a secular bull market and that remaining constructive on equities is warranted." One has to wonder if all of this bullishness is actually bearish.
Futures were down earlier. But you know how the pattern goes. Dips are to be bought. Selling never lasts. Futures have now turned positive. From FinViz: FinViz
Alistair Newton, the geopolitical strategist at investment bank Nomura, is out with his preliminary take on the issues that will keep him awake at night in 2014. His presentation runs a deep 47 pages, but here's the one-slide summary of the topics on his mind. Nomura
Yesterday morning, Bitcoin was at $500. Today? It briefly hit $600. Now it's at $592. Just a regular day. Clarkmoody
There's tons of data pointing to an economic recovery in the UK. There's just one problem: this chart. Markit According to households, they're badly getting squeezed. From the survey: Households reported a tighter squeeze on their cash available to spend during November, which contributed to the most marked drop in savings seen so far in 2013. The latest decline in cash available to spend was the sharpest since April, with 33% of respondents noting a reduction and only 8% an increase. Reduced savings and falling cash availability continued to dampen households‚Äô appetite for major purchases in November. Moreover, the latest index reading signalled the weakest appetite for major purchases so far this year. This is a well known problem in the UK, that inflation (although it's been fairly subdued) has consistently outpaced income growth. From IBTimes UK: UK inflation fell back sharply in October, though it still continues to far outpace wage growth as the country's income squeeze maintains its grip on households.¬† Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation was 2.2% during the month said the Office for National Statistics (ONS), down from September's 2.7%. Regular pay growth stuck at around the 1% mark, leaving many with higher bills but less wages with which to pay them. In the survey above, household inflation expectations hit a 6-month high, contributing to the sense of deteriorating finances.
A Chinese woman won the bidding for a coveted barrel of Burgundy wine at a Christie's-run charity auction in France on Sunday, paying 131,000 euros ($177,000) for her cask. It was the first time a Chinese buyer came away with the top item at the annual auction for the Hospices de Beaune charity, where around 443 wines went under the hammer. Yan Hong Cao, the successful young bidder who won the 456 litres of Meursault-Genevrieres, is from Yunan in southeastern China and owns a chain of shops, jade mines and tea plantations. Michael Ganne, a representative from Christie's, which has run the auction since 2005, said a significant number of Asians had attended the event and that it generated "a lot of interest, with a small volume of vintage" available. The proceeds from the auction will be distributed among various charities. France is a major exporter of wine to China, which has become a key, fast-growing market. Wine consumption in the world's most populous country more than doubled in the four years to 2011, and is set to rise another 40 percent by 2016, according to Vinexpo, the industry's top trade-fair organiser.
Jim McCluskey/FlickrThis has really been the theme of market talk over the last several weeks: People are obsessed with this idea that we must be in a new bubble. Dan Greenhaus of BTIG shares the latest anecdotes: It seems thereís no escaping it. This weekend, the WSJ is at it again, both in A Return to Internet Mania? and Is This a Bubble? while the Financial Times asks Is the Fed Brewing Up Bubble Trouble? Anecdotally this weekend, several people this weekend at non-work related functions asked some form of the question ìHow does this market keep going up?î We understand the infatuation; after all, S&amp;P 500 is up (10%) in nine of the last eleven weeks while its year to date gain is more than 26% even as the economy plods along at a sub-attractive rate and the unemployment rate remains annoyingly elevated. No idea what this actually means for the market, but it is interesting how much this meme is taking hold.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonThe Great Hall of the People, where the Chinese Communist Party plenum is being held, is seen behinds red flags in Tiananmen square in Beijing November 12, 2013.Markets are drifting a little lower in the US and Europe. And the Nikkei fell slightly. The big story of the day so far is the big rally in China. The Shanghai Composite gained 2.9% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index rallied 2.7%. These gains came after China released the reform decisions made after the "Third Plenum" late Friday. The reforms included social changes (an end to forced labor camps and a loosening of the one-child policy) as well as economic reforms. Otherwise, today is a slow day with little big economic news expected to come out.
