Bloomberg TVThe S&amp;P 500 started last week at 1,614, an all-time closing high at the time. And it ended the week at 1,633, the current all-time closing high. This is notable because at the beginning of the year, the most bullish strategist on Wall Street's sell-side had a 2013 year-end target of 1,615 (See Citi's Tobias Levkovich). Since the beginning of the year, most of the strategists have scrambled to explain what went wrong and/or revise their forecasts. Others have been steadfast, arguing that this just means stocks will eventually fall to their targets. Regardless, any investor who formed a tactical 12-month investment strategy based on these targets has been forced to rethink things. If there is an upside, anyone who invested based on one of the more bullish forecasts came into the money much sooner than expected. Here's a round-up of Wall Street's forecasts based on Business Insider's tally effective January 5, 2013. 
Private colleges are offering record financial assistance to keep classrooms full, according to¬†the Wall Street Journal's Ruth Simon. Some schools are seeing just 20% of the students they accepted enrolling, versus the usual rate of 33%.¬†These schools have raised tuition discount rate ‚Äî the price after grants and scholarships ¬†‚Äî ¬†to an all-time high of 45%. Meanwhile, the median sticker price increased just 3.9% last fall, the smallest gains in 12 years. And at public schools, the sticker price climbed just 4.8%, also a 12-year low. For the Washington Examiner's Michael Barone, this makes it official: the college bubble has finally burst: Applicants are negotiating bigger discounts than they used to. Market competition has kicked in. What has happened is that in a recessionary and sluggish economy potential customers have been figuring out that a college diploma may not be a good investment -- particularly if it entails six-figure college loan debt that cannot be discharged in bankruptcy. The Millennial Generation that voted so heavily for Barack Obama -- 66 to 32 percent in 2008, 60 to 37 percent in 2012 -- has had a hard time finding jobs, even with diplomas in hand. Especially if their degrees are in gender studies or similar fields beloved of academics. Moody's Investors Service Managing Director John Nelson basically agrees, telling Simon, ¬†"we have hit a tipping point on price." It was a long time coming. Check out this chart from AEI's Mark Perry showing the rising cost of tuition outpacing basically every other good in American society for nearly two decades: Mark Perry Barone goes a bit further than we would about the bust's implications (he writes that administrators actively believed they were "above market forces" and could make investment decisions accordingly).
Bitcoin may be a virtual currency, but the buzz it's getting on the street is very real. You can't open a website or newspaper these days without reading about Bitcoin, the digital currency that was invented in 2009 by a mystery person who goes by the name of Satoshi Nakamoto. The latest news is¬†Fred Wilson's Union Square Ventures¬†just agreed to help fund a $5 million round of investment into Bitcoin wallet¬†Coinbase. Similarly, early-stage investment firm Draper Associates backed Bitcoin startup¬†CoinLab¬†with $500,000, and the San Francisco-based accelerator Y Combinator, which helped incubate Coinbase, took a stake in that company. Then, investors like the Winklevoss twins, who famously claimed to have come up with the idea for Facebook before Mark Zuckerberg, have also reportedly poured $11 million into purchasing Bitcoins. So what's all the fuss about? The currency -- which back in August of 2012, was valued at $10 and recently held steady around the $115 mark -- is attractive to individuals, as it provides untraceable transactions. Anyone in the world can, for example, move money in a matter of minutes without the hassle of any central government agency controlling it. Businesses also like the flexibility of the coinage. Already, about 3oo merchants have signed on to Coinbase to accept Bitcoin in lieu of actual money. Even¬†David Marcus, the president of Ebay's PayPal division, recently said "we're kind of thinking about" integrating Bitcoin with the company's money transfer platform. And the actions of some governments have only added fuel to the Bitcoin fire. After European officials imposed a tax on bank deposits in Cyprus, Russia called for ownership limits in offshore accounts and countries like Japan continue to purposefully devalue its currency, Bitcoin's value shot up to $265 this past April. Still, Bitcoin does have its risks. The currency is extremely volatile. A day after it peaked at $265 it plunged to $100. Businesses have suffered numerous hacks and since the market isn't supported by any of the world's government, once your money is gone, it's gone. It also doesn't help that the media is continually speculating on the Bitcoin bubble -- did it burst, will it burst, is there even a bubble? Those potential pratfalls haven't phased young entrepreneurs like Jaron Lukasiewicz. After spending four years in finance and launching crowdfunding concert site Ticketometer -- a startup he calls an expensive and painful failure -- the 27-year-old started Bitcoin trading platform¬†Coinsetter¬†December of 2012, with plans to launch this year. The idea that the digital currency provided both complete transparency and anonymity, along with the fact it is decentralized was attractive to Lukasiewicz. "A lot of it is in response to the fact government never really fixed their problems after the financial collapse, Bitcoin is a natural answer," says Lukasiewicz. "People are starting to value private currency." The currency is simply everywhere. Thanks in part to 23-year-old Charlie Shrem's payment-processor startup¬†BitInstant, anyone visiting more than 700,000 locations, including Walmart, 7-Eleven, MoneyGram, CVS, among other businesses, can buy and tranfer Bitcoin. Shrem is also one of the co-owners of the first New York City bar to accept Bitcoin,¬†EVR. "There is so much potential," says Shrem. "I am just waiting for it to be a billion dollar industry." This story originally appeared on¬†Young Entrepreneur
flickr / Medill DCSomehow, Bloomberg News always seemed to be a step ahead of me...The Bloomberg scandal just keeps getting worse. Steve Liesman of CNBC reports that Bloomberg reporters used private log-in data to spy on the activities of Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner.¬† Both the¬†Federal Reserve¬†and the US Treasury Department are examining the extent to which Bloomberg-terminal usage by top officials might have been tracked by Bloomberg journalists, CNBC has learned. A Fed spokesperson told CNBC that the central bank is looking into the situation and has been in touch with Bloomberg to learn more. A source said the Treasury Department is taking similar action. Meanwhile, CNBC has learned from a former Bloomberg employee that he accessed usage information of the company's data terminals of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. The information appeared to concern general functions used by the officials and the frequency with which those functions ‚Äî such as looking at a bond, equity markets or news ‚Äî were accessed. The source said all Bloomberg journalists who knew of this capability of the terminal would have had access to the usage information of the officials. However, CNBC has no information that the data were either used by the employees for journalism or shared inappropriately. In response to queries that Bloomberg journalists had access to officials data usage, a Bloomberg spokesman said, "What you are reporting is untrue" but declined to respond when asked what specifically was inaccurate. He also would not say whether the company had investigated journalists' access to this information. CNBC is a competitor of Bloomberg in reporting and distributing business news on the web and on television. The issue of Bloomberg journalists' access to individual data from the terminals was revealed in recent days when a reporter called a¬†Goldman Sachs Group¬†employee inquiring about a partner's employment status and noting the partner had not logged on to the terminal lately. The incident prompted a complaint from Goldman and led Bloomberg to terminate the ability of reporters to monitor subscribers. In a statement on its website, Bloomberg said, "Having recognized this mistake, we took immediate action. Last month we changed our policy so that all reporters only have access to the same customer-relationship data available to our clients." The former Bloomberg employee who worked in the editorial section recalled calling up the information on Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner "just for fun" and displaying the information to new recruits "to show how powerful" the Bloomberg terminals were. The former employee said he recalled seeing the functions used by the Fed Chairman and Treasury Secretary and the number of times those functions had been used. The person did not recall which specific functions he saw, but said it would have been at a broad level. For example, he said it would likely have been information that the official accessed a page such as global equity indexes, though not which markets specifically. He said it also could have included information that the user looked up bond spreads, but the information would not have shown what specific bonds were searched by the user. Still, with thousands of functions, the information could apparently get quite specific. And knowing how often a user looked up individual information and how often the user was logged in could provide valuable information. A¬†JP Morgan Chase¬†source told CNBC that, "Multiple Bloomberg reporters very openly were using terminal login data to determine when traders were suspended and/or let go ‚Äî during the London Whale situation, as well as during other rounds of layoffs." A Quartz story (www.qz.com) said Bloomberg journalists had accessed a transcript of a call of former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan to the company's help desk. The story said the information was not used in any editorial pieces written by journalists. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Steve Liesman. Follow him on Twitter:¬†@steveliesman
REUTERS/U.S. Attorney's OfficeAn image taken from the phone of a suspect shows Elvis Rafael Rodriguez (L) and Emir Yasser Yeje (R), two of the eight individuals charged with using data obtained by hacking into two credit card processors in a cybercrime scheme among other images. Cybercriminals stole $40 million in about 36,000 transactions over a 10-hour period by effectively coordinating two common credit card schemes,¬†Scott Neuman of NPR reports. From NPR: First, hackers gained access to bank computers and downloaded prepaid debit card data while erasing their withdrawal limits. Second, they passed the data to numerous "cashers" who cloned the cards and got to work withdrawing millions of dollars from ATMs. No word on how exactly the hackers gained access to the bank databases (i.e. Was it by¬†phishing?). Chuck Somers, vice president of core systems and ATM security at Diebold, told NPR that neither of those things are unusual by themselves ¬†‚Äî but¬†the clockwork coordination of the hack, the cloning, and the "cash-out network" resulted in one of the biggest bank heists in history. In February 2013¬†thieves in 27 countries¬†made about 36,000 withdrawals over 10 hours to accrue $40 million ‚Äî averaging a withdrawal of¬†$1,111 every 10 seconds. A smaller heist occurred in December. Reuters Eight individuals in the New York cell siphoned "at least $2.8 million from more than 750 ATMs in 2.5 hours,"¬†which ranks as the second-biggest bank robbery in the history of New York City. Neuman¬†notes: "If all eight were working together, they would have had to hit 'at least' one ATM every 96 seconds, averaging $2,333 per withdrawal." The experts said that¬†inadequate cyber security ‚Äî i.e. lack of¬†employee oversight and stringent electronic monitoring¬†‚Äî allowed hackers to penetrate the back-end systems at banks. The second issue is the vulnerability of the magnetic strip, which allows for criminals to¬†attach devices to ATM card-readers that record the information stored on the strip. Encrypted chip technology is more secure, experts said, but¬†it could take a decade to implement in the U.S. (it has already been widely adopted in Europe).
REUTERS/Andrew BirajRabeya holds her one-month old daughter Sumaiya in front of her slum house at Hatirjheel in Dhaka July 28, 2012. Rabeya works in a garment factory as a helper. She earns 3,000 Tk ($37.50) per month. According to Rabeya, she cannot save or send money to her parents as she has to pay all of her earnings to the land lord and to buy food.The death toll in April's¬†Bangladesh garment factory collapse has now soared past 1,000. It's been called the worst industrial disaster in the country's history. But it's hardly the first.¬† These disasters are becoming more common¬†as infrastructure ages. Meanwhile, working conditions and pay for the Bangladeshis who work in these clothing factories are among the world's worst. Bangladesh has become¬†the world's second-largest clothing exporter, in part because companies have moved production there to take advantage of shockingly low wages and the lightest regulations in the world.¬† Many U.S. and European retailers import clothing from Bangladesh, including popular brands such as H&amp;M and Benetton.  The low prices we pay for these clothes are tied directly to the low wages and working conditions of the Bangladeshis who make them.
APDan Brown.Renowned author Dan Brown woke up in his luxurious four-poster bed in his expensive $10 million house ñ and immediately he felt angry. Most people would have thought that the 48-year-old man had no reason to†be angry. After all, the famous writer had†a new book coming out. But that was the problem. A new book meant an inevitable attack on the rich novelist by the wealthy wordsmithís fiercest foes. The critics. Renowned author Dan Brown hated the critics. Ever since he had become one of the worldís top renowned authors they had made fun of him. They had mocked bestselling book The Da Vinci Code, successful novel Digital Fortress, popular tome Deception Point, money-spinning volume Angels &amp; Demons and chart-topping work of narrative fiction The Lost Symbol. The critics said his writing was clumsy, ungrammatical, repetitive and repetitive. They said it was full of unnecessary tautology. They said his prose was swamped in a sea of mixed metaphors. For some reason they found something funny in sentences such as ìHis eyes went white, like a shark about to attack.î They even say my books are packed with banal and superfluous description, thought the 5ft 9in man. He particularly hated it when they said his imagery was nonsensical. It made his insect eyes flash like a rocket. Renowned author Dan Brown got out of his luxurious four-poster bed in his expensive $10 million house and paced the bedroom, using the feet located at the ends of his two legs to propel him forwards. He knew he shouldnít care what a few jealous critics thought. His new book Inferno was coming out on Tuesday, and the 480-page hardback published by Doubleday with a recommended US retail price of $29.95 was sure to be a hit. Wasnít it? Iíll call my agent, pondered the prosperous scribe. He reached for the telephone using one of his two hands. ìHello, this is renowned author Dan Brown,î spoke renowned author Dan Brown. ìI want to talk to literary agent John Unconvincingname.î ìMr Unconvincingname, itís renowned author Dan Brown,î told the voice at the other end of the line. Instantly the voice at the other end of the line was replaced by a different voice at the other end of the line. ìHello, itís literary agent John Unconvincingname,î informed the new voice at the other end of the line. ìHello agent John, itís client Dan,î commented the pecunious scribbler. ìIím worried about new book Inferno. I think critics are going to say itís badly written.î The voice at the other end of the line gave a sigh, like a mighty oak toppling into†a great river, or something else that didnít sound like a sigh if you gave it a momentís thought. ìWho cares what the stupid critics say?î advised the literary agent. ìTheyíre just snobs. You have millions of fans.î Thatís true, mused the accomplished composer of thrillers that combined religion, high culture and conspiracy theories. His books were read by everyone from renowned politician President Obama to renowned musician Britney Spears. It was said that a copy of The Da Vinci Code had even found its way into the hands of renowned monarch the Queen. He was grateful for his good fortune, and gave thanks every night in his prayers to renowned deity God. ìThink of all the money youíve made,î recommended the literary agent. That was true too. The thriving ink-slingerís wealth had allowed him to indulge his passion for great art. Among his proudest purchases were a specially commissioned landscape by acclaimed painter Vincent van Gogh and a signed first edition by revered scriptwriter William Shakespeare. Renowned author Dan Brown smiled, the ends of his mouth curving upwards in a physical expression of pleasure. He felt much better. If your books brought innocent delight to millions of readers, what did it matter whether you knew the difference between a transitive and an intransitive verb? ìThanks, John,î he thanked. Then he put down the telephone and perambulated on foot to the desk behind which he habitually sat on a chair to write his famous books on an Apple iMac MD093B/A computer. New book Inferno, the latest in his celebrated series about fictional Harvard professor Robert Langdon, was inspired by top Italian poet Dante. It wouldnít be the last in the lucrative sequence, either. He had all the sequels mapped out. The Mozart Acrostic. The Michelangelo Wordsearch. The Newton Sudoku. The 190lb adult male human being nodded his head to indicate satisfaction and returned to his bedroom by walking there. Still asleep in the luxurious four-poster bed of the expensive $10 million house was beautiful wife Mrs Brown. Renowned author Dan Brown gazed admiringly at the pulchritudinous brunetteís blonde tresses, flowing from her head like a stream but made from hair instead of water and without any fish in. She was as majestic as the finest sculpture by Caravaggio or the most coveted portrait by Rodin. I like the attractive woman, thought the successful man. Perhaps one day, inspired by beautiful wife Mrs Brown, he would move into romantic poetry, like market-leading British rhymester John Keats. That would be good, opined the talented person, and got back into the luxurious four-poster bed. He felt as happy as a man who has something to be happy about and is suitably happy about it. 
Brad DeLongIn recent weeks, a chorus of big-name investors have taken to the media to rage against the "loose money" policies of the Federal Reserve and Ben Bernanke. Bernanke, these investors rant, is ruining the country. Benanke's policies are debasing the currency. Bernanke's policies are creating class warfare. Bernanke's policies will lead to runaway inflation. Bernanke is creating a "fake" stock-market rally. And so on. To listen to these Wall Street big shots, you'd think that some of the things they're saying will happen were actually happening. But they aren't. For now, anyway, inflation remains relatively low, the dollar remains relatively strong, the stock market is rising, American companies have record-high profits and profit margins (which is actually not all great), and society is hanging together. So, what's the real cause of the Bernanke hate? In a long essay, professor Brad DeLong of Berkeley explains. These big shot investors have bet against Bernanke. They have bet that Bernanke's policies will lead to all of the things they say they will lead to, forcing Bernanke to change his ways. They are losing money on their bets, and they are so frustrated about this that they have taken to the media to try to increase the pressure on Bernanke to do something different and stop costing them money.† In short, these big investors have been wrong. But instead of just admitting that they have been wrong, and taking their losses, they're using their reputations and influence to try to increase the pressure on Bernanke and†convert their losing trades into winners. DeLong also points out that some of the things the investors say will be so horrible--higher inflation, for example--are actually things that the Fed and the country want. Higher inflation will reduce the real value of the massive debt the country is now carrying. Also, higher inflation will likely be caused by lower unemployment and wage increases, and lower unemployment and wage increases are something that almost everyone should want (except, perhaps, these investors). Read Brad DeLong's essay here &gt;
APAriel Castro.CLEVELAND (AP) ‚Äî As relatives of the Cleveland kidnapping and rape suspect recounted claims of his unnerving paranoia and violent outbursts, DNA testing confirmed the man who allegedly held three women captive for nearly a decade is the father of a 6-year-old girl who escaped from the house along with the women. Ariel Castro, charged with rape and kidnapping, remained jailed Friday under a suicide watch on $8 million bond while prosecutors weighed more charges, including some that might carry the death penalty. Public defender Kathleen Demetz, who said she is acting as Castro's adviser while he awaits a full-time attorney, said Friday she can't speak to his guilt or innocence and said only that she advised him not to talk to reporters. But those who know the 52-year-old Castro are speaking up, saying he was often angry, paranoid and prone to violent outbursts against the mother of his children. He frequently beat her, played bizarre psychological games and locked her indoors, they said. The stories, repeated in separate interviews with The Associated Press by members of Castro's extended family, have surprised people who knew him as a musician who played bass in several bands around Cleveland the last two decades. Miguel Quinones, manager of a group Castro played with twice as a backup bass player about five years ago, said he had nothing bad to say about Castro based on his own experiences. But in the interviews, some of Castro's ex-relatives said he frequently flashed his compulsions for secrecy and terrifying rage that often led him to beat his common-law wife, Grimilda Figueroa. Figueroa left Castro years ago and died in 2012 after a long illness. Their early years together were happy, but something inside Castro snapped after the birth of their first child, they said. Castro pushed her down the stairs, fractured her ribs, broke her nose several times, cracked a tooth and dislocated both shoulders, they said. In one incident, he shoved Figueroa into a cardboard box and closed the flaps over her head, they said. He kept her and their children imprisoned, cut off from friends and family, and Figueroa couldn't even unlock her own front door, they said. Figueroa filed domestic-violence complaints, accusing Castro of threatening many times to kill her and her daughters. She charged that he frequently abducted the children and kept them from her, even though she had full custody, with no visitation rights for Castro. "When I go over there to visit her, and I ask her, 'Nilda, I'm here, open the door,' she's like, 'I can't. Ariel has the key,'" Figueroa's sister, Elida Caraballo, recalled. Two of the women freed from Castro's home, including the one who gave birth to the girl, returned to relatives' houses earlier this week. The third woman, Michelle Knight, was released from a hospital Friday with a request that her privacy be respected. "Michelle Knight is in good spirits and would like the community to know that she is extremely grateful for the outpouring of flowers and gifts," the statement said. On Friday, Knight's grandmother, Deborah King, visited the home of one of the captives, Gina DeJesus, to meet the DeJesus family. She said she loved and missed Knight, "And if I get to, she's going to get the biggest hug and kiss from me that she ever did have." A police report alleged that Castro impregnated one of his captives at least five times and made her miscarry by starving her and punching her in the stomach. The report also said another one of the women, Amanda Berry, was forced to give birth in a plastic kiddie pool. Tests by the state attorney general's office on a sample of Castro's DNA confirmed he fathered Berry's 6-year-old daughter, who was rescued from his house, the office said Friday. After her release, the girl returned home with the 27-year-old Berry. Officials also were entering the DNA profile into a national database to see if it links him to other crimes. The three women said Castro chained them up in the basement but eventually let them live on the home's second floor. Each woman told a similar story about being abducted after accepting a ride from him. The FBI has not recovered human remains in its search of the house, spokeswoman Vicki Anderson said Friday. Agents removed more than 200 pieces of evidence, she added, declining to say what was found. Berry and former captive Gina DeJesus, 22, went home with relatives Wednesday. The AP does not usually name people alleging sexual assault without their consent, but the names of the three women were widely circulated by their families, the media and law enforcement for years. ___ Associated Press writers Meghan Barr, Mike Householder, Thomas J. Sheeran and Andrew Welsh-Huggins and AP freelance writer John Coyne in Cleveland; Brendan Farrington in Florida; and Dan Sewell in Cincinnati contributed to this report along with news researcher Rhonda Shafner in New York. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
In my periodic update on demographic trends in employment, I included a chart illustrating the growth (or shrinkage) in six age cohorts since the turn of the century. In this commentary we'll zoom in on the age 50 and older Labor Force Participation Rate (LFPR). But first, let's review the big picture. The overall LFPR is a simple computation: You take the Civilian Labor Force (people age 16 and over employed or seeking employment) and divide it by the Civilian Noninstitutional Population (those 16 and over not in the military and or committed to an institution). The result is the participation rate expressed as a percent. For the larger context, here is a snapshot of the monthly LFPR for age 16 and over stretching back to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' starting point in 1948, the blue line in the chart below, along with the unemployment rate. † † The overall LFPR peaked in February 2000 at 67.3% and gradually began falling. The rate leveled out from 2004 to 2007, but in 2008, with onset of the Great Recession, the rate began to accelerate. In January of 2012 it dropped below 64% and is now hovering around the 63.3% level. The demography of our aging workforce has been a major contributor to this trend. The oldest Baby Boomers, those born between 1946 and 1964, began becoming eligible for reduced Social Security benefits in 2008 and full benefits in 2012. Job cuts during the Great Recession certainly strengthened the trend. The Growing Ratios of Older Workers It might seem obvious that the participation rate for the older workers would have declined the fastest. But exactly the opposite has been the case. The chart below illustrates the growth of the LFPR for six age 50-plus cohorts since the turn of the century. I've divided them into five-year cohorts from ages 50 through 74 and an open-ended age 75 and older. The pattern is clear: The older the cohort, the greater the growth. †  † Another Way to Envision the Data The table inset in the chart above shows the participation rate for the latest month and the percentage growth since January 2000. The adjacent table rounds the rates to integers for January 2000 and for the latest month. Essentially this table gives us two snapshots: The number of workers per hundred for each of the six cohorts at the turn of the century and the number of workers per hundred now. This is not the scenario that would have been envisioned a generation ago for the "Golden Years" of retirement. Consider: Today nearly one in three of the 55-69 cohort and almost one in five of the 70-74 cohort are in the labor force. There is no question that the pace of Boomer retirement will accelerate in the years ahead. Just add about 65 years to the red dots in the chart below and you'll get some idea of the epic retirement wave that is just beginning (and note that the birth statistics below don't include immigration). What's Ahead? With the improvement in the market since the 2009 index lows, many households approaching the traditional retirement age are in better financial shape and with healthier nest eggs than was the case a few years ago. On the other hand, when we look at the age 65-69 cohort, the dark blue line in the second chart above, we see that it rose steadily between the last two recessions despite the market's improvement, although it appears to be leveling out over the past 18 or so months. If we can avoid a near-term recession and the economy and the market continue to improve, perhaps the participation rates of the older cohorts will gradually reverse directions. That would certainly improve the job opportunities of younger generations.
The MatrixWASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî The Internal Revenue Service is apologizing for what it acknowledges was "inappropriate" targeting of conservative political groups during the 2012 election to see if they were violating their tax-exempt status. IRS agents singled out dozens of organizations for additional reviews because they included the words "tea party" or "patriot" in their exemption applications, Lois Lerner, who heads the IRS division that oversees tax-exempt groups, said Friday. In some cases, groups were asked for lists of donors, which violates IRS policy in most cases, she said. The agency ‚Äî led at the time by a Bush administration appointee ‚Äî blamed low-level employees, saying no high-level officials were aware. But that wasn't good enough for Republicans in Congress, who are conducting several investigations and asked for more. "I call on the White House to conduct a transparent, government-wide review aimed at assuring the American people that these thuggish practices are not under way at the IRS or elsewhere in the administration against anyone, regardless of their political views," said Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. White House spokesman Jay Carney declared it was indeed inappropriate for the IRS to target tea party groups. But he brushed aside questions about whether the White House itself would investigate. Instead, Carney said the administration expects a thorough investigation by the Treasury Department's inspector general for tax administration. The inspector general has been looking into the issue since last summer, and his report is expected to come out next week, the IG's office said Friday. Carney said he did not know when the White House first learned that tea party groups were being targeted. Lerner acknowledged it was wrong for the agency to target groups based on political affiliation. "That was absolutely incorrect, it was insensitive and it was inappropriate. That's not how we go about selecting cases for further review," Lerner said at a conference sponsored by the American Bar Association. "The IRS would like to apologize for that," she added. Lerner said the practice was initiated by low-level workers in Cincinnati and was not motivated by political bias. Agency officials found out about the practice last year and moved to correct it, the IRS said in a statement. The statement did not specify when officials found out. About 75 groups were inappropriately targeted. None had their tax-exempt status revoked, Lerner said. The IRS is an independent agency within the Treasury Department that enforces the nation's tax laws. Revelations that the agency was targeting political groups because they were affiliated with a movement that is critical of President Barack Obama could become a new headache for the White House. "The admission by the Obama administration that the Internal Revenue Service targeted political opponents echoes some of the most shameful abuses of government power in 20th century American history," said House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio. Many conservative groups complained during the campaign that they were being harassed by the IRS. They accused the agency of frustrating their attempts to become tax exempt by sending them lengthy, intrusive questionnaires. The forms, which the groups have made available, sought information about group members' political activities, including details of their postings on social networking websites and about family members. IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman told Congress in March 2012 that the IRS was not targeting groups based on politics. "There's absolutely no targeting. This is the kind of back and forth that happens to people" who apply for tax-exempt status, Shulman told a House Ways and Means subcommittee. The IRS said senior leaders were not aware that specific groups were being targeted at the time of the hearing. "While we acknowledged centralization of these applications last year, the IRS did not acknowledge the use of names as part of the process earlier because the details were not initially known to senior leadership and (the inspector general) has been reviewing the situation," the IRS said in a statement. "Their work is now far enough along that it was appropriate to address the issue when it came up during (Friday's) tax conference." Shulman was appointed by President George W. Bush. His 6-year term ended in November. President Barack Obama has yet to nominate a successor. The agency is now being run by acting Commissioner Steven Miller. Rep. Charles Boustany, R-La., chairman of the Ways and Means oversight subcommittee, requested a trove of documents from the IRS on Friday, including all communications containing the words "tea party" and "patriot." House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, R-Mich., said Friday he will hold a hearing on the matter has not yet set a date. "The IRS absolutely must be non-partisan in its enforcement of our tax laws," Camp said. "We will hold the IRS accountable for its actions." House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee have also promised investigations. Treasury spokesman Anthony Coley said the department will support the inspector general's investigation. "The Treasury Department expects all individuals and organizations to be treated fairly by the IRS. Anything less is inappropriate and unacceptable." There has been a surge of politically active groups claiming tax-exempt status in recent elections ‚Äî conservative and liberal. Among the highest profile are Republican Karl Rove's group, Crossroads GPS, and the liberal Moveon.org. These groups claim tax-exempt status under section 501 (c) (4) of the federal tax code, which is for social welfare groups. Unlike other charitable groups, these organizations are allowed to participate in political activities but their primary activity must be social welfare. That determination is up to the IRS. Lerner said the number of groups filing for this tax-exempt status more than doubled from 2010 to 2012, to more than 3,400. To handle the influx, the IRS centralized its review of these applications in an office in Cincinnati. Lerner said this was done to develop expertise among staffers and consistency in their reviews. As part of the review, staffers look for signs that groups are participating in political activity. If so, IRS agents take a closer look to make sure that politics isn't the group's primary activity. As part of this process, agents in Cincinnati came up with a list of things to look for in an application. As part of the list, they included the words, "tea party" and "patriot," Lerner said. "It's the line people that did it without talking to managers," Lerner told The AP. "They're IRS workers, they're revenue agents." In all, about 300 groups were singled out for additional review, Lerner said. Of those, about a quarter were singled out because they had "tea party" or "patriot" somewhere in their applications. The IRS statement said that once applications were chosen for review, they all "received the same, even-handed treatment." Lerner said 150 of the cases have been closed and no group had its tax-exempt status revoked, though some withdrew their applications. "Mistakes were made initially, but they were in no way due to any political or partisan rationale," the IRS said in a statement. "We fixed the situation last year and have made significant progress in moving the centralized cases through our system." "I don't think there's any question we were unfairly targeted," said Tom Zawistowski, who until recently was president of the Ohio Liberty Coalition, an alliance of tea party groups in the state. Zawistowski's group was among many conservative organizations that battled the IRS over what they saw as discriminatory treatment. The group first applied for nonprofit status in June 2009, and it was finally granted on Dec. 7, 2012, he said ‚Äî one month after Election Day. "It is suspicious that the activity of these 'low-level workers' was unknown to IRS leadership at the time it occurred," said Jenny Beth Martin, national coordinator for Tea Party Patriots, which describes itself as the nation's largest tea party organization. "President Obama must also apologize for his administration ignoring repeated complaints by these broad grass-roots organizations of harassment by the IRS in 2012, and make concrete and transparent steps today to ensure this never happens again." ___ Associated Press writers Alan Fram and Jim Kuhnhenn in Washington and Steve Peoples in Boston contributed to this report. ___ Follow Stephen Ohlemacher on Twitter: http://twitter.com/stephenatap Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Robert Scoble / FlickrThe luxury electric carmaker posted its first profit late Wednesday. The next day, Tesla's Model S tied for Consumer Reports‚Äô highest testing score ever. Wall Street rejoiced, pushing shares of Tesla up 24 percent on the news. Tesla Motors is a bright spot¬†amid high-profile, federally-funded electric car flops. CEO Elon Musk's innovative approach to carmaking suggests the energy industry can benefit from borrowing a page from the tech sector's playbook. The two sectors have borne some resemblance of late. New computer software has changed the way we look for oil. Smart thermostats are saving on residential energy consumption. The lithium-ion batteries that have powered our consumer electronics for a decade, are beginning to transform the way we fuel our cars. ¬† RECOMMENDED: Six ways fleet operators save on gas (and you can, too) But if you're expecting the electrical grid to transform as quickly as the superconductor, you may be disappointed.¬† "There‚Äôs no Moore‚Äôs Law in energy," Hal Harvey,¬†CEO of Energy Innovation: Policy and Technology LLC., a San Francisco-based¬†energy and environmental policy firm,¬†said in a telephone interview. Mr. Harvey is referring to the principle that¬†the number of transistors on a computer chip will double approximately every two years. It's what has allowed for the exponential growth in information technology (IT).¬† Energy, on the other hand, is largely governed by the laws of thermodynamics ‚Äì the physical transformation of energy from one form into another. That means upfront capital costs are higher, yield is lower, and technological turnover is much, much longer. "I don't mean to say energy innovation isn't going to happen," Harvey said, "but I do mean to say that the characteristics of innovation in energy are fundamentally different than in IT.‚Äù In Tesla Motors, Elon Musk appears to have found a sweet spot between the two. The glowingly reviewed Model S runs on advanced lithium-ion battery packs. The interior features a¬†17-inch touchscreen and two USB ports. Driving the car, according to Consumer Reports, is "like using an iPad." For that reason and others, Tesla is compared to Apple, and Elon Musk to Steve Jobs.¬† "[Musk's] doing it very much in the spirit of Silicon Valley," Roland Hwang,¬†transportation program director for the Natural Resource Defense Council, said in a telephone interview.¬†"He‚Äôs not an incrementalist; he‚Äôs looking for leapfrogging technologies." There are drawbacks to those technologies. The limited range and high upfront cost of electric vehicles is still an obstacle for many people. That was evident in the dustup over a New York Times review that slammed the Model S's performance in cold weather conditions.¬† Still, Tesla is among perhaps only a handful of companies that have changed the way consumers think about alternative energy. "It‚Äôs transformed a popular vision of electric vehicles from 'eat your spinach' to 'eat my rubber,'" Mr. Hwang said. "That‚Äôs what Tesla has done."¬† RECOMMENDED: Six ways fleet operators save on gas (and you can, too) Related stories Follow Us
APContrary to popular belief, Republicans donít hate budget deficits. On the contrary, they love them. When they occur on the Democratsí watch, they provide Republicans with endless talking points on how they are bankrupting the country and will inevitably lead to high inflation and interest rates. This is good for Republicans, politically, because rich people, the elderly and other core elements of the Republican coalition get scared and give lots of money to Republican candidates. In office, of course, Republicans care nothing about the deficit. They cut taxes willy-nilly, sharply raise defense spending and start wars if necessary to justify it, create huge numbers of pork barrel projects, and enact massive new entitlement programs such as Medicare Part D, all while asserting that they are the party of fiscal responsibility. When a Democratic administration such as that of Bill Clinton comes along that actually is fiscally responsible, Republicans change the subject and talk about something else. As at least some of us remember, Clinton inherited a budget deficit of 4.7 percent of the gross domestic product from the George H.W. Bush administration in 1992. By the year 2000, Clinton had turned that deficit into a budget surplus of 2.4 percent of GDP. I donít recall a single Republican ever congratulating Clinton for his amazing fiscal achievement. All I remember are the pathetic attempts by Republicans to take credit for something they had absolutely nothing to do with. Every single Republican in Congress voted against the 1993 budget deal,†which raised taxes, imposed severe caps on spending, and laid the foundation of the surpluses. During the 2000 campaign, Republican George W. Bush ran against the budget surplus. He said it was dangerous because Congress might spend it. As Bushís principal budget adviser, Hoover Institution economist John Cogan, put it during the campaign, ìAnyone familiar with history has to be dubious about Congressís ability to keep its mitts off the surplus and put it to debt reduction.î This was a ludicrous argument because Bush could have simply vetoed any effort to spend the surplus. The argument became even more ludicrous when Bush brought in Republican control of the House and Senate with his election. The only way the surplus could be spent is if Republicans allowed it. After talking office, Bush shifted the argument away from the danger of the surplus being spent to the idea that it represented unnecessary taxation. As he told a joint session of Congress†on February 27, 2001, ìYou see, the growing surplus exists because taxes are too high and government is charging more than it needs. The people of America have been overcharged, and on their behalf, I am here asking for a refund.î As we know, Republicans quickly enacted a large tax cut, including a gimmicky tax rebate that even Bushís own economic advisers told him was economically worthless. And it was; subsequent research showed that it had no stimulative effect whatsoever. So they did another rebate in 2008 that was also a failure. Despite Republican promises of faster economic growth, the economy languished, requiringóyou guessed itómore tax cuts. There were 7 major tax cuts during Bushís presidency that collectively reduced revenues by 2.3 percent of GDP; that is, they increased the budget deficit by 2.3 percent of GDP. Republicans simply ignore the effects of tax cuts on the deficit; they just pretend that they have no effect or use magical thinking to assert that revenues didnít actually go down. But in fact, federal revenues fell from 20.6 percent of GDP in 2000 to 17.6 percent of GDP by 2008. There is no evidence whatsoever that the Bush tax cuts did anything except reduce revenues and increase the deficit dollar-for-dollar. And because the Bush tax cuts continued well after he left office, they were responsible for much of the deficits that Republicans have blamed 100 percent on the Democrats since noon on January 20, 2009. The Republican-sponsored Medicare Part D program will add about one percent of GDP to spending forever and Republican wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost at least $1 trillion thus far, with as much more that will need to be spent for decades on veteransí benefits. For reasons unknown to me, Democrats have always seemed reluctant to take credit for the budget surpluses under Clinton or to call out Republicans for their hypocrisy and endless lies about the cause of the deficits and utter disingenuousness about dealing with the problem seriously. They routinely torpedo any deficit reduction plan with so much as a penny of higher taxes and always include huge tax cuts for the rich in their own budget plans. Despite their fecklessness and total lack of seriousness on the deficit for the last 5 years, many Americans nevertheless believe the GOP is the party of fiscal responsibility and Republican candidates have benefited from this false perception. But there is a grave danger on the horizonóthe danger of a deficit declining so rapidly it threatens the economy.†If people perceive that a sharply declining budget deficit is the cause of an economic slowdown, then the Republican budgetary viewówhich has insisted for 5 years that budget cuts are stimulativeómay be thoroughly discredited. Worse still, we may achieve a budget surplus anyway. So serious is this possibility that Republican strategists such as James Pethokoukis†and Reihan Salam†are warning about the danger. The evaporation of their major issue may explain why Republicans are doubling-down on the nonexistent Benghazi ìscandalî since they seem to have nothing else to talk about, with unemployment trending downward and the stock market booming. Itís worth remembering that Republican economist Larry Kudlow used to trumpet every pathetic upturn in the stock market during the Bush years as proof positive that his policies were working. Today, he completely ignores any connection between Obamaís policies and the record stock market. If the deficit in fact disappears, it will be much harder for Republicans to sustain their budgetary strategy. That will create a crisis that Republicans will have enormous difficulty coping with. More from The Fiscal Times: Moving to Canada: A Guide for Disappointed Voters Heritage Author: Let Only Smart Immigrants In Americans Want Washington to Focus on Jobs: Gallup
APPamela Marie Devitt.PALMDALE, Calif. (AP) ‚Äî Homicide investigators were conducting DNA tests to determine whether any of the six pit bulls seized after a jogger was mauled to death had attacked her in the Mojave Desert. Los Angeles County sheriff's authorities said a driver saw pit bulls attacking Pamela Marie Devitt, 63, Thursday in the high desert community of Littlerock. The driver called 911 and honked her horn to try to get the dogs to stop. An arriving deputy saw a single dog still attacking the runner and tried to chase it off, Lt. John Corina said. The dog ran off into the desert, then turned around and attacked the deputy, who took a shot at the animal before it ran off. Hours later, sheriff's and animal control officials served a search warrant on a home near the site of the attack and took away eight dogs, six pit bulls and two mixed-breeds. A 29-year-old man from the house, identified Friday as Alex Donald Jackson, was arrested on suspicion of cultivating marijuana. The dogs were kept under quarantine for rabies observation at a Lancaster shelter. Four of the pit bulls seized were believed to have attacked Devitt. Her husband told KCAL-TV he blamed the dogs' owners for what happened. "I do not blame the dogs. I don't blame pit bulls," Ben Devitt said. "I blame people who don't take responsibility for their animals." Not all of the dogs are licensed, spayed or neutered as required by county and state law, said Marcia Mayeda, the county's animal control director "They're fine now," she said of their behavior. "They're all separated so they're not able to engage in a pack behavior, where they group up together and may act aggressively." Their strange surroundings also may have intimidated them, she said. The agency will seek to have any dogs involved in the attack destroyed, Mayeda said. The others will be licensed, spayed or neutered as required and three of them ‚Äî the legal limit ‚Äî will be returned to the owner while the rest will be placed for adoption if they are friendly, Mayeda said. However, there still was a chance that the attacking animals were strays. "In these areas, you might have a situation where people dump animals out in rural areas," said John Mlynar, a spokesman for the nearby city of Palmdale. People living near the site of the attack said stray dogs constantly roam the area and have attacked people before. "It's really scary," Diane Huffman, of Littlerock, told KABC-TV. "I don't know what to think. I really think I'm going to be getting a gun to protect myself." The jogger's death was the latest of at least five deadly dog attacks in California in the past two years. Last month, Claudia Gallardo, 38, of Stockton, was mauled to death by a pit bull in the front yard of a home where the dog lived. In February, Elsie Grace, 91, of Hemet, was killed by a pair of pit bulls at a motel. In June 2011, two pit bulls escaped from their yard and mauled a neighbor in her San Diego backyard. Emako Mendoza, 75, suffered arm and leg amputations before dying months later. The dog's two owners were convicted of involuntary manslaughter. In June 2012, an 8-month-old boy, Tyzhel Latella McWilliams, was mauled to death by a pit bull at a home in Lemon Grove, near San Diego. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
John Burns Real Estate ConsultingIt should not be a surprise that safety is a primary consideration in home buying. In fact, in our survey of almost 20,000 home shoppers, safety ranked above price when asked what were the most important characteristics when purchasing their next home. So, what happens when a city cuts back on services such as police officers? Our consulting team is finding numerous instances all over the country where demand is declining in certain cities and rising in neighboring cities, and we believe the change is largely attributable to deteriorating services such as police, fire and school quality. To provide the best feasibility analysis for our land buying clients, and to determine the best cities for our single-family rental landlord clients, we set out to identify which cities are in the most severe financial distress. We found the task somewhat overwhelming and even downright misleading, as many cities that are well-known to be in dire straits had highly rated bonds. The best data we found is on the total number of police and crime. While simplistic, it goes to reason that cities who are cutting back on police are likely to be more amenable to criminals. John Burns Real Estate Consulting California Example Look at the results in the City of San Bernardino, which is currently in bankruptcy. The number of police officers has steadily declined, while crime has risen. We counsel our clients away from investing in cities such as this, unless their investment thesis fully incorporates the negative changes we believe are occurring and will continue to occur.¬† John Burns Real Estate Consulting One city's pain is another city's gain. Compare San Bernardino's experience to the neighboring City of Ontario, which only cut police forces 3% from 231 to 224 over the same time period. Crime has only increased marginally from 2011 to 2012, climbing just 5%.¬† John Burns Real Estate Consulting San Bernardino residents probably don't know the stats, but they will sense the crime, and many will move next door to Ontario in coming years. While a 5% increase in crime is nothing to brag about, Ontario is likely to experience in-migration from their neighbors whose cities are less safe. We expect more price and rent appreciation in Ontario than in San Bernardino, which has already started to occur as illustrated in the chart below. John Burns Real Estate Consulting Florida Example In Florida, the City of Hollywood cut its police force from 320 officers in 2007 to 305 in 2011, and violent &amp; property crime increased from 2011 to 2012 as illustrated in the charts below. John Burns Real Estate Consulting The nearby City of Fort Lauderdale actually increased police forces from 459 to 505 in the same time period, and experienced a 2% decline in total crime in the city. If these trends continue, we would also expect to see greater demand for homes in the Fort Lauderdale area, and declining demand in Hollywood. We expect more price and rent appreciation in Fort Lauderdale than in Hollywood.¬†¬† John Burns Real Estate Consulting While the trend is more subtle than the Ontario and San Bernardino example, Fort Lauderdale has gradually started to experience more price appreciation compared to Hollywood. John Burns Real Estate Consulting Due Diligence City desirability changes over time, and changes in crime (and even perceived crime) play a huge role in those changes. For years, we have tracked crime statistics as part of our feasibility studies. However, we are now paying more attention to projected changes in crime. Builders and developers need to stay well informed of these police force and crime trends and should make them a part of any market research or feasibility study. Increased crime in a particular city will result in clear winners and losers for cities in a metro area, and builders and developers need to be well-informed on which cities these will be. We are searching for a way to accurately project changes in school quality too, based on the same issues. School district balance sheets are not created equally! Methodology We have detailed police force data for 10,000 cities and crime metrics for all large cities across the country, which is available to our clients. The data should not be strictly interpreted, as the data can be misleading (such as a city's decline in police to be due to outsourcing of police services to the County, or a change in methodology for what constitutes a violent crime). To the best of our ability, we verified the data for all 4 cities mentioned above - either through phone conversations with the police department or reviewing the city budgets and websites - to ensure that the conclusions were accurate.
 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ‚Äî College students no longer have to take comprehensive notes to help them prepare for finals. Not when they can buy them. Tom Brady figured this out early on, and the Florida State University senior also figured out how to capitalize on this phenomenon. The entrepreneurship business major helped create moolaguides.com, an eBay of sorts for college students in need of notes and study guides. It started out as a class project two years ago, produced $200,000 in income last year and is expected to gross in the neighborhood of a half-million dollars this year. Welcome to college in the electronic age, and tip your hat to a young master of the universe. As FSU administrators continue to advance their institution as an entrepreneurial university ‚Äî with the goal of having an entrepreneur-in-residence attached to each college ‚Äî Brady, who just earned his diploma, is Exhibit A. The Jacksonville native came to Tallahassee hoping to major in multinational business, a program that was cut his freshman year. But he deftly found a comparable skill set by double-majoring in entrepreneurship and international affairs. "I fell in love with entrepreneurship as a lifestyle. The biggest thing that stands out to me with entrepreneurship is it allows you to make the most amount of money possible with the least amount of work," Brady said. Moolaguides started as a local business, but it quickly expanded beyond FSU. Boston College has become a hotbed, as has New York University, Brady said. There are no limits to where the site can function, servicing transactions between those who have and those who need, and, of course, turning a profit for both note-takers and Brady. A typical set of notes, or a study guide, sells for $8. It is classic capitalism. And yes, it is legal. "The better the notes you take, the more money you should make. Our best sellers take very good notes and put a lot of care into it," he said. "You can develop a following." James Dever, who oversees the entrepreneur program in the business school's Jim Moran Institute, is sure that Brady's business leaves a bad taste in some professors' mouths. "We've had our issues, but it hasn't been as difficult as I thought it would be," he said. "Students have been selling notes to each other for a long time. "Tom is exceptionally driven. He's just a go-getter. Tom has promoted the thing and improved the website and done an exceptional job with it," Dever added. It's critical that the business maintain ethical standards, Brady said. The company does not accept any copyrighted material and Brady said he does not support cheating. "When we're notified of an infringement, we handle it instantly," he said. "We have some teachers who don't like the service, but we have a lot of teachers who support our service. I think the teachers who don't like our service are just jealous of students making money ‚Äî and that's the truth." Brady can also brag that moolaguides is an award-winning business. He took top honors at an innovation competition earlier this semester hosted by the College of Business, which came with a $15,000 check for Brady and his company. The name of the business blends an old-school slang term for money ‚Äî moola ‚Äî with a word that captures the product. Brady believes his peers are familiar with "moola" ‚Äî "even if they can't all spell it." His plan following graduation is to relocate to Miami, home to one of the best tech start-up scenes in the Southeast, Brady said. His goal? Well, you probably guessed it by now. "I know it might sound kind of funny," he said, "but I want to be financially well off and stable by the time I'm 30." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Marc Faber, author of "The Gloom Boom And Doom Report," offers his latest update via The Globe And Mail. And the ongoing rally in the stock market hasn't made him any less bearish. From The Globe And Mail: Faber: ìWhat was the trigger of the ë87 crash when markets fell 21 per cent in one day? What was the trigger of the Nasdaq crash in 2000? What was the trigger of Japanese crash of 1989? What was trigger of 2007 crash that brought global stocks down 50 per cent? We donít know these things ahead of time, but something will always move markets up and something will always move them down. I would guess at the present time, given markets from the 2009 lows have in many cases increased by as much as 100 per cent, that they are no longer very cheap. .... Something could come along, geopolitically or otherwise. I would be very careful being overweight equities. I still have 25 per cent in equities and 25 per cent in corporate bonds.î ... ìIn the 40 years Iíve been working as an economist and investor, I have never seen such a disconnect between the asset market and the economic reality ... Asset markets are in the sky and the economy of the ordinary people is in the dumps, where their real incomes adjusted for inflation are going down and asset markets are going up. ìSomething will break very bad.î Faber also talks about gold.† Read more at TheGlobeAndMail.com.
Mastering the art of deal making is what transforms an everyday company into a leading business empire. If you look at the great dealmakers of our era ‚Äì Donald Trump, Warren Buffett and Mark Cuban, to name just a few - the one thing that separates them from the pack is their innate ability to identify and close lucrative deals. Many M&amp;A professionals look to these leaders for inspiration in their own careers. Firmex has brought together a list of Top 10 M&amp;A quotes, to celebrate the great dealmakers of our time, and the true art of deal making.
Although other online shopping sites such as eBay do not allow legal highs or drugs equipment to be sold on its site, Amazon is selling salvia, nitrous oxide and poppers, along with drug pipes, bongs and scales. Maryon Stewart, whose daughter Hester, a medical student, died after taking the party drug GBL, wrote to Amazon last month asking it to withdraw the products. She has had no response from the company. She told the Daily Mail: ‚ÄúIt is utterly irresponsible that Amazon is selling this stuff and tantamount to an endorsement. ‚ÄúAmazon is a trusted brand and if it is selling something, it is likely to mislead young people into believing it‚Äôs safe. ‚ÄúWe all know these products are not safe and people taking them are playing Russian roulette with their lives and mental well-being.‚Äù Salvia, a species of sage that is also a powerful hallucinogenic herb, is being sold on the online shopping site by a firm called John Strong supplies. The company cites press articles describing the herb as ‚Äúmore powerful than LSD, and legal‚Äù. The disclaimer says the herb is a ‚Äúherbal incense for the home‚Äù but customer reviews point to it its use as a drug. Drug experts have warned salvia can trigger psychotic episodes. A spokesman for Amazon said: ‚ÄúAll sellers on Amazon Marketplace must adhere to our guidelines in relation to the products that they make available for sale on our web site, and we use a variety of methods to ensure compliance. ‚ÄúWe act quickly to remove any items that contravene our guidelines and take appropriate action with the seller in question.‚Äù SEE ALSO: There's A Secret Internet For Criminals
Jamie Starbuck, 36, was jailed for life after admitting murdering and disposing of his wife Debbie‚Äôs body before fleeing Britain. Nottingham Crown Court heard that Starbuck dismembered and burnt his 44-year-old wife‚Äôs body in the garden of their home in Old Basford, Nottinghamshire. Judge Michael Stokes QC called it a ‚Äúgrotesque and inhumane act‚Äù and the most horrific he had encountered in his long career. The court heard that prior to meeting her husband, Mrs Starbuck, a self-employed proofreader, had inherited ¬£150,000 following the death of her mother. Mrs Starbuck met her husband via the internet in July 2009 and they married nine months later at West Bridgford register office in April 2010. It is believed she was killed eight days later. Mr Starbuck boarded a plane a month after the murder with a one-way ticket to Amsterdam and then spent more than two and half years travelling the world funded by his late wife‚Äôs money. Police found he spent nearly ¬£65,000 of her estate on his worldwide trip. The court heard he misled his wife‚Äôs family and friends by pretending she was travelling with him. He sent them photographs and emails during his travels. But after two years, they grew suspicious and contacted the police, expressing concerns that they had not heard from Mrs Starbuck. Starbuck was arrested at Heathrow airport as he returned from Peru on Jan 19 this year. Just two days before he was arrested, Starbuck wrote on his online travel blog ‚ÄúDiary of a Misanthrope‚Äù from Lima, Peru, saying: ‚ÄúI left the UK a long time ago in search of ‚Ä¶ well, in all honesty I was running away. From life and responsibility; justice and my past. I didn‚Äôt acknowledge it at the time but apparently I was looking for somewhere to call home, where I wouldn‚Äôt be judged or condemned for the sometimes bafflingly bizarre decisions I make; where I‚Äôd be accepted.‚Äù Sentencing Starbuck to a minimum term of 30 years, Judge Stokes, said: ‚ÄúOn more than 75 homicides, I‚Äôm trying hard to think of one as horrific as this. This was a cruel deception to obtain control of her assets. This case shows the categories of wickedness are never closed. You knew she came from a strict Jewish background where cremation is wholly outside their tradition. ‚ÄúYou dismembered her body and burnt it. Even in death you stripped her of all dignity. It is difficult to imagine a more grotesque and inhumane act.‚Äù The court heard that an examination of Starbuck‚Äôs laptop also revealed a ‚Äúconfession‚Äù, in which he admitted Debbie‚Äôs murder. In an unsent email he had written: ‚ÄúI had planned for it to be quick ‚Ä¶ I never expected you to be so durable.‚Äù 
Mish ShedlockHere are some interesting charts by Deepak Shenoy on the India Housing Bubble. India home prices have been going up at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 26% since March of 2009. † † † † † † † † † † † Mumbai and DelhiMish Shedlock Shenoy reports Mumbai is growing at a CAGR of 30%, and Dehli is up 47% from a year ago and 250% since March 2009. Note the transaction volume in Delhi. Transaction volumes and prices are interesting in Bangalore and Chennai as well.Bangalore and Chennai† Mish Shedlock†  Shenoy has details on five other cities as well. Inquiring minds may wish to take a look. He writes "While India as a composite country is not at a bubble stage right now, itís important to note that various bubbles are building up in individual cities. If any of these bubbles worsens, then it is likely that other cities will follow. There are no un-correlated prices in a crisis." I would suggest that India as a composite certainly is in a housing bubble. The overall HPI shows just that.India InflationMish Shedlock  Home prices have increased far more rapidly than reported inflation, which I propose is hugely understated. Inflation measures typically do not reflect actual property prices and certainly do not reflect other asset bubbles. For a discussion, please see Hugely Negative Real Interest Rates Fuel Yet Another Housing Bubble; A Word About "Inflation" and Treasury Yields.
Each time I‚Äôm in Singapore, I‚Äôm continually impressed at the country‚Äôs extraordinary growth. Friends of mine tell me about their experiences growing up here in the 1940s and 1950s. The downtown area that is now covered with soaring towers of steel and glass were once repugnant cesspools devoid of running water or proper sewage. Every day, locals would take buckets of human waste from their shacks and dump them into the nearby bay. Nobody probably imagined that, within a few decades, Singapore would be the premier financial destination in the world‚Ä¶ as well as one of the wealthiest. Today there are more millionaires per capita in Singapore than anywhere else; one in six Singaporeans has a net worth in excess of one million. And for the average Joe, median household income ranks among the top worldwide. Not to mention, standard of living in Singapore is very high‚Äì schools, medical care, goods and services‚Äì all among the best on the planet. Even more incredibly, they built this without a single drop of oil reserves. Singapore isn‚Äôt Kuwait. It‚Äôs a small island with effectively no natural resources to speak of. While much of the developed world languishes under the massive burden of staggering debt and painful unemployment, Singapore has ZERO net det. And the unemployment rate is below 2%. This isn‚Äôt some phony made-up number either. My friends who own businesses here tell me that there are labor shortages‚Ä¶ they just can‚Äôt find any new people to hire. So how did this all happen? One key principle‚Äì economic freedom. In Singapore, business is treated incredibly well. Bureaucratic, regulatory nonsense is kept to a minimum. Corruption is nonexistent. It‚Äôs easy to set up a business and start competing. Plus taxes are ultra-low and highly competitive. Right now a small business that makes a $100,000 USD annual profit pays an effective tax rate of just 1.2%. A $1 million annual profit would have an effective tax rate of less than 12%. Bigger businesses can negotiate directly with the government for preferred tax rates, often 10% or less. Capital is also treated incredibly well. The banks are well capitalized, the currency has long been one of the best performing in the world, and Singapore has become a major crossroads of cross-border trade and investment opportunity. Last, Singapore treats productive, talented people incredibly well, including foreigners. It‚Äôs possible to obtain residency by starting a business here or getting hired. And, like corporate, personal tax rates are low. Income tax on a $250,000 (USD) salary has an effective rate of just 12.4%. And there are no capital gains or dividend taxes. Despite having such low tax rates, the government is awash with cash and runs a huge budget surplus. They‚Äôve also managed to sock away a tremendous amount of money in sovereign wealth funds. The lesson is clear. Bankrupt western government are trying to increase control over their respective economies‚Äì regulating, inflating, and taxing their way to a bigger slice of a rapidly shrinking economic pie. Singapore, on the other hand, has focused on helping make the pie bigger. And it‚Äôs amazing how rapidly it can grow when governments step out of the way and allow people to keep what they earn. Read more posts on Sovereign Man ¬ª
Market skeptics are going to hate this, especially the ones who believe magazine covers are contrarian indicators. In it's latest cover story title "We Were Right," Barron's boasts about its call for new highs in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. "Barron's jubilantly joins the hoopla over Dow 15,000, having predicted it early last year," writes Gene Epstein.† He doesn't stop there.† In fact, he goes all the way back to Barron's calls since 2009: Similarly, since the market's more recent near-death moment, in early 2009, Barron's has been running periodic updates on the long-term record of the market using historical data compiled by Wharton School finance professor Jeremy Siegel, author of Stocks for the Long Run (see "Case Closed: Stocks Work," March 9, 2009). Speaking of Siegel, here's Epstein: "Siegel ventures a more short-term outlook. Believing price/earnings multiples are likely to expand, he views "16,000-17,000 as within range by the end of this year." The bullishness doesn't stop there: Whenever stock-market returns have stretched to an extreme, they've generally snapped back to equilibrium, with weak periods followed by strength and vice versa. While some five- and 10-year periods have been negative, all 20- and 30-year spans have been positive. Even with the market's recent strong performance, stocks are up just 5.8% a year over the past five years. That's well below the median return of 9.41%. Put another way, the odds still favor the bulls. The more patient bears may eventually be proven right.† But anyone who's been doing the opposite of what Barron's has recommended has been losing money fro at least four years. Read More At Barron's.com.
Getty Images / Joe RaedleThe fossil fuel industry is booming, and has a lot more room to run, thanks to incredible technological progress in oil and gas production from shale rock.¬† In theory, this should create jobs, lower energy costs, and bring manufacturing capacity back to the U.S. By some¬†accounts, the economy is cleaning up on this.¬† But analysts now say that while there are real gains to be had, we should be a bit more realistic about their extent.¬† In his new book "The Power Surge," Council on Foreign Relations expert Michael Levi says that while it's undeniable the oil and gas boom has created jobs and wealth, it's overall impact on GDP will probably be muted. "People who claim that natural gas will spark a broad-based U.S. economic renaissance, if only pesky environmentalists lay off, are exaggerating the benefits of the shale gas bonanza," he writes. He's not alone ‚Äî we recently told you about the note from Capital Economics' Paul Dales, who says, "The boom in domestic energy production is responsible for only a small part of the rise in GDP since the recession and it does not explain why the US has outperformed most of its closest competitors." We've compiled just a few charts that demonstrate why, outside of the energy industry itself, we're probably not going to see all that big of a spill-over effect from shale oil and gas production into the broader economy.
