The wave of negative news has fueled speculation that India could be hurtling toward another economic disaster, something in the magnitude of the 1991 balance-of-payments crisis when the government, on the brink of default, shipped its entire gold reserves to Europe to secure an emergency loan from the International Monetary Fund. India‚Äôs economy is a lot bigger now, meaning that a repeat of that scenario would have a much greater impact on the world economy this time around. All this makes for scary reading, but is the situation really that bad? Perhaps not. Credit Suisse Head of Southeast Asia and India Economics Robert Prior-Wandesforde suggested in an report this month entitled, ‚ÄúIndia: Recovery Cancelled?‚Äù that the doom and gloom about India may be overdone and, contrary to the view of many market observers, he was cautiously optimistic about the country‚Äôs economic outlook. Prior-Wandesforde said the naysayers are ‚Äúfocusing too much on the here and now and too little on the fundamental drivers of activity,‚Äù which he says are ‚Äúclearly more supportive‚Äù of economic growth in fiscal 2013-14 than they were in the previous year. ‚ÄúIn some ways, the current situation reminds us of mid-2012, when virtually everyone had given up hope of ever seeing wholesale price inflation fall and the central bank cutting policy rates further,‚Äù Prior-Wandesforde said. Those gloomy expectations were proved wrong. The Reserve Bank of India has cut policy rates three times this year. Wholesale price inflation slowed at the end of last year to around 7.3 percent in year-over-year terms and then began falling in March. By May, WPI had hit its lowest level in nearly four years at 4.7 percent. ‚ÄúSometimes, patience is indeed a virtue,‚Äù Prior-Wandesforde noted. Prior-Wandesforde‚Äôs glass-half-full view does not mean the Credit Suisse economist is reading India‚Äôs bleak data through rose-tinted glasses. The bank has cut its fiscal 2013-14 average GDP growth forecast to 6 percent from 6.5 percent, and lowered its projection for the following year by half a percentage point to 7 percent. But Credit Suisse remains at the top of the consensus range, and Prior-Wandesforde lists a number of reasons why the bank maintains a relatively optimistic outlook amid what seems like a slew of worrisome data. For starters, even the remarkable drop in the value of the rupee against the dollar that has been roiling India in recent days may turn out to be a good thing if it can boost the country‚Äôs exports. The Indian currency has fallen more than 6 percent against the greenback since the beginning of August. It isn‚Äôt the only emerging market currency taking a plunge ‚Äì the Turkish lira, Indonesian rupiah and several other emerging market currencies have also fallen sharply this month, as markets have braced for the U.S. Federal Reserve to start tapering the monthly asset purchases that have kept interest rates low and sent investors to emerging economies. Even as Treasury yields rise and the dollar strengthens, India‚Äôs significant current account deficit and slowing domestic growth have made the rupee particularly vulnerable among emerging market currencies, Credit Suisse‚Äôs fixed income research team explained in a note this week entitled ‚ÄúEmerging Markets Under Pressure.‚Äù While the 15 percent plunge in the value of the rupee against a basket of trade-weighted currencies since July 2011 has been blamed for increasing the cost of imports, thereby fueling the current account deficit, Prior-Wandesforde argued that the weak currency could yet have a silver lining for exporters by driving down the cost of Indian goods at a time when domestic demand in Western markets is recovering. That hasn‚Äôt happened yet, but it takes time for export levels to reflect currency shifts. In other words, ‚Äúit is too early to give up hope of seeing exports recover,‚Äù Prior-Wandesforde argued. Prior-Wandesforde acknowledged that one of the chief risks to the bank‚Äôs relatively sunny outlook is that Credit Suisse may have underestimated the risk of an external financing crisis. But that seems unlikely, he said, noting that India‚Äôs foreign exchange reserves of $252 billion at the end of July ‚Äúbuy it valuable time‚Äù to get its financial house in order and avoid a full-blown crisis like the one seen in 1991. ‚ÄúIndia‚Äôs foreign exchange reserves represent the equivalent of five to six months of total imports and comfortably cover short-term external debt; in 1991 reserves fell to about three weeks worth of imports,‚Äù he said. Low interest rates had been a driving force behind Credit Suisse‚Äôs optimism about India‚Äôs growth potential, but the Reserve Bank of India also faces pressure to defend the currency. It started to do that in July by both setting a ceiling on how much banks can borrow from the central bank and charging more for short-term borrowing ‚Äì effectively tightening the money supply and pushing up interbank borrowing rates, one-year commercial paper rates and the yields on 10-year government bonds. But after 10-year yields topped 9 percent on Monday, up from around 8 percent when the measures went into effect, the central bank announced Tuesday that it would buy 80 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) in long-dated government bonds to inject liquidity into financial markets, lower government borrowing costs and shore up bank valuations that had been hard-hit by the currency slide. ‚ÄúThe interest rate outlook could hardly be described as crystal clear,‚Äù Prior-Wandesforde said in the note, especially since the central bank will welcome a new governor in September. But citing a statistical analysis that probed how various rates impact the Indian economy, the Credit Suisse economist said that the economic impact from interest rates should be limited this year as long as the central bank doesn‚Äôt raise the repo rate and commercial lending rates do not rise. India‚Äôs relatively healthy balance sheet is yet another cause for optimism. Officials face much less pressure to cut costs this year than last year, when the federal government reduced spending by the equivalent of 1 percent of GDP to curb its budget deficit and avert a sovereign credit downgrade. India‚Äôs finance ministry is well placed to meet this year‚Äôs fiscal deficit target of 4.8 percent ‚Äì down from 4.9 percent in the prior year ‚Äî without having to implement further austerity measures. That should relieve some of the downward pressure on economic growth. Then there is the weather. Early monsoon rains in southwestern India, a major breadbasket for the country, had boosted the size of planted crops by nearly 20 percent year-on-year by the end of July. Notwithstanding the damage done to some crops by the above-average rainfall, the ‚Äúomens for the autumn harvest are relatively favorable at this stage,‚Äù Prior-Wandesforde said. A bigger harvest could feed into higher GDP growth and ease inflation in a country where food accounts for 45 percent of the consumer price basket. In Prior-Wandesforde‚Äôs view, the biggest risk to Credit Suisse‚Äôs assessment of the Indian economy may just be fear. One could argue that India‚Äôs normally strong animal spirits have been ‚Äúbeaten down‚Äù by corruption scandals and economic uncertainty, which may explain the flight of capital from India, he said. But at the same time, he noted, the amount of money Indian companies are spending to invest abroad has not grown relative to the amount of money foreign corporations are spending in India. That indicates that businesses, at least, aren‚Äôt running for the hills yet. With all the headwinds India faces, it may be difficult to be blue-sky optimistic about the country. But with an improved fiscal situation, favorable harvest weather, the possibility that a depreciating currency could boost exports and the fact that interest rates are unlikely to stunt growth as much as is widely expected, it would also be wrongheaded to write off India just yet.
REUTERSA trader in the Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index futures pit at the Chicago Board of Trade waves his hands to get the attention of fellow traders as he shouts orders.(Reuters) - In the 1990s, U.S. banks came up with a clever idea: using life insurance to bet that their employees would eventually die. Now those wagers are coming back to haunt Wall Street banks for reasons that have little to do with their employees' longevity. For more than a decade, the lenders purchased life insurance policies, known as "bank-owned life insurance," on employees in bulk. These policies were unusual: banks chose how the premium would be invested; and were on the hook for investment losses or gains over time, unlike typical policies where the insurer invests the premium. Banks loved the tax benefits of these products, but hated being exposed to market swings. JPMorgan's derivatives professionals found a solution: a product called a "stable-value wrap," which, for a fee, transferred much of the risk of losses to JPMorgan, often for the next 30 years or more, depending on the term of the policy. That "wrap" amounted to a long-term derivatives contract, which is causing the pain now. Tough new international rules are forcing banks to use more capital for long-term trades, which means bank profits are being hit by derivatives tied to bank-owned life insurance and a host of other products. From the 1990s through the beginning of the financial crisis in 2008, banks including JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp and Citigroup Inc routinely traded swaps that lasted for 30 years or more. Customers asked for them: If a utility built a power plant, for example, it probably used a long-term derivative as part of its financing package to protect itself from risks such as steep increases in interest rates. Similarly, when housing finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac needed to reduce their exposure to interest rates, they used long-term derivatives. So did pension funds or governments that needed to better match the cash flows of their assets with their expected liabilities. These positions are hard to unwind. The companies, governments, or pensions that entered long-term trades with banks still need those derivatives to help reduce their risk. And a bank cannot usually transfer its exposure to another dealer, because its rivals have the same capital constraints under global rules. "Times have changed: There are a lot of long-term derivatives on financial institutions' balance sheets that have become very costly today, and will stay that way," said Martin Zorn, who was an executive in the corporate banking and capital markets unit of Wachovia Bank in the 1990s and is now chief operating officer at risk-management firm Kamakura Corp. The lingering pain from these trades underscores how long it will take banks to move past the excesses of the years leading up to the credit crunch. Many investors are eager for liabilities from the crisis to disappear. But that process could still take years as regulatory investigations continue, new rules come on line, and banks work through their bad assets, bank executives said. To be sure, longer-term trades are likely only a small percentage of banks' fixed-income books. At Morgan Stanley, for example, trades going back to the 1990's represent less than 1 percent of the bank's book of derivatives that trade off exchanges, a person familiar with the matter said. The bank is trying to shrink its assets for fixed-income, currency, and commodities by at least 51 percent by 2016, and has exceeded its targets so far despite these trades. But long-term positions still consume disproportionate amount of Morgan Stanley's capital, rankling executives. At the bank's annual meeting in May, Morgan Stanley Chief Executive James Gorman called the positions "dead money," and noted that some trades stem back to the 1990's. JPMorgan likely has the biggest holdings of long-dated swaps because it is the biggest swaps trader on Wall Street, responsible for about 30 percent of the market by some measures, traders at rival firms said. A JPMorgan spokesman declined to comment. CAPITAL RULES Generally, banks offloaded the interest-rate risk from these positions and hedged other kinds of exposure, so the pain from these swaps comes not from market movements, but from regulatory changes. Under new international capital rules known as Basel III, longer-dated derivatives trades need to be supported by more capital than short-term positions. The amount of capital the bank must hold depends on a swap's market value, the trading partner's creditworthiness and the possible losses the bank might suffer over the trade's lifetime - so the longer the trade, the more capital required. Prior rules limited the amount of capital required for derivatives that do not trade on exchanges, but Basel III ends that limit, meaning that banks can be required to hold more capital than some trades are worth. Many of these derivative trades are custom-made, instead of being standardized contracts, so it is difficult to transfer them to a clearinghouse. In addition, for more complicated over-the-counter derivatives trades, margin requirements will be 200 percent higher than they used to be under new regulations, said James Malick, a partner at The Boston Consulting Group who advises financial firms. Banks are trying to find ways to reduce the exposure to long-term trades, and have even set up desks whose sole purpose is to reduce these positions, traders said. Dealers' pullback from long-term swaps is evident, said Nancy Davis, a managing partner at the hedge fund Quadratic Capital, who previously held senior derivatives trading positions at JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs. The bulk of new activity happens in derivatives with durations of less than five years, according to the Depository Trust &amp; Clearing Corporation, which clears such trades. In the 1990s, insurers with high credit ratings would often trade long-dated swaps from their derivatives subsidiaries. Other players, such as asset managers and pension funds with big balance sheets, may eventually step in to provide liquidity where banks won't, Davis said. "It's not the best use of a bank's capital at this point to be locking it up in a long-term swap - they'd rather spend their money elsewhere," Davis said. (Reporting by Dan Wilchins and Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Leslie Gevirtz)
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriLarry SummersA source from Team Obama told CNBC that Larry Summers will likely be named chairman of the Federal Reserve in a few weeks though he is "still being vetted" so it might take a little longer. It's largely come down to a two-horse race between Summers, a former Treasury secretary, and Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen for the next Fed chief. It is widely expected that the current Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will resign by the end of the year as his term ends in January. President Obama has said that Bernanke has "already stayed a lot longer" in the role than he expected. Those remarks came in an interview with Charlie Rose on PBS in June. Who might take the reins from Bernanke has been an undertone in the market and at the Fed's recent meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Summers didn't attend the Jackson Hole meeting but his name was tossed around the sidelines. Several Fed officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters that they did think Summers was Obama's clear favorite, though they had a few doubts. "Has he devised a strategy to be effective within the institution?" one asked. Some insiders also expressed concern about Summers' close ties to Wall Street. The race for the next Fed chief comes amid another big point of discussion for policy-makers ‚Äî when to begin tapering the Fed's $85 billion per month bond-buying program. There has been much speculation that it will begin in September. ‚Äî Reporting from CNBC's John Harwood, with contributions from Reuters
As the Fed attempts to exit from so-called quantitative easing (QE) ‚Äì its unprecedented policy of massive purchases of long-term assets ‚Äì many high-flying emerging economies suddenly find themselves in a vise. Currency and stock markets in India and Indonesia are plunging, with collateral damage evident in Brazil, South Africa, and Turkey. The Fed insists that it is blameless ‚Äì the same absurd position that it took in the aftermath of the Great Crisis of 2008-2009, when it maintained that its excessive monetary accommodation had nothing to do with the property and credit bubbles that nearly pushed the world into the abyss. It remains steeped in denial: Were it not for the interest-rate suppression that QE has imposed on developed countries since 2009, the search for yield would not have flooded emerging economies with short-term ‚Äúhot‚Äù money. As in the mid-2000‚Äôs, there is plenty of blame to go around this time as well. The Fed is hardly alone in embracing unconventional monetary easing. Moreover, the aforementioned developing economies all have one thing in common: large current-account deficits. According to the International Monetary Fund, India‚Äôs external deficit, for example, is likely to average 5% of GDP in 2012-2013, compared to 2.8% in 2008-2011. Similarly, Indonesia‚Äôs current-account deficit, at 3% of GDP in 2012-2013, represents an even sharper deterioration from surpluses that averaged 0.7% of GDP in 2008-2011. Comparable patterns are evident in Brazil, South Africa, and Turkey. A large current-account deficit is a classic symptom of a pre-crisis economy living beyond its means ‚Äì in effect, investing more than it is saving. The only way to sustain economic growth in the face of such an imbalance is to borrow surplus savings from abroad. That is where QE came into play. It provided a surplus of yield-seeking capital from investors in developed countries, thereby allowing emerging economies to remain on high-growth trajectories. IMF research puts emerging markets‚Äô cumulative capital inflows at close to $4 trillion since the onset of QE in 2009. Enticed by the siren song of a shortcut to rapid economic growth, these inflows lulled emerging-market countries into believing that their imbalances were sustainable, enabling them to avoid the discipline needed to put their economies on more stable and viable paths. This is an endemic feature of the modern global economy. Rather than owning up to the economic slowdown that current-account deficits signal ‚Äì accepting a little less growth today for more sustainable growth in the future ‚Äì politicians and policymakers opt for risky growth gambits that ultimately backfire. That has been the case in developing Asia, not just in India and Indonesia today, but also in the 1990‚Äôs, when sharply widening current-account deficits were a harbinger of the wrenching financial crisis of 1997-1998. But it has been equally true of the developed world. America‚Äôs gaping current-account deficit of the mid-2000‚Äôs was, in fact, a glaring warning of the distortions created by a shift to asset-dependent saving at a time when dangerous bubbles were forming in asset and credit markets. Europe‚Äôs sovereign-debt crisis is an outgrowth of sharp disparities between the peripheral economies with outsize current-account deficits ‚Äì especially Greece, Portugal, and Spain ‚Äì and core countries like Germany, with large surpluses. Central bankers have done everything in their power to finesse these problems. Under the leadership of Ben Bernanke and his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, the Fed condoned asset and credit bubbles, treating them as new sources of economic growth. Bernanke has gone even further, arguing that the growth windfall from QE would be more than sufficient to compensate for any destabilizing hot-money flows in and out of emerging economies. Yet the absence of any such growth windfall in a still-sluggish US economy has unmasked QE as little more than a yield-seeking liquidity foil. The QE exit strategy, if the Fed ever summons the courage to pull it off, would do little more than redirect surplus liquidity from higher-yielding developing markets back to home markets. At present, with the Fed hinting at the first phase of the exit ‚Äì the so-called QE taper ‚Äì financial markets are already responding to expectations of reduced money creation and eventual increases in interest rates in the developed world. Never mind the Fed‚Äôs promises that any such moves will be glacial ‚Äì that it is unlikely to trigger any meaningful increases in policy rates until 2014 or 2015. As the more than 1.1 percentage-point increase in 10-year Treasury yields over the past year indicates, markets have an uncanny knack for discounting glacial events in a short period of time. Courtesy of that discounting mechanism, the risk-adjusted yield arbitrage has now started to move against emerging-market securities. Not surprisingly, those economies with current-account deficits are feeling the heat first. Suddenly, their saving-investment imbalances are harder to fund in a post-QE regime, an outcome that has taken a wrenching toll on currencies in India, Indonesia, Brazil, and Turkey. As a result, these countries have been left ensnared in policy traps: Orthodox defense strategies for plunging currencies usually entail higher interest rates ‚Äì an unpalatable option for emerging economies that are also experiencing downward pressure on economic growth. Where this stops, nobody knows. That was the case in Asia in the late 1990‚Äôs, as well as in the US in 2009. But, with more than a dozen major crises hitting the world economy since the early 1980‚Äôs, there is no mistaking the message: imbalances are not sustainable, regardless of how hard central banks try to duck the consequences. Developing economies are now feeling the full force of the Fed‚Äôs moment of reckoning. They are guilty of failing to face up to their own rebalancing during the heady days of the QE sugar high. And the Fed is just as guilty, if not more so, for orchestrating this failed policy experiment in the first place.
Morgan StanleyMost of the economic data out of China hav signaled a slowdown in the world's second largest economy. The skeptics believe that China is well on its way to undershooting its official target for 7.5% growth.† However, iron ore prices are defying China's slowdown, notes Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson. While indicators like the manufacturing PMI index have fallen about 7% since spring, the industrial metal prices have shot up about 14%. Longson says three things are driving up prices: On that third point he writes: "Other market participants have maintained that the State Council has agreed to increase investment in the construction of railway and urban infrastructure to prevent GDP growth falling lower than 7.5%." Longson expects prices will probably drift lower, but will "remain resilient" at about US$110-143 per ton. Prices could go higher with more federal stimulus. "In summary, the iron ore price strength adds to other evidence of a mild growth rebound in China," he says.
Alexander F. Yuan / Associated Press The Bo Xilai trial has finally concluded, and it looks like we're drawing to the final chapter of perhaps the most important political event in China since Tiananmen Square. The trial itself, while heavily choreographed, has been revealing. One big thing to note is that while Bo was facing trial for graft, abuse of power, and fraud, much of the courtroom's surprises revolved around the illicit romantic life of the former Chongqing party boss, his wife, and the city's police chief. The most recent revelation was that Wang Lijun, the police chief who was once one of Bo's closest associates, was, according to Bo, secretly in love with Bo's wife, Gu Kailai. ìHis emotions were entangled. He couldn't extricate himself," Bo†told the court. It was Wang who set Bo's fall from grace in motion when he fled to the†American consulate in Chengdu in February 2012, bringing details of British businessman Neil Heywood's apparent murder and subsequent cover-up with him. Bo's wife, Gu Kailai, was later found guilty of that murder. Gu has since testified against Bo, though he has dismissed her as ìinsane.î Bo, speaking in court, portrays Wang's flight differently. Wang "invaded my family, he invaded my basic emotions,î Bo said. He went on to explain that he had discovered Wang†telling his wife that he had deep feelings for her. ìThis is the real reason he defected." It's unclear if Wang and Gu were lovers, though Bo does describe them as being like ìpaint and glue,î a Chinese idiom that implies a relationship. When the Neil Heywood scandal first broke, of course, the widespread rumor was that Heywood had been Gu's lover ó British tabloids even found the†pair's alleged ìlove-nestî in the U.K.†This possibility didn't get much attention in the trial. Heywood's murder was ultimately attributed to an attempt to blackmail the couple and a threat against their son, Bo Guagua ó even the younger Bo himself got caught up in rumors about taking a daughter of John Huntsman out on a date. Bo was probably not a poor cuckold, of course. When he was booted out of the Chinese Communist Party, the official report stated that he had†stated he†"had or maintained improper sexual relations with multiple women."†There were even (faintly ridiculous) reports that he had a fling with the†Chinese star of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Zhang Ziyi. During the trial, Bo admitted that he and his wife had fallen out because of an affair he had in the 1990s, prompting her to†move to the United Kingdom to be near her son. Perhaps it's wrong to be surprised by the alleged affairs ñ sex scandals seem to be a recurring theme in 21st†century Chinese politics, and Sinocism's Bill Bishop has told†Business Insider that mistresses are fairly socially acceptable for China's political elite.††But it's still noteworthy that one way or another the vast political potential of Bo Xilai's Maoist populism were ultimately derailed by personal problems. Even if Bo's fall from grace was, as many have suspected, politically motivated by a Beijing elite that feared his personal popularity, his entangled love life appears to have given them the leverage they needed to take him out of action.
YouTubeJack BogleExperts continue to debate the merits of passive investing versus active investing. Passive investors aim to track the performance of a major index like the S&amp;P 500. Active investors try to beat the index. Unfortunately, active fund managers rarely beat the index. Even worse, they charge higher fees. In an FT column earlier this month, David Smith, fund manager at Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers wrote that without active managers the world would be poorer and that passive management is a parasitic industry benefiting from the activity of the active investors. In a new FT column, Jack Bogle, founder of Vanguard and a champion of passive investing, takes issue with Smith's characterization. First, he points out the "elegantly simple formula" that investors should remember when it comes to passive investing. "...Passive index funds typically own the shares of each stock in the market portfolio. Since active managers own all the shares that remain, they too, in aggregate, also own the market portfolio. Owning the same market portfolio, both active and passive managers earn the same gross return. Therefore, the group with the lower fees, lower transaction costs, lower administration costs, and lower marketing costs ‚Äì namely, the passive index funds ‚Äì will earn the higher net return. Every investor must keep in mind this elegantly simple formula: gross market return minus costs equals net investor return." Bogle goes on to write that Smith's argument is inaccurate because it seems to suggest passive investing assumes the efficient market hypothesis, which posits that stocks trade at fair value and you can't outperform the market through stock selection. "Mr Smith describes the index mutual fund as a ‚Äúpassive parasite‚Äù, rejecting the value of the innovation I created in 1974. He suggests that the index fund simply takes advantage of the market efficiencies created by active manager/traders. His article assumes that my confidence in the index fund is based on the ‚Äúefficient market hypothesis‚Äù. This is not so. Whether markets are efficient or inefficient is beside the point. The cost matters hypothesis is all that is needed to explain why indexing works: gross return in the market as a whole, minus the costs of obtaining that return, equals the net return investors actually receive." "Paradoxically, it is the active manager who is the real parasite," writes Bogle. Read the entire article at the FT ¬ª
BEFORE the recession, Richard Clark‚Äôs cleaning company in Florida had 200 employees, about half of them working full time. These days it has about 150, with 80% part-time. The downturn explains some of this. But Mr Clark also blames Barack Obama‚Äôs health reform. When it comes into effect in January 2015, Obamacare will require firms with 50 or more full-time employees to offer them affordable health insurance or pay a fine of $2,000-3,000 per worker. That alarms firms that do not already offer coverage. But for many, there is a way round the law. Mr Clark says he is "very careful with the threshold". To keep his full-time workforce below the magic number of 50, he is relying more on part-timers. He is not alone. More than one in ten firms surveyed by Mercer, a consultancy--and one in five retail and hospitality companies--say they will cut workers‚Äô hours because of Obamacare. A hundred part-timers can flip as many burgers as 50 full-timers, and the former will soon be much cheaper. Opinions are furiously divided as to whether the unintended harm caused by health reform will outweigh its benefits. Republicans, who have always hated the whole package, howl that it will destroy jobs. Nonsense, say Democrats; it will promote growth and boost employment. Since the law has so many moving parts, it is hard to predict who is right. But there is a risk that a lot of workers will be hurt. American health insurance and employment are uniquely entangled. During the second world war, firms began using health insurance to woo scarce workers. Some 57% of employers now offer it, covering nearly 150m people. Company-provided insurance is not taxed, and workers like it because the alternative is abysmal. On the individual market, insurers charge the sick exorbitant rates. All this has had strange effects on the labour market. Workers stay in bad jobs for fear of losing insurance. As the cost of insurance rises, employers lower wages. Health costs seem to depress hiring, too. A study found that from 1987 to 2005, industries that offered health insurance saw jobs grow more slowly than those that did not. No such pattern was seen in those industries in Canada, where people receive health insurance from the government. Into this jumble comes Obamacare. From January next year insurers will no longer be allowed to charge the sick higher rates. If only the sick were to seek coverage, costs would explode, so the law requires everyone to be insured or pay a fine. To make this easier for those not already covered, Obamacare will create online shopping places for health insurance, called exchanges. People who cannot afford coverage will receive generous subsidies. Mr Obama has said that workers who like their company-provided insurance will be able to keep it. This is like promising that if you like sunshine, it won‚Äôt rain. Actually, it is even more misleading. When he shakes up the health-care market, employers will have no choice but to respond. Last month Mr Obama delayed the employer mandate by a year, to give firms more time to comply. For the moment, large firms that already cover workers are unlikely to stop doing so, predicts Mercer. But coverage is changing nonetheless. Many firms are making workers pay more of their health bills. Obamacare includes a tax on generous health plans, starting in 2018, which is making some employers reconsider lush benefits. Unions, which fought for them, are livid. At the other extreme, some low-paid workers may want their employers to drop insurance, so they can receive subsidies on the exchanges. More worrying, though, is the possibility that Obamacare may kill jobs. In 2010 the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projected that it would shrink employment by 0.5%. The law‚Äôs many provisions would pull in opposite directions. Some would raise employment, the CBO predicted. For example, by expanding Medicaid (health care for the poor) to those with higher incomes, Obamacare would remove a disincentive to work. People who might have turned down extra work for fear of losing their Medicaid would now take it, ran the argument. Other provisions would reduce employment. Partly, this would be because employers like Mr Clark will cut jobs and hours to avoid being subject to the law. (Unions publicly fret about the threat to the 40-hour week.) But mostly, the CBO thinks it would be because people will choose to work less. Obamacare‚Äôs subsidies will boost the finances of poor workers; they may therefore work fewer hours. After examining employment and subsidised insurance in Tennessee, Craig Garthwaite of Northwestern University and his colleagues estimate that Obamacare‚Äôs subsidies will prompt up to 940,000 workers to leave the labour force. Many will be older people, keen to retire early. Another concern is that Obamacare will lower wages. For example, if firms that do not now offer insurance comply with the mandate, their costs will jump. Nearly 60% of such firms say they will offer coverage, according to Mercer. As health costs rise, they may pay their staff less. A study in Massachusetts found that, roughly speaking, every extra dollar spent on insurance comes out of wages. The White House, however, points to various ways in which Obamacare might boost employment. By making it easier for individuals to buy health insurance, it should make it less frightening for them to switch jobs or start their own companies. Democrats claim the law will lower health costs for firms. Tax credits for small businesses will make it cheaper for them to offer health insurance. Measures to reward efficient health care will reduce the cost of treatment. If insurance becomes cheaper, firms will have more money to hire workers and raise wages. In 2010 David Cutler of Harvard University estimated that Obamacare‚Äôs cost-control measures would create up to 400,000 jobs each year. However, Casey Mulligan of the University of Chicago contends that Obamacare‚Äôs distortions to the labour market will outweigh any growth from lowering health costs. By adding his estimates to those of Mr Cutler, Mr Mulligan predicts that Americans will work 3% less in 2015 than they otherwise would have. Interestingly, the number of jobs in sectors most affected by Obamacare, such as retail, leisure and hospitality, have grown relatively quickly, notes Alec Phillips of Goldman Sachs. But the hours worked in such industries have grown more slowly, suggesting a reluctance to add more full-time jobs (see chart). When the final diagnosis is done, Obamacare may have nasty side-effects. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The reality is that the recession never ended for 95% of U.S. households, and by many metrics the recession has deepened. If you want to claim the 2008 recession ended, you have to find a metric that reflects "growth."¬†For instance, gross domestic product (GDP), which has expanded since 2009. www.oftwominds.com But as¬†Lance Roberts,¬†Gordon T. Long¬†and I discuss in¬†Is the US in a Recession?(43 min. video, 52 slides), this metric of "growth" is suspect on a number of counts.¬†For example, does this chart of full-time employees relative to the population look expansionary? But as Lance Roberts, Gordon T. Long and I discuss in Is the US in a Recession? (43 min. video, 52 slides), this metric of "growth" is suspect on a number of counts. For example, does this chart of full-time employees relative to the population look expansionary? Or how about this chart of median household income, which adjusted for inflation isdown 7.2%? Or how about this chart of median household income, which adjusted for inflation is down 7.2%? Or how about real personal income less government personal transfers on a 5-year basis (the red line)? Notice that the red line only popped briefly above 0% into "growth" in late 2012 as those who could declared income in 2012 before the 1013 tax increases kicked in. www.oftwominds.com None of these charts is remotely expansionary.¬†We can further question broad-based measures of expansion such as GDP statistically:¬†in economies with high income/wealth inequality such as the U.S., the top 5%'s expansion of income and wealth creates an illusion that the entire workforce is doing better when the opposite is true. If you doubt this, please examine this chart of income disparity. Note that the vast majority of income increases have accrued to the top 5%: www.oftwominds.com In other words, huge leaps in the income and wealth of the top 5% mask the decline of income and wealth of the bottom 95%. Average all wealth and income and it appears that the economy is expanding to the benefit of all, when it fact only the top 5% have escaped the recession;¬†the recession never ended for the bottom 95%. An even better way to create an illusory expansion is to simply not measure trends that would reveal a deepening recession.¬†For example, what percentage of student loans are purposefully taken out as a substitute for income, i.e. used to pay basic living expenses rather than education? Anecdotally, there is plentiful evidence that a great many people are signing up for one class at the local community college in order to get a student loan to live on. Is it any wonder that student loan default rates are soaring? The people taking out student loans just to get by have no means to make payments once the loan money is consumed. Is an economy of people obtaining student loans they have no way to service as the only available means to keep themselves off the street a healthy economy? Correspondent B.C. recently sent some statistics on housing and the Millennial Generation's jobs/work/earnings prospects.¬†(For example,¬†household_formation) Age 20-34: Headship rate: 36% (percentage who are heads of households)Full-time employment: 44%Unemployment: 8-13%Persons per household: 2.72Participation rate: 76% (the number of people who are counted as participating in the economy) How many people 34 and under qualify for a non-subsidized home mortgage? That is, how many qualify under traditional rules (income = 3 X mortgage payments, 20% down payment in cash, etc.) How many people in this age group can possibly qualify for a conventional mortgage when only 44% have full-time jobs? Is an economy in which people in their 30s cannot find full-time work or afford to buy a house a non-recessionary economy? www.oftwominds.com The reality is that the recession never ended for 95% of U.S. households, and by many metrics the recession has deepened.¬†The trick is to not measure those metrics; what isn't measured doesn't exist, especially recession.¬† Read more at Of Two Minds &gt; Flickr/Ben Stalter
The trend toward lousy wages began before the Great Recession. According to a new¬†report¬†from the Economic Policy Institute, weak wage growth between 2000 and 2007, combined with wage losses for most workers since then, means that the bottom 60 percent of working Americans are earning less now than thirteen years ago.¬†This is also part of the explanation for why the percent of Americans living below the poverty line has been increasing even as the economy has started to recover ‚Äî from 12.3 percent in 2006 to around 14 percent this year. More than 35 million Americans now live below the poverty line. Many of them have jobs. The problem is these jobs just don‚Äôt pay enough to lift their families out of poverty. But wait a minute. Over this same period, productivity has grown by nearly 25 percent. That means the typical American worker is now producing a quarter more output than he or she did in 2000.¬†So if wages have flattened or declined for the bottom 60 percent, yet productivity has increased, where have the gains gone? Mostly, to corporations and the very rich.¬†¬†All of which gives some context to the strikes in recent weeks at fast-food chain stores, such as McDonalds, where workers are demanding a raise to $15-an-hour from their current pay of $8 to $10 an hour. And the demonstrations and walkouts at Walmart stores, whose workers are also demanding better pay. The average Walmart employee earns $8.81 an hour. A third of Walmart‚Äôs employees work less than 28 hours per week and don‚Äôt qualify for benefits. Few of these workers are teenagers. Most have to support their families. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median age of fast-food workers is over 28; and women, who comprise two-thirds of the industry, are over 32. The median age of big-box retail workers is over 30. These workers typically bring in half their family‚Äôs earnings. They deserve a raise. At the very least, the minimum wage should be increased from the current $7.25 an hour to $10.50 ‚Äî and to $15 in areas of the country with a higher cost of living. Had the federal minimum simply kept up with inflation from the late 1960s, it would already be well over $10 today. Contrary to the predictable pontifications of conservative pundits, such a raise won‚Äôt cause many low-wage workers to lose their jobs. Unlike industrial jobs, these sorts of retail service jobs can‚Äôt be outsourced abroad. Nor are they likely to be replaced by automated machinery and computers. The service these workers provide is personal and direct: Someone has to be on hand to help customers and dole out the burgers. And don‚Äôt believe critics who say any wage gains these workers receive will be passed on to consumers in higher prices. Big-box retailers and fast-food chains have to compete intensely for consumers. They have no choice but to keep their prices low. This means wage gains for low-paid workers are most likely to come out of profits ‚Äì which, in turn, would slightly reduce returns to shareholders and compensation packages of top executives. That wouldn‚Äôt be such a bad thing. According to a¬†report¬†by the National Employment Law Project, most low-wage workers are employed by large corporations that have been enjoying healthy profits. Three-quarters of these employers (the fifty biggest employers of low-wage workers) are raking in higher revenues now than they did before the recession. McDonald‚Äôs ‚Äî bellwether for the fast-food industry ‚Äî posted strong results during the recession by attracting cash-strapped customers, and its sales have continued to rise. McDonald‚Äôs CEO, Don Thompson, was awarded a big-whopper of a compensation package last year, valued at¬†$13.8 million. Yum!Brands, which operates and licenses Taco Bell, KFC, and Pizza Hut, has also done¬†wonderfully well. Its CEO, David Novak, received $11.3 million in compensation last year. The company enjoyed a 13 percent gain in annual earnings ‚Äî its eleventh straight year of double-digit growth. Shareholders got a return of 15 percent. Walmart ‚Äì the nation‚Äôs largest employer ‚Äì also continues to grow despite a sluggish economy, and pays its executives handsomely. The total compensation of Walmart‚Äôs CEO, Michael Duke, was¬†$20.7 million last year, up from $18.1 million in 2011. Total sales rose 5 percent to $466.1 billion. Earnings per share rose 10.6 percent.¬†Not incidentally, the wealth of the Walton family ‚Äì which still owns the lion‚Äôs share of Walmart stock ‚Äî now exceeds the wealth of the bottom 40 percent of American families combined, according to an¬†analysis¬†by the Economic Policy Institute. It would not be a tragedy if some of these shareholder returns and compensation packages had to be trimmed in order that low-wage workers at McDonald‚Äôs, KFC, and Walmart got a raise. Indeed, if this nation is to reverse the scourge of widening inequality, such a trimming is necessary.¬†
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid(Reuters) - Hedge fund manager¬†William¬†Ackman, the biggest shareholder in J.C. Penney Co Inc, said on Monday that he sold his entire stake after his campaign to overhaul the retailer failed. Ackman's¬†Pershing Square Capital Management¬†sold 39.1 million shares, which amounted to 18 percent of the company, to Citigroup Inc, which is now offering the shares to other investors, the company and the $11 billion hedge fund said in separate announcements. News that¬†Ackman, who stepped off the board two weeks ago amid a growing rift over corporate strategy, dumped his entire stake pushed Penney's shares down 2.6 percent to $13 in after-hours trading. The sale marks the end to¬†Ackman's three-year campaign to breathe new life into thePlano,¬†Texas-based retailer. He recruited a new chief executive to upgrade merchandise, streamline pricing and make stores more attractive to shoppers. But store sales fell 25 percent in the last fiscal year, and the company's share price has dropped 32 percent since January. For¬†Ackman's hedge fund, which had boasted average annual returns of 20 percent over the last decade, the Penney investment weighed on performance, prompting some institutional investors to seek meetings with the manager so he could clarify his plans. Ackman¬†has lost hundreds of millions of dollars on his bet since first buying the shares when they traded at $20.01. Last week,¬†Ackman¬†acknowledged that retail investing has not been his strong suit and categorized the J.C. Penney investment as one of his fund's three "failures" along with failed bets on Borders Group and¬†Target Corp. In order to get out quickly,¬†Ackman¬†relied on Citigroup to buy the entire stake in a so-called "block trade" and to then sell it to other investors. Currently hedge fund managers including¬†George Soros¬†and¬†Richard Perry¬†already have large stakes in J.C. Penney. It was unclear who might be buying the stake that¬†Ackman's funds sold. "Ackman¬†bought his stake in order to influence the board to make big changes, not as a passive investment. Now it makes no sense to hold the position. It's time to move on to another company," said¬†Erik Gordon, a law and business professor at¬†the University of Michigan. The 47-year-old billionaire is leaving three years after he built his position and then wooed Ron Johnson to join J.C. Penney from Apple Inc and overhaul the company. With his vision to upgrade merchandise, streamline pricing and bring back shoppers in tatters, Johnson was forced out in April. Ackman's fund has lost hundreds of millions of dollars on the investment and the billionaire is making such a swift and complete exit because of a disagreement with the Penney board over strategy, a person familiar with his thinking said. After Johnson was forced out, the company brought back Myron Ullman, the former CEO, with whom¬†Ackman¬†had disagreements. Last week, Penney adopted a one-year "poison pill" to prevent any coercive takeover attempts by limiting a single investor's stake to 10 percent. Analysts widely interpreted the policy as a move by Penney to avoid another distracting fight with an activist at a time it is trying to win back shoppers after sales fell hard last year and are continuing to fall this year. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss in Boston and additional reporting by Phil Wahba in New York; Editing by Gary Hill, Matthew Lewis and Lisa Shumaker)
The uncertainty created by a possible air strike in Syria is doing that thing to global markets where assets that thrive on nervousness do well and stocks go down. US markets fell (after being up early in the day) and now Japan is down as well. Here's the Nikkei: Nikkei.com Meanwhile, gold is at a 1-month high. Kitco
APThe U.S. is inching closer to a military strike against Syria. Earlier this afternoon, Secretary of State John Kerry delivered a stern message to the Assad regime and its alleged use of chemical weapons. The response from everyone was the same: war drums! More reports out this evening suggest that a strike is coming. CBS News is reporting that Obama has ordered the release of a report that would justify military action. That report, according to "top advisors," would come in a matter of days. Within The White House, there is no longer any disagreement over the necessity of using military force against Assad, according to Major Garrett of CBS News. Fox News has confirmed that four U.S. Navy destroyers are being pre-positioned in the nearby Mediterranean Sea, and CNN is reporting were Obama to give the order, a strike could take place "within hours."¬† Senior administration officials laid out to the Washington Post the plan Obama is weighing, which would be limited in scope. It would be designed to send a message to Assad, while also keeping the U.S. out of further involvement. According to the report, the strike would "probably" not last longer than two days. The mission would involve striking targets that are not directly related to the Syrian government's purported arsenal of chemical weapons.¬† The Post lays out the three conditions necessary for such strikes to occur: ...completion of an intelligence report assessing Syrian government culpability in last week‚Äôs alleged chemical attack; ongoing consultation with allies and Congress; and determination of a justification under international law. Calls for a U.S.-led intervention in the two-year-old civil war have intensified in recent days, after an alleged chemical weapons attack on Aug. 21 which produced horrifying video of dead and injured ‚Äî many of them children. International human rights group Doctors Without Borders reported¬†Damascus hospitals received approximately 3,600 patients with "neurotoxic symptoms," 355 of which reportedly died. The Syrian government has repeatedly blamed the rebels for the attack, although U.S. officials harbor "very little doubt" it was the Assad regime. Despite reports of chemical weapons usage, many Americans are opposed to military action in Syria. The White House ratcheted up the pressure on Monday, however, delivering some of its most terse rhetoric against the Assad regime. "What we saw last week in Syria should shock the conscience of the world," Kerry said in a statement from the State Department. "This international norm cannot be violated without consequence."
Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in a letter to Congressional leaders on Monday that the nation will hit its borrowing limit in mid-October, giving Congress a clear deadline for raising the debt ceiling.† The new timeline will ramp up pressure on Congress to raise the debt ceiling, as it comes somewhat sooner than most analysts had anticipated. The new deadline will come just a handful of weeks after lawmakers have to pass a continuing-resolution bill that will keep the government funded past Sept. 30.† Lew sent the letter to House Speaker John Boehner, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. In it, Lew warned of "irreparable harm to the American economy if Congress does not act." Meanwhile, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney repeated a familiar line on Monday ó that President Barack Obama won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling. In exchange for a hike in the debt ceiling, some Republicans are demanding new, significant spending cuts ó and some want to delay or defund parts of the Affordable Care Act. "We will not negotiate with Republicans in Congress over Congress' responsibility to pay the bills Congress has racked up," Carney said on Monday. Debt limit letter to Congress 
Kung Fu HustleChina's monthly manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) is one of the most closely followed economic data reports in the world. Earlier this year it was reported that China would be suspending the release of industry-specific data from its manufacturing PMI. Now, Bloomberg is reporting that this happened because of accuracy concerns. "We canít ensure all industry-specific data can reach accuracy requirements," Sheng Laiyun, a statistics agency official said at a conference cited by Bloomberg. "Samples in some industries are very small, and accidental changes may affect overall data quality -- we were concerned that some of the numbers may affect related investors and users." Both the official and HSBC PMI data have been touted as one of the most reliable economic indicators out of China because they generally match other indicators of activity like industrial production and GDP. Xu Gao, chief economist with China Everbright Securities told Bloomberg he doesn't believe the explanation offered by the official. "Without these specific data, the credibility of Chinaís headline official PMI indicator is undermined," he said.
Adding to the influence of the two economists is that Bernanke mentioned another one of their papers in a footnote of his presentation at last year's conference. In his speech back then, the Fed Chairman focused mostly on QE, also known as "Large-Scale Asset Purchases (LSAP)" in Fed jargon. He admitted that itís unconventional and has been mostly a ìprocess of learning by doing.î Itís worth rereading his comments in light of recent developments. Most noteworthy is the following quote: How effective are balance sheet policies? After nearly four years of experience with LSAPs, a substantial body of empirical work on their effects has emerged. Generally, this research finds that the Federal Reserveís large-scale purchases have significantly lowered long-term Treasury yields. Ö Three studies considering the cumulative influence of all the Federal Reserveís asset purchases, including those made under the MEP ["Operation Twist"], found total effects between 80 and 120 basis points on the 10-year Treasury yield. These effects are economically meaningful. Hereís the rub: The 10-year Treasury bond yield has spiked by 116 basis points from this yearís low of 1.66% on May 2 to 2.82% on Friday. That happened mostly as a result of all the Fedís chatter about tapering QE. Oh well: Easy come, easy go. I presume that Bernanke must view the backup in yields as economically meaningful! QE was an experiment from the beginning, as Bernanke admitted. If the Fed does phase out QE, it will most likely have to provide more monetary stimulus through forward guidance, as discussed below. The sharp increase in yields caused by the QE tapering talk suggests that the Fed's bond purchases inflated a big bubble in the bond market. As Iíve noted previously, the 10-year yield normally tends to trade around the y/y growth rate in nominal GDP. The jump in yields is normalizing this relationship. The Fedís tapering talk has caused investors around the world to taper their holdings of bonds. Thatís starting to poke holes in other bubbles as well, particularly emerging market bonds, currencies, and stocks. Dr. Ed's Blog† Today's Morning Briefing: Bubbles Popping. (1) A novel variation on QE proposed at Jackson Hole. (2) Learning by doing at the Fed. (3) A year ago, Bernanke said QE lowered bond yields by as much as they just rose on QE taper talk. (4) Banks, foreign investors, and bond funds all selling bonds. (5) QE pumped air into bond and EM bubbles. (6) Since last FOMC meeting, bond yield up 22 basis points. (7) Rising mortgage rates hit housing. (8) FOMC minutes suggest tiny tapering in September and lower threshold for jobless rate (maybe). (9) ìThe Butlerî (+). (More for subscribers.)
The world's Fed-watchers continue to debate over who will become the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve, assuming Ben Bernanke retires at the end of this year. "Vice Chair Yellen and former Treasury Secretary Summers appear to be the leading candidates," said UBS's Drew Matus. "At present, we expect that Yellen has a 45% chance of taking over for Bernanke, Summers has a 40% chance, with the remainder to a compromise candidate, perhaps Former Vice Chair Ferguson." The Fed-watchers, however, appear to be overlooking some of the consequences of having Summers at the helm. "If Yellen is passed over for the Chairman position, there would seem to be little reason for her to stay on at the Board of Governors," added Matus. "She could return to academia or perhaps, however unlikely, consider a role at the Bank of England." This comes as Fed members Elizabeth Duke, Sarah Raskin, and Sandra Pianalto are all expected to retire. "Her departure would not just result in a dramatic change in the Board of Governors as four members depart in short order (likely resulting in a higher level of uncertainty ‚Äì can you say leadership vacuum?), it would also leave the Fed with a dearth of women within the policymaking apparatus," continued Matus. "Indeed, only Kansas City President George (non- voter in 2014) would be at the table as the Fed move towards an exit." "If he is chosen, Summers better be worth it." Below is a table from Matus. As you can see, many of the folks expected to leave are on the dovish side. That includes Bernanke himself. UBS
From IBISWorld, a map showing the percentage of craft brewery establishments belonging to each state. IBISWorld
Some so-so from the Lone Star State, where the Dallas Fed manufacturing report beat expectations (but fell), and the employment subindex hit its highest level in a year. Texas factory activity increased but at a slower pace in August, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, remained positive but fell from 11.4 to 7.3. Other measures of current manufacturing activity also indicated slower growth in August. The new orders index was positive for the fourth month in a row, although it moved down from 10.8 to 5.4. The shipments index also posted a fourth consecutive positive reading but slipped 6 points to 11.4. The capacity utilization index fell from 12.2 to 4.6. Perceptions of broader business conditions improved again in August, with the general business activity and company outlook indexes posting their third consecutive positive readings. The general business activity index edged up from 4.4 to 5.0, and the company outlook index rose from 4.5 to 7.3. Labor market indicators reflected an increase in hiring but sharply reduced workweeks. The employment index rose 2 points to 11.2, its highest reading in a year. Twenty percent of firms reported hiring new workers compared with 8 percent reporting layoffs. The hours worked index fell 11 points to -9.9, its lowest reading in nearly four years.
This weekend, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced a lawsuit against Donald Trump, and his Donald Trump University, which Schneiderman alleges is a sham that defrauded students out of $40 million. Here's the saddest line in the suit: Instead of a personal appearance from Donald Trump as some consumers were led to expect, some participants got their photographs taken with a life-size photo of Mr. Trump. Read the full details here &gt;
If you love shipping and logistics and global trade, you'll drool over the Maersk Triple E. Check out this fantastic graphic from Reuters. Reuters
We've been talking about the hard fall of the Indian rupee for awhile now. The country is beset by structural flaws, and investment money is deserting the country, leading to a currency collapse. It's even got the attention of artists. From Reuters (via @barnejek) Boys run near a sand sculpture of the Indian Rupee created by Indian sand artist Sudarshan Pattnaik at golden sea beach at Puri in the eastern Indian state of Odisha. REUTERS/Stringer
AshleyMadison.comThe founder of a dating service promoting adultery is setting his sights on China's cheating hearts after a controversial launch in Hong Kong. "It is a reality of life, we are an unfaithful society," said Noel Biderman, the founder of the Ashley Madison "married dating" service. With its slogan "Life is short. Have an affair", the website boasts more than 20 million users in more than 15 countries. It has been expanding aggressively, adding Japan and India last year. On Friday it lanched in Hong Kong, where religious and family planning groups have come together to criticise its message. Biderman said he nevertheless expected his service to be "wildly popular" in the southern Chinese city, noting that the website received around 320,000 Hong Kong hits in the past year without spending anything on marketing. "That to us indicates massive appetite for this specific product," Biderman told AFP, citing rising divorce rates in the city. Government data show 30 out of 100 married couples filed for a divorce in 2011, twice as many as in 1991. The number of divorce cases hit a record high of 21,125 in 2012. Hong Kong is "in transition when it comes to relationships and marriage and that can lead to an interesting environment," said Biderman. "When we put ourselves into that mix, we can do extremely well." User "mamama222" was one of the first in Hong Kong to sign up. "I'm looking for various men to fulfil what my husband can't," she said on her profile. In catering to such motivations, Ashley Madison has attracted plenty of criticism from religious groups and social workers. "We must do everything we can to uphold the values and the stability of" marriage and family, Hong Kong Catholic Diocese reverend Lawrence Lee told AFP. "This is disrupting marriage and family, what good can it come to?" he added, noting that Chinese people had "great respect for marriage and family." A Hong Kong Family Planning Association spokeswoman told AFP: "Infidelity in any form of clandestine extra-marital affair without the partner's knowledge or consent may hurt the marital relationship and ultimately undermine family integrity". The concept of marriage in the city is nevertheless becoming increasingly "fragile", Chinese University of Hong Kong professor of Social Work Lam Ching-man told AFP. "Hong Kong people are facing lots of challenges," Lam said, adding that couples have to deal with an increasing financial burden and other social stresses. Lam does not believe the website will be as popular in Hong Kong compared to other locations such as Japan which saw a million users sign up in months. Hong Kong has one of the world's lowest fertility rates, which experts say is driven by financial pressures in a city of extremely high property prices. Hong Kongers also have a reputation as some of the least active lovers in Asia, ranking low in informal surveys of sexual frequency by British condom manufacturer Durex. Younger Hong Kong residents typically live at home deep into their 20s or 30s because they can't afford to marry and move out earlier, meaning that many reside in close proximity to their parents in cramped apartments. But for Biderman, the city is a possible springboard for an entry into China, home to one of the largest internet markets in the world. Over 640,000 people from China tried to access Ashley Madison in the past year before it was available, showing "a lot of pent-up demand" in the country, Biderman said. "If there were 10 times more people trying to log in from China as there were last year because of the Hong Kong launch and it starts to spread virally that way, that could be the impetus for me to take that plunge" he said. "Bottom line is, people have affairs, they're having affairs because they don't want to leave the family," he said. "There really is a negative impact in separating a family, there is no corresponding negative impact to an undiscovered affair...The vast majority of people that have affairs, especially on our service, never get discovered." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
US NavyWhen it comes to talk of policy, the conversation is almost entirely consumed by "The Taper," the possibility that the Fed will reduce the pace of QE asset purchases starting in September. Assuming the economic data doesn't collapse before then, this is likely to be announced in mid-September (the August jobs report will be the final number to confirm whether or not this happens). But while tapering might be seen as tightening by some, such an announcement likely just represents a shift at the Fed in how to fight the ongoing malaise, as more emphasis is placed on forward guidance (commitments to keep rates low) as opposed to asset purchases. And so the whole tapering question is overblown. The bigger immediate story for the market is the fiscal fight, which is getting almost no attention outside of the political press, but is looking kind of 2011ish. First at the end of the summer, a new budget needs to be passed. There's a "shut it down" caucus inside the GOP that wants to halt the government if Obamacare isn't defunded, which is something that will never happen, but which is causing John Boehner some headaches, as he tries to defuse this wing of the party. More ominously though is the debt ceiling, which comes later in the fall, and which once again the GOP will attempt to use as leverage to get what it wants (spending cuts, perhaps something related to Obamacare). And unlike with the normal government shutdown (which would be very damaging to the GOP politically) the party feels the threat is serious enough that The White House would have to blink, preventing an outcome that would make the party look bad. It could all get nasty, and nobody is talking much about it. On Wall Street it's getting very little discussion in most of the notes we read, although SocGen has this quick summary today: News on the US fiscal front is coming to the fore again. One report suggests that the U.S. is within a whisker of the debt ceiling. A Reuterís article anticipates how the battles in Washington will shape out, seeing an extended calendar into DecemberÖ ìRepublicans shape strategy for fall U.S. budget fights. The options include using a deadline in November for raising the nation's borrowing limit as leverage to push Republican causes. .. Boehner's immediate priority is to avoid a political backlash should Republicans and Obama fail to agree on a budget by Oct. 1. .. Boehner emphasized on the conference call that he wanted to move quickly when Congress returns to Washington on Sept. 9, and pass a short-term measure that would keep the government funded for about two months past the Oct. 1 deadlineî. Anyway, long term, the trajectory of monetary policy is the bigger issue. But in the short to medium term this is going to grow as a risk that people talk about it.
For new readers: I was very bearish on the economy when I started this blog in 2005 - back then I wrote mostly about housing (see: LA Times article and more here for comments about the blog). I started looking for the sun in early 2009, and now I'm even more optimistic looking out over the next few years. Early this year I wrote The Future's so Bright .... In that post I outlined why I was becoming more optimistic, even¬†though there might be too much deficit reduction in 2013. As I noted, "ex-austerity, we'd probably be looking at a decent year" in 2013. And of course - looking forward - Congress remains the key downside risk to the U.S. economy. It still appears economic growth¬†will pickup over the next few years.¬†With a combination of growth in the key housing sector, a significant amount of household deleveraging behind us, the end of the drag from state and local government layoffs (four years of austerity mostly over), some loosening of household credit, and the Fed staying accommodative (even if the Fed starts to taper,¬†the Fed will remain accommodative). Here are some updates to the graphs I posted in January: lick on graph for larger image.CalculatedRiskThis graph shows total and single family housing starts. Even after the 28.1% in 2012, the 780 thousand housing starts in 2012 were the fourth lowest¬†on an annual basis since the Census Bureau started tracking starts in 1959. Starts averaged 1.5 million per year from 1959 through 2000.¬† Demographics and household formation suggests starts will return to close to that level over the next few years. That means starts will come close to doubling from the 2012 level. Residential investmentand housing starts are¬†usually the best leading indicator for economy, so this¬†suggests the economy will continue to grow over the next couple of years. CalculatedRiskThe second graph shows total state and government payroll employment since January 2007. State and local governments lost 129,000 jobs in 2009, 262,000 in 2010, and 230,000 in 2011.  ¬†In 2012, state and local government employment declined by 26,000 jobs. In 2013, state and local employment is up 31 thousand so far.¬†¬† So it appears that most of the state and local government layoffs are over and the drag on the economy is over. Calculated RiskAnd here is a key graph on the US deficit. This graph, based on the CBO's May projections, shows the actual (purple) budget deficit each year as a percent of GDP, and an estimate for the next¬†ten years based on estimates from the CBO. As we've been discussing, the US deficit as a percent of GDP has been declining, and will probably decline to under 3% in 2015 before starting to increase again.¬†¬† Of course many people (and many politicians) have been surprised by the rapid decline in the deficit (it was obvious to those of us paying attention).Note: With 7.4% unemployment, there is a strong argument for less deficit reduction in the short term, but that view doesn't seem to be¬†gaining any traction. New York FedHere are a couple of graph on household debt (and debt service): This graph from the the NY Fed shows aggregate consumer debt decreased further in Q2 2013. This was mostly due to a decline in mortgage debt. From the NY Fed: "In Q2 2013 total household indebtedness fell to $11.15 trillion; 0.7 percent lower than the previous quarter and 12 percent below the peak of $12.68 trillion in Q3 2008. Mortgages, the largest component of household debt, fell $91 billion from the first quarter." There will probably more deleveraging ahead (mostly from foreclosuresand distressed sales), but this suggests some improvement in household balance sheets. This¬†graph is from the Fed's Household Debt Service and Financial Obligations Ratios. These ratios show the percent of disposable personal income (DPI) dedicated to debt service (DSR) and financial obligations (FOR) for households.New York FedThe graph shows the DSR for both renters and homeowners (red), and the homeowner financial obligations ratio for mortgages and consumer debt. The overall Debt Service Ratio¬†increased slightly in Q1, and is just above the record low set¬†in Q4 2012¬†thanks to very low interest rates. The homeowner's financial obligation ratio for consumer debt also increased slightly in Q1, and is back to¬†levels last¬†seen in early 1995. The blue line is the homeowner's financial obligation ratio for mortgages (blue). This ratio increased rapidly during the housing bubble, and continued to increase until 2008. With falling interest rates, and less mortgage debt (mostly due to foreclosures), the mortgage ratio has declined to 1998 (and 1981) levels. Overall it appears the economy is poised for more growth over the next few years. And in the longer term, I remain very optimistic too. I mentioned a few long term risks in my January post, but I also mentioned that I wasn't as concerned as many others about the aging of the population. By 2020,¬†eight of the top ten largest cohorts (five year age groups) will be under 40, and by 2030 the¬†top 11 cohorts are the youngest 11 cohorts. The renewing of America was one of the key points I made when I posted the following animation of the U.S population by age, from 1900 through 2060. The population data and estimates are from the Census Bureau (actual through 2010 and projections through 2060).  Last year, I said that looking forward I was the most optimistic since the '90s. And things are only getting better. The future's so bright, I gotta wear shades.Yes, the song was about nuclear holocaust ... but it was originally intended the way I'm using it.
Reuters/StringerZhang, a 37-year-old local farmer, who is interested in scientific inventions, has made six miniature submarines with several fellow engineers, one of which was sold to a businessman in Dalian at a price of 100,000 yuan ($15,855) last October. The week begins and markets are lower. The worst is Europe, where Italy is off 1.6%, Spain is off about 1%, and Germany is down 0.2%. Stocks had started higher in Japan, but ultimately ended lower to the tune of 0.18%, which isn't too dramatic. US futures are down just a hair. This marks the start of a decently busy week for the US economy, including Durable Goods data which comes out later today.
