China recently announced plans to loosen its infamous one-child policy. As the country grows richer and the pace of population growth slows, the country has a new demographic concern: underpopulation. Specifically, it has reason to be worried about getting old before it gets rich, and a high dependency ratio (lots of old, retired people being supported by a workforce that isn't big enough). To visualize China's challenge, Bloomberg Global Head of Economics††Michael McDonough†created this chart comparing Japan's demographics now to China's in 2030. The distribution of population by age looks very similar. Japan is famous for its aging population, and all of the growth and societal problems that entails. But of course, Japan is an extremely wealthy country so it can handle that. China will be looking Japan-like in less than two decades, and it's got a long way to go before it's as wealthy. Also note there is one big difference between the two population pyramids, and it's not to China's advantage: China skews much more heavily male. Michael McDonough
Markets are up around the world¬†on news Western powers have reached¬†an agreement¬†to curb Iran's nuclear program. U.S. futures are up 0.31%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 opened 0.67% higher. The Nikkei is 0.10% higher.¬† Meanwhile,¬†crude futures are falling fast. In other words, the Iran deal is good for business. Here's the chart for Australia stocks: Google Finance
Brent crude futures fell as much as $2.50, about 2%, to $108.63 as Monday commodities traders digested the interim deal reached this weekend to curb Iran's nuclear activities. Analysts were predicting¬†this kind of significant but not overwhelming market reaction. Western powers agreed they would begin lifting the ban on Iranian exports to their countries in six month's time. But Iran's oil sector has been hit hard by sanctions, and it may take some time for production to recover to pre-2010 levels. As Bloomberg reported: "The agreement probably will have a 'somewhat muted' effect on¬†oil prices, according to analysts including Mark Keenan, cross-commodity research strategist at¬†Societe Generale¬†in Singapore. 'We can, however, expect some price weakness as the market adjusts to the future prospect that Iranian exports will resume,' he said by e-mail." But Reuters' Daniel Fineren reported there was some fine print in the deal making it easier for Asian countries to acquire insurance on importing Iranian crude, which would accelerate Persian barrels returning to markets. Plus, the White House may have inadvertently overstated how much Iran has been exporting: "Kevin Book, Managing Director at ClearView Energy Partners in Washington, said the apparent easing on insurance could provide for an increase of 200,000 to 400,000 bpd in Iranian exports, particularly to Indian refiners. He also noted that the White House's mention of a 1 million bpd limit was much higher than a recent estimate that Iran exported some 715,000 bpd in October, suggesting that the deal could mean a 285,000 bpd supply boost "relatively quickly." ¬†So, we get this¬†chart: BarCharts U.S. crude futures, meanwhile are down about 0.8%.
REUTERS/KyodoTOKYO (Reuters) -†Japan's industry bureaucrats once guided the nation's world-beating drive to export cars and electronics. Now that Toyota and†Sony†have been household names worldwide for decades, the government wants to make sure the rest of the world buys Japanese sake, sashimi and anime. The "Cool†Japan†Fund," to launch on Monday, aims eventually to use about $1 billion of mostly public funds to boost distinctive food and drink, fashion, animated and live-action movies and other such "soft" exports. Although conceived before Prime Minister†Shinzo Abe†took office last December, it fits his theme that "Japan†is back". Some experts question the need for taxpayers to pump money into private companies. But†Nobuyuki Ota, chief executive of†Cool Japan Fund Inc, said it made sense for the government-dominated effort to pick winners among companies keen to expand abroad. "A state-backed fund can do what private investors cannot," Ota, a former fashion executive who brought Issey Miyake designs to the world, told Reuters. "Private investors sell their assets once their investment targets becomes profitable. We can be a long-term investor because it takes time for those small companies to grow." As disputes with neighbours like†China†and†South Korea†simmer,†Abe's governmentis keen to exploit chances to project†Japan's popular cultural wares. The expected adoption soon by UNESCO of Japanese cuisine - "washoku" - as an "Intangible Cultural Heritage" is the latest example of†Japan's "soft power" push. The Cool†Japan†Fund starts with 37.5 billion yen ($371 million)- 30 billion yen from the government and 7.5 billion yen from 15 companies, such as airline†ANAHoldings Inc &lt;9202.T&gt; and advertising giant†Dentsu†Inc &lt;4324.T&gt;. The fund will swell to 60 billion yen by March and eventually reach 90 billion yen by March 2015, said†Yoshiaki Akamatsu, an official at the†Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry†(METI), which is overseeing the project. But if these businesses getting public support are worthy, the question arises, why do they need public backing? Such "public-private" funds are in fact public and they face a conflict between policy goals of promoting chosen firms and the need to maximise returns, said private-equity consultant†Joji Takeuchi. "The fund idea is created by the government, most of the money is provided by the government, the government raises funds from the private sector and the government assembles the fund managers," said Takeuchi, chief executive ofBrightrust PE Japan Co. "Investments from the private investors are very small and are nothing more than a token of their support for the government initiative." Abe's government, which has pumped more than $3 billion into state-linked funds investing in Japanese companies, expects annual returns of 7 percent to 9 percent from the Cool†Japan†Fund, said a person directly involved in the project. But Takeuchi said by email that returns in the high single digits would not be considered sufficient, "considering the complications and potential conflict inherent in the public-private structure". The fund's remit, according to its website, runs from anime and other comics to movies, TV programmes, games, fashion and local products such as lacquerware, beauty products and food. Its aims are broader than investor returns. "It is difficult to preserve local culture without injecting government money," Ota said. "Local manufacturers are shrinking, and many young people leave for bigger cities. Once the older generations die, there will be no one who would take over that. I wonder what will happen to†Japan†100 years from now." Akamatsu of†METI's Creative Industries Division, said the†Cool Fund's mission†"is to invest in companies that are making their utmost efforts and would succeed overseas with some cash injection". ($1 = 101.0450 Japanese yen) (Reporting by Junko Fujita; Editing by William Mallard and Ron Popeski)
BIIBanks compete vigorously to differentiate themselves in order to gain greater market share and enlarge their deposit base. That's why mobile has becomes so important. It's the next battleground for consumers, and banks are rolling out the latest and greatest smartphone apps and mobile site features to gain an edge on the competition. The banks that establish a reputation for mobile innovation now may benefit in the future from greater market share and more engaged ó and high-margin ó customers. In a recent report†from†BI Intelligence,†we take a look at some banking app pioneers and cutting-edge features,†detail†the competition to develop the best mobile banking tools,†examine mobile banking's growth spurt, and†analyze consumer adoption behavior and barriers Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt;&gt; These are examples of the more advanced mobile banking features: In full, the†special report: For full access to the report on Mobile Banking sign up for a free trial subscription today.
Jonathan Alcorn/ReutersWe are just a few weeks away from one of the biggest events of the year: Black Friday. Though the celebrated shopping day typically falls on a Friday, this year many stores are opening their doors Thanksgiving Day. Based on the Black Friday ads posted on major retailers‚Äô sites, we‚Äôve compiled a list of some of the best deals you can expect to find. 1. iPhone 5s and 5c According to Wal-Mart‚Äôs Black Friday ad, the iPhone 5s and 5c will be on sale at Wal-Mart Friday, November 29 through December 1. The iPhone 5s will be on sale for $189, while the iPhone 5c will be marked down to $45. With the purchase of either phone comes a $75 Wal-Mart gift card. Both phones require a two-year contract. 2. Nikon L320 Camera Capture special memories this holiday season with the Nikon L320 camera, listed in Target‚Äôs Black Friday ad for $99. The camera features a 26x optical zoom with the original retail price of $229.99. 3. Insignia HDTV Best Buy has revealed some of its incredible Black Friday deals such as this one: a 39-inch Insignia HDTV marked down to $169.99. This is a savings of $160, but the price is only valid from November 28 to 30. Best Buy will open their doors at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving. 4. Dell Inspiron 15.6-inch Laptop Also at Best Buy, the black Dell Inspiron 15.6-inch laptop will be on sale for $177.99, starting Thanksgiving Day. The laptop includes a high-definition webcam and digital microphone. It‚Äôs a savings of more than $220, and the price is valid until November 30. 5. LeapFrog LeapPad2 Explorer For the kids, Toys ‚ÄúR‚Äù Us is opening its doors Thanksgiving Day, and offering the learning tablet LeapFrog LeapPad2 Explorer for $39.99, featured in their Black Friday advertisement. The tablet features front and back cameras and video recorders, and comes with five apps, including the Cartoon Director app, which lets you create your own movies.¬† The offer is available in store only, and is a limit of one per guest. The LeapPad 2 is marked down 50 percent off from its original price of 79.99. 6. iPad Mini Wal-Mart has one of the best Black Friday deals for the iPad mini, discounting the Apple product to $299 with a $100 Wal-Mart gift card. The deal is only good for one hour on Thanksgiving, and is in-store only.¬† There‚Äôs a limit of one per customer, and comes in black and slate, or white and silver. 7. Kindle Fire HD 7 A great gift for under a hundred bucks is the Kindle Fire HD 7. Best Buy is running a two-day sale, offering the tablet for $99, a hundred dollar discount from its original price. The black tablet includes a front-facing video camera, and free unlimited cloud storage. 8. Beats By Dre Headphones Wal-Mart is providing a great deal on Beats by Dr. Dre Solo HD On-Ear Headphones with ControlTalk, marking them down to $114.95 on November 28. It‚Äôs a one-hour deal, and includes a travel case for easy storage. Not on sale, the headphones retail for $199.95. There are lots of great deals advertised, but make sure to read the fine print at the bottom of the ads. Most items have a limit per customer, and certain time frames the items will be on sale. Good luck, shoppers!
One of the more reliable indicators of stock market sentiment is Citi's proprietary Panic/Euphoria model. "This week‚Äôs Panic/Euphoria reading was 0.52; versus last week‚Äôs revised number of 0.49, which points to two weeks in a row of euphoric signals, matched by increased money flows," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients on Friday. This is a contrarian indicator, which means euphoria is a bad sign for things to come. "Euphoria readings indicate the market may retreat with an 83% historical probability of losses in the next 12 months," added Levkovich. Most measures of sentiment rely on surveys of investors. However, Citi's Panic/Euphoria model relies heavily on market based measures that are believed to reflect sentiment. Components of the model include NYSE short interest ratio, margin debt, retail money funds, the put/call ratio, gasoline prices and the ratio of price premiums in puts versus calls" "Euphoric sentiment raises deep concern." Citi Research
David McNew / GettyLast night, Iran signed a deal with Western powers to curb its nuclear activities. Iran was willing to negotiate because their economy had taken body blows from the sanctions imposed by Western countries.†Among the sanctions with the greatest impact: Western countries were prohibited from buying oil.†The White House says lost oil sales have cost Iran $80 billion. Iran's annual GDP is only about $500 billion.† According to the new deal, Iran still won't be allowed to raise exports for another six months. That's why analysts are saying oil markets probably won't react much to the deal's announcement ó though prices still could come down slightly on the prospect of more barrels eventually returning to the market.†Here's SocGen strategist Mark Keenan's take,†via a Bloomberg report: "The agreement will probably have a ìsomewhat mutedî effect on†oil prices, according to analysts including Mark Keenan, cross-commodity research strategist at†Societe Generale†in†Singapore. ìWe can, however, expect some price weakness as the market adjusts to the future prospect that Iranian exports will resume,î he said by e-mail." At the same time, the sanctions have crippled investment into production facilities, so even once Iranian barrels do start returning, they will not rapidly do so. Here's what Barclays said Nov. 19:† "As a result of the sanctions, Iran has been under-investing in its fields and faces a number of project start-up delays. This leads us to believe that, even in a sanction-free world, any return of Iranian oil barrels would likely be slow. When taken together with current unplanned outages of over 3mb/d in the oil market, this supports our view that oil prices will remain robust." So we should keep our expectations of Monday's crude trading moves in check.
CybrbeastThere are all kinds of reasons to think that Bitcoin is a joke, and that the value of the bitcoins themselves will ultimately go to zero. It's inherently unstable as a currency, prone to hyperdeflation, has an artificial scarcity, and is subject to hoarding. But there is one important thing about Bitcoin that its advocates correctly identify. As a payment-processing platform, it's very intriguing. From Jeff Sommer at NYT: Bitcoin gives file-sharing a brilliant twist. In essence, it has created ìa decentralized virtual currency that†uses a peer-to-peer consensus system†to confirm and verify transactions,î two researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis concluded in a recent study. And FranÁois R. Velde, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, made this†assessment in a new report on bitcoin: ìIt represents a remarkable conceptual and technical achievement, which may well be used by existing financial institutions (which could issue their own bitcoins) or even by governments themselves.î Bitcoinís advantages as a low-cost means of transferring money have intrigued a number of corporate clients of the law firm Proskauer, though none of them are using it, said Jeffrey D. Neuberger, co-chairman of the firmís technology, media and communications group. ìItís an early-stage technology,î he said. ìBut it could be revolutionary.î In short, in a world that some people consider almost as important as music ó the precincts of money and finance ó bitcoin, or a successor technology that shares its DNA, is given a good chance of influencing the future. The existing payment system in developed countries remains archaic. It's not easy to zip money to someone, and fees remain high and frustrating. Using cryptography and peer-to-peer technology to instantly move money from one person to another without fees or time lag is a genuinely exciting and disruptive notion. Why people need to speculate on the "coins" is a head-scratcher. But the interest in how the technology could be applied is not.
The stock market has been on an incredible tear this year, but critics argue that the gains have come from increase multiples, rather than improved earnings, and that the gains therefore are not sustainable. But stronger earnings may abe on the way. In his latest strategy note, JPMorgan's Tom Lee passes along this chart created by his colleague Michael Cembalest, which compares corporate earnings growth against global PMI readings. The earnings growth line ins on a 4 month lag. Given the recent spike up in global PMI readings, an earnings acceleration should be on the way. JPM
REUTERS/Caren FirouAn Emirates A380 airliner, tailed by the Al Fursan Aerobatics team, flies over the Dubai Airshow November 18, 2013.THE new venue for Dubaiís international air show, which opened on November 17th, is yet another testament to the ambitions of the tiny Gulf state. Al Maktoum airport, when fully operational in 2027, will handle 160m passengers a year on five runways. And it will operate in tandem with Dubaiís older airport, which is closer to its centre and currently welcomes 60m travellers a year. The punt on continued growth in demand is also reflected in the big orders for new planes that the regionís airlines announced at this weekís show. Emirates, Dubaiís flag-carrier, led the way by ordering 150 of the 777X, a forthcoming revamp of what is currently Boeingís best-selling long-haul plane. The deal is worth $76 billion at list prices. Boeing also landed orders for 75 more 777Xs from the two other fast-growing ìsuperconnectorsî in the Gulf region, Qatar Airways and Abu Dhabiís Etihad. Boeingís archrival, Airbus, won Emiratesí endorsement of another big bet in aviation. The airline ordered 50 more of the A380, a super-jumbo launched in 2007 in the hope that carriers would want a plane even bigger than Boeingís ageing 747. Emiratesí enthusiasm aside, views on the A380ís prospects are divided. Some analysts see it as suitable for only a few airlines on a handful of routes. Others see it as the best solution to the expected huge increase in passengers flying between the most congested hubs. Boeing, whose 777X will seat 350-400, not surprisingly sides with the doubters, reckoning there will be demand for just 700 or so planes with 400-plus seats in the next two decades; Airbus reckons on double that amount. The most pessimistic pundits maintain that the European firm will sell no more than 300 of its behemoth. Orders for the 747 are unlikely to revive. The doubters say the main benefit of the A380ís size, its lower cost per passenger-mile, is overstated: passengers want frequent departures at main hubs, and direct flights between smaller airports. Both of these require large fleets of midsized planes, not small fleets of giant ones. Perhaps only the Gulfís three superconnectors, linking the most popular destinations in Europe and Asia via their home hubs, will want big fleets of A380s. Lufthansa, Air France and British Airways have already ordered as many as they will need for the foreseeable future, reckons Rob Morris of Ascend, a consultancy. They will fly them from airports with scarce take-off slots, on a few busy routes for which departure times are restricted by the need to arrive at a reasonable hour. Emirates could have a further reason to be keen on buying so many A380s. Andrew Charlton of Aviation Advocacy, another consultancy, thinks that its big order may give Emirates influence over the design of future Airbus planes, such as its forthcoming A350-1000, a 369-seat rival to the 777X. Emirates wants its range to be even longer than is currently planned, since it is a long way from Dubai to America. It would also like just a few more seats. Accusations that the A380 is a niche product rankle with Mark Lapidus, boss of Doric Lease Corp, an aircraft-leasing firm which has 22 of the super-jumbos and plans to order 20 more. He insists that if worldwide air travel keeps growing by 5% a year, as several forecasters expect, and if main hubs get ever more congested and fuel stays dear, airlines will surely come to see the wisdom of choosing the biggest plane their money can buy. Airbus is sticking to its target of breaking even in 2015 on a plane thought to have cost it $15 billion to develop; so far this looks optimistic. But it is not impossible that it will turn a profit one day. Sandy Morris of Jefferies, a bank, points out that the peak year for orders of the 747 came nearly 25 years after it first took to the skies. Airbusís A330 took 15 years to hit the heights and had no orders in 1994, six years after its launch. But until an airline other than Emirates starts to order the A380 in significant quantities it will be hard to make the case that it is a soaring success.
BloombergPeter Oppenheimer, Goldman SachsThis year, macro indicators have finally started to show signs that economic conditions may be improving in the UK, in the US and even in the crises-hit eurozone. Correspondingly, it has been a good year for risky assets. MSCI, the world index, has risen 20pc, the S&amp;P 500 in the US has risen 25pc and even the beleaguered eurozone equity market (the Eurostoxx 50) has managed to rebound 16pc. But taking January as a starting point is a bit arbitrary. Trends in markets can start at any time, and the recovery in so-called "risky" assets such as equities preceded the start of the year. Indeed, despite the cascade of economic woes, the US equity market has rebounded a staggering 160pc since its low in the aftermath of the Lehman collapse in 2008. Eurozone stock markets have faced a much tougher time, but even they have managed to recover by more than 40pc since the president of the ECB, Mario Draghi, dampened fears of an imminent collapse in the euro in mid-2012. In our view, the earlier "decoupling" of equity markets from the economies in which they sit had a lot to do with how financial markets have performed in the years before the financial crisis. To put this into a longer-term perspective, equities are just recovering from their worst 10-year relative return compared with government bonds ("risk-free" assets) in more than a century. This long period of dismal returns for shareholders relative to bondholders (investors who lent money to governments by buying their debt) reflects the 1990s overvaluation of equities. In that decade, a prolonged period of uninterrupted growth, coupled with low inflation and interest rates, made investors in shares more confident, and valuations increased. This culminated late in the decade with the technology revolution, which led investors to become more optimistic still. When the tech bubble burst in 2000, valuations collapsed. A brief period of better growth in the early part of the century was curbed by the financial crisis, triggered in the US housing market. The cumulative effect was to push down interest rates and government bond yields, resulting in a surge in the price of government bonds just as equity prices sank. This relative price move is reflected in one of the worst periods for owning stocks in more than a century. But it also provided the attractive valuation base to start a sharp rebound in prices. From current levels, therefore, valuations are far less compellingly cheap in equities than they were a year or so ago, while bond yields have risen to levels more consistent with fundamentals, reversing some of their overvaluation. The prospects from here for equity markets will therefore be largely shaped by actual growth in profits and dividends. We still believe profits will grow, supported by a rise in margins as well as growth in global GDP. Across the European markets, for example, we expect profits to grow by 14pc in 2014. This pace of growth may sound high, but would be fairly modest by the standards of typical post-recession recovery. Correspondingly, we expect the rate of acceleration in equity prices to slow. But we should not forget that inflation is low and likely to remain so. The total real (after-inflation) return that we forecast for 2014 for European equity markets is around 13pc. Also, since government bond yields remain very low, the "excess" return (what we would expect to receive in equity prices relative to returns in government bond markets) is likely to be in the top third of relative returns even as far back as the 1980s. Our themes continue to focus on scarcity, both in income and growth. As uncertainty spiked in recent years, companies, as well as investors, hoarded cash. As confidence returns, the reverse should apply. ï Peter Oppenheimer is chief global equity strategist at Goldman Sachs 
A Swiss referendum on Sunday rejected a move to cap executive pay at 12 times the wage of a firm's lowest earner, according to provisional results aired on local television. The measure had been expected to fail, but the debate has tapped into a vein of discontent among Swiss voters who in March backed rules to rein in golden handshakes, in the wake of high-profile payments to top bosses. Dubbed the "1:12" initiative after the legally-binding ratio it would have set between the top and bottom salaries in a firm, the plan met with stiff opposition from Switzerland's business community and political right. ¬†
Wikimedia CommonsIranian RialDUBAI (Reuters) - Iran's currency jumped more than 3 percent against the U.S. dollar on Sunday as news of a breakthrough deal to curb Tehran's nuclear program raised hopes that the economy would start recovering from international sanctions. The rial traded at around 29,000 against the dollar in Tehran's free market, Iranian traders said, up from about 30,000 before the agreement was reached by diplomats in Geneva in the early hours of Sunday. "We are feeling the positive sentiment in Iran," Nariman Aflani, foreign exchange trader at AFI Group, an Iranian civil engineering firm, said by telephone. He said that prices of construction materials such as ceramics and cement within Iran were coming down because people hoped a gradual loosening of sanctions would make it easier for the country to obtain supplies from abroad. The free market exchange rate is used by most Iranian individuals and businesses to obtain hard currency. The official rate quoted by the Iranian central bank, used by some state-linked firms with preferential access to dollars, stayed flat on Sunday at 24,822 rials to the dollar. Under the Geneva agreement, Iran will receive minor relief from the sanctions, including potential access to $1.5 billion in revenue from trade in gold and precious metals, and permission to transfer $4.2 billion of revenue from its oil sales across borders. By itself, these steps may not come close to offsetting the tens of billions of dollars which Iran has lost over the past two years as the sanctions have slashed its oil sales and largely frozen it out of the global banking system. But by reducing the chance of military action against Iran and raising the prospect of more sanctions relief in future, the Geneva pact may stem capital flight from the country and encourage a partial recovery of domestic investment. The rial plunged to near 40,000 against the dollar late last year because of the sanctions, losing about two-thirds of its value over 18 months. It then recovered some of its losses and stabilized near 30,000 after the election in June this year of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, seen as a relative moderate, made a nuclear deal seem more likely. Despite the rial's surge on Sunday, traders said it was not clear that any extended period of appreciation was starting, since the government felt excessive currency strength could hurt exports and complicate state finances. Aflani predicted authorities would intervene in the market if needed to prevent the rate from moving too far from 29,500. (Reporting by Andrew Torchia and Nadia Saleem; Editing by Pravin Char)
The auto industry has become so globalized, you can find the same Ford in Detroit and in Beijing. So it's not surprising that Americans' taste in passenger vehicles has become a bit homogenized.¬† To find how much difference there is in our car-buying habits, we asked Kelley Blue Book to pull the data from the start of the year to find the best-selling ride in each state. Not surprisingly, Ford F-Series family of trucks dominated the list, coming in at number one in more than 30 states. But Americans elsewhere have different tastes: Florida and Maryland went for the Toyota Camry. Hawaii liked the Toyota Tacoma. Oklahoma bucked the geographic trend ‚Äî the most popular car there is the Nissan Altima sedan. Here's the full map, you can click to enlarge. Mike Nudelman / Business Insider
