Henry Blodget/Business InsiderSheryl Sandberg launched her global book tour tonight in New York City. New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg and Arianna Huffington threw Sheryl a big bash. And they were kind enough to invite me. So I went. I took some crappy pictures with my iPhone along the way, which I am going to risk assuming you would rather see than not see. (I apologize for their crappiness!)
REUTERS/Aly SongChinese imports fell 15.2 percent year-over-year in February, missing economists' expectations for an 8.5 percent decline. This compares with a 28.8 percent rise in January. But Chinese exports crushed expectations again rising 21.8 percent on the year, against consensus for an 8.1 percent rise. The trade balance narrowed to $15.25 billion, but was above expectations for a deficit of $6.9 billion. Bank of America's Ting Lu had predicted a 9.5 percent decline in exports because of the impact of the Chinese New Year. This differs significantly from the consensus view. Economists however consider this data with a pinch of salt because of distortions caused by the long holiday. Instead, the prefer to look at January-February data together.
Japan is such a broken record. Another day, another new low on the yen, and another huge surge in the Nikkei. Up 2%. No big deal. Nikkei
Bitcoins are a completely anonymous digital currency that can be converted into real cash. And most interestingly, you can use your computer to "mine" them. It's something akin to prospecting for gold, except now you're hunting for 64-digit numbers. By having your computer repeatedly solve puzzles, you're competing with other miners to generate the number that the Bitcoin network is looking for. If your computer generates it, you receive 25 Bitcoins. At the time of this writing one Bitcoin is worth $42.98, so with correct computations currently worth $1,074.50 a pop there's plenty of motivation to start crunching numbers. Here's the difficulty, however ñ the behind-the-scenes math is set up to make Bitcoins increasingly difficult to produce. Once there are 21 million in existence, there can't be any more. Since it can take quite a while to successfully solve one of these puzzles by yourself and earn your thousand bucks, a number of Bitcoin "mining pools" have sprung up in which people distribute their computing power to find these magic combinations of 64 digits collaboratively. Once solved, the miners divide their winnings based on the amount of computing power each contributed to the calculation. Since you're one of a large number of people in this scenario, the payouts are quite small. The real money is in doing the work yourself, but it's much more fun to see a steadier (yet less significant) trickle of Bitcoins flow into your wallet. We're going to show you two ways to get mining as part of a pool. The first is a no-frills get-started-right-away method. The second is slightly more involved and lets you take advantage of your computer's graphics processing chip to mine alongside a network of others.
Morgan StanleyIn recent years, the story has been that a weak U.S. dollar was good for U.S. stocks.¬† The rationale was that a weak dollar makes American goods cheaper to foreign buyers. However, that trend has reversed meaningfully since the beginning of the year. From Morgan Stanley's FX team (emphasis ours): While the market has focused on how the change in global monetary policy is impacting the JPY and GBP, we would also suggest that the USD is undergoing a significant change in behavior as a result of global monetary policy shifts. Until now, this has been largely overlooked, but we are increasingly of the view that investors will start to see the US has an investment destination, reducing the USD‚Äôs traditional funding currency status. Indeed, the USD has outperformed since the beginning of the year, in what would traditionally be seen as a broadly risk positive environment. Equity markets globally rallied strongly, with US equity markets leading the way, allowing the Dow to reach record new highs. This outperformance of US asset markets is a positive for the USD in the current environment, in our view. In fact the USD has become increasingly positively correlated to the performance of the equity market. This suggests that the USD is not being used as a funding currency to the same degree as previously, and is starting to display some of the characteristics of an asset currency. This is consistent with the view that Fed policy stimulus is driving US asset markets, rather than broader risk appetite. It appears that everything is starting to make intuitive sense.¬† If the U.S. is in good shape, then its stocks and its currency will do well too. Morgan Stanley adds that we should keep an eye on the labor market data since monetary policy is now being guided by it. This theory is likely to be put to the test with the release of the US labour market data. With the Fed targeting the unemployment rate, the already important US labour market report takes on extra significance. Some of the initial labour market surveys over the past week have been providing encouraging signals, but it is the equity market reaction to the data that will be important. A continuation of the equity market rally on improving labour market data in the US is likely to keep the USD supported. Here's another look at the relationship between stocks and the dollar.¬† As you can see, the negative correlation has almost completely disappeared.Morgan Stanley 
CNBCThe spectator sport of activist investing has produced battles this year to rival Ultimate Fighting Championship bouts. But can the people who have turned investing into a head-kicking, nose-grabbing event make money for you? Some might think it's good that investors have been spared from those punch-ups in the past because the activist strategy involves taking large positions in stocks that might fall sharply before they finally pay off. In some cases, they will lose large amounts. It also means being patient in committing funds to money men with big egos whose confrontations with companies can create uncomfortable situations. Two of the biggest players, Carl Icahn and William Ackman, have recently had on-air screaming matches over nutritional supplement company Herbalife, which has traded erratically as the two legendary investors have taken opposing positions on the stock. But the wealthy investors and institutions that are able to buy into their funds are not complaining. Icahn's private fund has had annual gains in the 30 percent to 40 percent range, according to research firm reports. Icahn's own net worth has climbed from $100,000 in the late 1960s to $20 billion now. And some see him as a rival to Warren Buffett as the era's top investor. Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management has also enriched investors. Shareholders see Icahn and Ackman as advocates fighting for their interests, a welcome label for the sort of public agitation that won Icahn and others the title of "corporate raider" in an earlier era. "The stigma that once was there is gone or largely gone. They are more accepted by large institutional investors and corporate managers," says Kenneth Squire, a former mergers lawyer whose research firm 13D Monitor follows the industry. Smaller investors or hedge-fund copycats play follow the leader whenever Icahn and Ackman file 13D statements, disclosures required whenever an investor takes a 5 percent position in a company's voting shares that may hint at plans to push for measures to influence company performance, which can range from a change of strategy to tossing out management. Individual investors who mimic the big investors are taking a risk of a big loss because the targets are often companies with problems, and the activist's strategy could backfire and the company's situation could worsen. Moreover, the activist can dump the position at any time without notifying the public, since the position reports come out after the fact. It's like trying to follow a UFC fight from outside the auditorium and deciding what is happening based on the roar of the crowd. But two fund research firms are betting they can use the activist approach to make money for mutual fund and ETF investors by investing in a range of companies, spreading the risk of a single deal going bad. While it may never be more than a niche investment, the funds have solidly beaten benchmarks over the past year. They use various strategies to screen the crowd noise to figure out what is really happening inside the ring. A fund run by Squire managed a 20.97 percent gain in the first year of his 13D Activist Fund, or 15.4 percent after its load fee is included. The fund is the purest play for investors who want to buy into the shares of funds that have been targeted by activists like Icahn or Ackman. Squire completely stayed out of the fight over Herbalife. An active fund manager, he decides based on his own set of factors whether to take sides. Because Ackman had taken a short position betting on the decline of Herbalife stock, Squire stayed out. While he does not rule out getting into Herbalife at some point, he has not done so yet because his strategy is to avoid situations where investors are betting on company failures. It's one of his rules. He follows all of the 13D filings and then picks a small number to which he can apply these guidelines: ‚Ä¢ Don't get involved when there is a "negative catalyst" who is taking a position, such as Ackman's short position in Herbalife (still, Squire considers the Pershing fund manager one of smartest investors). ‚Ä¢ Invest in situations that include a "positive catalyst" who can "unlock hidden value" that company managers have avoided. ‚Ä¢ Have a deep knowledge of the investor's track record in the sector in which they are investing. ‚Ä¢ Ask in what way will the investor try to influence the company strategy, and does it have a realistic chance of success? ‚Ä¢ Don't get involved in huge deals like Apple where a 5 percent stake is a large amount for activists to keep in place. ‚Ä¢ Take positions that require 18 months or more to pay off in transforming an underperforming company. The strong recent performance of activist investing has won followers because traditional hedge funds have been underperforming and value investors have been "whipsawed" in trying to find underpriced stocks to buy low and sell high, says another fund manager who tracks activists and hedge funds. The market's sharp ups and downs over the past few years have made value investing difficult. "Events-driven investing does not follow the market movements as closely," says Maz Jadallah, head of AlphaClone, which runs a similar exchange-traded fund, AlphaClone Alternative, which follows hedge-fund manager investments and uses them in a long-short strategy that aims to even out fund performance. The fund has steadily risen to a 20 percent gain since it began trading last year. News Corp, Delphi Automotive, and Procter &amp; Gamble are among its top holdings. The fund's largest holding is Apple, whose steep fall has put a lid on the returns of his fund. Jadallah thinks the activist interest of investor David Einhorn in Apple "may or may not be positive." Only time while tell, he says. Einhorn sued Apple to push for better use of its huge cash pile for shareholders, but recently dropped a lawsuit pushing it to act. Jadallah says he sees the company recovering because it has "seamless and delightful products over a wide range of categories" and has unfairly "been reduced to being just a mobile company falling behind." The reason to follow activists and hedge fund managers like Einhorn, however, is not that they are always right but "when you invest in them, you are getting the best investment minds in the world," Jadallah says. And some of the scrappiest.
Flickr / PRodriguez-The S&amp;P 500 booked a nice 13 percent return in 2012. For 2013, Goldman Sachs' equity strategy team expects the index to climb to 1,575 by year-end. However, they obviously expect some stocks to do better than others. The firm's new "US Monthly Chartbook" includes a list of the 40 stocks with the most upside opportunity relative to Goldman analysts' price targets. We pulled the top 12 stocks, which offer 30 to 50 percent upside relative to their recent prices.
As housing supply continues to stay tight and home sales pick up, prices continue to rise. There were 2.1 million homes on the market for sale in January, down 24 percent from a year ago. And though new and existing homes entering the market are up, the sales pace increased as well. In a new report, Paul Diggle from Capital Economics writes that "ultra-low mortgage interest rates and steady, if not spectacular, job creation mean that the delinquency rate and foreclosure start rate are falling quickly." He says this is causing the composition of inventory to shift, and points out that more homes are coming into the market as pre-foreclosure (short) sales. This has caused the discount on foreclosed homes versus other homes to decline to an average of 12 percent, a level last seen before the housing crash.¬† Last year the discount was a much deeper 30 percent. Capital Economics
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoChinese trade data for February is out at 9 p.m. ET. Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for imports to fall 8.5 percent year-over-year, compared with a 28.8 percent rise the previous month. Exports are expected to rise 8.1 percent, compared with a 25 percent rise in January. And trade balance is expected to narrow to deficit of $6.9 billion. But, Bank of America's Ting Lu expects exports to fall 9.5 percent because of the impact of the Chinese New Year holiday. He says exports have "bottomed out from lows in mid-2012" but "remains cautious" because of the weak economic recovery and political uncertainties in the U.S., Europe, and Japan, some of the countries biggest trading partners. Ting expects imports to fall 11.5 percent and for the trade balance to narrow and show a deficit of $25.6 billion. He suggests reading January and February data together. "In the regard, exports and imports could expand 10% and 7% yoy in Jan-Feb, with a total trade surplus of $3.6 billion." Trade data is widely considered one of the most reliable Chinese economic indicators. But analysts have warned against giving Jan-Feb data too much weight, since it will be distorted by the Chinese New Year holiday.
Fora do Eixo / FlickrHugo Chavez is dead ‚Äî and oil markets have so far shrugged, trading within less than a dollar's range since Tuesday's official announcement. According to energy guru Stephen Schork, we shouldn't be surprised, given Chavez's illness was well known and the country's policies are unlikely to change in the short term. In a new note today, Schork says Venezuela remains way more exposed to U.S. market fluctuations than we do Venezuelan ones. Mismanagement of the oil bonanza enjoyed under Chavez‚Äôs time in office was squandered on ideological white elephants. Thus, the irony of ironies‚Ä¶ whereas the U.S. has grown less dependent on Venezuelan supplies of crude oil over the years, Venezuela has grown more dependent on supplies of U.S. refined products. For instance, U.S. exports of oil products to Venezuela have increased from 6.6 kb/d in 2004 to 85 kb/d in 2012. ¬† In other words, the U.S. buys crude oil from Venezuela and then sells it back to them (refined) at a higher price. ¬† Only a socialist could create a situation like that.¬† If prices ever do move on Venezuela news, it'll be downward, given how severely Chavez cut production during his reign.¬† Schork says¬†the country is producing less than 2.5 MM barrels per day, "a fraction" of its true capability.
Webvideofondsnieuws via YouTubeThe name Mark Mobius is synonymous with emerging-market investing. The Franklin Templeton asset manager has made his name scouring the world for investments in countries like Thailand, Egypt, Mongolia, and anywhere else where growth is hot. His latest adventure? A fish ball factory in Thailand, which he details on LinkedIn. He writes: On a recent visit to Thailand, my investment team and I had the opportunity to visit one of the world‚Äôs largest producers of fish balls, which are typically served in a bowl of hot noodles or dipped in sauce. Fish balls are popular throughout Asia and sold in street stalls and restaurants, and a recent boom in instant noodle sales is, in turn, helping boost the fish ball business. Fish balls have a firm, jelly-like and rubbery texture when you bite into one and release a delicious, mild fish taste. As an investor (and a foodie), I was quite interested in learning both about the market for fish balls and how they‚Äôre made. The Thai company our team visited produces over 6,000 tons of fish balls per year, and exports its products to markets around the world. In Hong Kong, a big market for fish balls, an enterprising entrepreneur had even created a fish ball vending machine. Customers were able to get a cup of fish balls by dropping a HK$5 coin or using their ‚ÄúOctopus card‚Äù (smart card payment system) at the vending machines. I often wondered what fish balls were made of. At the Thai factory, I learned that the content is 90% fish with about 10% corn starch added to make a paste so the mixture can be easily formed into balls. Seasonings like salt, sugar and some vegetable grounds from carrot or seaweed are secondary ingredients. In addition to being interesting from a manufacturing standpoint, Mobius is giving a very realistic look at what emerging market investing is all about: Going to places, seeing the factories, talking to management, etc. He also tweeted two great images of the factory. The second one is really cool. A photo from my visit to a fish ball factory in #Thailand. Here, workers process fish.s.frk.com/16cjpRs twitter.com/MarkMobius/sta‚Ä¶ My team and I get a good look at one stage of fish ball processing during our #Thailand factory visit. twitter.com/MarkMobius/sta‚Ä¶ At the end of the line at the #Thailand factory ‚Äì with packaged fish balls.s.frk.com/16cjpRs twitter.com/MarkMobius/sta‚Ä¶ The final product of our recent #Thai factory visit ‚Äì delicious fish balls, ready to eat! twitter.com/MarkMobius/sta‚Ä¶
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. FINRA's Broker Bonus Rule Is Almost A Done Deal (Advisor One) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) wants a new rule that would force brokers to disclose their recruitment compensation when they switch firms. According to FINRA, "customers would benefit from being told the material conflicts arising from a registered person being paid recruiting incentives to change firms." The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) told FINRA on Tuesday that brokers should only have to reveal their recruitment compensation packages to clients when there is a potential conflict of interest Securities lawyer Patrick Burns said that with SIFMA's support, FINRA‚Äôs ‚Äúproposal‚Äôs chances of becoming a new rule seem to be a done deal.‚Äù JP Morgan Revamps Its 'Guide to Retirement' (Financial Advisor Magazine) JP Morgan Asset Management has expanded its "Guide to Retirement" to include a savings checklist that will help investors figure out if they are saving enough for retirement. The section on health care costs, which is a key concern for retirees, was also reworked to include a break-up of annual costs, said JP Morgan's chief retirement strategist Katherine Roy. ‚ÄúWe also fine-tuned our information on inflation,‚Äù Roy said, ‚Äúbecause advisors say their clients are concerned about their purchasing power and its effect on those in their 50s. ‚ÄúThe section on housing costs was also fine-tuned because we found those over 65 often spend more of their share of wallet on housing than those who are younger.‚Äù For Double-Digit Returns, Look To Philippines Stock Funds (The Wall Street Journal) While markets in China, Russia and Brazil are performing far below their peak, Philippines stock funds are soaring to all time highs. The iShares MSCI Philippines ETF (EPHE) is up 52 percent in the past 12 months. "After years of going through boom-and-bust cycles, a wave of economic and political reforms appear to be positioning the Philippines for long-term growth at a more stable pace," said Michael Yoshikami, chief executive at Destination Wealth Management, who recently visited the country to talk to local corporate executives. "Business leaders are more optimistic, but there's not a sense of euphoria," he said, "They're very sober and more cautious than I've seen in the past. There Are Many Similarities Between The Bull Market Of The 80s And Now (Richard Bernstein Advisors) Bull markets are typically characterized by fear and indecision, according to Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors, and many of the issues that worried investors in the eighties are similar to the issues that are worrying investors now. "Similar to what is keeping investors on the sidelines during the current bull market, investors stayed out of the 1980s bull market for so long because there were many issues that investors thought were insurmountable," said Bernstein, in a note. Take a look at this table: Richard Bernstein Advisors Easy Money Is What's Been Driving The Market Rally (Blackstone) More than anything, the Fed's easy money policy is bolstering equities, said Blackstone's Byron Wien, in a note. Money flowing into the stock market has nearly doubled since 2009, which is when the Feb began the first round of quantitative easing. "The performance of the market so far this year has largely been a function of monetary expansion, in my opinion, and the low level of interest rates has also had a positive impact on corporate profits," said Wien. "Right now stocks are on their way to deliver another double-digit year for the S&amp;P 500, but if margin pressure begins to appear, as I suspect, then a more modest return is likely."
Flickr / dfbphotosAnother all-time high for the Dow. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,329, +33.2 pts, +0.2 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,544, +2.8 pts, +0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,232, +9.7 pts, +0.3 percent And now the top stories:
Rail = the real economy. This is good. Highest 12 week moving average in rail traffic since 2011. twitter.com/cullenroche/st‚Ä¶
Rail = the real economy. This is good. Highest 12 week moving average in rail traffic since 2011. twitter.com/cullenroche/st‚Ä¶
Chris McGrath/Getty ImagesIndonesia is ìAsiaís next big opportunity,î according to a new report from Boston Consulting Group, which cites its fast-growing economy (up 6.2% last year, forecast to grow 6.8% in 2013) and favorable demographics.  Over 60 percent of the population is between 20-65, which gives the country a large bank of earners and not too many old people for workers to support. † And while most Indonesians live in relative poverty, lacking air conditioning, broadband and access to healthcare, their cheery optimism about the future makes them happy to spend what they have. The nationís consumer sector†is thriving, and†BCGs data shows 91% of Indonesians feel at least somewhat financially secureóa higher percentage than the US, the EU, or Japan. The country last year decreed that mines must†be majority owned†by Indonesians within ten years, which could force foreign diggers to shed stakes in their projects before they have made a return on investments. The chief executive of a Sydney-listed resources company operating in Indonesia, who asked not to be named as the topic is sensitive, told Quartz: ìIndonesia is definitely the most difficult place I have worked, and I have led projects and investments in the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan.î Transparency International†places Indonesia†118th on its 176-nation ìCorruption Perceptions Index.î According to the Australian CEO, official graft in Indonesia is worse than notoriously corrupt parts of Africa because ìAfrican officials communicate the bribes they want very clearly. So you go to your countryís embassy and get help negotiating a non-corrupt solution. In Indonesia, I can never work out what officials are asking us for. It is clear they want kickbacks for project approvals, the requests are opaque and change constantly.î Still, BCG forecasts the number of middle class and affluent consumers in Indonesia will double by 2020 to roughly 141 million peo ple.†Vaishali Rastogi, a BCG partner and co-author of the report, says: ìThe CEOs we talk to are extremely positive about the opportunity this presents.î Capitalizing on that opportunity, however, may bea more difficult proposition. More From Quartz:
Philip Taylor PTThe Federal Reserve's January G.19 report on consumer credit is out. Total consumer credit outstanding jumped by $16.15 billion, which was ahead of expectations for growth of $14.7 billion. Revolving debt (e.g. credit cards) climbed by just 0.1 percent, while non-revolving debt (e.g. car loans) jumped 10.0 percent. This only adds to the evidence that suggests consumer deleveraging is over.
In the wake of the Italian elections, bullish sentiment measured by the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII) plummeted from a high of 41.8 percent down to as low as 28.4 percent last week. Meanwhile, the Dow Jones Industrial Average continued its bullish march to an all-time high. This week, AAII bullish sentiment ticked up to just 31.1.¬† This is well below the historical average of 39 percent. "The Dow‚Äôs new record high gave some AAII members reason to believe the current rally will continue," wrote Charles Rotblutt in a post on Pragmatic Capitalism. "It also heightened concerns other AAII members have about the markets being overbought and due for a pullback in prices." Meanwhile, bearish sentiment rose by 1.9 percentage points to 38.5 percent in the same time period. This is much higher than the historical average for bearish sentiment, which is 30.5 percent. Here's the chart from Bespoke Investment Group: Bespoke Investment Group, American Association of Individual Investors ¬†
Each year, Stifel Nicolaus ETF Trading Director Dave Lutz publishes a Spring Break Reading‚Äù survey of all books his buy-side clients recommend reading. They send in their picks, and then he sends back out the whole list. The list is incredibly instructive for gauging the Street's current mindset. I would ask you to do your own homework, to determine if the material is appropriate...I plan on buying dozens of these listed ‚Äì some sound really great," Lutz writes in his note accompanying the list. We put together the titles that had three-or-more recommendations. The numbers in parentheses represent how many respondents listed that book.
More and more trades are being executed in off-the-grid exchanges called 'dark pools', reports Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino. For the first time, volume in those exchanges eclipsed trading volume in the New York Stock Exchange. In January, the 19 dark pools in the U.S. saw an average daily trading volume of 920 million, NYSE's figure was around 900 million trades. Dark pools started back in the 1980s. The idea was to create more anonymous places where big institutional investors could trade away from the eyes of everyone in the public exchanges and without making an impact on market prices. In 2007, SEC Regulation called REG NMS made it possible for anyone to start a dark pool, so investment banks jumped in the game. Now about 12% of trades are executed in dark pools. Maybe more. The problem with dark pool trading is simple ‚Äî it lacks transparency. When you enter a dark pool you don't know who you're trading with or if they want what you're trading at the price you're willing to trade it. That said, there are two ways that people decide to enter dark pools. There is an MIT study that says Dark Pools widen spreads between bid price and an offer price for stocks on open exchanges, so that's another drawback. Beyond that, the anonymity of the dark pools ensures that if something goes wrong inside one of those exchanges, we don't know who made the mistake. Here's one perfect example: Back in October there¬†were at least 258 bad prints in 146 stocks that¬†came from an automated trading program managed by a dark pool. Those stocks went insane for about an hour and we don't know who was at fault. People were calling the shock a "mini Knight," after the horrible day last summer when Knight Capital lost $400 million in half an hour because a faulty trading program. And no one wants that again.
Wikimedia CommonsBig box stores are dying.† JCPenney, Sears, Best Buy, and more are shuttering stores and recasting their strategies. ìThey were hit by a perfect storm of competition from the Internet and supermarkets,î Steve Brazier, CEO of market research firm Canalys, said in a report last year.† Even mighty Walmart, once indispensable, recently admitted that sales were suffering.† Yet Costco has remained strong throughout the recession.†The company has continued to grow and see sales increase.† Costco's founder Jim Sinegal credits the company's unusual business strategy with its success.† Sinegal, whose company has been called the "anti-Walmart," invests in employees and limits the items he sells.†
APAs Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez lay dying in a Caracas military hospital on Tuesday, it appears that he wasn't ready to go. General Jose Ornella says that amongst Chavez's last words were, "I don't want to die. Please don't let me die." "He couldn't speak but he said it with his lips", the general told the Associated Press on Wednesday. It's understandable that the 58-year-old Chavez didn't see his work as done. Born into a working-class family, Chavez became president in 1999 after pursuing a political ideology of Bolivarianism, named after 19th Century anti-colonialist SimÛn BolÌvar, and declaring his plan "socialism of the 21st century." In some regards his plan was successful. Bloomberg notes he helped cut the country's poverty rate to 29.5 percent in 2011 from 48.6 percent in 2002, according to the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America. Venezuela's quality of life improved at the third-fastest pace worldwide during his time as leader. But the economy hasn't been doing so well. Long buffered with oil money, Venezuela has suffered from a 13 percent drop in oil output since 1999. Last year the Wall Street Journal wrote: The growing deficit raises Venezuela's borrowing costs to a level seen by many economists as unsustainable until the country reins in spending, gets a boost to its income through higher oil prices, or devalues its local Strong Bolivar currency to make it buy more domestically. Even when dying, Chavez clearly thought he was the man for this economic battle, and many Venezuelans likely did too. The question now is whether Venezuela's economy will be safe in the hands of Chavez's anointed heir, Nicol·s Maduro, a former bus driver whose uninspired slogan is "I am Chavez," or Henry Capriles, his center right nemesis.
Michael Block of Phoenix Partners relays an IM conversation that he just had with a client that pretty much reveals everything about where market sentiment is right now. Here's what he sent. Here's my best example of how sentiment works.¬†¬† Real conversation, names changed to protect the innocent.¬†¬†¬† 13:21:30¬† X (Well Meaning, Earnest Client) : so when does the market come crumbling down? 13:21:37¬† X : should be anyday now, right 13:21:38¬† MICHAEL BLOCK : When you stop asking So there you go.
The policy won't just hurt soda fans, report Vivian Lee and Michael Grynbaum at the New York Times. Morning coffee orders are about to get a lot more complicated.† The Times published a helpful graphic from Dunkin' Donuts on what will change at their chain. The same changes apply to McDonald's.† Here are the highlights:† The companies are interpreting the ban differently. For instance, some large drinks at Starbucks are affected by the ban, while others aren't, according to the Times. It will be up to the baristas to explain what's allowed and what isn't.† The coffee line at Dunkin' Donuts easily reaches the door at most days in Manhattan, and the workers probably don't have time to explain the cumbersome policy. † The new policy also makes orders more complicated. Right now, you can order how many sugar packets you want in a drink, and employees mix it in for you.† But now, consumers will be responsible for opening their own packets and mixing sugar in their drinks.† This could result in lines for sugar at peak hours. It will also be difficult for the employees to keep sugar packets stocked at all times. A Dunkin' customer shared her frustration with the new system.† ìThe whole point of buying coffee is just you get it and go,î the customer, who was drinking a sweetened coffee, said. ìItís just going to be annoying.î Bloomberg's controversial policy is supposed to reduce obesity in the city. But with such inconsistent regulations, it seems to be more trouble than its worth.†
Warner Bros.It's no secret the box office is hurting right now.¬† We're into the second week of March, and only one film, Universal's "Identity Thief," has managed to have both an opening weekend over $30 million and reach the $100 million mark at theaters.¬† At this same point last year, three films ("Safe House," "The Vow," and "Journey 2: The Mysterious Island") surpassed that milestone.¬†Meanwhile, last year's highest-opening weekend was taken by Dr. Seuss film "The Lorax" earning a hefty $70 million upon debut. What's going on this year?¬† For one thing, there have been far too many adult movies in theaters. Since January, there have been 14 R-rated films limiting the younger audience going out to theaters. 8 of the 14 have had disastrous opening weekends all under $10 million. The lowest opening grosses of the year so far included Sylvester Stallone's "Bullet to the Head,"¬†which brought in $4.5 million, star-stuffed¬†"Movie 43"¬†with $4.8 million, and Jason Statham's latest action thriller "Parker"¬†earning $7 million. Even "Hansel &amp; Gretel: Witch Hunters," a film with "Avengers" star Jeremy Renner which is based off a childhood tale and had the appeal to draw younger teens, was rated R. The film has fared better, grossing $181 million worldwide. Last year, by the same time, there were nine R-rated films in theaters including "Safe House" with Denzel Washington which earned more than $100 million after a month in theaters.¬†¬†Another three of those films, "Project X," "Underworld Awakening," and "The Devil Inside," went on to earn more than $100 million worldwide.¬† One of the latest R-rated flicks to hit theaters, "21 and Over" was expected to piggyback off the success of last year's low-budget "Project X," but fell flat at theaters opening week with $8.8 million. There were also more kid and family-friendly films last year.¬†"The Secret World of Arrietty," "Journey 2: The Mysterious Island," "The Lorax," and "Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace" in 3D all debuted early 2012. Plus, Martin Scorsese's Oscar picture, "Hugo," was still in theaters. The Weinstein CompanyCurrently, the only new kid's flick at theaters is The Weinstein Company's alien film, "Escape from Planet Earth."¬†¬†¬†Meanwhile, "Wreck-It Ralph" and a 3D return of "Monsters Inc." from Disney are still playing in theaters from late last year.¬† However, the box-office slump could boil down to something much simpler: the movies just aren't that good. Warner Bros. executive vice president of domestic distribution Jeff Goldstein told TheWrap the films aren't living up to the hype.¬† "There's no mystery as to why the box office is down," Goldstein said. "It's the movies. They just haven't done it for audiences, but that's the saving grace, too. A couple of hits and things will be back on track." This weekend, $200 million budget "Oz the Great and the Powerful" hits theaters, hoping to turn the box office around.
Amazingly, James Glassman, who famously wrote a book called "Dow 36,000" back in 1999, is back. In a new piece up on Bloomberg View he says Dow 36,000 is attainable again. So what's his argument? Glassman (who is the head of the George W. Bush institute) notes that the market has rallied 117 percent since the last low, and that another 117 percent rally would put us just 16 percent away. This can be achieved, he says, by a further receding of fear, which could cause a 50 percent rally in the stock market just by expanded PE ratios. And then beyond that, a return to old growth trends could get us the rest of the way. (Via Ryan Avent) Bloomberg
Last week Elizabeth Warren questioned Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on Too Big To Fail. Today she's taking on officials from the Treasury, Comptroller's Office, and the Fed on 'Too Big To Jail.' The officials are appearing before the Senate Banking Committee to testify about HSBC's money laundering scandal. The bank paid $1.2 billion in December for a bevy of transgressions including laundering money for Mexican Drug cartels, handling accounts for Iran, and much more. Yesterday Attorney General Eric Holder spoke on the Justice Department's part. The agency did not prosecute any individual criminally for this matter in part, he said, because the size of large banks ìhas an inhibiting influence ñ impact on our ability to bring resolutions that I think would be more appropriateî, Mr Holder told lawmakers. ìAnd I think that is something that we ñ you all ñ need to consider.î Warren definitely considered it before she took the mic today. "The U.S. government takes money laundering very seriously," she said. "It's possible to shut down a bank that's been involved in money laundering, individuals can be baned from every participating in financial services, and people can be sent to prison. Now, in December HSBC... admitted to laundering $881 billion that we know of from Mexican and Colombian drug cartels and also admitted to violating our sanctions... and they didn't do it just one time... they were caught... and kept doing it. HSBC paid a fine but no individual was banned from the bank and there was no hearing to consider shutting down HSBC's activities in the United States. What I'd like... is your opinion...How many billions of dollars of drug money do you have to launder...before someone will consider shutting down a bank?" The first unlucky respondent was David S. Cohen, the Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence U.S. Department of the Treasury. He said the Treasury took money laundering "very seriously" etc. But Warren broke in: "I'm not hearing your opinion on this... You're the leaders on money laundering... What I'm asking is what does it take even to say here is where the line is and if you cross that line you're at risk of having your bank shut down?" Cohen said that the Treasury was "mindful of what" its "authorities are" but that ultimately the responsibility lies with other regulators to determine that. Warren was visibly annoyed: So you have no opinion on that. You sit in Treasury... you try to enforce these laws... and you have no opinion on when it is a bank should be shut down for money laundering? Not even an opinion?!" The short answer to that was... not really. Cohen said that the Treasury and the DOJ do share information on issues like this, but that the Treasury did not give the DOJ an opinion. "That did occur in the HSBC matter. We told the DOJ we weren't in a position to offer any meaningful assessment of what the impact might be," he told Warren. That only made Warren more upset. "I want to make sure I understand what you just said. The DOJ in making its decision whether or not to pursue a criminal prosecution, checked with the Treasury on† whether or not there would be a significant economic impact if a large bank would be prosecuted?" Cohen responded that the Treasury was not "in a position to offer any meaningful guidance" because of HSBC's complexity and because the Treasury it didn't know what the DOJ was planning to prosecute or how other regulators would react. "So you just said to the DOJ 'you're on your own'," said Warren. What it comes down to is this. There are four regulators overlapping information responsibilities on this and other financial issues. For the Comptroller's office to kick HSBC out of the U.S. (revoke its charter) it has to be convicted of a criminal offense. Only the Justice Department can do that. The Treasury is supposed to advise the DOJ about HSBC's importance. The Fed was only asked about what an HSBC prosecution would do to investors. Warren's take away, then, was easy ó Make the whole system simpler. Consolidate it. Doesn't sound like a bad idea.
CNBCIvy Zelman, who is one of the most respected independent housing/real estate analysts there is, is on CNBC making a very bullish call on housing. She says we're in the "very early innings" of the rally, and that gains in home prices can go up for another 4 to 6 years. She notes that the direction of home prices doesn't change very much. Household formation, she says, has a lot of room to improve. CNBC's Diana Olick tweets some other key points. Ivy Zelman:I think we're in nirvana for #housing.I'm the most bullish I've ever been. @cnbcfastmoney Zelman:Inventory is a significant constraint.Urgency to find a house. @cnbcfastmoney Zelman: single family rental, sexy on Wall Street, has record occupancy with #rent inflation @cnbcfastmoney Zelman: single family rental, sexy on Wall Street, has record occupancy with #rent inflation @cnbcfastmoney
The New York Post is reporting that La La and Carmelo Anthony are now renting a $29,000 per month condo on Fifth Avenue at 102nd street. The condo, located on Manhattan's "Museum Mile," is owned by Bank of America executive Fares Noujaim. The Anthony's new digs has five bedrooms, four bathrooms, and perfect views of Central Park. It's located in a luxury building that has a fitness center and play room. Here's the living room with views of the park: Street Easy A shot of the living room and dining room: Street Easy One of the bathrooms: Street Easy The view of the park: Street Easy And here's a look at the floor plan: 1212 Fifth Avenue
Foursquare user Nikelii B.Everyone knows investment bankers, traders and hedge funder work extremely long hours.¬† So when they're not chained to their desks all day, where can you find them? We asked some of our finance friends for the best places to meet a Wall Streeter in New York City. We've included some of our own suggestions too in our round up of hot-spots for meeting finance folks. ¬†Some are obvious, while others are a little more creative.¬†
flickr / Zach CopleyThe Bitcoin market is booming. The internet's favorite virtual currency is up over 230 percent since the beginning of the year and up 40 percent from Monday to Wednesday alone. The latest leg up may be because it looks like the market may finally be going mainstream ‚Äì now, U.S. banks are getting involved. Nick Colas, Chief Market Strategist at ConvergEx Group, wrote in a recent note to clients that "there is much to learn from this first online success story in the world of stateless currencies," and there's a lesson to be had in global economics from the Bitcoin market. Of course, as is the case with most good economics lessons, it's all about supply and demand. The first thing to understand is how the total amount of Bitcoins in circulation (the money supply, if you will) expands. Transactions aren't cleared through a central server. Instead, the exchange platform is distributed across thousands of computers, peer-to-peer style (like many popular filesharing networks). In order to expand the total supply of Bitcoins, users also run complex algorithms on this peer-to-peer network to solve cryptographic puzzles. Each time a puzzle is solved, additional Bitcoins get credited to the accounts of those who solved the puzzle. So, that is how the "money supply," as it were, expands in the Bitcoin market. However, each new puzzle gets incrementally harder to crack. The system was designed this way in order to limit the growth of the supply of Bitcoins. "The overall supply of Bitcoin in the system therefore grows at a slow and pre-ordained rate," writes Colas. "There are currently 10.8 million bitcoins in the system, and this will cap out at 21 million coins in just over 125 years (2140, to be precise)." Now, as the virtual currency continues to take incremental steps toward mainstream adoption, there is a big demand driver to boost prices. Here, then, is the lesson, as Colas writes in his note (emphasis added): When incremental adoption meets relatively fixed supply, it should be no surprise that prices go up. And that‚Äôs exactly what is happening to BTC prices. What‚Äôs interesting to note is why BTC prices plummet, which they did in the back half of 2011. The cause was a very short-lived hack attack on one Bitcoin ‚ÄúWallet‚Äù company out of Japan, which caused the price to drop from $27 down to $2 in a few months. Confidence in money as a store of value is the ultimate driver of its value, both in the cyber and real worlds. I have no idea which way Bitcoins will trade in the next 2 days or 2 years, but the whole process of starting a new Internet currency is a great case study in how real people use real currency. Limiting supply has clearly been a huge plus for the BTC. Becoming known as a currency for illegal drugs and gambling is more problematic, of course. But let‚Äôs not forget that the U.S. Treasury printed 3 billion $100 bills in the 2012 Fiscal Year. Most of those (the Federal Reserve estimates 80%) go overseas and many of them simply facilitate the global drug and arms trade, not to mention tax evasion and human trafficking. So the BTC‚Äôs growing role in the same types of business might qualify it for ‚ÄúReserve currency‚Äù status sooner than anyone thinks. Supply and demand.
Jakarta and Bali, both in Indonesia, ranked highly on real estate firm Knight Frank's new index of price growth in the world's luxury real estate markets. The capital city of Jakarta, where prices increased 38 percent year-over-year, topped the list this year. And Bali ranked second, tying Dubai with a 20 percent increase in luxury real estate prices between 2011 and 2012. Knight Frank explained the growth: Jakarta benefited from continued strong GDP growth, which has stood at or above 6% for five out of the past six years and, in particular, from rapid growth in middle-class wealth. Increased access for non-resident purchasers could help sustain the trend through 2013. In Jakarta, prices jumped from $250 per square foot to $346 per square foot. And in Bali, they went from $224 per square foot to $269 per square foot, according to Knight Frank. While a third of the cities in the report experienced price growth in 2012, prices declined in around half of the cities analyzed in the report. Overall, the Asia-Pacific region fared well, while Europe struggled. According to Knight Frank, the dichotomy stems from the aftermath of the financial crisis: The search for safe haven investments has continued to propel prices higher in key global cities; some of the markets worst hit by the global financial crisis appear at long last to be recovering; and the impact of growing global wealth flows has kept governments busy in their attempts to limit price growth and deflate nascent real-estate bubbles before they explode. Even with the upswing, Jakarta and Bali still fell outside Knight Frank's list of the 20 most expensive places to buy luxury property. Here are the 20 cities (out of 80 analyzed by Knight Frank) where prices on luxury residential real estate rose the most in 2012: Knight Frank And the markets where they decreased the most: Knight Frank
The yen is falling again today. According to Reuters' Eric Platt, at ¬•94.81 the yen is now at its lowest level against the dollar since September 2010. Earlier today, the Bank of Japan announced no change in its monetary policy. However, everyone expects incoming BoJ head Hirohiku Kuroda to announce major easing measures in his efforts to stimulate the economy.¬† Most experts expect this to mean depreciation in the yen against other currencies. Here's the intraday chart via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Same store sales were up 3.3 percent versus estimates of 2.3 percent, according to Bloomberg. Reuters' Eric Platt reports Gap Global was +2 percent, Old Navy +6 percent and Banana Republic -5 percent. Shares have resumed trading and are up 3.4 percent. Here's the chart: Yahoo
SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale's bearish strategist Albert Edwards devotes a fair amount of space to Italy in his latest strategy note out this morning. Edwards notes that while European stocks look cheap, Italian stocks look especially cheap on traditional valuation metrics. Furthermore, Edwards writes, "I believe the electorate were right to reject further austerity. There will be more such electoral revulsion on the way, but for Italy it doesnít really matter anyway. They can remove the horse-hair shirt forced on them by the ECB/Germany/European Commission and these dreary architects of depression can be told to take a very large running jump. Buy Italy!" Edwards points out that Italy, despite the fact that it has the second largest debt-to-GDP ratio in the euro zone after Greece, can actually claim some pretty good deficit management relative to other euro member states in recent years. "Adjusting for the economic cycle, the second table below shows that Italyís deficit never rose at all from 31/2% throughout the credit crisis, in stark contrast to everyone else, who clearly (by definition) were trying to spend their way out of the recession," writes Edwards. SG Cross Asset Research, European CommissionClick to enlarge Now, the austerity measures pushed through by former Prime Minister Mario Monti are helping to drive the country further into recession. Edwards argues, echoing a recent Wolfgang M¸nchau piece in the FT, that "austerity" and "reform" are two different things. Whereas Monti's austerity measures ñ raising taxes and cutting spending ñ may improve the government's finances in the short term, they could cause more damage in the long run. Structural reforms, on the other hand, Edwards writes, "most especially increased job security associated with labour market reforms ñ are usually deflationary in the short term and need fiscal stimulus to offset the impact." Edwards calls Italy's troika of creditors at the ECB, EU, and IMF "dogmatic and inflexible" for not allowing these structural reforms in Italy (remember, they cost money in the short run). All of this leads him to his ultimate conclusion on Italy: That is why in my view the social disruption will intensify and we will see more Five Star Movements emerging around the eurozone. Italy, with the headline deficit already down below 3% of GDP, certainly doesnít need further austerity in the near term.  Finally, as we highlighted recently, Europe is clearly cheap both on a top-down cyclically adjusted PE or PCF basis, but also from a bottom-up basis (e.g. the value part of Graham &amp; Rea deep-value screens). And as our European Strategist, Paul Jackson showed recently, Italy is much cheaper than most other countries in a cheap region. Dylan used to say there is no such thing as toxic assets, only toxic prices. The situation in the eurozone is indeed toxic and it will get worse.†That is the opportunity. Buy Italy. "The heavy lifting has been done in Italy," writes Edwards. "They are, as we say in the UK, done and dusted."
Image via BarclaysAnthony JenkinsSky News City editor Mark Kleinman has an exclusive that Barclays CEO suggested that Barclays in the future could have 40,000 fewer employees. From Sky News:¬† I have learnt that during meetings with leading shareholders following Barclays‚Äô annual results last month, Antony Jenkins said that he envisaged a future in which the bank employed as few as 100,000 people. Barclays currently employs approximately 140,000 staff. An unnamed Barclays insider told Sky News that the comment should be taken as¬†"blue-sky thinking about the long-term future." Read the full scoop at Sky News &gt;
Reuters/Minoru IwasakiThe death of Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez has raised some concerns in China. This is because the loans-for-oil program made Venezuela the seventh largest crude oil supplier to energy hungry China. Late last year, Venezuelan oil minister Rafael Ramirez said that his country wants to increase its daily oil exports to China 1 million barrels in 215, from 500,000 barrels now, according to China Daily. This comes at a time when Chinese dependence on oil imports is rising. The NDRC said†imports accounted for 58 percent of China's oil supply in 2012, up from 56 percent in 2011, and 55 percent in 2010. Chavez's death has naturally made Beijing uncomfortable since opposition leader Henrique Capriles has previously said that he would do away with Chavez's loans for oil policies. He said Chavez's deals cost Venezuela $6.7 billion annually. Reuters reports that PDVSA, Venezuela's state owned oil and gas company, "was not paid directly for 43 percent of its barrels of crude and oil products, rising from 36.5 percent in 2010 and 32 percent in 2009". But in a Financial Times column, Eurasia Group's Ian Bremmer writes that China doesn't need to worry because Capriles is unlikely to beat out Nicolas Maduro who is expected to succeed Chavez. Moreover, he is unlikely to break a pre-existing agreement according to Bremmer and he is well aware that Venezuela needs rich allies. Instead, Bremmer thinks this raises broader questions for Chinese foreign policy, specifically its "foreign investment strategy" as it tries to secure resources for itself.† "In the process of becoming more deeply involved in the politics of foreign countries, they are likely to discover that they have traded one form of risk and uncertainty for another," he writes.
The Internet was supposed to make cheating easier. In the early 2000s, anonymous chat rooms, the birth of adultery website Ashley Madison, and social networks like MySpace seemed to promise the dawn of a new era of affairs. "Maintaining a loving committed relationship is harder than before as alternative romantic options are easier to explore and to realize," Aaron Ben-Ze'ev, Professor at the University of Haifa and author of the 2004 book Love Online told us. "This increases the feasibility of cheating, as well as the temptation to cheat." But at the same time internet culture has made the ability to cheat easier, it's also made it easier to get caught. Fast forward to 2013 where philandering athletes, politicians, and celebrities have been exposed through social media. With the wrong press of a button or hacking of a smartphone, details of infidelities and inappropriate conversations are suddenly broadcast for all the world to see. But you don't have to be a celebrity to get caught: In 2012, a UK study found that more than a third of divorce petitions cited Facebook as a reason. In America, 81 percent of divorce lawyers have seen an increase in the number of social networking cases in the past five years, and 66 percent have even used Facebook as evidence in court. Here's why it's so hard to get away with cheating online. The internet has connected us all It's become next to impossible to have a one night stand without him or her being able to find you on Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn, or Twitter. Anonymous sex is suddenly not-so-anonymous when the girl from the bar "pokes" you the next day. And harmless flirting at work or the gym is no longer so harmless. These romances can take months or years to develop in the real world, but has K. Jason Krafsky, co-author of Facebook and Your Marriage, told the Wall Street Journal: ‚ÄúOn Facebook they happen in just a few clicks.‚Äù If the flirtation was illicit, those few clicks are the virtual breadcrumbs that can get you caught. A new friend request, a post on your wall, or a suspicious tweet can ruin trust and wreck a relationship. Incriminating photographs also have a way of making their way online. In fact, it has become common for attorneys to scour Facebook profiles and pictures when they're looking for evidence in divorce cases. Short of lying about your real name constantly, your past is bound to catch up with you online. Sharing is the new normal Sharing social media and phone passwords has become a sign of love and trust. It tells your partner that there are no secrets in the relationship ‚Äî be they text messages, calls, or recently added "friends." Craig Gross, the founder of FacebookCheating.com, which details stories of Facebook affairs told us in an email that passwords are meant to be shared with the people you love. "If you are married or have kids and they are on Facebook, everyone's account in your family should be open to everyone," he wrote. "No secrets. Secrets will catch up with you." If you're in a relationship or married and don't post your status on Facebook, it can cause huge trust issues. Sharing passwords and making a relationship status public are both major barriers to cheating. And if you think you're careful about hiding your online behavior, think again ‚Äî even "Facebook stalking" can be discovered by a significant other. Technology has made it easier than ever to catch cheaters Computer monitoring software has always existed, but it's arguably better than ever. Programs like Timesnapper take automatic screen shots every few minutes, allowing you to play back computer activity. There are even smartphone apps designed to track someone's phone without them knowing. Downloading a tracking app (and then hiding it with another app such as Poof) will allow someone to spy on your location without your knowledge. Voluntary GPS apps like Find My Friends and Glympse, which let people see where you really are, have also become popular. If you're "working late," you better really be at the office ‚Äî or have an air-tight explanation for why you turned off your GPS tracker. The threat of turning up on Google search Let's say you cheat and get caught ‚Äî you no longer have to worry only about your car getting keyed, your clothes being burned, or getting thrown out of your home. Shaming websites such as CheaterVille, Shame and Name, and countless personal blogs have been set up to expose cheaters. It doesn't sound too sinister, but the implications are serious: Any future boss or potential lover will be able to run a simple Google search of your name and find the website with your sordid history. You (and if you're really unlucky, your picture) will be forever connected with the alleged affair. In short, the cost of cheating has never been higher. Yes, you can still cheat The internet may have made cheating an obstacle, but people are great at evolving to get what they want. We've learned to permanently delete our browser history, and use unconventional forums like Skype, webcams, and gaming devices to communicate, where evidence of an affair is easier to hide. New apps and programs pop up daily that are abused by sexting or sending inappropriate messages: Take for instance the immensely popular Vine and Snapchat. And there are apps specifically dedicated to hiding messages and phones calls that you don't want your significant other to see, such as Cate ("Call and Text Eraser"). But the online world is no longer the same Wild West of the early 2000s, and technology and social norms are finally catching up with us. Not to mention our own human nature ‚Äî because no matter how careful we try to be, reason dictates that we will all eventually slip up. "People shock me," Gross told us. "They're contacting people on their Facebook when their spouses or family members have access to it or leave it signed in. You get so caught up in the new hot relationship or crush that you make mistakes, and that's when you get caught."
ReutersNatural gas prices are up more than 3 percent this morning after the Energy Information Association (EIA) reported a drop in supplies. For the week ended March 1, U.S. reserves fell -146 billion cubic feet. According to Citi's Timothy Evans, the drop in supply was much higher than every forecast: Citi Futures 120 bcfDow Jones Survey 131 bcfReuters Survey 134 bcfBloomberg Survey 134 bcf Five-Year Average 102 bcf Here's the chart: Investing.com Evans calls it a "bullish shock" to the market. Here's his take: The 146 bcf net withdrawal was significantly more than expected, a bullish shock to the market. †There were no reports of reclassifications and so this looks like a straight-up tightening of the background supply/demand balance for the period, with supportive implications that offset today's milder temperature outlook. †The case for a rally to $3.70-3.80 is improved. Prices are not expected to come down for a while.
Over the last week, Washington politicians on both sides of the aisle have started voicing their support for limiting the size of Wall Street banks. Yesterday, after Attorney General Eric Holder testified that the Justice Department held off in prosecuting some banks because they were too big, the pile-on has gotten larger. Holder was testifying in a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing about HSBC. Last year, the bank paid a $1.9 billion fine for laundering money for Mexican drug cartels, suspected Middle Eastern terrorists and more. Congress wanted to know why no executives were prosecuted criminally for those actions. Holder said he wouldn't discuss HSBC's case specifically, but he admitted that size was a deterrent in prosecuting banks. ¬†From FT: ‚ÄúThat is a function of the fact that some of these institutions have become too large,‚Äù Mr Holder said... The size of large banks ‚Äúhas an inhibiting influence ‚Äì impact on our ability to bring resolutions that I think would be more appropriate‚Äù, Mr Holder told lawmakers. ‚ÄúAnd I think that is something that we ‚Äì you all ‚Äì need to consider.‚Äù In isolation, these comments are significant enough. Holder is probably the most senior Obama official who's ever come out and said that Wall Street's so big that its above the law. On top of 'too big to fail,' we now have 'too big to, jail.' But what's more, Holder's comment is not in isolation. Over the last week Congressional banking hearings in the House and the Senate have been the stage of confrontations between witnesses and politicians demanding answers about 'too big to fail.' First it was Elizabeth Warren confronting Ben Bernanke. She said that because investors believe in 'too big to fail', big banks have a free insurance policy. Because of that insurance policy, Wall Street banks are seen as safer bets, and that means more money for them. "Last week Bloomberg did the math on it and came up with the number $83 billion that the big banks get in what is essentially a free insurance policy," Warren said to Bernanke. "So I understand that we're all trying to get to the end of TBTF, but my question Mr. Chairman is, until we do, should those biggest financial institutions be paying the American tax payer that $83 billion subsidy they're getting." The next day, in the House of Representatives, Mike Capuano (D-MA) followed Warren's lead and asked about 'too big to fail' when he got his shot at Bernanke as well. A few days later a bipartisan duo of Senators joined Warren and Capuano's cause. Senators Sherrod Brown(D-OH) and David Vitter (R-LA) both gave big presentations on the floor of the Senate about ending "too big to fail. From Brown's presentation (the full text is on his website): Just about the only people who will not benefit from reining in these megabanks are a few Wall Street executives. Congress needs to take action now to prevent future economic collapse and future taxpayer-funded bailouts. I want to thank my colleague, Senator Vitter, who recognizes this problem and is joining me in doing something about it. I am pleased to announce today that we are working on bipartisan legislation to address this ‚ÄúToo Big to Fail‚Äù problem. It will incorporate ideas put forward by Tom Hoenig, Richard Fisher, and Sheila Bair. Tea Party politicians have been outspoken about the size of Wall Street banks for a while, but Vitter is no Tea Partier. He's a mainstream Republican joining with Democrat on this issue. And there's evidence that other rank and file conservatives could join him. When Marco Rubio went to visit with Blackstone's Steve Schwarzman, conservative thinkers from Peggy Noonan to James Pethokoukis said that the GOP should be moving away from Wall Street, not closer to it. From Noonan on what Rubio should have said to Schwarzman: "I'm going to steer this party away from Wall Street and toward what used to be called Main Street and doesn't have a name anymore. Our economy won't take off again until our pigsty of a tax code is cleaned up. People have to feel everyone's being treated fairly, that the rich aren't calling the shots and gaming the system. And all future growth could be stymied if you guys make a half-trillion-dollar wrong bet tomorrow because some trader in London was high as a kite on Ambien. That could bring down the system the way it crashed in '08. So we have to change the system. Too big to fail is too big to live.‚Äù This morning, the Senate Banking Committee is meeting for a session called ‚ÄúPatterns of Abuse: Assessing Bank Secrecy Act Compliance and Enforcement.‚Äù You can bet that Holder's comment will come into play there. Wall Street's ears should be burning.
But now, confidence in the future of the monetary union is weaker than ever. And this time, there is a hue of resignation in Germany. The Federal Association of German Banks (BdB), not normally given to pessimism, is worried. During the bi-annual economic forecast on Wednesday (slide show and speeches), Stefan Schilbe, chairman of the Committee for Economic and Monetary Policies, described 2013 as an ‚Äúeconomically difficult and bumpy year.‚Äù The Eurozone would see ‚Äúmore or less stagnation,‚Äù spread unevenly between countries. For Germany, he forecast growth of only 0.7% in 2013‚Äîafter ‚Äúthe collapse‚Äù in the fourth quarter that had been ‚Äúsurprisingly steep.‚Äù The largest threat: the election results in Italy. The top three parties distanced themselves from, or outright attacked, the reform and austerity policies that Prime Minister Mario Monti, Germany‚Äôs handpicked and now deposed point man, had implemented. And that, Schilbe said, ignited ‚Äúnew uncertainties‚Äù about ‚Äúthe future of the European monetary union.‚Äù Under this uncertainty, companies would be less inclined to make investments and contribute to growth. He saw other threats as well: deficit targets for 2013 were moving out of reach in some countries. The fiscal problems in the US were ‚Äúpiling up ever higher.‚Äù And then there were the ‚Äúside effects of expansionary monetary policies,‚Äù among them: risks to price stability, the formation of bubbles, and ‚Äúan escalating currency war.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe past few days added new uncertainties,‚Äù echoed Hans-Joachim Massenberg, Member of the Executive Board, during his part of the presentation. The belief before the elections in Italy that the debt crisis had been overcome proved ‚Äúdeceptive,‚Äù he said. But it would be wrong ‚Äúto give in to panic.‚Äù There had been signs of progress, he said, including in Italy where the deficit had dropped below 3% of GDP. Economic reforms needed time. Confidence in the future of the monetary union could only be strengthened if fundamental efforts were undertaken toward more stability and competitiveness. Austerity all the way through. ‚ÄúTurning around would be fatal,‚Äù he said‚Äîfatal for the monetary union. Then he plowed into monetary policy, how different groups expected to solve the crisis through a prolonged phase of negative real yields‚Äî‚Äùa hidden and creeping asset tax‚Äù that is politically easy to push through. But he warned that ‚Äúgrave problems‚Äù would arise from them that could counteract any seeming benefits in overcoming the debt crisis.‚Äù The longer this period of extremely low interest rates continued, the greater the danger of directing capital into the wrong channels and assessing risk incorrectly, he said. Investors and savers who wanted to safeguard the real value of their assets could do so only by exposing themselves to large risks. This would boost ‚Äúthe formation of new bubbles and imbalances that can in the end only lead to a new financial crisis.‚Äù Pension funds and life insurers that had to reach a minimum yield would get into particular trouble. To counter the problems, regulatory restrictions would have to be softened. And investors would therefore ‚Äúbe forced to take on higher risks.‚Äù Low interest rates caused other problems: They eliminated the incentive for countries to reduce deficits. And low returns could hinder investments in the real economy and therefore impact future growth. Thus, Eurozone governments should ‚Äúunder no circumstances seek this seemingly easy path‚Äù to reduce the debt burden. ‚ÄúWe must not underestimate the risks of these policies,‚Äù he added. Neither the BdB nor the speakers represent Germany, or the German government. But their emphasis on ‚Äústaying the course‚Äù by pursuing reforms is part of the German solution. Consistent austerity all the way through. Or else, ‚Äúthe future of the European monetary union‚Äù would be at risk. Because the rift between the countries would be too wide. Their response to the Italian election results‚Äîincluding the word ‚Äúpanic,‚Äù albeit in an encouragement not to‚Äîhas a hue of resignation now visible elsewhere as well: that the days of the monetary union in its current form‚Äîgiven the resistance to austerity in some countries and their need to devalue the currency instead‚Äîmight be numbered. And in Italy, they‚Äôve had it. Former Italian senator Sergio De Gregorio confirmed that he‚Äôd received ‚Ç¨3 million in 2006 from Silvio Berlusconi. ‚ÄúOf course I took the money,‚Äù he said. It brought Berlusconi back to power. Seeing this sort of thing on a daily basis, 8.7 million Italians voted for Beppe Grillo‚Äôs 5-Star movement. It wasn‚Äôt enough to govern, but it was enough to give the political establishment conniptions. And show that anger and frustration finally count. Read.... ¬†Fear of Nuremberg Trials For Corrupt Italian¬†Politicians.
Dow Theorist Richard Russell, a long-time bear on the markets, recognizes that a Dow Theory buy signal has appeared. But he has doubts. "History was made when the Dow rose to a new record high and finally confirmed the prior record high put in by the Transports," said Russell via KingWorldNews.† "The question now becomes -- what do we have here, a weird kind of bear market or a new bull market? In a nutshell, the Dow Theory says that if Dow transportation stocks and Dow industrial stocks confirm each other's movements high (or low), a buy signal (or sell signal) has been indicated. But based on Russell's rejection of the buy signal, it appears that he think Dow Theory is more art than science. Here's Russell via†King World News: Question -- OK, Russell, then what about the record highs recorded by both the Dow and the Transports? Answer -- My only answer to this is that both D-J Averages produced something never seen before, namely new highs during a post-crash upward correction.† My explanation of this unprecedented situation is that the advance to new highs was a direct result of never-before-seen manipulation by the Federal Reserve. The Fed was able to engineer new post-crash highs in both D-J Averages.† But I doubt if the Fed will be able to engineer a coming new era of prosperity in America.† Thus, it will be an example of where the stock market will not be predicting the nation's economic future. As a matter of fact, I believe this stock market is predicting a very mixed and confusing economic future for the US.† As far as I can see, the Fed will be pumping in QE-to infinity for as long as it can get away with it.† The only thing that might halt the Fed is rebukes from voting members based on it's outrageous 3 trillion dollar balance sheet.† We're in uncharted territory in my opinion, and I expect to see a number of events in both the stock market and the economy which will be both surprising and upsetting. So, Russell is sticking to his bearish guns. Read more at KingWorldNews.com where Russell also shares his thoughts on gold.
APGoldman Sachs is changing its managing director selection process, according to an internal memo sent out by Lloyd Blankfein and Gary Cohn and seen by Business Insider.¬† According to the contents of the memo, which have been confirmed by Goldman, the bank will start selecting its managing director class every two years. The bank usually selects new MDs every year. ¬† According to the memo, ever since Goldman starting tapping managing director classes every year beginning in 1996 it was intending to move to a biennial selection when they reached "critical mass of managing directors at the firm." "A biennial process will allow us to invest more in the managing director selection process so that it will continue to be a disciplined and rigorous exercise.¬† This will help to ensure that the managing director title remains as aspirational as it should be for our top performers," the memo states.¬† The biennial selection process for managing directors will start after the 2013 class is announced. In recent years, the Goldman MD classes have been smaller. Last year, the bank named 266 new MDs and in 2011 only 261 ‚Äî the smallest class since 2008. Becoming a managing director is seen as a big honor on the Street.¬†At Goldman, it's the level just below the highly-coveted "partner" title. Partners are selected every two years. There were only 70 partners chosen last fall.
The results from their latest survey are out, and Credit Suisse analyst Daniel Oppenheim writes in a note to clients that "the breadth of strength in both pricing and traffic at the start of spring selling season" is "unprecedented in [the] survey's history (dating back to '05)." Oppenheim says real estate agents are "widely citing increased buyer urgency due to the combination of persistent inventory shortages (driving prices higher) and signs of mortgage rates moving higher." The data showed that prices rose in all 40 markets last month ñ the first time that's ever happened in the history of the survey. Credit Suisse's home price index, derived from the survey data, increased to 79.3 from 74.6 in January. The strongest price increases were observed in California, Florida, Austin, Las Vegas, San Antonio, Seattle, Denver, and Phoenix, according to Oppenheim. The buyer traffic index derived from survey data rose to 65.1 from 59.0. Oppenheim notes that "only Charleston, Orlando, and Tucson failed to meet agents' expectations, while notable improvement was seen in the formerly-lagging Chicago and New York markets along Texas markets (Austin, †Dallas, and Houston each increased by at least 14 points)." Meanwhile, housing supply continues to fall and the length of time it takes to sell a home fell to a new low. Oppenheim says both of these factors point to further price gains this spring. (h/t @StockJockey)
Monaco remains the most expensive residential real estate market in the world, with luxury homes costing anywhere from $5,350 to $5,920 per square foot, according to a new wealth report from Knight Frank. While real estate prices in the tiny country are consistently high, Monaco saw a bump this year as buyers shied away from French hotspots in reaction to President Hollandeís wealth tax proposals, the Knight Frank report said. And Monaco, which does not charge a personal income tax, was particularly popular with Russian buyers over French markets, according to the report. Luxury real estate prices there increased 2 percent year over year. Prices in 2012 jumped the most in Indonesia, where they increased 38 percent in Jakarta and 20 percent in Bali. The number of wealthy people in the world is also growing, and set to increase quickly in the next decade, according to the report. The number of people worldwide worth $30 million or more increased by almost 8,700, or 5 percent, in 2012, and their number is set to increase 50 percent in the next 10 years, according to Knight Frank's forecasts. Here are the 20 most expensive places to buy luxury residential properties, according to the report (click to enlarge): Knight Frank
A $6 million mansion in the Southampton hamlet of Noyac burst into flames Tuesday morning and burned for hours, according to Southampton Patch. The fire reportedly started just before 11 a.m. The homeowners were home at the time, but no one was injured. The home has been on the market through Douglas Elliman and contains "sculptures and modern art everywhere," according to its listing. Not anymore. Aerial photographer Jeff Cully happened to be in the area while the house was ablaze, and sent us these shots. Jeff Cully/EEFAS ¬† Jeff Cully/EEFAS ¬† Jeff Cully/EEFAS
ECB European Central Bank President Mario Draghi's monthly press conference just wrapped up. Earlier, the ECB elected to leave the key refinancing rate unchanged at 0.75 percent and the deposit rate unchanged at 0.0 percent, as expected. In his prepared remarks, Draghi said inflation has been lower than expected, and he reiterated the ECB's accommodative stance toward monetary policy. Draghi also said that the data suggests that the euro area economy will stabilize in the first half of this year.†However, he warned that the ECB sees downside risks to economic growth. Inflation risks, on the other hand, remain broadly balanced. Bloomberg noted that Draghi omitted mention of euro appreciation as a growth risk, a significant change from his language last month. However, when pressed in the Q&amp;A, he admitted that sustained appreciation of the euro could alter inflation risks. When asked whether the ECB discussed a rate cut, Draghi acknowledged that it had been discussed among the Governing Council at today's meeting, but that, of course, the ECB does not pre-commit to future rate cuts. When asked whether ECB policy was fueling a bubble, Draghi responded that the question was too difficult to be answered in a clear, unambiguous way because it begged a judgment call on whether or not stocks were overvalued, which is hard to say. The euro traded higher against the U.S. dollar during the press conference, rising to a high of 1.3096 from levels around 1.3020 before Draghi began speaking. FT correspondent Michael Steen asked Draghi when the ECB would release more information on how its OMT bond market intervention program is actually supposed to work. Draghi replied that the ECB is still working on drawing up the legalities of the program. Below are Mario Draghi's full prepared remarks. -------------------------------------------------------------- Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on the outcome of todayís meeting of the Governing Council. Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided to keep the†key ECB interest rates†unchanged. HICP inflation rates have declined further, as anticipated, and fell below 2% in February. Over the policy-relevant horizon, inflationary pressures should remain contained. The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area remain firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. Overall, this will allow our monetary policy stance to remain accommodative. Available data continue to signal that economic weakness in the euro area has extended into the beginning of the year, while broadly confirming signs of stabilisation in a number of indicators, albeit at low levels. At the same time, necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity. Later in 2013 economic activity should gradually recover, supported by a strengthening of global demand and our accommodative monetary policy stance. In order to support confidence, it is essential for governments to continue implementing structural reforms, to build further on the progress made in fiscal consolidation, and to proceed with financial sector restructuring. With regard to the liquidity situation of banks, counterparties have so far repaid Ä224.8 billion of the Ä1,018.7 billion obtained in the two three-year longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) settled in December 2011 and March 2012. In net terms, this implies that, of the increase in the outstanding volume of bank refinancing through the ECBís monetary policy operations of around Ä500 billion between mid-December 2011 and early March 2012, about Ä200 billion have now been repaid. These repayments reflect improvements in financial market confidence over the last few months and receding financial market fragmentation. We are closely monitoring conditions in the money market and their potential impact on the stance of monetary policy and the functioning of the transmission of our monetary policy to the economy. Our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative with the full allotment mode of liquidity provision. Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting with the†economic analysis. The GDP outcome for the fourth quarter of 2012 was weak, with Eurostatís second estimate indicating a contraction of 0.6% quarter on quarter. The decline was largely due to a fall in domestic demand but also reflected weak exports. As regards 2013, recent data and indicators suggest that economic activity should start stabilising in the first part of the year. A gradual recovery should commence in the second part, with export growth benefiting from a strengthening of global demand and domestic demand being supported by our accommodative monetary policy stance. Furthermore, the improvements in financial markets since July last year and the continued implementation of structural reforms should work their way through to the economy. At the same time, necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors, and the associated tight credit conditions, will continue to weigh on economic activity. This assessment is also reflected in the March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee average annual real GDP growth in a range between -0.9% and -0.1% in 2013 and between 0.0% and 2.0% in 2014. Compared with the December 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections, the ranges have been revised slightly downwards. The revision for 2013 mainly reflects a more negative carry-over effect from the outcome for real GDP in the fourth quarter of 2012, while the projected path of the recovery has remained broadly unchanged. The Governing Council continues to see downside risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area. The risks relate to the possibility of weaker than expected domestic demand and exports and to slow or insufficient implementation of structural reforms in the euro area. These factors have the potential to dampen the improvement in confidence and thereby delay the recovery. According to Eurostatís flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 1.8% in February 2013, down from 2.0% in January. The on-going decline in annual inflation rates mainly reflects the energy and food components of the price index. Looking ahead, while the monthly pattern of headline inflation rates may be somewhat volatile, underlying price pressures should remain contained given the environment of weak economic activity in the euro area. Inflation expectations are well-anchored and in line with price stability over the medium term. The March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 1.2% and 2.0% in 2013 and between 0.6% and 2.0% in 2014. In comparison with the December 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections, the ranges are broadly unchanged. In the Governing Councilës assessment, risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be seen as broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger than expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher oil prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker economic activity. Turning to the†monetary analysis, monetary figures for January 2013 support our assessment that the underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth rate of M3 remained broadly unchanged at 3.5% in January, after 3.4% in December 2012. The annual rate of growth of the narrow monetary aggregate, M1, increased to 6.7% from 6.3% in December 2012. The deposit base of MFIs in a number of stressed countries strengthened further in January. The annual growth rate of loans (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) to non-financial corporations stood at -1.5% in January, after -1.3% in December 2012. The annual growth in MFI loans to households moderated slightly to 0.5%, from 0.7% in December. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets. At the same time, available information on the access to financing of non-financial corporates indicates tight credit conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential to continue reducing fragmentation of euro area credit markets and strengthening the resilience of banks where needed. Decisive steps for establishing an integrated financial framework will help to accomplish this objective. The future Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) is one of the main building blocks, together with a Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM). Both are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the banking system. To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line with price stability over the medium term. A†cross-check†with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture. While the accommodative monetary policy stance will continue to support the recovery in the euro area, it is essential that†fiscal and structural policies†strengthen the prospects for economic growth over the medium term. As regards fiscal policies, the European Commissionís 2013 winter forecast reflects progress in reducing fiscal imbalances in the euro area. The euro area-wide general government deficit is expected to have declined from 4.2% of GDP in 2011 to 3.5% of GDP in 2012 and is projected to be reduced further to 2.8% of GDP this year. Governments should build on this progress with a view to further restoring confidence in the sustainability of public finances. At the same time, fiscal consolidation must be part of a comprehensive structural reform agenda to improve the outlook for job creation, economic growth and debt sustainability. In the view of the Governing Council, it is of particular importance at this juncture to address the current high long-term and youth unemployment. To this end, further product and labour market reforms are needed to create new job opportunities by supporting a dynamic, flexible and competitive economic environment. We are now at your disposal for questions.
CNBC anchors Joe Kernen and David Faber were imitating Carl Icahn's accent during a segment about him snapping up a big Dell stake that could complicate the company's buyout deal. We think Faber was spot on with the billionaire investor's Queens accent. We're not sure what kind of accent was coming from Kernen.¬† Check it out below: (start at the 2:24 minute mark and go until about 3:40) 
Omnidu / FlickrInitial jobless claims fell by to 340k from 344k last week.† Economists were expecting this measure to jump to 355k. Recently, the jobless claims report has been the target of criticism because of numbers from big states that often get estimated. However, today's number was "clean." TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg explains: Weekly jobless claims data came in much better than expected, falling to 340K from 347K. While claims see a seasonal tendency to fall during this time of the year, seasonal adjustment factors this week were essentially flat, with this ëcleaní claims figure suggesting ongoing labor market improvement as the 4wk MA has hit a fresh cycle low, falling to 349K from 356K. The Labor Department noted that no states were estimated during the latest week and that there was nothing out of the ordinary behind the numbers, furthering our belief that this weekís data print suggests a more positive trend on the layoff side of the equation. This is all a good sign for the U.S. labor market. "Initial claims data suggests improvement on the hiring side of the employment equation just ahead of Fridayís nonfarm payroll print, where market participants continue to revise their forecasts higher," wrote Goldberg. The Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the official U.S. employment situation report tomorrow morning at 8:30 AM ET.
JCPenney is quietly eliminating more positions in its stores company-wide, sources familiar with the matter told us. Store managers watched a "secret broadcast" on Tuesday afternoon, where they were informed that stores must prepare to "work harder with less" in 2013. "Service Leaders," "administrative assistants," and "office/cash room associates" are being cut from the hierarchy, effective on April 5, sources told us. There's no word yet on exactly how many people the cuts will affect, and there has been no official announcement from JCPenney.†The company did not respond to a request for comment. One company exec told us that the number is in "the thousands," since every store has administrative assistants and cash room associates, and†James Covert at†the New York Post reported†that the final tally will end up at 1,500. Update: JCPenney confirms to Reuters that the headcount is 2,200 workers. Around 300 of JCPenney's 1,100 stores have Service Leaders, with two to four of them in each of those stores, depending on their size, according to the exec. A Service Leader is JCPenney lingo for a sales manager, explained an employee who was informed yesterday that he's being laid off. He described his job as "basically a second-level store manager" who had overseen multiple departments in the store. "It was right after a secret broadcast that we were all called one by one to be notified about the dismissal. We were told thank you for your hard work, your last day will be April 5," said the manager. "And there's nothing we could offer you." Not everyone whose positions were eliminated have been fired though. A veteran JCPenney employee told us that some associates were offered sales or sales support positions at the company. "That's a rather hollow offer," he said. JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson is in the middle of a transformation attempt at the struggling retailer. To trim costs, 19,000 employees have lost their jobs at the company since Johnson took over. Some store-level middle management positions were eliminated last year as part of the restructuring. Salon receptionists were recently cut in favor of "fresh out of school" stylists. In-store associates have also experienced major reductions. Work for JCPenney? Contact me at kbhasin@businessinsider.com.
Famed short-seller Jim Chanos, the founder of Kynikos Associates, said on CNBC's "Squawk Box" this morning that he shorted Herbalife last year. † "We were short last year," Chanos said, adding, "We were short at a price." He currently has no position in Herbalife, which is a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products. He explained that he's "not crazy" for this multi-level marketing model. He's said that before.† He also added that he thinks Bill Ackman is "correct in his analysis in that when your business is based, in effect, on selling an overpriced commodity to your customers or you distributors you ultimately have a flawed business down the road." He said he covered his short because the stock almost got cut in half in November of last year.† Herbalife has become one of the most controversial stocks lately. †Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square, publicly declared that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife because he believes it's a "pyramid scheme." Not everyone agrees with Ackman, though. †A number of hedge fund hot-shots, including Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, and Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn have snapped up big stakes in Herbalife. Shares of Herbalife were down slightly in pre-market trading.† Watch the video below:† 
The latest jobless claims data are out. Initial claims unexpectedly fell to 340,000 from 344,000 last week. Economists were expecting initial claims to rise to 355,000. Continuing claims rose to 3.094 million from 3.074 million, less than expected. Click here for the full release &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsPort Elizabeth, New JerseyThe latest trade data are out. The deficit widened to $44.6 billion in January. Economists had only expected it to widen to $42.6 billion from $38.5 billion last month. Much of this surprise is being attibuted to a 12.3 percent jump in oil imports. The petroleum deficit which widened to $24.3 billion from $18.6 billion. Here's Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics: Exports fell by 1.2% m/m in January, partly reversing a 2.1% m/m surge the month before. Both the original spike and subsequent drop back were driven by a temporary jump in industrial supplies, which was largely due to volatility in fuel oil exports. Imports increased by 1.8% m/m, with all of the gain due to an increase in the value of petroleum-related imports. However, the latter was largely due to a bounce back in the volume of petroleum-related imports rather than a rise in prices. Ashworth adds that he expects this to be "neutral or slightly negative" to Q1 GDP growth.

Christopher Polk / Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
JohnGoode / FlickrThe Bank of England is out with its latest monetary policy announcement. As expected, there was no change in policy. The BoE has left its benchmark rate at 0.5 percent.¬† And it's leaving its asset purchase program at ¬£375 billion. "It will be interesting to see how many voted for more QE in the minutes," tweeted the economists at RBS. Everyone expects things to get more interesting when Canada's Mark Carney takes the helm at the BoE.
Albert EdwardsAlbert Edwards, the bearish strategist at Societe General, is out with a new research note to address the all-time high in the Dow. He first shares a funny story: I was on gardening leave when the Dow reached its previous peak in October 2007. One echo from those days is that I was beginning to feel lonely. Pessimism (realism) is very rare on the sell-side so I took a coffee with my fellow bear, Bob Janjuah and cheered up tremendously, reinforced in my belief that this is all going to end very, very badly indeed. Janjuah is the strategist at Nomura who is just as bearish, if not more bearish, than Edwards. Anyway, Edwards is not letting up on his bearishness.¬† He points to recent history. "As the Dow surges to all time highs it feels eerily similar to the prior mid-2007 peak," he writes. "Exactly the same jitters abound of a bond bear market and true to form Ben Bernanke is making the same complacent comments." He expands on the Bernanke complacency: The great thing about Ben Bernanke appearing before Congress is that it gives us loads more ludicrously complacent quotes to store away until after this pyramid of jelly melts ‚Äì a bit like his famous July 2005 quote rejecting any impact on the economy of a bursting of the US housing bubble by saying ‚ÄöWell, I guess I don‚Äôt buy your premise. It‚Äôs a pretty unlikely possibility. We‚Äôve never had a decline in house prices on a nationwide basis‚Äõ. Classic! ...I enjoy reading the insights of long-time Bloomberg contributor Caroline Baum and she picked up on a lovely moment. "One of the more interesting exchanges at Ben Bernanke's testimony to the Financial Services Committee today was the one between the Federal Reserve Chair and Representative Scott Garrett, a Republican from New Jersey. Citing Bernanke's assertion that one of the benefits of QE had been the rise in home prices, Garrett said the following: ‚ÄòPreviously you have said that the Fed's monetary policy actions earlier this decade, 2003 to 2005, did not contribute to the housing bubble in the U.S. So which is it? Is monetary policy by the Fed not a cause of inflationary prices of housing, as you said in the past? Or is it a cause of inflating prices of housing? Can you have it both ways?‚Äô. ‚ÄòYes,‚Äô Bernanke said, much to Garrett's surprise." Bears find comfort in knowing that they spend much of their time being wrong before being right.¬† For now, he'll have to keep waiting.
APFormer Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has been sentenced to a year in prison in banking wiretap scandal, The Associated Press reports. He is likely to appeal and will remain free in the meantime,¬†according to the¬†BBC. The 76-year-old¬†was accused of arranging for a police wiretap of a political rival and then having the secret transcript¬†leaked to and published by a newspaper run by his brother. Berlusconi is presently appealing another conviction ‚Äî for tax fraud ‚Äî and faces another imminent verdict regarding¬†allegations¬†that he¬†paid for sex with an underage prostitute and¬†hosted prostitution parties¬†at his Milan villa. Late Wednesday the ANSA news agency reported that the billionaire media mogul has been acquitted of accusations that his¬†Mediaset media company¬†fraudulently purchased film rights. Last week prosecutors in Naples opened an investigation into whether Berlusconi¬†bribed a leftist senator there in 2006. Berlusconi, who ruled Italy for almost 10 years, has been put on trial more than 30 times. Despite the legal troubles, the four-time PM revived his political career in last month's Italian election as his center-right bloc won more than 29 percent of¬†the vote for the lower house (i.e. Chamber of Deputies).
Investors often remember bull markets as days of wine and roses. However, those fond memories are largely based on the latter stages of a bull market during which investors are convinced that there is indeed a bull market underway and that it will never end. They seem to forget that the majority of a bull market is typically characterized by fear and indecision. Sentiment during the early and middle stages of a bull market is usually clouded by the bad experiences of the prior bear market. Investors are often hesitant to invest in equities for fear of another bear market. Yet, they see higher returns on stocks than the returns they are getting on their more defensive securities. The emotional tug-of-war between fear of another bear market and greed of missing out on higher returns tends to keep most investors sidelined for most of a bull market. This cycle has certainly been no different. The S&amp;P 500¬Æ has produced a total return of more than 140% since the market trough in March 2009, but many investors still do not even believe that a bull market is underway. Investors continue to search for 5% yields and seemingly ignore the much higher total returns that stocks have been producing. Another 1980s bull market? We have thought for some time that the current bull market might be one of the strongest of our careers, and could potentially rival the 1980s bull market. Although this current cycle‚Äôs construction is quite different from the 1980s bull market, there are many aspects of this market that are curiously similar. Investors did not fully embrace the 1980s bull market until several years after it began. Institutional investors did not fully appreciate the opportunities in equities until late-1985/early-1986 when oil prices collapsed, and it became clear that inflation was not going to constrain equity returns. Individual investors largely stayed in money market funds and bonds until early-1987 when they were lured into the equity market by January 1987‚Äôs 13% one-month return. Individual investors then entered the stock market in droves just in time for the 1987 Crash. Similar to what is keeping investors on the sidelines during the current bull market, investors stayed out of the 1980s bull market for so long because there were many issues that investors thought were insurmountable. Table 1 highlights some of the issues that caused investors to forego for many years investing in the 1980s bull market. The irony is that they are largely the same as today‚Äôs concerns. Of course, there are subtle differences between the 1980s concerns and today‚Äôs. In the 1980s, investors were worried that the Fed might tighten too much. Today, investors are concerned the Fed might ease too much. In the 1980s, it was Democrats who were concerned about budget deficits. Today, it is Republicans. The sovereign debt problems during the 1980s were largely associated with Latin America. Today, such concerns generally focus on Europe. In the 1980s, investors were concerned with Social Security bankrupting the nation. Today, it is Medicare and Medicaid. Focusing on these differences, though, may miss the point. Investors were scared about a broad range of issues during the 1980s bull market, and the list of concerns is nearly identical to today‚Äôs list of concerns. Despite what many might suggest, the uncertainties associated with the current cycle are not unique. Richard Bernstein Advisors What are the typical signals that a bear market is coming? There are three classic signs that have historically strongly suggested that a bear market might be nearing. None of those three signs are evident today in the US. These signs are: These signs are increasingly evident in the emerging markets and, as usual, investors don‚Äôt believe the signals apply. However, these signals do not appear within the US equity market. It is somewhat ironic that investors are enamored with the emerging markets despite that those markets are showing the typical signs of risk, but feel the US market is too risky even though the risk signals might be years away. Bull markets are periods of fear and indecision Bull markets are typically characterized by fear and indecision. This cycle has been no different from that historical norm. We think investors need to realize that this cycle‚Äôs concerns are not unique, and are similar to the fears during the 1980s bull market. In addition, the typical warning signs, although increasingly evident in the emerging markets, seem a long way away in the US. Accordingly, our portfolios remain bullishly positioned.
bitzcelt / FlickrWe have a decent amount of economic data coming out of the U.S. today.¬† Here's a quick preview with some commentary from High Frequency Economics Jim O'Sullivan:
Of the major central banks meeting this week, the Bank of England seems the most likely to alter policy. ¬†It would not be exactly surprising as three members of the MPC including the governor voted to resume gilt purchases last month. ¬† Most data, outside the some housing price indices and the CIPS service sector survey, warns that the UK economy has failed to catch. ¬†To call it a triple dip, as is popular in the press, is a conceptual error because it implies two recoveries. ¬†Unlike the US and Germany, the UK economy remains well below its pre-crisis peak. We had seen the possibility of a stronger sterling bounce following the loss of the UK's triple-A rating, which had long been rumored. ¬†However, sterling peaked on Tuesday near $1.5200; about half a cent above where it was on the eve of the downgrade. ¬†It fell to new lows in late NY yesterday to its lowest level since July 2010 ahead of the BOE meeting. Even though sterling has eclipsed the yen as the weakest major currency this year, the risks in the UK appear on the rise. ¬†The economic challenges are spilling over into politics and it appears to be moving toward a climax. The Lib-Dems, the junior partner in the governing coalition was never a strong advocate of the austerity now hard-and-fast of the Tories. ¬†Their distaste has grown. ¬†Business Secretary and Lib-Dem Vince Cable has promised a program of new public investment in schools, roads and housing, but he is not part of the real dialogue. Prime Minister Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer Osborne are moving in the other direction. ¬†They are digging in their heels and are not budging from the commitment to the thrust of tighter fiscal and looser monetary policy. ¬†This will be reflected in the presentation of the budget on March 20. There is an implicit understanding that ¬†Bank of Canada Governor Carney who will replace King as Governor of the Bank of England in July will be more aggressive in providing the looser monetary policy. ¬†However, to be clear, it is not just about the person but the institution. Cameron and Osborne seem to recognize this. ¬†There are reports that they are thinking about changing the central bank's mandate ¬†Under consideration, reportedly, is giving it a dual mandate, like the Federal Reserve, or altering its target to nominal GDP, or allowing a longer period to achieve a 2%. In a recent by-election the Tories came in third, behind Labour and the Lib-Dems. ¬†This is important because the decline in public support for the Lib-Dems weakened their ability to influence government policy. ¬†Cameron's pledge to hold a referendum on the EU after the next election implicitly assumes that Lib-Dem support won't be needed as it is considerably less anti-Europe than the Tory Party. ¬† The timing and issue offers a window of opportunity for the Lib-Dems. ¬†It needs to preserve is brand identity, which is at risk of being overwhelmed by the Tory agenda. ¬†Its dilemma is that the Labour Party has been weakened by the internal strife of unhealed wounds from yesteryear between the New and Old Labour and the lack of a compelling vision of the UK's place in the 21st century. If the BOE does nothing, sterling may bounce a little, but it will simply increase the likelihood that it moves in April, so it will sold into. ¬† Waiting for Carney in July is not how central bankers think. ¬† On a GBP25 bln gilt purchase program, which is what the "doves" voted for last time, could see sterling fall initially, but maybe not stay down as it take them out of the game. ¬†A larger gilt purchase program would could see a steeper initial drop, perhaps toward $1.4850. ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
If you're lucky, then you might be able to pick the right stocks that'll help you beat the major benchmarks.¬† But most investors who try to be stock pickers end up losing. The same goes for emerging market investors. This is why the best strategy may be to invest in a portfolio of countries rather than just one. Below you'll find US Funds' Periodic Table of Emerging Markets, which ranks the annual stock market returns for various emerging markets. "Emerging markets, like all investments, can have wide price fluctuations over time," they write.¬† "This table shows the ebb and flow of emerging market countries over the past decade and illustrates the principal of mean reversion ‚Äî the concept that returns eventually move back toward their mean or average." Here's the chart: US Funds
The ADP jobs report, which comes out two days before the official BLS jobs report, is generally considered to be a preview of the official report.¬† However, it hasn't been known for being particularly accurate. For what it's worth, High Frequency Economic's Jim O'Sullivan notes that ADP has been getting more accurate in recent months: ...More relevant from a timing perspective, the ADP private payrolls estimate was 198K, above the consensus for the BLS data tomorrow: +170K for comparable private payrolls and +160K in total. Despite the strength in ADP, we have not changed our 130K forecast for the BLS payrolls series, and 140K for private payrolls. Indeed, we had forecast a fairly strong 180K rise in the ADP series. Our forecast for the BLS data allows for a 50K drag from the big Northeast snowstorm that struck just prior to the sample week; such weather effects tend to be much more noticeable in the government data than in the ADP series. ADP‚Äôs track record appears to have improved somewhat since Moody‚Äôs replaced Macroeconomic Advisers as the compiler of the data, although four months of history is not much evidence. The misses, without regard to sign, have averaged 32K since the change- over, including 26K last month, when initially reported payrolls were weaker than ADP. The average miss in the prior 12 months was 58K. High Frequency Economics
asfal.TO / FlickrMarkets are having yet another up day early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.2 percent. France's CAC 40 is up 0.5 percent. Germany's DAX is up 0.2 percent. Spain's IBEX 35 is up 0.6 percent. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.2 percent. Spain just completed a debt auction, which went smoothly.¬†¬† The government sold 5 year bonds at a yield of 3.612 percent, which was less than the 4.169 percent yield at a similar auction last month. They also sold 10 year bonds at a yield of 4.957, down from 5.222 percent last month. Later this morning, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England announce updates to their monetary policies. Economists expect both central banks to keep rates unchanged. Click Here For Updates &gt;
