Bloomberg TVNick ColasBitcoin hasn't really hit Wall Street yet. We can count the number of strategists we've heard talking about the virtual currency on one hand (Sebastien Galy at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale explained how to think about valuing them, and Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid mentioned it briefly once). There's also ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas, who was really the first to address it several weeks ago. He was on Bloomberg Surveillance this morning, and he told anchors Tom Keene and Sara Eisen that Bitcoin "absolutely is" something valid to consider for a diversified portfolio. "If you want to make money, you have to be open to new ideas. This is a key new idea," said Colas. That's a pretty ringing endorsement for an unregulated, digital currency market that seems prone to massive swings ñ like the ten-fold rise in value since January, or the 60 percent wipeout that happened just today (though, to be clear, this interview aired this morning, before that big drop). And Colas has written about that before. Arguably, Bitcoin's biggest problem is a confidence one. During the interview, Keene questioned whether investors could trust Bitcoin. "I know where the gold is: the gold is in Fort Knox, the gold is at the IMF, etc.," said Keene. "I've got a fiat currency structure off the budget of the United States." Colas replied, "Do you know how many times your gold has been re-hypothecated if you don't have it physically in your vault? The same lack of transparency exists in gold." While acknowledging that there have been hacking incidents, Colas asserted that "the core of it, from a security standpoint, is quite sound." Returning to the confidence issue, Colas told the Bloomberg anchors, "What I think is most ironic and interesting about Bitcoin is that real people put real money into this system, having the same faith in it that they do in a sovereign government. Would you rather trust an unelected federal official or a decentralized computer system?" "Bitcoin is gold for nerds, if you will," said Colas. "It is something that a whole new generation of people believe in ñ the online nature of their lives, their economy ñ and so Bitcoin resonates with them." Watch the full interview below. †
Now that the Bank of Japan has gone into aggressive easing, there's this idea that Japanese investors are racing their money out of Japan (and out of Japanese Government Bonds) into foreign assets. Dan Greenhaus of BTIG writes: ¬†We‚Äôve been fielding many questions from clients related to where Japanese money would flow to. We‚Äôll have a longer note on this later but for now, it‚Äôs worth observing that the EEM (iShares Emerging Markets ETF) was up for the third day in a row. We‚Äôve had lots of clients speculate that money is coming out of Japanese bonds and going into Italian bonds or France bonds or WMT, MSFT and other large cap value plays. Maybe so but it‚Äôs important to note that the yield on the 10 year JGB is less than it was before the recent announcement. Shorter term yields are higher yes, but not longer term JGBs, at least not yet. Despite the chatter, it's not clear that it's actually happening. SocGen's Sebastien Galy emails that it's not even true that Japanese investors are pouring money into foreign bonds: Japanese names ended up being net sellers of foreign bonds, rather than buyers as expected. If anyone knows more feel free to share.¬† There are two possibilities I can see: 1. The market was irrational and blew out of proportion some flows into Europe, Mexico and South Africa. Overall Japanese names were selling bonds because they preferred long dated JGBs and were afraid the JPY would rise. 2. Japanese names were selling agressively UST seeing better value at home as they did many years ago. They did invest abroad but the welling of UST was much bigger. Trader Mark Dow tweets on the matter: Speculation any asset going up must b fueled by Japan outflows is same post hoc ergo propter hoc that led to "Great Rotation" hypothesis.
President Obama released the White House budget today, and the official document gives a much better picture about what his cuts to Social Security would look like in more depth. The White House plan ‚Äî as a concession to House Republicans ‚Äî included a shift in the way the government calculates cost-of-living-adjustments for Social Security and other mandatory spending programs.¬† What this really means is that the White House budget plan will cut Social Security and other entitlement benefits by a cumulative $130 billion over the next ten years, going against previous promises and infuriating groups that represent retired Americans.¬† Here are the annual cost-of-living adjustment cuts to mandatory spending. Since most the COLA adjustments to mandatory spending are predominantly manifested in social security.¬† Walter Hickey / BI This isn't a small amount of money, either. The government's savings from toggling CPI begin low ‚Äî at 0.22% ‚Äî and then gradually increase to 1.86% of the entire Social Security system. This will have a drastic impact on an individual's cumulative social security checks as long as the policy remains in place beyond the 10 year window.¬† Walter Hickey / BI ¬† ¬† Read the exact details here &gt;
Asian markets are open, and the Japanese stock market is jumping again. The yen / US dollar exchange rate is a hair under 100.† The last time it was at that level was April 14, 2009. Nikkei.com
People are voluntarily quitting their jobs at the highest rate since the pre-recession era, according to the¬†Job Openings and Labor¬†Turnover Survey¬†‚Äî known as JOLTS ‚Äî published by The Bureau of Labor Statistics. The report says that 2.16 million people quit their jobs in the latest data, which represents 53 percent of all job separations ‚Äî this includes quits, layoffs and discharges ‚Äî when accounting for retirees. The graph below, published by¬†Gluskin Sheff Research, illustrates the trend in the quitting rate and the number of people who have quit as a percentage compared to the total number of people employed in the past decade: Gluskin Sheff Research So what does this mean about our labor market? In short, it's an indication that¬†people are confident that they can find other opportunities elsewhere and is¬†"a sign of¬†any sustained improvement in the labor markets,"¬†Fed vice chair¬†Janet Yellen¬†said in a speech last month. Peter Cappelli, a management professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business, tells¬†Christopher Rugaber at The Associated Press¬†that this confidence happens¬†when "the economy grows fast enough." Ultimately, people have faith in their own skills to make a living some other way rather¬†than stay in a job they're not satisfied with. So who are these workers? There's a good possibility that people are leaving their jobs to pursue¬†freelancing, consulting or the entrepreneur route.¬†This need to work for yourself is predicted to reach¬†40 percent of the American workforce by 2020, and is most common in¬†sectors of the economy that are growing. Economist Robert Reich tells us that "at least [for] now, a few employees feel they can do better as consultants or freelancers," because "they've been required to take on so much extra work they need more control over their time. Although the labor participation rate is extremely low ‚Äî the lowest it's been since 1979 ‚Äî employers are demanding longer work hours from those who are employed.  "This has put a particularly heavy burden on working mothers and others who have primary responsibility for child care or elder care." Aside from those with an entrepreneurial mindset, another group of people who are quitting tend to be "young, black, Hispanic, female [and] working class," says¬†Pat Buchanan at Free Republic. In this group, workers may be leaving to go back to school for a chance of finding better jobs.¬† Although the demand for labor is on the rise, there has been a mismatch in the skills employers need and what's currently available. According to the BLS, job openings have risen by 11.3 percent in the past year, yet hiring has declined by 1.6 percent, meaning that jobs are available but there aren't enough people with the needed skills to fill them. Although workers quitting may be tiresome for companies and HR, the bigger picture indicates that those in the workforce are confident about what's ahead for the labor market.
It's shaping up to be a pretty ugly day for Bitcoin. After soaring past $250 earlier, it's tumbled all the way down to current levels around $150. Bitcoin is now 44 percent off its intraday high of $266. At its low of the day ($105), it had lost 61 percent of its value from the peak. The chart below shows Bitcoin prices from April 9 through today. bitcoin.clarkmoody.com The virtual currency briefly staged a sizeable comeback this afternoon before getting slammed again. The biggest question everyone has had about Bitcoin in recent weeks ‚Äì aside from how it works ‚Äì is whether or not it's in a bubble. After all, the virtual currency has seen a remarkable rise since January, when it was trading below $15. Already this afternoon, since the plunge began, we've seen some interesting defenses of the virtual currency popping up on the Internet. A Reddit user posted a graphic showing the Spartans' shields from the movie 300 redesigned as Bitcoins with the word HOLD!¬†across the top. Another Reddit user sought to use technical analysis to explain away today's move. However, episodes like today's highlight¬†the biggest problem with Bitcoin: confidence.
Charlie RoseLegendary investor Jeremy Grantham spoke at a value investing conference today in Toronto. According to The Globe And Mail's Martin Mittelstaedt, Grantham recommend three long-term investments: natural gas, copper ore, and phosphorus. His thesis on natural gas was particularly aggressive. He believes that the current supply glut, which is keeping prices low, will soon reverse and cause prices to explode. According to Mittelstaedt, Grantham believes in five years "the price will have tripled." Furthermore, he believes that pair the trade with a short position in corn could be a good idea.¬† He noted that poor harvests have sent prices higher for three years.¬† He doesn't believe that'll happen for a fourth. Read more at TheGlobeAndMail.com.
Japan's efforts to stimulate the economy with aggressive monetary policy has sent the Japanese stock market surging as investors see it as a way to ride inflation. Below is a chart from¬†Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough, which shows that foreigners are buying up Japanese stocks like crazy.¬† In fact, the buying is tightly correlated to fluctuations in the Nikkei 225, the main index for Japanese stocks. "Year-to-date Japan has seen about $39.7 bn in net foreign institutional equity purchases (up 100% from last year)," tweeted McDonough. However, hedge funder Kyle Bass warns this is a dangerous game being played. "I think it's going to be very disappointing for those who own those equities, and I kind of think they are "macro tourists,"" he said in an interview with CNBC. @M_McDonough
Dan Loeb has been doing pretty well with the macro bets recently at his hedge fund, Third Point Partners. The fund just released its first quarter investor letter today, and Loeb devoted some space to the big Japan trade that is captivating the global macro community right now. Loeb says he gained a meaningful insight from a visit to Japan a year ago, well before the big¬†short Japanese yen, long Japanese stocks trade really took off (which was closer to the fourth quarter of 2012). "We recognized from past experience that meaningful quantitative easing in Japan could provide opportunities like our 'don‚Äôt fight the Fed' investments in 2009‚Äê10 and European sovereign debt trades in 2012," writes Loeb. Loeb said they also positioned for a continuation of the trade before new Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda's first policy meeting last week, even though the market consensus was that gains had already mostly been had. Loeb also says he sees more value in the trade from current levels. The section on Japanese macro from Third Point's Q1 investor letter is included below. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Japanese Macro We visited Japan last April following the Bank of Japan‚Äôs (‚ÄúBOJ‚Äù) announcement of a new policy of targeting a 1% annual inflation rate. We recognized from past experience that meaningful quantitative easing in Japan could provide opportunities like our ‚Äúdon‚Äôt fight the Fed‚Äù investments in 2009‚Äê10 and European sovereign debt trades in 2012. Meetings with academics and government officials last April convinced us that the articulated ‚Äúchanges‚Äù were more rhetorical than practical at the time, but also revealed that many Japanese realized wholesale shifts would be necessary to pull the country out of the deep doldrums it had entered after the tsunami and subsequent nuclear catastrophe of 2011. Despite returning disappointed that this time wasn‚Äôt different (yet), we had developed an understanding of the signals that would indicate the start of a paradigm shift if the time came. In the fall of 2012, we recognized as a critical catalyst the increasing likelihood of a transition to leadership by the Liberal Democratic Party, led by Shinz≈ç Abe. In statements leading up to his election as Prime Minister, Abe had articulated reflationary policies dramatically different than the BOJ‚Äôs recent initiatives. Accordingly, we established a position speculating that the Japanese currency would be devalued aggressively and equities would rise once Abe took office. We sized the position decisively after concluding the investment had highly asymmetric outcomes. The ‚ÄúAbe‚Äênomics‚Äù catalysts have played out essentially as we anticipated, and his approach has been met with unusual public support from the Japanese. Our optimism was reinforced by the appointment of Haruhiko Kuroda as the Governor of the BOJ on February 27. By analyzing Governor Kuroda‚Äôs speeches and papers over the past two decades, we recognized him as a proponent of radical change, structural reform, and ‚Äúdovish‚Äù monetary policy. Another important catalyst was the (grumbling) acquiescence by Western powers throughout Q1 as Japan began asserting its case for devaluing its currency. Despite massive market speculation and an already significant move in the Yen, potential QE measures were simply speculative until last week‚Äôs first Kuroda‚Äêled BOJ meeting. We¬†increased our position ahead of the meeting, rejecting the market consensus that the upside was already baked into any policy moves that might be announced. As we had hoped, the Governors managed to exceed even the highest of expectations with their initial actions, ticking all of the boxes we anticipated and adding others. The steps amounted to a complete reboot of the Japanese monetary experiment. The impact of this bold plan should be far‚Äêreaching, not only for Japanese companies but also for Japan‚Äôs trading partners. Perhaps most importantly, from a Third Point process and framework perspective, we have¬†learned that in environments where QE and government intervention are critical engines, our catalyst‚Äêdriven approach allows us to find compelling ‚Äúmacro‚Äù opportunities. We believe there is still value in our initial currency/index trade reflecting this important structural inflection point and also have taken selected positions in single name stocks that we believe will benefit from this policy shift.
The Consumer Price Index is the most familiar gauge of inflation in the US. The data for the non-seasonally adjusted series stretches back a century to January 1913. But the news of late is about a relative newcomer to the inflation metrics of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the Chained CPI for Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U). The BLS has a Frequently Asked Questions page on the Chained CPI that's been around for a while. At present the page footer says "Last Modified Date: April 6, 2005". The reason the Chained CPI is now a hot topic in the news is that it's being proposed as the method for determining cost of living adjustments for Social Security. Here are some typical examples of topic in the popular press: I'll have more to write about Chained CPI in future commentaries and updates. But for openers, I spent some time this afternoon modifying a column chart I've been updating monthly for the past several years. The chart illustrates the overall change in inflation for CPI, Core CPI, and the eight top-level components of CPI since the turn of the century (more here). I also include energy, which is a collection of subcomponents, and College Tuition and Fees, a subcomponent of one of the top eight. The BLS has published the data for these metrics for chained CPI from December 1999. The one missing element is College Tuition and Fees. The chart below pairs the two versions of each component showing the total change since December 1999. We can thus have a more educated sense of how the Chained CPI and conventional CPI differ from one another. ¬† ¬† I have more on this topic in future posts. Meanwhile, here is a bottom line comparison: Since December of 2000, the average year-over-year inflation calculated monthly based on the conventional CPI has been 2.43%. For equivalent calculation for the Chained CPI it is 2.17%, a difference of 0.27%. The calculation for the Social Security COLA, however, is based on a different CPI series, the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, often referred to as the CPI-W. Since December of 2000, the year-over-year average for CPI-W is fractionally higher than YoY CPI at 2.47%, which is 0.31% higher than the YoY average for Chained CPI.
APIn December, Max Richtman attended a meeting at the White House with other progressive groups during the negotiations to avert the fiscal cliff. As the president and CEO of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Richtman only wanted to tell President Barack Obama one thing: No cuts in either of the two programs. "He told me, 'We agree with you,'" Richtman said today, recalling the meeting. "Well, I guess something has changed since then." What's changed is that Obama has officially embraced a proposal to cut Social Security benefits known as "chained CPI," which†recalculates the growth of benefits by using an index that doesn't rise as quickly as inflation. While the†administration is portraying chained CPI as a concession to find compromise with Republicans, the proposal†has infuriated Obama's liberal base.† And for many of these progressives, it confirms concerns that they have harbored for some time.† Eric Kingson, co-chair of the Strengthen Social Security Coalition and a professor at Syracuse University, told Business Insider Wednesday that Obama has "waffled" on Social Security since taking office in 2009 ó despite a 2008 speech to the AARP convention in which then-Senator Obama criticized the same plan he's proposing now. "He has never been forthright about this issue," Kingson said. "He has always been reticent to speak out about protecting Social Security." Kingson suggested that the Obama administration was being "disingenuous" about the actual scope of the cuts, using Washington-speak to refer to it as a "tweak" or a simple change in the way benefits are calculated. But he has long suspected Obama has wanted to slash Social Security benefits.† "I really think he believes that for whatever reason, this program needs to be cut," Kingson said. "But what he's doing is disrespectful ó it's undermining the institution." Dean Baker, the co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, said he believes Obama is offering the proposal in an attempt to be "serious" and appeal to Beltway types who crave bipartisanship. But he thinks Obama has the wrong definition of being serious. "You piss on the people who care about Social Security, then you're serious," Baker said.
While campaigning for President in 2008, candidate Barack Obama promised to not alter the way that cost of living adjustments were calculated for Social Security, a policy that is now a key feature of his 2014 White House budget.† Addressing the AARP in September 2008, then-Senator Obama drew a major contrast between his policies and those of his Republican rival John McCain: John McCain's campaign has gone even further, suggesting that best answer for the growing pressures on Social Security might be to cut cost of living adjustments or raise the retirement age. Let me be clear: I will not do either. But things have evidently changed. A critical†element of the President's new budget involves cutting cost of living adjustments through the adoption of chained CPI ó a policy that will result in compounding benefit cuts for current and future retirees: Beginning in 2015 the Budget would change the measure of inflation used by the Federal Government for most programs and for the Internal Revenue Code from the standard Consumer Price Index (CPI) to the alternative, more accurate chained CPI, which grows slightly more slowly Here's the video of Obama addressing the AARP in 2008: 
At midnight, Bitcoin was trading around $234. By 8:30 AM ET, the virtual currency had surged to an intraday high of $266 ‚Äì¬†before subsequently crashing 60 percent to a low around $105. That was earlier this afternoon. Amazingly, it's already staged a big comeback, erasing more than half of its intraday losses. Now, it's trading just below $200. The chart below shows the big move upward in just the last hour or so. bitcoin.clarkmoody.com (Note: There is no x-axis on this chart, but it goes back to April 9.) The biggest question everyone has had about Bitcoin in recent weeks ‚Äì aside from how it works ‚Äì is¬†whether or not it's in a bubble. After all, the virtual currency has seen a remarkable rise since January, when it was trading below $15. When the plunge started this afternoon, we saw some interesting defenses of the virtual currency popping up on the Internet. A¬†Reddit user posted a graphic¬†showing the Spartans' shields from the movie 300 redesigned as Bitcoins with the word¬†HOLD!¬†across the top. Another Reddit user¬†sought to use technical analysis¬†to explain away today's move. However, episodes like today's highlight what is arguably¬†the biggest problem with Bitcoin: confidence.
But lately, KFC's China sales have struggled due to concerns over the avian flu. In a new regulatory filing, parent company YUM! Brands reports that KFC March same-store sales fell 16 percent in China. "Within the past week, publicity associated with Avian flu in China has had a significant, negative impact on KFC sales," said management. "Historically in these situations, we have educated consumers that properly cooked chicken is perfectly safe to eat, and we will continue to do so. We do not anticipate providing any further updates regarding China Division same-store sales until our scheduled first-quarter earnings release on April 23, 2013." The company expects to release April same-store sales on May 10.
Alex Davies / Business InsiderThe wealthy individuals and big corporations willing to spend tens of millions of dollars on a private jet tend to know what they want and expect to get it. Bombardier, like all successful companies catering to luxury buyers, is happy to comply. That means offering virtually endless choices of seating arrangements, leather, cloth, and china, and just about anything else the customer wants. They do draw the line at installing exercise bikes ó for weight considerations. New planes arrive without any interior to speak of at†Bombardier's†Global Completion Center in Montreal, and†are outfitted to their future owner's exact specifications. From beginning to end, the process takes 18 months. The final price tag for the Bombardier Global 6000 jet, the company's standard model with room for 14: around $50 million. Bombardier gave us a private tour of the factory, and showed us how they make their private jets. Full disclosure: Private jet charter company VistaJet paid for our trip to Montreal to try out its service and visit the Bombardier Completion Center.
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderIt's good to be king.One of the biggest crises in the American economy is the rise of extreme income and wealth inequality. And one of the causes of this inequality is the bizarre consensus that, when it comes to the pay scales of the folks at the top, there's no such thing as "too much." CEO pay, for example, has skyrocketed in recent decades. CEO pay today is so high that the average big-company CEO now makes 380 times as much as his or her average employee. That's 380 times! That's not 380 times as much as the lowest-paid employee. That's 380 times as much as the¬†average employee. CEOs tell themselves that this is all fine and fair because they worked their way to the top and because being a CEO is a "hard" and "risky" job with lots of responsibility. And that's true. But most jobs are "hard." Most jobs are also "risky" ‚Äî starting with the "risk" that if your CEO makes a dumb decision, or the economy slows down, your CEO might decide to fire you. Most jobs also come with a lot of responsibility. ¬†If an inspector on an auto production line screws up an inspection, for example, someone might die. If a soldier screws up on the battlefield, dozens of people might die.¬† If a pilot screws up in the cockpit, hundreds of people might die. ¬†That's responsibility. That's risk. Inspectors, soldiers, and pilots don't get paid a lot for having that level of responsibility. The "risk" that you might screw up your CEO job and get sent packing with a severance package worth tens of millions of dollars, meanwhile, isn't really "risk" ‚Äî at least not as it is traditionally defined. And the "CEO" job also comes with an enormous privilege ‚Äî the privilege of leading hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of dedicated people who are devoting their lives to a common mission. That privilege is so meaningful that lots of CEOs would eagerly do the job for vastly less than they are paid. But, these days, the prevailing ethos is that CEO pay should be compared only to other CEO pay ‚Äî not to the pay of the average employee. And because other CEOs are getting paid like sultans, the logic goes, then all CEOs should get paid like sultans. That's a pity. And it's no wonder that so many average employees in America think that they're getting the shaft. Because they are. In case the "380-times" statistic doesn't startle you, here's another way of putting it: The average CEO of a big American company makes more in an hour than his or her average employee makes in a month. SEE ALSO: LIFE IN AMERICA: 3 Million Overlords And 300 Million Serfs
www.amazon.comThis morning, around 8:55 AM ET, the Federal Reserve said it would be releasing the minutes from its March 19-20 FOMC meeting at 9 AM (the normal release is scheduled for 2 PM). The reason: due to some sort of error, the minutes were sent out early to a handful of individuals YESTERDAY at 2 PM. The Federal Reserve said the minutes "were inadvertently sent early to a list of individuals who normally receive the minutes by email shortly after their usual release time. The individuals on the distribution list ‚Äì primarily congressional employees and employees of trade organizations ‚Äì received the minutes shortly after 2 p.m. Tuesday." According to Steve Goldstein at MarketWatch, it wasn't just Congress and some lobbying firms that got the minutes a day ahead of schedule. Some of Wall Street's biggest banks did too, according to a list of email addresses the Fed sent to reporters. "Most the people on the email list have addresses indicating they work at the House or Senate, but some are from financial services firms including Barclays, BNP Paribas,¬†Carlyle, Citi, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan Chase, Nomura, U.S. Bancorp,¬†Wells Fargo," writes Goldstein. (Bloomberg confirms.) It's unclear whether anyone traded on the release ahead of time.
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonPeople have been speculating that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman was going to bail on his disastrous JCPenney investment. Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, tells Women's Wear Daily that he's sticking around. From WWD:† ìWeíre not going anywhere,î Ackman told WWD in his first public comments on the retailer since Ron Johnson was ousted as chief executive officer Monday. ìIn fact, weíre going the other direction. Weíre digging in.î Ackman, who is on the retailer's board, is the biggest shareholder of†JCPenney†with an†18.11% stake, or 39,075,771 shares, according the latest†13F filing. He's taken a bath on the stock so far.† The struggling retailer said on Monday night its CEO†Ron Johnson, a man Ackman personally recruited from Apple and championed as a visionary leader, had stepped down effective immediately. JCPenney's stock is down more than 33 percent YTD.†
Flickr / drburtoniThe stock market isn't ready for a sell-off just yet. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,802, +128.7 pts, +0.8 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,587, +19.1 pts, +1.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,297, +59.3 pts, +1.8 percent And now the top stories:
Monty Python And The Holy GrailOne of the most disturbing trends in this country is the rise of extreme wealth and income inequality. As the following charts show, America is rapidly becoming a country of a few million overlords and three hundred million serfs. Unfortunately, this issue has been politicized, which means that people don't think about the implications of it ‚Äî they just start yelling. But extreme inequality is bad for everyone, even the overlords. Why? Because when inequality gets bad enough, serfs don't have much money to buy products from overlords. This hurts the overlords' ability to get even richer. (That's what's wrong with the American economy right now. The serfs are tapped out. The overlords are responding by firing more serfs, to increase profits. Unfortunately, because one person's "costs" are another person's "wages," this is making the problem worse.) The best way to fix inequality is not to tax most of the overlords' money and give it to the serfs. That just inflames "class warfare" and gets people yelling about "socialism." The best way to fix inequality is to persuade the overlords that it is in their best interests to share more of their wealth by paying their employees more for their hard work (work that, not incidentally, is what makes the overlords rich).¬† In other words, the best way to change this is to persuade companies that it's better to focus on creating value rather than just profit. Persuading America's overlords to do this will take a while, though.¬† In the meantime, it's important that everyone understand just how extreme the inequality in this country has become. It's way worse than most people think it should be. And it's way worse than most people think. The following screenshots from a video created by a pseudonymous videographer called "Politizane" shows this in detail. You can watch the video here or at the end of this presentation. There's one criticism that I'll address at the end, but the basic message is correct:
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Some Brokers Are Getting In Trouble Because Of Discretionary Trading (The Wall Street Journal)  Brokers are only allowed to make trades for their clients by getting the client's permission for each trade or by getting a "blanket permission known as discretionary authority," according to the WSJ. And some involved in discretionary trading are getting in trouble. Some brokers, however, mistakenly believe that if a client approves his/her investment strategy this allows them to make trades. Finra pulled up a broker for just this and he received a suspension and a $5,000 fine. For discretionary trading, brokers need the approval of both the client and the firm in writing. Why Rebalancing Isn't Just A 'Dumb' Investment Strategy (The Capital Spectator) A recent Forbes piece claimed that the idea that rebalancing your portfolio¬† "increases your expected return is balderdash." But The Capital Spectator writes that while thinking rebalancing can always boost gains is a mistake, it also doesn't mean that you don't need to rebalance at all.¬† "In fact, if you look at any strategy that appears to deliver superior results, the fundamental source of the enhancement is usually‚Äîyou guessed it‚Äîrebalancing. The triggers for why and how you rebalance vary, of course, and the strategy is marketed under numerous labels. But when you pull back the curtain, you'll probably find some form of rebalancing for strategies that are something other than passive." Goldman Wants Its Clients To Short Gold (Goldman Sachs) Goldman Sachs is closing its long gold position and has a year-end price target of $1,450 per ounce for gold. They also lowered their 2014 year-end to $1,270 per ounce.¬† "While there are risks for modest near-term upside to gold prices should US growth continue to slow down, we see risks to current prices as skewed to the downside as we move through 2013. In fact, should our expectation for lower gold prices continue to prove correct, the fall in prices could end up being faster and larger than our forecast, as aggregate speculative net long positions across COMEX futures and gold ETFs remain near record highs." Madoff Victims Lawsuit Against SEC Is Dismissed (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) A New York federal appeals court has dismissed a lawsuit brought by the victims of Bernard Madoff's ponzi scheme against the SEC. "The court said the SEC's actions and "regrettable inaction" were protected by a law that shields federal agencies from liability," according to Thomson Reuters. Q1 Profits Are Being Driven By Fatter Profit Margins And The Trend Will Continue (UBS) Profit margins in the first quarter have been bigger than expected. Whether profit margins will continue to expand or fall has been divisive. UBS' Jonathan Golub for one thinks the trend will continue. "Of the 22 S&amp;P 500 companies that have already reported, 73% beat their earnings expectations by an average of 1.7%," according to Golub. "Upside is entirely due to margins not revenues. We expect these trends to continue."
If you want a glimpse into trader psychology, just go check out the Bitcoin Subreddit, and observe the discussions taking place regarding today's crash. The best place to check it out is the NEW tab, where you can see the latest entries. The conversations run the gamut of how people react to an adverse turn. Some are screaming that you should BUY. Others are saying there are all kinds of exchange problems going on. Others are saying to put things into "perspective," meaning that Bitcoin is still up a lot in recent days/weeks (that's classic). Others are are hopefully stating that the "ship is turning." All classic. Reddit
The Wal-Mart executive who called February sales a "disaster" in leaked internal emails that panicked Wall Street has left the company, reports†Renee Dudley at Bloomberg News.† Jerry Murray, a vice president of finance and logistics, departed his job after seven years, Dudley writes. Leaked emails in February revealed that executives were concerned that not as many people were shopping at the mega-retailer. Murray also noted that sales were the worst they'd been in his seven years with the company.† News of the emails sent Wal-Mart shares plunging.† Since then, the retailer has been plagued by reports of bare shelves in stores as understaffed locations struggle to keep up.† Dudley reported that the current issues had nothing to do with Murray's departure.† According to his LinkedIn profile, Murray has also worked for Honeywell and General Motors.
Corcoran Looking at the listing photos for Steve A. Cohen's $115 million Manhattan penthouse, one thing caught our eye: a sculpture of a short, bald man with raised arms standing in a prime spot in the living room. Cohen's a well-known collector of contemporary art. He famously owns Damien Hirst's sculpture of a shark in a tank of formaldehyde, and spent $137.5 million on Willem de Kooning's "Woman." But we didn't recognize the bald-man sculpture, which appears over and over again in the listing photos. via Christie'sSo we did some digging, and it appears that the work is by Maurizio Cattelan, an Italian artist known for his satirical sculptures. It's a depiction of Pablo Picasso, which makes sense given the hedge funder's love of the artist ó†he recently bought Picasso's "Le Reve" from Steven Wynn†for $155 million. The work first appeared at the Museum of Modern Art in 1998, as part of an exhibit where Cattelan looked at the concept of "art as mascot," according to The Guggenheim's education center. The Guggenheim explains: For the run of the show, an actor dressed as Picasso in a large molded head mask and the artistís striped boatneck shirt occupied the galleries. This Picasso behaved like an amusement-park mascot, greeting crowds, posing for photographs, and signing autographs ... The presence of Cattelanís Picasso as a friendly face, an inviting host, resembled those cartoon characters come-to life at Disneyland, an emblem for lowbrow, wholesome amusement. We couldn't find any record that Cohen himself bought the work, but a version (there are two)†last sold at a Christie's auction in London in 2007 for $487,000. Here's a close-up, from when the 7-foot-tall sculpture appeared†at the Palazzo Grassi in Venice in 2006.† Michele Crosera/REUTERS
As Bitcoin crashes, the Bitcoin Fanboys are out in force. Some are encouraging their fellow Bitcoiners to stay strong, and to HOLD in the face of collapse. Others have a "bring-it-on" mentality, saying they're eager to scoop up more Bitcoins at depressed prices. And others are saying: This is all healthy. User jaynemesis on Reddit says that this chart shows it was coming the whole time, and that nobody should be worried about the price fall. We don't know what it means, but the use of technical analysis in this case to feel better about a crash is classic. Click the chart to enlarge Reddit 
AP ImagesJamie Dimon's annual letter to JP Morgan shareholders is out.¬† It's loaded with great commentary on the state of banking and the global economy in general. In one section, he warns about the extraordinary efforts being made by the Federal Reserve to keep interests low to stimulate the economy.¬† Specifically, he's concerned about the economic damage that could happen should rates suddenly rise.¬† He recalls the ugly experiences of 1994 and 2004. But having said that, he also notes that JP Morgan is prepared for rising rates. "As we currently are positioned, if rates went up 300 basis points, our pre-tax profits would increase by approximately $5 billion over a one-year period," said Dimon.¬† "Remember, however, that all things are not equal, and that $5 billion of improved income should be looked at as an additional cushion to protect us from other bad outcomes." Here's the whole excerpt: Expansionary global fiscal and monetary policies may create additional potential risky outcomes Governments around the world, partially but not entirely due to the crisis, generally have been spending more money than they take in. And central banks, mostly as a reaction to the global financial crisis, essentially have been creating money (called Quantitative Easing) to keep rates low and foster a stronger recovery. For the most part, these policies have helped the world economy recover ‚Äì particularly in the United States. But this medicine is untested, and it may have severe aftereffects. This especially is true if fiscal policy makes it increasingly harder for central banks to slowly remove some of the monetary stimulus. Good fiscal policy and any policies that create growth will make the central banks‚Äô job easier. Higher interest rates and a little bit of inflation won‚Äôt matter much if we have strong job growth, good profitability and general prosperity. We don‚Äôt know the outcome of all these efforts. While it is entirely possible that we will manage through the process without too much suffering, there also are some fairly coherent arguments that suggest there could be significant negative consequences. We cannot ignore this possibility and must safeguard against unintended and adverse outcomes. One such scenario would be rapidly raising rates without strong growth. In the recent past, in 1994 and 2004, interest rates, both short term and long term, rose about 300 basis points within approximately a one-year period. In 1994, such action was unexpected, and it caused real damage for many who were unprepared (i.e., the failure of Orange County and significant financial losses at several financial and non-financial institutions). In 2004, the increase in rates was more expected ‚Äì institutions probably had additional tools at their disposal to manage it, and the damage was far more limited. Although we are not predicting it, we need to be prepared for rapidly rising rates, potentially even worse than we have seen in recent history. One of the ways we do this is to position our company ‚Äì if all things are equal ‚Äì so we can benefit from rapidly rising interest rates. As we currently are positioned, if rates went up 300 basis points, our pre-tax profits would increase by approximately $5 billion over a one-year period. Remember, however, that all things are not equal, and that $5 billion of improved income should be looked at as an additional cushion to protect us from other bad outcomes. You should know that it costs us a significant amount of current income to be positioned this way. But we believe it is better to be safe than sorry.
Bitcoins are crashing today. They're down from over $260 earlier to under $190. This graphic was posted to Reddit by user blood4thegood to encourage fellow Bitcoiners to hold strong and not sell into this panic. blood4thegood, Reddit
Google FinanceThe stock market bull run continues. At 1,587, the S&amp;P 500 is well above its intraday all-time high. One of the biggest risks going into Q1 earnings season was the possibility that profit margins would contract causing earnings to tank. However, the early reporters have been reporting quite the opposite. Markets are also surging in Europe on news that bailout loans to Portugal and Ireland could see extensions.
Obama released his budget today, and in it he attempts to reduce the Federal Deficit by $1.7 trillion over 10 years, using a combination of spending cuts and increased taxes. So what does the budget really look like? We compared the numbers from the White House budget with the current CBO baseline of what budgets are currently expected to look like to figure out what he actually changes For each key category, the level zero is the current projected funding level for the next ten years. If a line goes above zero, the President's budget will spend more on it than current funding levels ó or in the case of revenues, that number will be higher.† Just a primer: The general trend? Most of the lines on the budget exceed funding for the next two to three years (stimulus basically), then drop below projected funding levels following 2016 or 2017. So in other words, this represents the kind of stimulus-now, but-later budgeting that a lot of economists in Washington favor: Walter Hickey / BI
Bloomberg TVThe sustainability of record high corporate profit margins may be one of the hottest debates in the stock market. Analysts are split on whether or not margins will soon fall to historical averages. But one trend is emerging from the Q1 earnings announcements we've seen so far: margins are fatter than expected. "Of the 22 S&amp;P 500 companies that have already reported, 73% beat their earnings expectations by an average of 1.7%," wrote UBS's Jonathan Golub in a note to clients yesterday. "Upside is entirely due to margins not revenues. We expect these trends to continue." According to Golub's data, only 50 percent of companies have beat revenue expectations.† The discrepancy between revenue and earnings surprises can explained by Wall Street's underestimation of profit margins.
Gold is having another rough day today. The metal has been under constant selling pressure all morning, but it's really taken a significant leg lower in the last hour or so, as the chart below shows. Right now, it's down 1.8 percent to $1557 per ounce, just off its lowest level of the day. This morning, Goldman Sachs commodity strategists ‚Äì who have been bearish on gold in the medium term ‚Äì recommended clients go ahead and short gold outright, targeting $1450 per ounce by the end of 2013. Thinkorswim
CybrbeastThis image prompted the Bitcoinbillionaire to give $400 worth of Bitcoins to Cybrbeast.Earlier today, a kind-hearted, mysterious stranger began giving out Bitcoins to random Reddit users. This person called themselves the Bitcoinbillionaire, and eventually gave out over $13,000 worth of Bitcoins to 12 complete strangers using "Bitcointip." One lucky person received almost $5,000 worth. We messaged a few of the recipients of the gifts. All who responded said that they did not know who the Bitcoinbillionaire was, and that they had not interacted with the account until today (the account is a throwaway, so doing so would have been impossible, or would require knowing another account operated by Bitcoinbillionaire). Some also told us how they were spending their bitcoins. Surprisingly, many were giving away significant portions of their tips. Karelb, the user who received almost $5,000, told us that they had received the money, and already used a portion to buy a new mobile phone on bitmit.com. According to their Reddit history, Karelb has tipped at least 12 people since receiving their money from Bitcoinbillionaire (small sums ‚Äî around $5 usually). Cybrbeast told us that the surprise tip had "made [their] day." They had received $400 worth and planned to "pay forward" at least $100 worth of it. Their Reddit history also shows that they have already begun this plan. The final recipient of Bitcoinbillionaire's bitcoins was NerdFighterSean, who received $1,304.65. Interestingly, NerdFighterSean is the creator of the "Bitcointip," the service used by Bitcoinbillionaire to tip strangers via Reddit. NerdFighterSean told us that he would be using the money to upgrading the Bitcointip system, and tipping people who help out on it. In fact, within minutes of receiving his tip from the Bitcoinbillionaire, NerdFighterSean had already passed some of it on: Reddit
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesA Connecticut gun manufacturer announced on Wednesday that it would leave the "former Constitution State," one week after the state's governor signed into law sweeping new gun legislation.¬† In a statement blasting the new gun laws, semi-automatic rifle manufacturer PTR Industries¬†said it has decided to move to another state.¬† "The safety of its children is at best questionably improved from the day of the tragedy that triggered the events that lead (sic) us here," the company said in the statement.  "Finally, due to an improperly drafted bill, manufacturing of modern sporting rifles in the State of CT has been effectively outlawed. With a heavy heart but a clear mind, we have been forced to decide that our business can no longer survive in Connecticut ‚Äì the former Constitution state." PTR encouraged other firearms manufacturers to follow suit: "We feel that our industry as a whole will continue to be threatened so long as it remains in a state where its elected leaders have no regard for the rights of those who produce and manufacture its wealth. We are making a call to all involved in our industry to leave this state, close your doors and show our politicians the true consequences of their hasty and uninformed actions. We encourage those in our industry to abandon this state as its leaders have abandoned the proud heritage that forged our freedom." The state's new laws were hailed by Gov. Dannel Malloy as the toughest in the nation, and U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said they should be a "model for the nation." Larry Keane, the senior vice president of the National Sports Shooting Foundation, the powerful gun lobby located in Newtown, Conn., warned that the new laws could¬†entice additional gun manufacturers to move out of the state.¬†He also hinted that there could be a legal challenge to the laws. Connecticut is home to a large number of gun and ammunition companies, including¬†the iconic Colt Manufacturing Co.¬† Keane told Business Insider that the CEO of at least one other gun company besides PTR had expressed a desire to move. He thinks that more manufacturers are looking to get out of what many perceive as an increasingly hostile environment to gun owners, noting comments made by Malloy last weekend comparing¬†NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre to "one of the clowns at the circus." "We're upset with the governor's comments," Keane said, adding that they were "offensive" and "slanderous" to gun manufacturers. Keane pointed to a letter Malloy sent gun manufacturers last month, in which the governor wrote that he hoped "you continue to stay in our state." In an interview last week, Blumenthal dismissed concerns that manufacturers would leave the state. "Gun manufacturers are like other businesses in looking for the highest quality workforce, the best business environment in terms of transportation and taxes and other features unrelated to any regulatory action," Blumenthal said.¬† "Their markets are national. What happens in Connecticut affects only purchases here."
REUTERS/Mark Blinch Tiger Woods is the favorite to win the Masters. Vegas Insider has him at 3-1. For context, Rory McIlroy has the next best odds at 8-1. Woods is the overwhelming favorite because he's won three tournaments this year thanks to a revitalized short game. His putting is excellent, and his wedges have improved. We've spent all week trying to come up with clever reasons Woods will not win the Masters. Every time we think we've found one, it falls apart upon close inspection. There is only one legitimate reason Tiger Woods will lose the Masters this year, and boy is it boring and cliched. That reason: Just because. File this one under "Duh," but it can't be overstated: It's really hard to win a golf tournament. Tiger isn't just playing against 93 of the world's best players, he's also playing against a challenging golf course and Mother Nature, which can alter everything with gusting winds or downpours. (The forecast calls for wind in the afternoon on Thursday, and rain in the morning on Friday, which actually favors Woods, since he's out early on Thursday and out late on Friday.) He's also playing against himself. Woods' putter could go cold. He could seize up under the pressure of wanting to win his 15th major championship. He could have a bad night's rest. There are any number of tiny things that can go wrong. But, entering this year's Masters, Woods looks primed to win. He's 1st on the tour in strokes gained putting, a statistic that measures putting success. Last year he was 36th. This year, he's 13th in the tour from 100-125 yards and in. Last year he was 72nd. With his driver, he has successfully eliminated one side of the course, which pro golfers are always trying to do. He's 9th in left rough tendency coming in, last year he was 170th. This means he has more control over his shot and knows where it's going. Speaking of his driver, we had a theory that his fade would be problematic at Augusta. When Woods hits his driver he shapes the ball from left to right.¬†Early in his career, when Tiger hit the fairway, it was with a draw, which means the ball went from right to the left. We were worried that a fade was going put Woods out of position. The 2nd and 13th holes at Augusta National are par-5s that dog to the left. With Woods hitting a fade, his shot will drift to the right, making it harder to attack the green. The par-5s are important. Woods himself said, "You have to play them at least half under par for the week. I mean, you just have to take care of those par-5s, because there are so many pin locations on the par-4s and the par-3s, that it just gets very difficult to make easy birdies." An illustrator named Chris O'Riley drew up changes to Augusta National through the years for Golf Digest a few years back. He's given us permission to re-run some the illustrations here. We're going to use them to show you how it could impact Woods' chances of winning. Here's the 2nd hole, a par-5. As you can see, through the years trees have been grown along the right edge making shots that slide out right, more problematic. The green has also been narrowed, making approaches more difficult.  Here you can see how a faded shot, in red, could hurt more than a draw, in blue. Chris O'Reilly ¬† And here's the famous 13th hole, the final part of "Amen Corner." It's a dog leg left. As you can see, through the years, the fairway has narrowed and trees have been grown on the right side. Also, take a look at the tee box in the back, and how it's been pushed further and further back. If you're hitting a fade, then the ball is at risk of swinging into those trees.  Here's another crude illustration of what we're talking about. The tee box is further back, so his faded shot could end up further from the hole and out to the right. The red is the fade, the blue is a draw. Chris O'Reilly We have more illustrations of the holes and their changes here &gt;  Anyway, after cooking up this theory, we dug into the data on Tiger's driving habits coming into the Masters. We got ShotLink data on Woods' driving tendencies coming into the Masters going back to 2003.¬† When Woods won in 2005, his driving misses were about the same as they are coming into this year's tournament. If anything, he's a little better this year with his left side misses. So, it doesn't look like his shot shape is that big of a problem. ShotLink And here's a look at the previous champions' misses coming into the event. As you can see, none of these players have any discernible pattern that differentiates them from Woods' driving. We asked for Masters driving data, but ShotLink doesn't get access to Augusta National to track the data. ShotLink So, in summary, we can't think up a quantifiable reason for Woods to lose. If he's going to lose it's going to be for the simple, boring reason that golf is hard, and the difference between winning and losing can be something as stupid as the way the wind is blowing.
Courtesy of Tour OdeonThe apartment atop a planned luxury tower in Monaco could be listed for $280 million, making it the world's most expensive penthouse if it sells for anywhere near that price. Current renderings for the residence, at¬†Monaco's Odeon Tower,¬†show a five-floor home with 35,500 square feet of space. They also show a private infinity pool with a water slide, but Fred Schiff of London-based Knight Frank (the agents in charge of global marketing for Odeon) told Robert Frank at CNBC that it was "just one thing the developers are talking about.‚Äù The price tag on the penthouse is pure speculation, based on the size of the space and current prices for apartments in the building, which start at¬†¬£5,200 per square foot ($7,958 at current exchange rates), a representative for the developer told us. If the multi-level residence does sell for the anticipated $280 million, that would make it the most expensive penthouse in the world, followed by a residence at¬†One Hyde Park in London that sold for $216 million.

foursquare/Erin G.Wall Street is all around the world, but its home-base in New York City. It's fitting because NYC is the capital of the world and a veritable playground for anyone with the cash to spend. And bankers have the cash. That also means they have choices about where they go eat and especially about where they go drink. Unfortunately, when there's plenty of choice, that means many of those choices can be... obnoxious. Wall Street bars are no exception to this rule.¬†That's why we surveyed you guys and got your feedback on where Wall Street goes to be their worst selves. Then we did some investigating ourselves. We'll try to spare you the goriest details, but think: Uber preps, frat-tastic kids just out of college, girls who can't stop screaming (woooooo!), and music that is banned in most tasteful establishments (Shania Twain anyone?). So consider this a public service announcement. These bars are totally obnoxious.
Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesYesterday, KPMG said it¬†fired one of its senior partners for allegedly leaking non-public information¬†in Herbalife and Skechers to a third party who then traded those stocks. The now-former KPMG senior partner has been identified as Scott London. He was in charge of the audit practice for KPMG in Southern California. London essentially threw away his 29-year accounting career. And for what? According to the LA Times, he got¬†about $25,000 in cash, some fancy dinners and a Rolex watch in exchange for the tips. ¬† London has acknowledged how "stupid" it was of him. The third-party stock trader made about $100,000 off those trades, the report said.¬†That person hasn't been identified. London told the Wall Street Journal the third party person¬†was a golf buddy¬†of his. The buddy told London that he had traded on the information. ¬†London told the Journal that he kept talking to his friend, but didn't give him any more "significant information."¬† In March, London was contacted by the FBI. That's when he got a lawyer who then told him to stop contacting his golf buddy. ¬† We looked up London's golf handicap index on GHIN, a web service run by the USGA. ¬†According to GHIN, he's a member of North Ranch Country Club in Conejo Valley. ¬†He also has a golf handicap index of 10.3 and his latest outing was in March of this year.¬† As a result of all this, KPMG resigned as an auditor to Herbalife and Skechers. ¬†Both the¬†SEC¬†and FBI are said to be investigating the matter.¬† [Hat Tip: DealBook] Here's London's LinkedIn page:¬† LinkedIn screencap
I was at a conference last week, several hours after the BOJ's decision that essentially doubled up on its QE efforts, and a fellow panelist argued that the data should be shown in absolute terms.¬† If this were so, the Fed would look the most aggressive because the US is the world's largest economy.¬† Japan's economy is roughly 40% the size of the US and the UK economy is about 1/6 the size.¬† In addition, the aggressiveness of the BOJ would not be appreciated.¬†¬† In the forecasting part of the chart, there are a few assumptions that should be teased out.¬† First, that the ECB's balance sheet has peaked and it is projected to gradually drift lower.¬† This seems to preclude the OMT from being triggered.¬† It assumes no new LTRO and only light LTRO re-payments.¬† Second, it assumes that the BOE resumes some form of QE under the next governor (if not before).¬† Third, it appears to be anticipating the continuation of QE by the Federal Reserve through the end of this year and only a gradual reduction (via maturities?) in 2014. ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
APPresident Barack Obama unveiled his fiscal-year 2014 budget at a press conference in the Rose Garden Wednesday morning, a document he called a "a fiscally-responsible blueprint for middle class jobs and growth." During his press conference, Obama challenged Republicans to meet him on compromise on the budget, saying he's "met them halfway." "I hope they will demonstrate that they are really as serious as they claim to be on the debt and deficit," Obama said. Prior to his statement Wednesday morning, plenty of details had already emerged about the budget, which serves as an important mark in ongoing budget talks with Congressional Republicans. It has also already taken fire from both the left and right. Liberals, in particular,†are infuriated by a proposal to cut Social Security benefits through a chained CPI, which†recalculates the growth of benefits by using an inflation index that doesn't go up as quickly. Obama's budget also replaces the cuts of the sequester, which began kicking in March 1. Obama said that the cuts are "already hurting the economy." House Speaker John Boehner, meanwhile, credited Obama with "incremental" progress on entitlement reform. But he said there will be no new tax hikes included in a broad budget deal. "I would hope that he would not hold hostage these modest reforms for his demand for bigger tax hikes," Boehner said in a statement. "Listen, why donít we do what we can agree to do? †Why donít we find the common ground that we do have and move on that?"
Flickr / Partij van de ArbeidJeroen DijsselbloemYesterday, Reuters reported that EU officials were pushing for a seven-year extension on the bailout loans given to Ireland and Portugal during the euro crisis in recent years. Today, the "troika" of international lenders at the EU, ECB, and IMF made the recommendation official ahead of a meeting of Eurogroup finance ministers in Dublin taking place on Friday and Saturday. European markets are on fire today, and bank stocks are leading the way higher across the euro zone. Portugal is up 4.5 percent, Spain is up 3.7 percent, Italy is up 3 percent, Germany is up 2 percent, and France is up 1.9 percent. Bloomberg's¬†Finbarr Flynn¬†&amp;¬†Brian Parkin have the details of the troika's recommendation: The troika and the EFSF ‚Äúwould advocate to extend the maximum average maturity by seven years as it appears to be the best compromise accommodating the constraints and preferences of debtors and creditors,‚Äù said the report, which was distributed to German lawmakers and seen by¬†Bloomberg News. ‚ÄúGiven the current volatility in the markets, quick implementation is recommended to maximize benefits in shielding Ireland and Portugal from possible contagion effects.‚Äù EU finance ministers agreed last month to ask for recommendations on the ‚Äúbest possible option‚Äù for helping Ireland and Portugal regain full market access as they near the end of their rescue programs. Euro-area finance ministers will try to reach an agreement on extending rescue-loan maturities for Ireland and Portugal when they meet in Dublin, Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said. If the Eurogroup can't come to an agreement on the matter this weekend, it will be deferred until next month's meeting.
The year began with a gasoline price rally that had some economists freaked out that the American consumer would get crushed. However, those prices quietly leveled off. And now, according to new projections by the Energy Information Association, gas prices for the summer driving season will be at a three-year low. "Crude oil prices‚Äîwhich account for two-thirds of the price of gasoline at the pump‚Äîare expected to be lower, and thus the main contributor for less-expensive gasoline during the driving season (April through September)," wrote the EIA.¬† "The average price of Brent crude oil, a benchmark price closely related to the U.S. wholesale gasoline price, is expected to average $107.50 per barrel this summer, down about $1.50 from last summer." EIA Here's a look at regional projections. EIA
Reuters is reporting that Cyprus will raise 400 million euros by selling part of its official gold reserves in order to finance a bailout of its banks. Resolution of Laiki Bank and bail-in of bondholders/depositors in Bank of #Cyprus to raise total of 10.6 bln euros, troika documents show As part of its rescue programme, Cyprus is going to sell 400 mln euros of #gold reserves, according to documents seen by Reuters
YahooYahoo stock price, 1996-2002 ¬† The price of the electronic currency Bitcoin continues to soar. Six weeks ago, Bitcoin was trading at $35. Since then, the price has continued to surge to new highs. Just this morning, Bitcoin blasted through $250. As is always the case with such price moves, observers have been dismissing Bitcoin as a "bubble" since long before prices even hit $35. And the observers may well be right. Bitcoin may be a bubble. Someday, Bitcoin prices may come crashing down, causing the suckers who own them then to lose their shirts. But, in the meantime, those who are speculating in Bitcoin are just laughing at all the people who are dismissing Bitcoin as a bubble. ¬†These speculators have made 7X their money in six weeks, which is a return that more than justifies the risk they took of potentially losing everything. (As long as the chance of each outcome is roughly the same, downside of 100% and upside of 600% is a great bet.) Like the assets at the center of most powerful asset bubbles, Bitcoin has sound theoretical underpinnings. The world can benefit from a convenient global electronic currency that is not subject to the whims and political incentives of governments trying to get themselves reelected. Importantly, Bitcoin also has a small and (at least theoretically) finite supply. So the more demand for Bitcoins increases, the more the price of Bitcoins should rise. Of course, as in any bubble, the more Bitcoin prices rise, the more demand there will be for Bitcoins. Bitcoin buyers may tell themselves stories about how they are buying a "store of value" in an inflationary world, how Bitcoin is a "good investment," and so forth, but these stories will seem much less compelling if Bitcoin prices suddenly drop, say, 75%. If Bitcoin prices crash, all the folks who now think Bitcoin is a "good investment" will suddenly start crying bloody murder that they were tricked into buying something with no inherent value. And they will want to jettison their Bitcoins at any price someone will pay for them. (This is just the way bubble psychology works. Sorry about that.) In the meantime, though, Bitcoin prices could rise another 2X. Or 10X. Or 100X. Why? Because there's really just no way to figure out what a "fair price" for Bitcoin is. There's is theoretically a finite supply of it. And there is theoretically nearly unlimited demand for it. So there's no theoretical reason why Bitcoins can't eventually trade for $500, or $2,500, or $25,000. Or even $250,000.¬† And that means that brass-balled speculators will likely continue to plow into Bitcoin, as long as think it will continue to appeal to new speculators who haven't yet entered the game. But! Because Bitcoins have no inherent value (only the value that they can be exchanged for, which is determined in large part by speculators), Bitcoin prices could crash permanently at any time. So it's worth thinking about what might cause Bitcoin prices to come crashing down. Here are some things: All of these factors--and many others--could cause Bitcoin prices to crash. Bitcoin speculators would do well to remember that. SEE ALSO: I'm Raising My Bitcoin Price Target To $400
Hasbro, Business InsiderToday, something pretty strange happened. Someone gave away over $13,000 worth of Bitcoins to complete strangers on Reddit. Some context: For the last few months, Reddit users have been able to "tip" each other with Bitcoins. Basically, the user sets up a "Bitcointip" account. They are then able to tip other users using simple commands within Reddit. For example, typing "+bitcointip @Username $1usd" will tip that username the Bitcoin equivalent of $1. The recipient of the tip can then export their tip to a Bitcoin wallet (in this case, BlockWallet.info). (For more information, try reading Bitcointip's help page here). As the Bitcointip account writes a message whenever a tip is verified, you can see how people are using it. It appears most people use this feature for comical effect ó of the most recent tips, most are below $5: Reddit † However, earlier today a user who called themselves "Bitcoinbillionaire" began giving out much larger tips: Reddit That first tip was apparently worth $4,680. Over the day, Bitcoinbillionaire gave out 11 tips, some of which were thousands of dollars. By Business Insider's calculation, he or she gave away $13,627.69896 worth of Bitcoins. Most of the time, the tip seemed almost arbitrary. Redditors observing the transactions were left stunned: Reddit We messaged some recipients of the tips, who confirmed that they had received the tips (you can also see the tips on BlockChain). The Reddit users who talked to us told us they had had no contact with the Bitcoinbillionaire before receiving the tips. Who is the Bitcoinbillionaire? We messaged the account to ask for more details, and have not received an answer at the time of writing (we're not sure we expect one either, the account is clearly a throwaway and they undoubtedly got a lot of messages). There are snippets of information: he or she claims that they were an "early adopter," and had forgotten they even had any Bitcoins. "I am bitcoin," he or she wrote in a moment of megalomania. Nothing this good can last forever, however. After one user begged for Bitcoin, Bitcoinbillionaire said they had "ruined it": "You've made me change my mind about this whole thing," the Bitcoinbillionaire wrote. "I'm done." As of 4 hours ago, the Bitcoinbillionaire has apparently stopped giving out tips. They ended this experiment with a quote from Ron Paul: Reddit
Pascal Le Segretain/Getty ImagesEuropean bank stocks are rallying hard today. Shares in European banks have been enduring a nasty sell-off since the Cypriot financial crisis in March sparked fears that deposit outflows could weaken the position of banking systems elsewhere in the euro zone. Yesterday, they dropped to 7-month lows. Earlier this morning, the "troika" of international lenders at the EU, ECB, and IMF said they recommended a seven-year extension of the bailout loans given to Portugal and Ireland during the euro crisis. The proposal may be discussed at the meeting of Eurogroup finance ministers this weekend. In Portugal, the market is up 4 percent, and bank stocks are leading the way. Banco Espirito Santo is up 10.8 percent, Banco BPI is up 10.7 percent, and Banco Comercial Portugues is up 9.3 percent. Italian banks are moving higher as well. The overall market is up 2.4 percent, led by Banco Popolare (+8.2 percent), Banco Popolare dell'Emilia Romagna (+6.3 percent), and Monte dei Paschi (+6.2 percent). In Spain, Bankinter and Banco Popular are up 7 percent and Banco de Sabadell is up 5.9 percent, and in France, Cr√©dit Agricole and Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale are both up 6.3 percent, while BNP Paribas is up 5.2 percent.
The bad news is that higher education may be losing its value as a sure way to get a job, especially a good one. That‚Äôs because too many people are going to college and majoring in subjects that may not meet the requirements of the available jobs. So there may be an excess supply of highly educated people who aren‚Äôt qualified to fill the job openings. In March, there were 49.2 million people in the labor force with a BA degree or higher. That‚Äôs up 20.4 million in the past 20 years. Over the same period, the number with some college or an associate degree rose 9.2 million to 37.2 million in March. While the unemployment rates for college educated workers are relatively low, their jobless rates currently remain relatively high at this late stage of the business cycle. Just as troubling is that many of the people coming out of college may be taking jobs requiring relatively low skills. If so, then they are inadvertently boosting the unemployment rates for people with less education. People with college degrees may be crowding out those with high school degrees in the labor market. The former college students are increasingly saddled with debts to pay for their education and are especially anxious to get a job, any job to make their loan payments. Of course, quite a few are simply defaulting on their loans. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Why No Jolt in JOLTS? (1) JOLTS showing fewer job gains than official tally. (2) Help is wanted. So why aren‚Äôt hires rising faster? (3) Maybe job seekers aren‚Äôt qualified for the jobs. (4) Could more job openings cause unemployed to stop looking? (5) Fed‚Äôs doves won‚Äôt be happy if jobless rate falls on shrinking labor force. (6) Average duration of unemployment remains too high. (7) A degree will still get you a job, but maybe not one that requires a degree. (8) College degrees crowding out high school diplomas? (9) Analysts spent Q1 cutting earnings estimates across the board. (10) Fiscal Cliff deal could boost earnings. (More for subscribers.)
China has been one of the hottest economies in the world in recent decades. However, the country has largely been driven by exports, not consumption.† This dynamic is made very clear in its trade deficit with the U.S. Goldman Sachs' Abby Joseph Cohen included this stunning chart in a recent presentation that she gave. Goldman Sachs
Cosmetics billionaire Leonard Lauder has given New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art an astonishing, no-strings-attached collection of Cubist art that he assembled over four decades, according to the museum. The enormous gift, estimated to be worth $1 billion, includes 78 works by Picasso, Braque, Gris, and Leger, and "will transform the museum," a statement said on Tuesday. The Met, a world-class institution that has long suffered a hole in its early 20th century art collection, will be transformed by the completeness and quality of the sudden addition. The museum will also establish a new research center for modern art, supported by a $22 million endowment created by donors including Lauder, it was announced. "Leonard's gift is truly transformational for the Metropolitan Museum," Met director and CEO Thomas Campbell said. "Although the Met is unique in its ability to exhibit over 5,000 years of art history, we have long lacked this critical dimension in the story of modernism. Now, Cubism will be represented with some of its greatest masterpieces," he said. "This is an extraordinary gift to our Museum and our City." In a statement, Lauder, 80, said his gift is for "the people who live and work in New York and those from around the world who come to visit our great arts institutions." "I selected the Met as the way to share this collection because I feel that it's essential that Cubism -- and the art that follows it, for that matter -- be seen and studied within the collections of one of the greatest encyclopedic museums in the world." The Lauder Collection will be unveiled late in 2014, the museum said. Experts estimated that Lauder's painstakingly put-together trove immediately catapults the Met into the forefront of world collections of Cubist art, equal or even ahead of renowned institutions like the Museum of Modern Art, also in Manhattan. "In one fell swoop this puts the Met at the forefront of early-20th-century art," Campbell told The New York Times. "It is an (irreproducible) collection, something museum directors only dream about." Forbes magazine said the collection was worth about $1.1 billion and that Lauder had therefore given away 13.5 percent of his $8.1 billion personal fortune. It also "enshrines him in the pantheon of the most generous philanthropists of all time," Forbes said. According to the magazine, which specializes in tracking the super wealthy, Lauder becomes the 24th individual in the world to donate more than $1 billion over the course of their lifetimes. "He now stands shoulder to shoulder on that list with the likes of Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, Eli Broad, George Kaiser, Michael Bloomberg, George Lucas and others," Forbes reported. The collection "distinguished by its quality, focus, and depth," includes 33 Picassos, 17 works by Braque, and 14 by Gris and Leger apiece, the Met said in its statement. Among the masterpieces are paintings that were critical to the revolutionary early 20th century artistic movement of Cubism. Highlights include Picasso's "The Scallop Shell (Notre avenir est dans l'air)" from 1912, and "Woman in an Armchair (Eva)," from 1913. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Instagram/jaybi_The S&amp;P just hit an all-time record intraday high. The previous high of 1576.09 was set on October 11, 2007. The index rose to 1576.10 after the market opened, but has since backed off a bit to 1575.50. Two weeks ago, the S&amp;P 500 broke the all-time closing high of 1565.16, also set in October 2007, but it took a little longer to make the final 10-point leap to surpass the all-time intraday high as well. Before the market opened, the Federal Reserve was forced to release the minutes from its March 19-20 FOMC meeting¬†after it was revealed that the minutes had been leaked to a few individuals yesterday. The minutes were originally scheduled to be released at 2 PM today.
AARP adOne recent AARP advertisement Today the White House confirmed that their budget proposal would include a major cut to Social Security in the form of a shift to chained CPI.  The Chained CPI reduces the growth of benefits by using a different index to measure inflation. The AARP, one of the nation's most powerful interest groups for people aged 50 and over, is prepared to mount a counter-assault.† Shifting the cost of living adjustment to chained CPI serves as a†major long-term cut for Social Security benefits. It has infuriated liberal groups and members of Congress, but raising the ire of AARP ó a key supporter of his health care reform ó could turn a previous ally of the President into a powerful adversary. Cristina Martin Firvida, the director of financial security at AARP, told Business Insider Wednesday that Obama's plan to toggle with Social Security benefits is potentially historic. "What's so surprising about the momentum behind chained CPI is it's the only time anyone has put on the table a cut to current benefits for deficit reduction. It's not a phase-in. You're already retired."  AARP PPIAARP projection of the real dollar impact of chained CPI (C-CPI-U) over the course of a retirementAccording to Firvida, if the Obama budget immediately implements chained CPI without a gradual phase-in period, it would be the first time a White House budget cut benefits across the board for people who were already retired.† Chained CPI had been discussed as a potential fix as early as the summer of 2011, but has reached a fever pitch†over the past several days following†the official announcement that the President has included the measure in his budget as a concession to the GOP.† Opponents of chained CPI have been laying the groundwork to mount a major opposition. Firvida told us the AARP has been preparing their response for months,†launching online advertising campaigns, surveys,†and dialing up their grassroots supporters.† "We will be taking this proposition seriously,"†Firvida told Business Insider. Perhaps more than progressive groups, the AARP is well-positioned to mount a fight. †† The organization has 40 million members ó about 13 percent of the U.S. population ó and well over $1.6 billion in assets, according to their tax forms. The AARP is also a major player on Capitol Hill. Last year, they spent $10 million lobbying Congress, according to The Center for Responsive Politics, employing 15 lobbyists at six lobbying firms in addition to their own 40-person in-house government relations team.†Of those 56 total lobbyists, 22 are former Hill staffers.† Even more, the group has the data proving that their base ó which coincidentally is one of the highest-turnout demographics in the United States ó definitively opposes the Obama policy.† On Monday, the AARP released a poll of voters†over the age of 50,†which found that 70 percent opposed using a chained CPI for Social Security and 78 percent said they oppose using a chained CPI for veterans benefits. "The chained CPI reduction snowballs over time and would increase taxes for most taxpayers - at the same time that it cuts benefits for children, veterans, widows, retirees, and people with disabilities," AARP president Nancy LeaMond said in a statement.  "As this survey shows,†older Americans oppose the chained CPI and theyíve historically made their opinions known to their elected officials." But while the AARP has formidable resources and a fired-up base of support, it's unclear exactly how they plan to fight the policy.†
This morning, NYT Mag reported in a big profile that Anthony Weiner is eyeing a run for mayor. Weiner was a NY Congressman whose career ended in shambles after he accidentally tweeted a naked picture of himself, which was meant as a DM to a follower. And so reporters are hanging out in front of his house, hoping to get his first quote/picture/comment. Some have been waiting for 3 hours. Michael Kelly, Business Insider ¬† Michael Kelly, Business Insider ¬† Michael Kelley, Business Insider
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve just released minutes from its March 19-20 FOMC meeting this morning after it was revealed that the minutes were accidentally leaked to lobbyists yesterday. The minutes came out at 9 AM ET. They were originally scheduled for release at 2 PM. The main headlines, via Bloomberg: The Federal Reserve said the minutes "were inadvertently sent early to a list of individuals who normally receive the minutes by email shortly after their usual release time. The individuals on the distribution list ñ primarily congressional employees and employees of trade organizations ñ received the minutes shortly after 2 p.m. Tuesday." Below is the full text from the release: A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, March 19, 2013, at 10:00 a.m., and continued on Wednesday, March 20, 2013, at 9:00 a.m. PRESENT:Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanJames BullardElizabeth DukeCharles L. EvansEsther L. GeorgeJerome H. PowellSarah Bloom RaskinEric RosengrenJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJanet L. Yellen Christine Cumming, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Sandra Pianalto, and Charles I. Plosser, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively William B. English, Secretary and EconomistDeborah J. Danker, Deputy SecretaryMatthew M. Luecke, Assistant SecretaryDavid W. Skidmore, Assistant SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselThomas C. Baxter, Deputy General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist Thomas A. Connors, Troy Davig, Michael P. Leahy, Stephen A. Meyer, David Reifschneider, Christopher J. Waller, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors James A. Clouse and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Adviser to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Seth B. Carpenter, Senior Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Ellen M. Meade, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Eric M. Engen, Thomas Laubach, David E. Lebow, and Michael G. Palumbo, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors William F. Bassett, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Stacey Tevlin, Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Min Wei, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jeremy B. Rudd, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Gregory L. Stefani, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland David Altig, Loretta J. Mester, Glenn D. Rudebusch, and Mark S. Sniderman, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Cleveland, respectively Spencer Krane, Lorie K. Logan, Kevin Stiroh, and Kei-Mu Yi, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, New York, New York, and Minneapolis, respectively Evan F. Koenig, Jonathan P. McCarthy, Giovanni Olivei, and Julie Ann Remache,1†Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas, New York, Boston, and New York, respectively Robert L. Hetzel, Senior Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on January 29-30, 2013. The Manager also reported on developments in foreign money markets and implications for the assets that the Federal Reserve holds in its foreign currency portfolio. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed at the March 19-20 meeting suggested that economic activity was expanding at a moderate rate in the first quarter of this year after the slowdown late last year. Private-sector employment increased at a fairly solid pace, on balance, and the unemployment rate, though still elevated, was slightly lower in February than in the fourth quarter of last year. Consumer price inflation, excluding some temporary fluctuations in energy prices, was subdued, while measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Private nonfarm employment increased at a modest rate in January but expanded more briskly in February, while government employment continued to decrease. The unemployment rate was 7.7 percent in February, slightly less than its fourth-quarter average; the labor force participation rate was also a bit below its fourth-quarter average. The rate of long-duration unemployment and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons were little changed, on net, and both measures remained high. Initial claims for unemployment insurance trended down somewhat over the intermeeting period. The rate of private-sector hiring, along with indicators of job openings and firms' hiring plans, were generally subdued and were consistent with continued moderate increases in employment in the coming months. Manufacturing production increased strongly in February after declining in January, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization in February was a little higher than in the fourth quarter. The production of motor vehicles and parts rose considerably in February, and there were also widespread increases in factory output in other sectors. Automakers' schedules, however, indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies in the coming months would be a bit below that in February. Broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels that pointed to moderate increases in factory production in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures rose modestly in January. In February, nominal retail sales, excluding those at motor vehicle and parts outlets, increased at a strong rate, while light motor vehicle sales edged up. Some key factors that tend to influence household spending were mixed: Households' real disposable incomes declined in January, reflecting in part the increases in both payroll and income taxes that went into effect at the beginning of the year and the previous pulling forward of taxable income from 2013 into 2012; in contrast, household net worth likely rose in recent months as a result of higher equity values and home prices. Consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers rose somewhat in February, but it declined in early March and remained relatively downbeat. Conditions in the housing sector improved further, but construction activity was still at a relatively low level and continued to be restrained by tight credit standards for mortgages. Both starts and permits of new single-family homes increased, on net, over January and February. Starts of multifamily units declined, on balance, but permits rose, consistent with additional gains in construction in coming months. Sales of both new and existing homes advanced in January, and home prices increased further. Real business expenditures on equipment and software appeared to slow somewhat early this year after rising at a brisk rate in the fourth quarter. Nominal shipments for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft decreased in January, but nominal orders increased to a level above that of shipments, pointing to higher shipments in the near term. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, also suggested that outlays for business equipment would rise in the coming months. Nominal business spending for nonresidential construction declined in January. Business inventories in most industries appeared to be generally aligned with sales in recent months. Real federal government purchases appeared to decrease further in January and February, as defense spending continued to contract on balance. Real state and local government purchases looked to have declined as nonfederal government payrolls decreased in January and February and nominal construction expenditures fell in January. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in December but widened in January. Imports rose in January, largely reflecting a rebound in the value of oil imports, and exports decreased, driven by a decline in the value of exports of petroleum products. Exports of capital goods increased; the other major categories of exports remained about unchanged. Indexes of overall U.S. consumer prices were little changed in January but the consumer price index moved up briskly in February, largely reflecting a sharp rise in gasoline prices. Consumer food prices were flat in January and only edged up in February. Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased moderately in January and February. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were unchanged in February and early March; longer-term inflation expectations in the survey were also little changed and remained within the narrow range that they have occupied for some time. Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages remained relatively slow, only slightly above the rate of price inflation. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector rose modestly over 2012, and, with small increases in productivity, unit labor costs also advanced only modestly. Gains in the employment cost index were even slower than for the measure of compensation per hour last year. In January and February, increases in average hourly earnings for all employees continued to be subdued. Economic growth weakened in a number of the advanced foreign economies in the fourth quarter of 2012. In the euro area, real gross domestic product (GDP) contracted for a fifth consecutive quarter. Recent data for European economies, including retail sales and purchasing managers indexes, suggest that the rate of economic contraction may have diminished since the beginning of the year. In emerging market economies (EMEs), an increase in exports contributed to a pickup in the pace of economic growth in the fourth quarter, including for China. More-recent indicators suggest that economic activity in China has slowed some. Inflation remained generally contained in both advanced foreign economies and EMEs. Staff Review of the Financial SituationGenerally favorable U.S. economic data releases, along with communications from Federal Reserve policymakers regarding the outlook for the economy and monetary policy, appeared to contribute to improved sentiment in domestic financial markets over the intermeeting period despite some renewed concerns about economic and financial conditions in Europe. The expected path for the federal funds rate implied by market quotes moved down over the intermeeting period, likely reflecting policymakers' communications that reinforced market expectations of continued monetary policy accommodation. Results from the Desk's survey of primary dealers conducted prior to the March meeting showed that dealers continued to view the third quarter of 2015 as the most likely time of the first increase in the target federal funds rate. In addition, the median dealer continued to see the first quarter of 2014 as the most probable time for the Federal Reserve's asset purchases to end, and most dealers anticipated that the pace of purchases would be adjusted down before ending. Yields on nominal Treasury securities were modestly lower, on net, over the intermeeting period. In late February, these yields declined notably following the inconclusive election outcomes in Italy but mostly retraced this decline as economic data releases in subsequent weeks exceeded expectations. Measures of inflation compensation derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities edged down over the period. Conditions in domestic and offshore dollar funding markets were generally little changed, on balance, during the intermeeting period. The outstanding amount of unsecured commercial paper (CP) issued by financial institutions with European parents increased slightly on net, and CP issued by institutions with U.S. parents remained stable. In the March Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms, respondents reported that leveraged investors seemed to have become somewhat more willing to take positions in risky assets since December. Market reaction to the results of the Dodd-Frank Act annual stress tests and of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review was limited. Overall, a broad index of U.S. bank equity prices rose, on net, over the intermeeting period, and credit default swap spreads for most large domestic banks edged down on balance. Broad equity price indexes increased over the intermeeting period, bolstered by favorable incoming economic data. Option-implied volatility for the S&amp;P 500 index over the near term rose slightly but remained low, at levels last seen in early 2007. Fourth-quarter earnings per share for S&amp;P 500 firms were estimated to have increased modestly from the previous quarter. Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds rose a bit over the intermeeting period, leaving risk spreads a little wider. Corporate bond issuance by nonfinancial firms remained fairly robust in February; commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans and nonfinancial CP also continued to expand. After picking up in January, gross public issuance of equity by nonfinancial firms remained strong in February, and issuance of collateralized loan obligations reached a post-financial-crisis high. Conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) sector improved somewhat. Commercial mortgage debt increased in the fourth quarter after having decreased in each quarter since the beginning of 2009, and commercial mortgage-backed security (CMBS) issuance continued to be robust over the intermeeting period. Nonetheless, delinquency rates on loans underlying existing CMBS remained near historically high levels in February, and CRE prices flattened out in the fourth quarter after several quarters of increases. Both conforming home mortgage rates and yields on agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) rose, on net, during the intermeeting period, and the spread between the primary mortgage rate and MBS yields narrowed a bit. Despite the increase in mortgage rates since the start of the year, mortgage refinancing originations declined only slightly. Consumer credit sustained its moderate expansion in December and January. Nonrevolving credit continued to increase at a solid pace because of growth in student and auto loans, while revolving credit was roughly flat. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities remained strong. Driven largely by continued growth in C&amp;I loans, total bank credit expanded in January and February at roughly its fourth-quarter pace. The February Survey of Terms of Business Lending indicated some easing in loan pricing. The level of M2 was about unchanged, on net, over January and February. In contrast, the monetary base expanded briskly from January through mid-March, driven mainly by the increase in reserve balances resulting from the Federal Reserve's purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS. Financial market concerns regarding the euro area rose over the intermeeting period amid weaker-than-expected economic data releases and political uncertainties generated by the inconclusive election results in Italy. Adding to the concerns was the proposal in Cyprus to tax insured, along with uninsured, deposits as part of the country's effort to secure an aid package from the euro area and the International Monetary Fund. Ten-year sovereign yields in most peripheral euro-area countries rose relative to German bond yields, with spreads for Italian sovereign debt increasing noticeably; euro-area banking-sector share prices fell sharply. With economic data for the euro area, the United Kingdom, and Canada coming in weaker than anticipated, yields on bunds, gilts, and long-term Canadian government securities fell. In addition, market-based measures of expected overnight interest rates also declined in those countries, and the dollar appreciated against the euro, sterling, and the Canadian dollar. Expectations intensified that the Bank of Japan would pursue aggressive monetary easing after the new governor of the Bank of Japan was installed; over the intermeeting period, the yen depreciated further, 10-year Japanese government bond yields declined to near record lows, and the Nikkei stock price index rose substantially. Movements in the currencies of EMEs against the dollar were generally small. Although inflows into emerging market mutual funds continued, they slowed notably in recent weeks, and EME equity indexes were, on average, slightly lower. Some EME central banks cut interest rates, citing concerns about economic growth. The staff also reported on potential risks to financial stability, including those associated with the current low interest rate environment. Some observers have suggested that a lengthy period of low long-term rates could encourage excessive risk-taking that could have adverse consequences for financial stability at some point in the future. The staff surveyed a wide range of asset markets and financial institutions for signs of excess valuations, leverage, or risk-taking that could pose systemic risks. Low interest rates likely have supported gains in asset prices and encouraged the flow of credit to households and businesses, but these changes to date do not appear to have been accompanied by significant financial imbalances. However, trends in a few specific markets bore watching, and the staff will continue to monitor for signs of developments that could pose risks to financial stability. Staff Economic OutlookIn the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the March FOMC meeting, real GDP growth was revised down somewhat in the near term, largely reflecting the federal spending sequestration that went into effect on March 1 and the resulting drag from reduced government purchases. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was little changed, on balance, as the effects of somewhat more fiscal policy restraint and a higher assumed path for the foreign exchange value of the dollar were essentially offset by a brighter outlook for domestic energy production and a higher projection for household wealth, which reflected upward revisions to the projected paths for both equity prices and home prices. On balance, with fiscal policy expected to be tighter in 2013 than in 2012, the staff expected that increases in real GDP this year would only modestly exceed the growth rate of potential output. Fiscal policy restraint on economic growth was assumed to ease over time, and real GDP was projected to accelerate gradually in 2014 and 2015, supported by increases in consumer and business sentiment, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and accommodative monetary policy. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce the slack in labor and product markets over the projection period, and progress in reducing the unemployment rate was expected to be gradual. The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed from the projection prepared for the January FOMC meeting. With crude oil prices anticipated to trend down slowly from their current levels, long-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, and significant resource slack persisting over the forecast period, the staff continued to project that inflation would be subdued through 2015. The staff viewed the uncertainty around its forecast for economic activity as similar to the average level over the past 20 years. However, the risks were viewed as skewed to the downside, reflecting in part the concerns about the situation in Europe and the possibility of a more severe tightening in U.S. fiscal policy than currently anticipated. The staff saw the uncertainty around its projection for inflation as about average, and it viewed the risks to the inflation outlook as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and Economic OutlookIn conjunction with this FOMC meeting, meeting participants--the 7 members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participate in the deliberations of the FOMC--submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2013 through 2015 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy. The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the Summary of Economic Projections, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. Meeting participants generally indicated that they viewed the economic data received during the intermeeting period as somewhat more positive than had been expected, but that fiscal policy appeared to have become more restrictive, leaving the outlook for the economy little changed on balance since the January meeting. Participants judged that the economy had returned to moderate growth following a pause late last year, and a few noted that the downside risks may have diminished. Conditions in labor markets had shown signs of improvement, although the unemployment rate remained elevated. Spending by households and businesses was continuing to expand, perhaps reflecting some increased optimism. Participants noted that the housing market, in particular, had firmed somewhat further. Accommodative monetary policy was likely providing important support to these developments. In contrast, participants thought that fiscal policy was exerting significant near-term restraint on the economy. Participants generally anticipated that growth would proceed at a moderate pace and that the unemployment rate would decline gradually toward levels consistent with the Committee's mandate. Inflation had been running below the Committee's 2 percent objective for some time, and nearly all of the participants anticipated that it would run at or below 2 percent over the medium term. In their discussion of the household sector, most participants noted that the data on spending were somewhat encouraging, particularly with regard to spending on automobiles, other consumer durables, and housing. Several participants stated that the moderate acceleration in spending might in part reflect pent-up demand following years of deleveraging and was importantly supported by the stance of monetary policy, which has reduced the cost of financing purchases and improved credit availability to some degree. A couple of participants noted that the increase in the payroll tax appeared to have not yet had a material effect on household spending; however, another suggested that the payroll tax increase, along with higher gasoline prices, may be one reason why spending by lower-income households appeared to be depressed, as those changes disproportionately cut into the disposable income of those households. A couple of other participants thought that overall consumer spending was likely still held back, at least in part, by ongoing concerns about future income and employment prospects. Both fiscal restraint and the high level of student debt were mentioned as risks to aggregate household spending over the forecast period. Participants generally saw conditions in the housing market as having improved further over the intermeeting period. Rising house prices were strengthening household balance sheets by raising wealth and by increasing the ability of some homeowners to refinance their mortgages at lower rates. Such a dynamic was seen as potentially leading to a virtuous cycle that could help support household spending and financial market conditions over time. Reports from homebuilders in many parts of the country were encouraging. One participant pointed to ongoing changes in a range of factors--including demographics, credit conditions, business models, and consumer preferences--that were likely shifting both supply and demand in the housing sector and concluded that the outlook for the sector was quite uncertain and potentially subject to rapid changes. Many participants reported that their business contacts were seeing some further improvement in the economic outlook. Firms reported increased planning for capital expenditures, supported by low interest rates and substantial cash holdings. Investment spending on productivity-enhancing technology was strong, as was pipeline construction in the energy sector. A few participants indicated that their contacts saw the level of uncertainty about the economic outlook as having declined recently, a development that could lead to increased investment expenditures. Most participants remarked on the federal spending sequester and its potential effects on the economy; they judged that recent tax and spending changes were already restraining aggregate demand or would do so over the course of the year. A couple of participants, however, suggested that they had cut their estimates of the effect of recent federal austerity measures or had never considered the effects to be substantial. Recent readings on private employment and the unemployment rate indicated some improvement in labor market conditions. Nonetheless, participants generally saw the unemployment rate as still elevated and were not yet confident that the recent progress toward the Committee's employment objective would be sustained. The need to use a range of indicators to gauge labor market conditions was noted. One participant highlighted that hiring rates and quit rates remained somewhat low. Another participant discussed evidence that the labor market may have become less dynamic over time, with the result that recent payroll gains might be more meaningful than would first appear. Inference about the labor force participation rate was complicated by its long-run downward trend. One participant cited research indicating that long-term unemployment, which is currently especially high, could lead to persistently lower income and wealth for those affected, even after they found jobs. More broadly, firms reportedly remained cautious about hiring, which some participants attributed in part to restrictive fiscal policy combined with growing regulatory burden. This caution appeared to have resulted in jobs remaining vacant for substantially longer than would normally be the case, given the unemployment rate. Recent price developments were consistent with subdued inflation pressures and inflation remaining at or below the Committee's 2 percent objective over the medium run. Participants saw little near-term inflationary pressure, with a few noting that the appreciation of the dollar was holding down import costs or that the recent increases in gasoline prices did not appear to have passed through more broadly to prices of other goods. Pointing to inflation that had been running below their objective for some time, some participants saw downside risks to inflation, especially if economic activity did not pick up as projected. But a few participants noted that the risk remained that inflationary pressures could rise as the expansion continued, especially if monetary policy remained highly accommodative for too long. Participants discussed their assessments of risks to financial stability, particularly in light of the Committee's highly accommodative stance of monetary policy. Many participants noted that in the current low-interest rate environment, investors in some financial markets were taking on additional risk--either credit risk or interest rate risk--in an effort to boost returns. As a result, vigilance on the part of policymakers and regulators was warranted, especially in light of episodic strains in European markets. A couple of participants noted that U.S. banks had expanded their capital positions and were generally in sound financial condition. Meeting participants generally agreed that there was an ongoing need to evaluate the possible interactions between monetary policy decisions and financial stability, with some noting that adverse shocks to financial stability can affect progress toward the Committee's dual mandate. Review of Efficacy and Costs of Asset PurchasesThe staff provided presentations covering the efficacy of the Federal Reserve's asset purchases, the effects of the purchases on security market functioning, the ways in which asset purchases might amplify or reduce risks to financial stability, and the fiscal implications of purchases. In their discussion of this topic, meeting participants generally judged the macroeconomic benefits of the current purchase program to outweigh the likely costs and risks, but they agreed that an ongoing assessment of the benefits and costs was necessary. Pointing to academic and Federal Reserve staff research, most participants saw asset purchases as having a meaningful effect in easing financial conditions and so supporting economic growth. Some expressed the view that these effects had likely been stronger during the Federal Reserve's initial large-scale asset purchases because that program also helped support market functioning during the financial crisis. Other participants, however, saw little evidence that the efficacy of asset purchases had declined over time, and a couple of these suggested that the effectiveness of purchases might even have increased more recently, as the easing of credit constraints allowed more borrowers to take advantage of lower interest rates. One participant emphasized the role of recent asset purchases in keeping inflation from declining further below the Committee's longer-run goal. A few participants felt that MBS purchases provided more support to the economy than purchases of longer-term Treasury securities because they stimulated the housing sector directly; however, a few preferred to focus any purchases in the Treasury market to avoid allocating credit to a specific sector of the economy. It was noted that, in addition to the standard channels through which monetary policy affects the economy, asset purchases could help signal the Committee's commitment to accommodative monetary policy, thereby making the forward guidance about the federal funds rate more effective. However, a few participants were not convinced of the benefits of asset purchases, stating that the effects on financial markets appeared to be short lived or that they saw little evidence of a significant macroeconomic effect. One participant suggested that the signaling effect of asset purchases may have been reduced by the adoption of threshold-based forward guidance. In general, reflecting the limited experience with large-scale asset purchases, participants recognized that estimates of the economic effects were necessarily imprecise and covered a wide range. Participants generally agreed that asset purchases also have potential costs and risks. In particular, participants pointed to possible risks to the stability of the financial system, the functioning of particular financial markets, the smooth withdrawal of monetary accommodation when it eventually becomes appropriate, and the Federal Reserve's net income. Their views on the practical importance of these risks varied, as did their prescriptions for mitigating them. Asset purchases were seen by some as having a potential to contribute to imbalances in financial markets and asset prices, which could undermine financial stability over time. Moreover, to the extent that asset purchases push down longer-term interest rates, they potentially expose financial markets to a rapid rise in those rates in the future, which could impose significant losses on some investors and intermediaries. Several participants suggested that enhanced supervision could serve to limit, at least to some extent, the increased risk-taking associated with a lengthy period of low long-term interest rates, and that effective policy communication or balance sheet management by the Committee could reduce the probability of excessively rapid increases in longer-term rates. It was also noted that the accommodative stance of policy could be supporting financial stability by returning the economy to a stable footing sooner than would otherwise be the case and perhaps by allowing borrowers to secure longer-term financing and thereby reduce funding risks; by contrast, curtailing asset purchases could slow the recovery and so extend the period of very low interest rates. Nevertheless, a number of participants remained concerned about the potential for financial stability risks to build. One consequence of asset purchases has been the increase in the Federal Reserve's net income and its remittances to the Treasury, but those values were projected to decline, perhaps even to zero for a time, as the Committee eventually withdraws policy accommodation. Some participants were concerned that a substantial decline in remittances might lead to an adverse public reaction or potentially undermine Federal Reserve credibility or effectiveness. The possibility of such outcomes was seen as necessitating clear communications about the outlook for Federal Reserve net income. Several participants stated that such risks should not inhibit the Committee from pursuing its mandated objectives for inflation and employment. In any case, it was indicated that the fiscal benefits of a stronger economy would be much greater than any short-term fluctuations in remittances, and moreover, a couple of participants noted that cumulative remittances to the Treasury would likely be higher than would have been the case without any asset purchases. Some participants also were concerned that additional asset purchases could complicate the eventual firming of policy--for example, by impairing the Committee's control over the federal funds rate. A few participants raised the possibility of an undesirable rise in inflation. However, others expressed confidence in the Committee's exit tools and its resolve to keep inflation near its longer-run goal. Another exit-related concern was a possible adverse effect on market functioning from MBS sales during the normalization of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Although the Committee's asset purchases have had little apparent effect on securities market functioning to date, some participants felt that future asset sales could prove more challenging. In this regard, several participants noted that a decision by the Committee to hold its MBS to maturity instead of selling them would essentially eliminate this risk. A decision not to sell MBS, or to sell MBS only very slowly, would also mitigate some of the financial stability risks that could be associated with such sales as well as damp the decline in remittances to the Treasury at that time. Such a decision was also seen by some as a potential source of additional near-term policy accommodation. Overall, most meeting participants thought the risks and costs of additional asset purchases remained manageable, but also that continued close attention to these issues was warranted. A few participants noted that curtailing the purchase program was the most direct way to mitigate the costs and risks. In light of their discussion of the benefits and costs of asset purchases, participants discussed their views on the appropriate course for the current asset purchase program. A few participants noted that they already viewed the costs as likely outweighing the benefits and so would like to bring the program to a close relatively soon. A few others saw the risks as increasing fairly quickly with the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and judged that the pace of purchases would likely need to be reduced before long. Many participants, including some of those who were focused on the increasing risks, expressed the view that continued solid improvement in the outlook for the labor market could prompt the Committee to slow the pace of purchases beginning at some point over the next several meetings, while a few participants suggested that economic conditions would likely justify continuing the program at its current pace at least until late in the year. A range of views was expressed regarding the economic and labor market conditions that would call for an adjustment in the pace of purchases. Many participants emphasized that any decision to reduce the pace of purchases should reflect both an improvement in their overall outlook for labor market conditions, as implied by a wide range of available indicators, and their confidence in the sustainability of that improvement. A couple of these participants noted that if progress toward the Committee's economic goals were not maintained, the pace of purchases might appropriately be increased. A number of participants suggested that the Committee could change the mix of its policy tools if necessary to increase or maintain overall accommodation, including potentially adjusting its forward guidance or its balance sheet policies. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members saw the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that moderate economic growth had resumed following a pause late last year. Labor market conditions had shown signs of improvement, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment had advanced, and the housing sector had strengthened further, but fiscal policy had become somewhat more restrictive. The Committee expected that, with appropriate monetary policy accommodation, economic growth would proceed at a moderate pace and result in a gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels that the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. Members generally continued to anticipate that, with longer-term inflation expectations stable and slack in resource utilization remaining, inflation over the medium term would likely run at or below the Committee's 2 percent objective. In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members saw the economic outlook as little changed since the previous meeting, and, consequently, all but one member judged that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy was warranted in order to foster a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability. The Committee agreed that it would be appropriate to continue purchases of MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and purchases of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month, as well as to maintain the Committee's reinvestment policies. The Committee also retained its forward guidance about the federal funds rate, including the thresholds on the unemployment and inflation rates. One member dissented from the Committee's policy decision, expressing concern that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in inflation expectations. Members stressed that any changes to the purchase program should be conditional on continuing assessments both of labor market and inflation developments and of the efficacy and costs of asset purchases. In light of the current review of benefits and costs, one member judged that the pace of purchases should ideally be slowed immediately. A few members felt that the risks and costs of purchases, along with the improved outlook since last fall, would likely make a reduction in the pace of purchases appropriate around midyear, with purchases ending later this year. Several others thought that if the outlook for labor market conditions improved as anticipated, it would probably be appropriate to slow purchases later in the year and to stop them by year-end. Two members indicated that purchases might well continue at the current pace at least through the end of the year. It was also noted that were the outlook to deteriorate, the pace of purchases could be increased. In light of this discussion, the Committee included language in the statement to be released following the meeting in part to make explicit that the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases were conditional not only on the likely efficacy and costs of those purchases, but also on the extent of progress toward the Committee's economic objectives. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. The Desk is directed to continue purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month and to continue purchasing agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $40 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January suggests a return to moderate economic growth following a pause late last year. Labor market conditions have shown signs of improvement in recent months but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal policy has become somewhat more restrictive. Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook. The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action:†Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, James Bullard, Elizabeth Duke, Charles L. Evans, Jerome H. Powell, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Eric Rosengren, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action:†Esther L. George. Ms. George dissented because she continued to view monetary policy as too accommodative and therefore as posing risks to the achievement of the Committee's economic objectives in the long run. In particular, the current stance of policy could lead to financial imbalances, a mispricing of risk, and, over time, higher long-term inflation expectations. In her view, the Committee's asset purchases were providing relatively small benefits, and, given the risks that they posed as well as the improvement in the outlook for the labor market, she thought they should be wound down. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, April 30-May 1, 2013. The meeting adjourned at 11:30 a.m. on March 20, 2013. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on February 19, 2013, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on January 29-30, 2013. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Federal Reserve / USStreamThe Fed minutes just came out. Normally they come out at 2 PM. But today they came out at 9 AM. Why? According to CNBC's Steve Liesman, some were leaked to lobbyists yesterday afternoon. For the full Fed minutes, see here &gt;
REUTERS / Toru HanaiHaruhiko KurodaOne of the hottest stories in the world is the decline of the Japanese yen, thanks to the aggressive easing by the Bank of Japan. In such a central bank-obsessed environment, the utterances of central bank chiefs become important events. And we had an interesting moment just now, as the yen jumped significantly in the matter of seconds. Bloomberg just ran a headline saying: *KURODA SAYS BOJ HAS DONE WHAT'S NECESSARY AND POSSIBLE FOR NOW But as Sebastien Galy of SocGen notes, Reuters ran this headline: KURODA: TOOK ALL NECESSARY STEPS LAST WEEK TO ACHIEVE 2 PCT INFLATION TARGET IN 2 YEARS' The first translation implies that it would be impossible for the BOJ to do anything more. The second translation is not quite so limiting, just saying it did the maximum it could do last week (but doesn't say that there's not more it will be able to do). And in fact, if you read the full BOJ wire piece, it actually sounds like Kuroda is willing to stimulate for longer than he prevously indicated. So yes. If you're trading the yen, perhaps you should brush up on your Japanese.
APThe most controversial item in President Barack Obama's new budget is a plan to cut Social Security benefits via something called a "chained CPI." The chained CPI is a way of recalculating the growth of benefits by using an inflation index that doesn't go up as fast. Republicans supported this idea during the fiscal cliff negotiations and they said it could be the prelude to a sweeping budget deal that included new revenues. The Washington Post's Greg Sargent notes†this morning that Republicans have changed their tone on the "chained CPI" compromise since the fiscal cliff negotiations. Last week, House Speaker John Boehner said†that Obama should work with Republicans on the reform now, but that he still disagreed with the President on implementing any new taxes. On the Senate floor Tuesday, Minority Leader Mitch McConnell called the entitlement reforms in Obama's budget "modest." As Sargent points out, McConnell told the Wall Street Journal in late November†that the chained CPI cost-of-living adjustment, means-testing on Medicare premiums, and an increase in the Medicare eligibility age would be the "kinds of things that would get Republicans interested in new revenue."  Medicare means-testing and chained CPI are two proposals that Obama has embraced throughout the constant series of budget talks. Republicans would push back on Sargent's argument with a common refrain ó they already agreed to new revenue as part of the deal to avert the fiscal cliff. But the change in tone underscores the risk for Obama in embracing chained CPI as his own†ó infuriating his own base while still getting nothing in return from Republicans.
TwitterPresident Barack Obama released his 2013 budget proposal Wednesday, calling for $3.8 trillion in spending and projecting a deficit of $901 billion.¬† We don't have the full budget yet, but the six-page brief is loaded with priorities that the President laid out in his State of the Union address and has campaigned around the country to promote.¬† Among those is his plan to invest in early childhood education through his Preschool for All initiative. The proposal calls for providing all low- and moderate-income households with free preschool, to be paid for by raising federal taxes on cigarettes and tobacco products.¬† The White House has so far declined to provide details about the proposed tobacco tax rate or the cost of the preschool program.¬† Here are the details:¬† ÔÇ∑ To build a foundation for success in the formative early years of life, increases access to high- quality early childhood education with a Preschool for All initiative. o In partnership with the States, provides all low- and moderate-income four-year-olds with high- quality preschool, while encouraging States to serve additional four-year-olds from middle class families. The initiative also promotes access to full-day kindergarten and high-quality early education programs for children under age four. o The Preschool for All initiative is financed by raising the Federal tax on cigarettes and other tobacco products, which would also have substantial public health impacts, particularly by reducing youth smoking. o The Budget makes companion investments in voluntary home visiting programs, preserving child care access, and expanding high-quality care for infants and toddlers through new Early Head Start-Child Care Partnerships. UPDATE:¬† The full White House budget proposes a¬†$750 million investment in discretionary Preschool¬†Development Grants, to be paid for by a $0.94 increase in the federal cigarette tax.¬† The rest of the preschool initiative includes $1.4 billion for new Early Head Start Child Care Partnerships, $7 billion in child care subsidies, and $15 billion to expand voluntary home-testing, all over 10 years.
No comment needed. From Clarkmoody.com: http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
At 6 AM, The White House released a 6 page summary of The President's budget plan, which will seek to raise $580 billion in new taxes on the way to cutting the deficit by over $1.7 trillion over 10 years. The most controversial item in the budget is a new measure of indexing growth of Social Security payments called a Chained CPI. Our Walt Hickey goes into the technical details here. Meanwhile, liberals are already launching a full-on assault against the idea. Anyway, it's almost difficult to find the line about this idea in the summary. It's buried at the bottom of the last page. It just says: $230 billion in savings from using a chained measure of inflation for cost-of-living adjustments throughout the Budget, with protections for the most vulnerable. Here's a partial screenshot of the last page. The White House
ShutterstockGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Alex Davies / Business InsiderObama's budget -- which is being rolled out today -- seeks to raise $580 billion in new revenue, as part of a plan to reduce the deficit by $1.8 trillion over 10 years. A preview document explains (vaguely) how the revenue will be raised. Raises $580 billion for deficit reduction by limiting high-income tax benefits, without raising tax rates. --Implements the Buffett Rule, requiring that households with incomes over $1 million pay at least 30% of their income (after charitable giving) in taxes. -- Limits the value of tax deductions and other tax benefits for the top 2% of families to 28%, reducing these tax benefits to levels closer to what middle-class families get. There's also this, which will sock a fair number of high earners. -- Ends a loophole that lets wealthy individuals circumvent contribution limits and accumulate millions in tax-preferred retirement accounts. -- Ends a loophole that lets financial managers pay tax on their carried interest income at the lower capital gains rate. For more on the budget, see here &gt;
White House photo/Pete SouzaUS President Barack Obama Wednesday debuts a budget that will be declared dead on arrival by Republicans, irk liberals and stand as his final offer in the next fiscal clash to consume Washington. Obama's spending plan for 2014 is in many ways an academic exercise, given that it has no chance of being fully enacted in stalemated Washington, as Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill have already passed rival budgets. But it will represent Obama's entry in the latest fast-building showdown pitching the president's plan to hike taxes on the most well off against Republican plans to slash government spending with no new revenues. "We don't view this budget as a starting point. This is an offer where the president came more than half way towards the Republicans in an attempt to get a fiscal deal," said a senior White House official. "Are Republicans going to be willing to come to us?" the official asked, ahead of the unveiling of the budget at a time hope has faded for a "grand bargain" deal on the deficit between Obama and Republicans. White House officials have already signaled that Obama's offer will include one key concession to Republicans, which has angered elements of his liberal Democratic base. He will signal he is ready to modify some cherished entitlement social programs, by adjusting cost of living adjustments that could trim benefits for some senior citizens. The White House is billing the budget as a document which proves that the need to cut voluminous deficits does not need to be achieved by savage cuts in government spending and social programs envisaged by Republicans. Officials say the plan includes $1.8 trillion of deficit reduction over 10 years and would raise $580 billion dollars in new revenue by curbing income tax breaks for the rich, without raising rates. Republicans however dispute the deficit reduction figures, arguing that since the budget would dispense with $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts, known as the sequester which began in March, its real deficit reduction figure would only be $600 billion in savings. "We hear it contains tax hike upon tax hike upon tax hike -- and, in fact, all of the deficit reduction ... would be derived from myriad tax increases rather than spending reductions," said Senate Republican minority leader Mitch McConnell Tuesday. "It sounds like the White House just tossed last year's budget in the microwave." Among measures that have already been opposed by Republicans, the Obama budget would implement the "Buffett Rule" which would mandate that households on more than $1 million dollars a year pay at least 30 percent of income in taxes. The $3.77 trillion budget blueprint, to be officially unveiled by Obama at 1515 GMT, in the White House Rose Garden, will forsee a deficit of $744 billion, or 4.4 percent of GDP in 2014. Officials projected that the shortfall would reach 2.8 percent of GDP by 2016 and 1.7 percent by 2023. The White House says that the plan represents more than two dollars in spending cuts for every one dollar of new revenue accrued from closing tax loopholes. It also includes $400 billion in health savings that administration officials say could be found through cracking down on fraud. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
We just mentioned Goldman's big call to short gold, but we wanted to pluck out this chart, as it's particularly interesting. It shows a big drop in total holdings of Gold ETFs, the exchange-traded gold back products whose rise coincided with the huge boom over the last several years. Goldman Sachs, FT AlphavilleAs you can see over the last few years, there have been some bumps along the way, but the amount of gold held by ETFs has grown massively, and there hasn't been a decline of this magnitude. In fact, going back a bit, you can look at the holdings of just one ETF (GLD) and see that total tons grew massively over the several previous years, even before the bust. From the GotGoldReport, the red line shows the massive surge in tonnage held starting in 2006. GotGoldReport Bottom line. This looks like the reversal of a major trend that had been part of the gold runup story.
Goldman has advised clients to straight up short gold, with an end-of-the-year price target of $1450/oz. Izabella Kaminska at FT Alphaville has the full summary of the call, which actually is a follow-on to a generally bearish call that the company has had all year. This is an interesting observation While there are risks for modest near-term upside to gold prices should US growth continue to slow down, we see risks to current prices as skewed to the downside as we move through 2013. In fact, should our expectation for lower gold prices continue to prove correct, the fall in prices could end up being faster and larger than our forecast, as aggregate speculative net long positions across COMEX futures and gold ETFs remain near record highs. An interesting nugget is that holdings in gold ETFs continue dwindle. Goldman Sachs, FT Alphaville Read Kaminska's full summary here &gt;
Italian industrial production fell 0.8% in February, far worse than the 0.5% that was expected. That's ugly, but it's probably going to get a lot worse, as Chris Williamson from Markit notes by comparing industrial production to Italy's manufacturing PMI, which has already turned down since then. Italian industrial production -0.8% m/m Feb, -3.9% y/y. Downturn has eased in Q1 since Q4 but worse to come again. twitpic.com/cib0fw
The most interesting moves over the last few days have been in the Japanese Government Bond Market, where yields have been jumping. There's one camp that would argue that this is the natural result of stimulus and an increase in inflation expectations. Another camp argues that this is the beginning of a much more disorderly collapse in the market, that threatens Japan's sovereign finances. Here's an interesting nugget from Nomura: This marks the sharpest three-day steepening in super-long zone since April 1995; the correction may continue into the auction, leaving 30s at attractive levels to buy outright. Anyway, via Nomura, here's a chart of 30-year Japanese government bond yields. As you can see, borrowing costs at the long end are super low, and well below where they were just at the beginning of the year. But thanks to the timing of the BOJ monetary easing last week, the jump is getting some attention. Nomura
Pete Souza (Official White House Photograph)WASHINGTON (AP) ó President Barack Obama on Wednesday is sending Congress his 2014 budget, an effort to achieve an elusive "grand bargain" to tame runaway deficits that have soared above $1 trillion for each of the past four years. Obama's spending blueprint for the 2014 budget year would accomplish the deficit cuts through a combination of further tax increases, further reductions in the growth of spending and reductions in the growth of the government's biggest benefit programs, Social Security and Medicare. But instead of moving Congress nearer a grand bargain, the Obama's proposals so far have managed to anger Republicans and Democrats alike. Obama's Democratic allies have attacked him for pursuing cuts in Social Security and Medicare, while Republicans have rejected the president's efforts to raise taxes further. The president's spending and tax plan for the budget year that begins Oct. 1 is two months late. The administration blames the delay on the lengthy "fiscal cliff" negotiations at the end of December and then fights over the March 1 automatic spending cuts. The president's plan tracks an offer he made to House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, during December's budget negotiations, which Boehner ended up walking away from because of his opposition to higher taxes on the wealthy. The Obama budget proposal will join competing budget outlines already approved by the Republican-controlled House and the Democratic-run Senate. Congress is unlikely to get down to serious negotiations until this summer, when the government will once again be confronted with the need to raise the government's borrowing limit or face the prospect of a first-ever default on U.S. debt. As part of the administration's effort to win over Republicans, Obama will have a private dinner at the White House with about a dozen GOP senators Wednesday night. The budget is expected to be a primary topic, along with proposed legislation dealing with gun control and immigration. Early indications are that the budget negotiations will be intense. Republicans have been adamant in their rejection of higher taxes, arguing that they will not go further than the $600 billion increase on top earners over a decade that was part of the late December agreement to prevent the government from going over the "fiscal cliff." The administration maintains that Obama's proposal is balanced with the proper mix of spending cuts and tax increases. "The president's been clear that it's going to take broad and shared sacrifice," Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew said in an interview on National Public Radio. "He would not find it acceptable to make only reductions in entitlement programs. That we need also to raise revenues so that we have a fair balance of what the deficit reduction will come from." The most sweeping proposal in Obama's budget is a switch in the way the government calculates the annual cost-of-living benefits for the millions of recipients of Social Security and certain other benefit programs from the current method tied to changes in the consumer price index. The new method, known as chain-weighted CPI, takes into account changes that occur when people substitute goods rising in price with less expensive products. It results in a slightly lower annual reading for inflation. The switch to modified CPI inflation formula would cut spending on government benefit programs by $130 billion over 10 years, although the administration said it planned to protect the most vulnerable. The change would also raise about $100 billion in higher taxes because the current CPI formula is used to adjust tax brackets each year. A lower inflation measure would mean more money taxed at higher rates. Once the COLA change is fully phased in, it is estimated that it would mean about $560 less in annual benefits for a typical 75-year-old receiving benefits and $984 less for someone 85. The White House has said it would reduce deficits by a total of $1.8 trillion over a decade, reducing the annual red ink to the $500 billion range by 2016 and down to 1.7 percent of the size of the economy in 10 years. When the deficit program proposed by the president is combined with $2.5 trillion in deficit reductions already approved, it would total $4.3 trillion in deficit cuts over the next decade. Obama has presided over four straight years of annual deficits totaling more than $1 trillion, reflecting in part the lost revenue during a deep recession and the government's efforts to get the economy going again and stabilize the financial system. The Obama budget's $1.8 trillion in new budget cuts would take the place of the automatic $1.2 trillion in reductions required by a 2011 budget deal. That provision triggered $85 billion in automatic cuts for the current budget year and those reductions, known as a "sequester," would not be affected by Obama's new budget. The budget plan already passed by the GOP-controlled House would cut deficits by a total $4.6 trillion over 10 years on top of the $1.2 trillion called for in the 2011 deal. The budget outline approved by the Democratic-controlled Senate tracks more closely to the Obama proposal, although it does not include changes to the cost-of-living formula for Social Security. ___ Associated Press writers Andrew Taylor, Jim Kuhnhenn and Donna Cassata contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
flickr / Takato MaruiThe aftermath of the latest Bank of Japan monetary policy moves continues to create interesting ripples in the market. Of particular interest is the action going on in the JGB (Japanese Government Bond) market for two reasons. One is that JGBs have been on a historic multi-decade rally and are thus known as the "widowmaker" for how many traders have been taken out in a box trying to short them. The other bigger area of concern is that because Japan has so much debt, people worry about a crisis. Folks like Kyle Bass is both betting that the widowmaker will end and that Japan will go into a sovereign debt crisis. JGBs had a volatile day on Friday, as yields jumped markedly and the market had to be halted twice. And they had a wild day last night as yell, with yields jumping from 0.52% to 0.58% on the 10-year. And the 5-year was even more notable. Japanese 5-yr yields +8bps today. Doesn't sound a lot, but it's the biggest rise in more than 4 years, since 9 Oct 2008. But the jumpiness combined with the new BOJ actions is certainly making folks take notice.
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderAs of now, we're looking at a nice risk-on Wednesday. Thanks to a weakening yen, markets gained in Asia with the Nikkei jumping 0.7% and Shanghai gaining 0.02%. Korea rallied 0.77%. Things are green in Europe. Italy is up a strong 1.4%. Germany is up 0.6%. US futures are all up about 0.2%. The Japanese yen is just below 99.4, as it makes another run towards 100. The big event today: Details of Obama's budget come out.
