Every politician in America knows that Social Security (SS) is a third rail. Any Pol who tries to mess with the country‚Äôs largest and most popular entitlement program is going to have the likes of the AARP coming after them. It‚Äôs not possible to win an election on a platform that advocates cutting back SS. With that in mind, I find it interesting to report that a very credible source is now predicting that Obama AND Congress will take action over the next 24 months that will substantially undermine both the long and short-term health of SS. The legislative raid on SS will certainly total in the hundreds of billions, it could top $1T over the next fifteen years. So who is this ‚Äúcredible source‚Äù? And just how is this raid going to happen? The source of this information is the Congressional Budget Office (CBO); the following is how it will play out: SS consists of two different pieces. The Old Age and Survivors Insurance (OASI) and Disability Insurance (DI). Both entities have their own Trust Funds (TF). OASI has a big TF that will, in theory, allow for SS retirement benefits to be paid for another 15+ years. On the other hand, the DI fund will run completely dry during the 1stQ of 2016. By current law, the DI benefits must be cut across-the-board by 30% on the day that the DI TF is exhausted. This would mean that 11 million people (most of whom are very sick) would get slammed from one day to the next. There is no one in D.C. who wants this to happen. I don‚Äôt think the American public wants this outcome either. So what are the fixes? 1) Increase income taxes on +$250k of income to pay for the DI shortfall. Maybe, but this will not happen with the current Republican controlled House. 2) Increase Payroll taxes to cover the DI shortfall. I see zero political support for a permanent Payroll tax increase. 3) Cut benefits by 30%. This would be insane ‚Äì it will not happen with Obama running the show. 4) Kick the can down the road and raid the OASI TF for the annual shortfalls at DI. Of course #4 is the path that will be taken. #s 1, 2 and 3 are not politically feasible.¬† I have been wondering what will happen with the DI conundrum. I was surprised to see that the CBO spelled out what will happen in its report on the Budget and Economy ‚Äì SS Trust Funds.¬† The report has this footnote: CBO projects that the DI trust fund will be exhausted during fiscal year 2016. Under current law, the Commissioner of Social Security may not pay benefits in excess of the available balances in a trust fund, borrow money for a trust fund, or transfer money from one trust fund to another. However, following rules in the Deficit Control Act of 1985 (section 257(b)), CBO‚Äôs baseline assumes that the Commissioner will pay DI benefits in full even after the trust fund is exhausted.  The footnote goes on to provide an estimate for the size of the raid: For illustrative purposes, below are the cumulative shortfalls in the DI trust fund beginning in 2016. Those shortfalls do not include interest expenses. DI Trust Fund Cumulative Shortfall ($s in Billions) 2016 -15 2017¬† -55 2018¬† -94 2019 -133 2020 -173 2021 -215 2022 -260 2023 -307 ¬† Wow! At this rate the raid tops $1T in 2029. This is is a big dent in a Trust Fund of $2.8T. There is an import ‚Äútell‚Äù from the CBO. In the footnotes it highlights the fact that there is a discrepancy, and uses this an excuse to avoid establishing an adjusted end date for the OASI Trust Fund. (It‚Äôs not a complicated calculation) What the CBO fails to state is that the raid on OASI will result in a significant reduction in the End Date for the retirement Fund. In its report to Congress last year SS forecast that the Retirement fund would be exhausted in 2033.¬† The DI drain (and other negative revisions by CBO) will bring the End Date to below 2030 in the upcoming SS report to Congress. That would be a very significant development. The CBO does not want to be the one who puts a new SS end date ‚Äúout there‚Äù. To me, this was a cop-out by the CBO. Given that discrepancy between the trust funds‚Äô operation and the baseline‚Äôs assumption, CBO is not providing DI or combined trust fund totals for the year of exhaustion and thereafter. The timing of this story is interesting. The question in my mind is will the ‚Äúfix‚Äù come before or after the bi-election. If Obama was a gambler, and he believed the Democrats could re-take the House in 2014, then he might defer action on DI until 2015. This scenario creates the opportunity for option #1, a tax on the rich to supplement DI. Of course that is gambling, and there would be a small window of time to push through a new income tax to save DI. Then there is the Republicans. Do they want to push this before, or after 11/2015? I could argue both ways, but in the end, it gets back to the fact that no one wants to ‚Äúdo‚Äù anything with SS. It‚Äôs better to do ‚Äúnothing‚Äù; that makes #4 the most likely outcome. I hope that some of the big Defenders of SS pick up on the information from the CBO regarding the coming raid on the retirement fund. This is a huge constituency (60m beneficiaries ‚Äì 150m contributors ‚Äì every politician in the country ‚Äì all of the Press). If that group catches on to what is about to happen to the retirement fund, there will be a great chorus of, ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you dare touch my money!‚Äù  I‚Äôm trying to stir the pot on this one. I want DI‚Äôs terminal condition to come onto the table sooner versus later. I‚Äôm hoping that if and when it does come up for discussion, it opens the door on the broader issue of what the hell America is doing with entitlements. Basically, I‚Äôm trying to pick a big fight. For the good of the country, wish me luck.
Daniel GoodmanIn terms of market-moving events, Monday is about as sleepy as it can get, with only one important French economic release, and only two notable U.S. companies reporting earnings. Here's what you need to know: Follow all of Monday's news LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
The market capitalization of the Wilshire 5000 is up $9.2 trillion since March 9, 2009, to $16.0 trillion on Friday. The Fed‚Äôs flow of funds data show that the value of all stocks in the US has increased by $12 trillion to $26 trillion from Q1-2009 through Q3-2012. The value of stocks directly held by individuals is up $4.7 trillion to $9.8 trillion over this period. The values of equity mutual funds and equity ETFs are up $2.3 trillion and $634.7 billion, respectively, over this period. Owners‚Äô equity in household real estate jumped 19.6% by $1.3 trillion to $7.7 trillion during the three quarters through Q3-2012! There‚Äôs more to come given that the median existing home price rose 10.9% y/y during December, the best pace since January 2006. ¬†Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Brief: Bernanke‚Äôs Check List. (1) Give the credit guy credit. (2) Obama picked the bottom. (3) Fed fed the bull. (4) Ben‚Äôs missions accomplished and unaccomplished. (5) Is the big wealth effect just an illusion? (6) Cranking up the asset-inflation machine. (7) Stein‚Äôs ‚Äúoverheating mechanism.‚Äù (8) Evans: QE could stop before 7% jobless rate. (9) Cleveland‚Äôs concerns. (10) Global positives. (11) ‚ÄúSide Effects‚Äù (+ +). (More for subscribers.)
The latest BofA Merrill Lynch survey of fixed income fund managers asks a simple question: Why are you long U.S. Treasury bonds? The answer from the majority of managers is that they aren't. According to BAML strategists¬†Ralf Preusser and Richard Cochinos, 66 percent of investors are no longer holding Treasuries, and 11 percent are thinking of selling. The two write in a note to clients that with such bearish sentiment toward U.S. government debt,¬†"the sell-off in Treasuries may be running out of steam." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research The answers to this question reveal an important dynamic in the market: only four percent of the managers surveyed believe the Federal Reserve has their back. One thing the reduction in exposure to Treasuries does not appear to be about, according to the survey, is a "Great Rotation" of investment capital out of bond funds and into equity funds. Preusser and Cochinos note that only 37 percent of managers believe the "Great Rotation" is actually happening: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research One other notable stat from the survey, which compiled the views of 74 fixed income fund managers from around the globe: investors¬†are underweight U.S. dollars for the first time since 2010. A lot has been made of the over-extended nature of the rally in risk assets. This is the flip-side of the coin ‚Äì bearishness toward safe-havens like Treasuries and dollars may be equally overextended. The BAML rates team says this supports their view that the rise in yields is coming to a halt for now. The other big factor driving that call, they say, is concern over¬†"the consumer facing a large drop in disposable income." Read more about what BAML calls the U.S. economy's coming "moment of truth" here &gt;
ShutterstockIn terms of news that mattered to markets, it was a quiet weekend. But there are some notable events coming up. JPMorgan's "Early Look At The Market" note offers up a taste. The general feeling is that most of the market‚Äôs attention has shifted to a few events next week. This Tuesday evening, Obama is slated to give his State of the Union address; however, this isn‚Äôt expected to be a major, market moving event, especially since most of the agenda (helping the middle class, making college more affordable, investing in the country‚Äôs infrastructure, etc.) has been talked about on a couple of different occasions. More importantly, keep an eye out for headlines from the Eurozone Financial meeting this Monday and Tuesday as well as the G20 meeting on Thursday and Friday. More specifically, investors will be on the look out for any sort of commentary regarding FX, the ESM, or sovereign banks.¬† On a more granular level, investors will also be scanning the tape later in the week for headlines from AAMRQ and LCC on any sort of final decision regarding a merger that could result in the world‚Äôs largest airline. Plans originally were for votes to occur on Mon w/an announcement Tues, but AMR needed more time to finalize details and an announcement could come later this week. Also of note: Apple is presenting at a Goldman conference out in San Francisco. Given the decline in that stock (and the latest talk about what the company will do with the cash) that should be very interesting.
YouTubeThe astounding rally in the high-yield corporate bond market (i.e. junk bonds) over the past two months has finally hit a bit of a wall alongside a stall in the broader rally in risk assets (e.g. stocks). High-yield bond ETFs were hit particularly hard last week with redemptions, recording the largest weekly outflow ever. Depressed yields on safer investments like U.S. Treasury bonds have moved investors further out on the risk spectrum in search of interest income. The high-yield debt market is pretty far out on the spectrum and is usually one of the first places you will start to see general market sentiment turn. This owes to its relatively high sensitivity to changes in risk perception and the large amounts of retail money that have piled into high-yield funds since the financial crisis. BofA Merrill Lynch strategists Oleg Melentyev and Neha Khoda write in a note to clients that the market is becoming increasingly unstable at these levels: This most recent pullback signifies how unstable the market is becoming at its current valuations. To borrow the term from aerodynamics, we view these levels as forming the ‚Äúcoffin corner‚Äù for high yield, a term referring to the altitude at which an aircraft becomes nearly impossible to keep in stable flight. It defines the situation, where the current speed is both the minimum required to maintain level flight and at the same time also the maximum speed at which air can travel over wings without losing lift. Such a combination does not affect planes flying at normal altitudes, but applies to those ascending to critically high levels, often exceeding 60 thousand feet. This reminds us of a place where the high-yield market finds itself today ‚Äì a point where the positive momentum is required to maintain continued demand for the asset class, and yet producing such positive momentum would imply pushing the market valuations further beyond any reasonable levels, thus undoing the very reason for being aggressive in buying risk at these levels. An unstable combination, in our view. Melentyev and Khoda cite strong primary issuance into a weak secondary market and investor jitters over how much duration risk they have taken on in their portfolios as key headwinds for the high-yield market right now. The BAML strategists suggest that the next big market catalyst could be in late March, when they believe a "tipping point" will occur in Washington, D.C. fiscal negotiations. Before that, the market could continue to move higher. However, they warn, "This push could prove futile at the end, in our opinion."
When is a market not a market? A market is not a market once it has been cornered. There is growing concern about where rates are headed. That is normal. There is growing†concern with the seemingly bizarre trading of the longer end of the curve. That concern is†normal too. What isnít normal is the nature of the bond market today and that goes a long way†to explaining what we are currently seeing. Letís focus on the 10 to 20 year part of the curve for example. There will be no new issuance in†that part of the curve if we count new 10 year bonds as part of the 5 to 10 year bucket. All we†get is some small amount of roll down which doesnít change the argument much. Of the $221 billion of bonds in that 10 to 20 year bucket, the Fed already owns $93 billion, or†42.4%. Since the Fed is limited to no more than 70% of any one issue, they could buy up to†their max position of $155 billion in under 2 months of QE. TF Market Advisors If the Fed decided they wanted to†push aggressively on the 10 to 20 year part of the curve, they could own 70% of it by the end of†March. Is there any reason to assume the Fed wouldnít do this? Seriously, think about it. This†Fed is aggressively trying to manipulate rates both across the curve and across products. They†may well do things we never dreamed possible if it suits their policy agenda. Of the remaining 30% of bonds, how many are held in not available for sale accounts? Some†portion of the longer dated bond market is held by entities that arenít actively willing or even†able to trade it. The potential free float is tiny. The existing free float may already be small. When we look at the 20 to 30 year (or what has become TLT land for retail) we see a similar†story. The Fed already controls 37% of the market and could buy up to 70% in less than 7†months even if we issue some new long bonds. Again, what portion of the long bond market is†held by investors who arenít the selling type? We talk about the size of the treasury market, and with T-bills, Bonds, and TIPS, it is over $11†trillion (I didnít include the $800 billion of TIPS because they would have required me to build a†more complex spreadsheet, and donít think it changes much of the analysis). So we all think about this ìsuper liquidî $10 trillion market, but where we want to place the†bets, there is already a maximum of $620 billion that is free to trade (and I suspect that is highly†overstated given the existence of not available for sale accounts). It is not a co-incidence that†this is the case. It isnít ìrandomî that 76% of the Fed holdings are longer than 5 years. It is part of a plan that†the Fed now owns about 40% of all bonds longer than 5 year maturity. Nothing about the†portfolio construction is random, and that is important to remember. Whatever you want to†say about the Fed, they are very smart people.†You can disagree with them, but they have an†agenda and will execute it. They only tell us part of their agenda, the rest we have to figure†out, but it is no coincidence how they built out this portfolio. They want to be able to control†rates, and if you think they wonít use their ability to buy up to 70% of the longer dated market†in a few months, then you are betting against what the data tells you. The Fed can control the front end with their pledge to keep rates at 0%. So long as they keep†that pledge, the front end (2 years and in remains under control). The 2 to 5 year range needs a†bit of help, but greed, and otherwise steep forward curves, help the Fed in that battle. It is the†longer end as well. The coupon story is useful as well. TF Market Advisors The Treasury currently pays out $203 billion in coupon interest and something on the t-bills,†which I took the liberty of rounding to 0, which isnít that far from the truth. What we see is that while the Fed only owns 16% of all T-bills and Bonds it controls almost†30% of all interest paid. Again, the Fed is managing this on purpose. Bonds with greater than†8% are all almost at the 70% limit. They went and targeted those bonds. It lets them funnel†more money into the system by buying high priced bonds, and has a bigger benefit to treasury†who gets to pay itself the 8% coupons and leaves the rest of the world to own the 1% and 2%†coupon bonds. The Fed paid for hurricane Sandy. Hurricane Sandy will cost us $60 billion or so, and the Fed,†happens to have $60 billion in income that can be used. Our deficit this past year would have†been $100 billion greater without the Fed direct payments (they have mortgages and other†assets). The indirect benefits are also large. A measly 1% higher rate on the one year debt getting rolled†over would have added $30 billion to the deficit. The numbers are mind boggling. If Ben could†figure out how to get himself paid 2 and 20 on that portfolio he would be one rich professor. So what does this all mean? I donít see how the Fed announces anything that talks about taking down the balance sheet.†Not now, and possibly not ever. The moment people get concerned, the market will start†pricing in the unwind, no one will want to buy the long end of the curve and it will play havoc†with rates. Who in their right mind would buy 10 year treasuries when you know that the†equivalent of multiple years of supply is being sold by the Fed along with the ones the Treasury†department will need to sell. It isnít like the Treasury department will be able to stop issuing†bonds. They have to deal with rolls and frankly with ongoing deficits. As a hedge fund, are you really going to ìfight the fedî and buy 10 year bonds once you think†they need to sell them? I donít think so. More importantly, who will make a nice 10 year†mortgage when the 10 year treasury is selling off? That is the problem. The Fed has built up such a large portfolio, that the only likely way to†exit it is through letting it mature. That at least takes the $2 trillion seller out of the market†(remember, they are still in buying mode). Due to the potential damage a sell off occurs, both in the cost of funds for the treasury, but†more importantly in the knock on effect it has on other yield products, I would expect the Fed†to defend any big move aggressively. Not only do they have the money to do it, but the float is†small enough it may take far less than people think to defend the market. There is another reason the Fed will be reluctant to sell. The government needs the income. As†the Fed sells, they hand back less to the treasury, so not only do we have to pay a higher rate†on new borrowings, but we will be receiving less income. Maybe this can occur in some ideal world where growth is ìso goodî tax receipts outpace†anything else, but I think you are now requiring a fairy tale ending, rather than a mere†ìgoldilocksî ending, let alone the disaster scenario of being forced to stop buying without real†growth taking hold. So we may ìnot be Japanî but we may have reasonably low rates for some time. I still have†long the long bond in the ìBest Ideasî and have been tempted to cut it but when I look at†this along with the economic data, I think I keep it for a trade. I would like to recommend a†double position in it, but am frankly scared enough that with so little liquidity we could see†another big downside day and want to keep some powder dry. Stay warm, good luck with the storm if you are affected, and put yourself in Benís shoes and†see why you think he has created this particular portfolio and how you would react to various†market moves if you were him. I suspect you will come up with the same conclusion, which is†this market will be defended and is easier to defend than we have been conditioned to think. E-mail: tchir@tfmarketadvisors.comTwitter: @TFMkts Disclaimer: The content provided is property of TF Market Advisors LLC and any views or opinions expressed herein†are those solely of TF Market Advisors. This information is for educational and/or entertainment purposes only,†so use this information at your own risk. TF Market Advisors is not a broker-dealer, legal advisor, tax advisor,†accounting advisor or investment advisor of any kind, and does not recommend or advise on the suitability of any†trade or investment, nor provide legal, tax or any other investment advice.
Europe grows even more wary about Silvio Berlusconi winning the Italian election on February 24-25. In an op-ed out today, FT declares a Berlusconi victory would be a "disaster." A new term for Mr Berlusconi would be a disaster for Italy. The three-times prime minister would ignore his electoral promise to cut back the state to fund tax reductions and concentrate on solving his judicial problems ñ as he did every time he was elected. Meanwhile, investors would be much warier about buying Italian debt, which would threaten fiscal sustainability. On the European stage, Mr Berlusconi would be regarded as an unreliable partner and Italy would be marginalised. When Italians go to the polls in two weeksí time, they should send a clear message to Mr Berlusconi that he is not welcome back. To get out of its economic crisis, Rome needs credible leaders, not a return to a discredited past. Berlusconi's coalition is still behind, but he's gaining. Polls show he's halved his deficit from earlier in the election. Everytime there's a good poll for him, Italian stocks tumble, and yields bounce up. Here's a look at Italian 10-year borrowing costs. There's no doubt there's been a bit of a Berlusconi Bounce in recent weeks. Bloomberg As a reminder, I'll be in Italy covering the election LIVE from on the ground. Email me at jweisenthal@businessinsider.com if you would like to meet while I'm there (in either Milan or Rome) (Via Alberto Nardelli)
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ‚Äî Homeowners on the hunt for sparkling solar panels are lured by ads filled with images of pristine landscapes and bright sunshine, and words about the technology's benefits for the environment ‚Äî and the wallet. What customers may not know is that there's a dirtier side. While solar is a far less polluting energy source than coal or natural gas, many panel makers are nevertheless grappling with a hazardous waste problem. Fueled partly by billions in government incentives, the industry is creating millions of solar panels each year and, in the process, millions of pounds of polluted sludge and contaminated water. To dispose of the material, the companies must transport it by truck or rail far from their own plants to waste facilities hundreds and, in some cases, thousands of miles away. The fossil fuels used to transport that waste, experts say, is not typically considered in calculating solar's carbon footprint, giving scientists and consumers who use the measurement to gauge a product's impact on global warming the impression that solar is cleaner than it is. After installing a solar panel, "it would take one to three months of generating electricity to pay off the energy invested in driving those hazardous waste emissions out of state," said Dustin Mulvaney, a San Jose State University environmental studies professor who conducts carbon footprint analyses of solar, biofuel and natural gas production. The waste from manufacturing has raised concerns within the industry, which fears that the problem, if left unchecked, could undermine solar's green image at a time when companies are facing stiff competition from each other and from low-cost panel manufacturers from China and elsewhere. "We want to take the lessons learned from electronics and semiconductor industries (about pollution) and get ahead of some of these problems," said John Smirnow, vice president for trade and competitiveness at the nearly 500-member Solar Energy Industries Association. The increase in solar hazardous waste is directly related to the industry's fast growth over the past five years ‚Äî even with solar business moving to China rapidly, the U.S. was a net exporter of solar products by $2 billion in 2010, the last year of data available. The nation was even a net exporter to China. New companies often send hazardous waste out of their plants because they have not yet invested in on-site treatment equipment, which allows them to recycle some waste. Nowhere is the waste issue more evident than in California, where landmark regulations approved in the 1970s require industrial plants like solar panel makers to report the amount of hazardous materials they produce, and where they send it. California leads the consumer solar market in the U.S. ‚Äî which doubled overall both in 2010 and 2011. The Associated Press compiled a list of 41 solar makers in the state, which included the top companies based on market data, and startups. In response to an AP records request, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control provided data that showed 17 of them reported waste, while the remaining did not. The same level of federal data does not exist. The state records show the 17 companies, which had 44 manufacturing facilities in California, produced 46.5 million pounds of sludge and contaminated water from 2007 through the first half of 2011. Roughly 97 percent of it was taken to hazardous waste facilities throughout the state, but more than 1.4 million pounds were transported to nine other states: Arkansas, Minnesota, Nebraska, Rhode Island, Nevada, Washington, Utah, New Mexico and Arizona. Several solar energy experts said they have not calculated the industry's total waste and were surprised at what the records showed. Solyndra, the now-defunct solar company that received $535 million in guaranteed federal loans, reported producing about 12.5 million pounds of hazardous waste, much of it carcinogenic cadmium-contaminated water, which was sent to waste facilities from 2007 through mid-2011. Before the company went bankrupt, leading to increased scrutiny of the solar industry and political fallout for President Barack Obama's administration, Solyndra said it created 100 megawatts-worth of solar panels, enough to power 100,000 homes. The records also show several other Silicon Valley solar facilities created millions of pounds of toxic waste without selling a single solar panel, while they were developing their technology or fine-tuning their production. While much of the waste produced is considered toxic, there was no evidence it has harmed human health. The vast majority of solar companies that generated hazardous waste in California have not been cited for waste-related pollution violations, although three had minor violations on file. In many cases, a toxic sludge is created when metals and other toxins are removed from water used in the manufacturing process. If a company doesn't have its own treatment equipment, then it will send contaminated water to be stored at an approved dump. According to scientists who conduct so-called "life cycle analysis" for solar, the transport of waste is not currently being factored into the carbon footprint score, which measures the amount of greenhouse gases produced when making a product. Life cycle analysts add up all the global warming pollution that goes into making a certain product ‚Äî from the mining needed for components to the exhaust from diesel trucks used to transport waste and materials. Not factoring the hazardous waste transport into solar's carbon footprint is an obvious oversight, analysts said. "The greenhouse gas emissions associated with transporting this waste is not insignificant," Mulvaney said. Mulvaney noted that shipping, for example, 6.2 million pounds of waste by heavy-duty tractor-trailer from Fremont, Calif., in the San Francisco Bay area, to a site 1,800 miles away could add 5 percent to a particular product's carbon footprint. Such scores are important because they provide transparency to government and consumers into just how environmentally sustainable specific products are and lay out a choice between one company's technology and another's. The roughly 20-year life of a solar panel still makes it some of the cleanest energy technology currently available. Producing solar is still significantly cleaner than fossil fuels. Energy derived from natural gas and coal-fired power plants, for example, creates more than 10 times more hazardous waste than the same energy created by a solar panel, according to Mulvaney. The U.S. solar industry said it is reporting its waste, and sending it to approved storage facilities ‚Äî thus keeping it out of the nation's air and water. A coal-fired power plant, in contrast, sends mercury, cadmium and other toxins directly into the air, which pollutes water and land around the facility. "Having this stuff go to ... hazardous waste sites, that's what you want to have happen," said Adam Browning, executive director of the Vote Solar Initiative, a solar advocacy group. Environmental advocates say the solar industry needs greater transparency, which is getting more complicated as manufacturing moves from the U.S. and Europe to less regulated places such as China and Malaysia. The Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition, a watchdog group created in 1982 in response to severe environmental problems associated with the valley's electronics industry, is now trying to keep the solar industry from making similar mistakes through a voluntary waste reporting "scorecard." So far, only 14 of 114 companies contacted have replied. Those 14 were larger firms that comprised 51-percent of the solar market share. "We find the overall industry response rate to our request for environmental information to be pretty dismal for an industry that is considered 'green,'" the group's executive director, Sheila Davis, said in an email. While there are no specific industry standards, Smirnow, head of the solar industry association, is spearheading a voluntary program of environmental responsibility. So far, only seven of the group's nearly 81 manufacturers have signed the pledge. "We want (our program) to be more demanding, but this is a young industry and right now manufacturing companies are focused on survival," he said. ___ Follow Jason Dearen on Twitter http://www.twitter.com/JHDearen
MTA / Creative CommonsThe chances that former MTA head Joe Lhota will become the next Mayor of New York City seem small right now, but some of NYC's wealthiest are throwing their money behind him anyway, the NYT reports. Lhota, who also served in the Giuliani administration, is entering a crowded field in this race. On the Republican side, he faces billionaire CEO of Gristedes supermarket,¬†John Catsimatidis, who has promised to deploy his fortune for the campaign. The Democratic side is stacked with veterans ‚Äî former Comptroller Bill Thompson (who took on Bloomberg in 2009), Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, and powerhouse fundraiser and City Council Speaker, Christine Quinn. That isn't scaring some big names (and wallets) away from Lhota, though. Ken Langone, the billionaire founder of Home Depot, is one of them. From NYT: Kenneth G. Langone, the billionaire co-founder of Home Depot, has pledged his financial backing. Peter S. Kalikow, the real estate investor, has cut a big check. And James S. Tisch, the chief executive of the Loews Corporation, is on board... Mr. Langone, a prodigious Republican donor, is even entertaining the possibility of an independent political action committee, unbound by spending limits, devoted to electing Mr. Lhota. ‚ÄúAll I know is that Joe is not going to want for money,‚Äù he said in an interview. Mr. Langone, who raised millions of dollars for Mr. Romney, said, ‚ÄúI plan to do everything I can to help Joe Lhota get elected, as long as it‚Äôs ethical and as long as it‚Äôs legal.‚Äù He called Mr. Lhota ‚Äúa superb manager.‚Äù... ‚ÄúI worry a lot about the fiscal health of New York City,‚Äù said Mr. Tisch, the head of Loews and an invitee to the Lhota breakfast. ‚ÄúAs I look around at the group of people running for mayor, the person I think has the best capacity of dealing with these issues is Joe.‚Äù It's important to keep in mind that NYC isn't a Republican town. Even if Lhota manages to win the Republican nomination, that doesn't mean every GOP donor will rally around him because victory could still be a long shot. Christine Quinn has bagged some big former Romney donors like Randy Levine, the President of the New York Yankees, and Ron Perelman the chairman of Revlon. For the full run down head to the New York Times&gt;
There is lots of talk this week about the decline in crude oil imports in the US, and what it means for GDP, the US dollar, and geopolitics. Sebastien Galy of SocGen has dome deep thoughts on the matter, as he anticipates a world that sees a stronger US dollar, and a smaller global military footprint. A lot's being made of the fact that crude oil imports fell to their lowest level since 1999. But actually, if you look on a per capita basis, the fall is more severe, and we're edging towards mid-90s level of imports. EIA, FRED, Business Insider This is essentially a story of higher domestic production, and a decline in driving. What's key is that this isn't just a story about the economy right now, but a big secular trend that continues, even as the US economy strengthens. For more on what this all means, see here &gt;
Earlier we showed you a map of China (and surrounding parts) from space comparing 1992 vs. 2010. China is way lit up these days, not surprisingly at all. But as many folks pointed out, the other interesting thing on the map is North Korea. While much of the world got brighter, North Korea stayed... exactly the same. NOAA 2010 ¬† SEE ALSO: Incredible pictures from Shenzhen, right before it became one of the most important cities in the world &gt;
Business Insider, St. Louis FedCuts in government spending from the "sequester" may start to kick in on March 1st. These cuts will force the U.S. to sharply reduce military and entitlement spending. Cutting such spending sharply is a terrible idea, for several reasons. First, sharply cutting military spending might suddenly weaken our position in several key areas of the world. Gradually reducing our commitments makes sense, but doing it suddenly does not. Second, and even more important, cutting spending like this will hammer the economy, just the way the sharp cut in military spending in Q4 hammered the economy at the end of last year. The private sector will not immediately replace this government spending (sorry--the "confidence fairy" was a myth), so the unemployment rate will likely rise and consumer and business spending drop, thus hurting the rest of the economy. In short, although the Republicans used to have a legitimate claim to being the party that was smarter about the economy, the GOP's advocacy of sharp spending cuts to curtail what the party continually describes as "runaway government spending" is, sadly, economic idiocy. As George Soros, Paul Krugman, Joe Weisenthal and many others have argued for the past several years, the only way out of our current economic malaise and debt and deficit problem is growth. And slashing spending sharply because, well--because something bad might happen someday if we don't--will make the economy and debt and deficit problem even worse than it already is. Greece, the U.K., and other countries have tried this "austerity" approach to fix their debt-and-deficit problems in recent years, and these experiments have illustrated that cutting spending to reduce deficits simply doesn't work. On the contrary, it makes the problem worse. We have to grow our way out of our debt and deficit problem. There's just no other way out. But! If we are going to cut spending, military spending is a perfectly good place to start. Why? Because we spend an astronomical amount on our military. U.S. military spending has soared over the past decade, and we now spend $700+ billion a year on our military (see chart at top). This dwarfs the military spending of any other country on the planet. SIPRI, WikipediaThe No. 2 military spender in the world, China, spends about $140 billion a year on its military--less than a quarter as much. (See chart at right). Our military spending is so huge, in fact, that it accounts for a staggering 41% of all the military spending in the world. That's more than the next 15 biggest military spenders put together. (See chart below,) The only military spending category in which the U.S. isn't absurdly dominant is military spending as a percent of GDP. Our economy is so huge that our level of military spending as a percent of the economy--~5%--is behind that of several other countries. Importantly, however, these other countries are small countries with small economies. No other developed or big country comes close to us in military spending, even as a percent of GDP. SIPRI, WikipediaSo suggesting that we can't cut military spending without rendering ourselves a weakling relative to the competition is absurd. Of course we can. But those who suggest it would be disastrous to cut this spending all in one go, this year, are correct: As previously suggested, it would hammer the economy. So we shouldn't do that. And, in fact, we shouldn't even "cut" this spending over the next several years. Rather, we should re-allocate it. Specifically, instead of just "cutting military spending," we should gradually shift some of this spending to domestic infrastructure spending. Business Insider, St. Louis FedFor years now, as government budgets have gotten tight, we have scrimped on national infrastructure spending. And it shows. On an infrastructure level, the U.S. has become an embarrassment relative to the rest of the world. Gradually shifting a couple hundred billion dollars a year out of military spending and re-allocating it to domestic infrastructure spending would not harm the economy--because we would still be spending this money. It wouldn't reduce employment or harm business or consumer income or spending. And, importantly, it would allow us to start to address the sad state of our domestic infrastructure, which, by some estimates, needs about $3 trillion of spending just to become safe and state-of-the-art again. So, yes, we should cut military spending. But we should cut it gradually. We should cut it gradually enough that we don't suddenly screw ourselves in areas of the world in which our military spending is performing a critical function. And we should cut military spending by re-allocating it, so the overall level of government spending on things like equipment and infrastructure doesn't drop. We should cut our military spending because, as much as we want a "strong defense, we certainly don't need to spend $700+ billion a year on our military when the next-biggest spender on the planet spends only ~$140 billion a year. Meanwhile, we do need to spend more to bring our national infrastructure into the 21st Century. And we certainly don't want to just slash government spending, because that will just make the employment and debt-and-deficit problems worse. So the answer is a gradual shift... Take some of the vast amount of money we're currently spending on our military and gradually invest in in shoring up our domestic infrastructure. We can do this with a couple hundred billion dollars a year and still have the most powerful and biggest military on the planet by a factor of two or three. Instead of using this spending to police the rest of the world, we can use it to improve our experience at home. And we can reduce our military expenditures without demolishing our economy in the process. It's a win-win all around. SEE ALSO: Amazing Pictures of Afghanistan Before 30 Years Of War  Military spending by country... Guess who wins: SIPRI, Wikipedia
Citi ResearchThe world is changing, and nowhere is that better illustrated than in a good series of charts. Luckily, we've seen no shortage of excellent charts this week that amply illustrate the changes underway. The best charts this week touch on everything from the most hated chart in Korea to the real reason behind January's historic flows into equities. Now, let's go to the charts.
NBCHouse Majority Leader Eric Cantor conceded that the across-the-board spending cuts of the upcoming sequester don't "make any sense." But he blamed President Barack Obama for proposing it and suggested that Republicans would be OK with the cuts kicking in. "Clearly, this is not the best way to go about controlling spending," Cantor said on "Meet the Press" Sunday. Cantor pushed the argument that the House has taken up alternative measures to avoid the cuts in the sequester. The problem, he said, is that Obama wants to raise taxes "every three months." "The problem is every time you turn around, the answer is to raise taxes,"†Cantor said. "He just got his tax hike on the wealthy. And you can't in this town every three months raise taxes. Again, every time, that's his response." "We've got a spending problem ó everybody knows it," Cantor added.†"The House has put forward an alternative plan, and there's been no response in any serious way from the Senate and the White House. And it's time, we've really got to do it." Watch the clip of Cantor's interview below, courtesy of NBC:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
On Friday, the US trade deficit shrunk by far more than expected, in large part thanks to declining oil imports. From CSMonitor.com: The oil and gas picture is improving. The trade deficit for petroleum-based goods alone shrank from $326 billion in 2011 to about $291 billion last year. Thatís still a big deficit, but oil imports fell by about $24 billion. Meanwhile, petroleum-related exports rose by more than $10 billion. According to analysis of the data by IHS Global Insight, an international consulting group, oil imports in December hit their lowest level since December 1999. The decreasing need for oil from abroad is basically a result of two secular trends. One is that the US is producing more oil. Mark Perry, AEI The other factor is that domestic driving is on a secular downturn. FRED Both of these trends seem likely to continue. That has profound implications, both in terms of financial markets and geopolitics. SocGen's Sebastien Galy explains how we're entering a "strange world" where the dollar is bound to strengthen. And the US global military footprint is bound to shrink (due to lower resource demand). In 1979, snow reached the second floor in Washington DC, in 1998 the electrical grid of Quebec physically collapsed, yesterday a few inches of snow in NY made headlines worldwide. Much as snow, it is the steady accumulation that matters for the trade balance and the USD. This global imbalance has risen to the size of an elephant as the rest of the world grew more from exporting to the US. In Pratchett's imagery, the elephant has been riding on four increasingly restive turtles and holding the weight of the world on its shoulders. This elephant is on a diet. The US trade balance shows rising evidence that the US is moving towards energy independence, changing fundamentally the path of the US current account balance and the Fed's ability to weaken the USD. Add to this the steady risk of tighter fiscal policy (sequestration debate) which would reduce the need for external funding and pressure on corporates to hand over their cash stored mainly in EM and we are in a strange world where the USD is doing better in a risk rally.†† The US trade balance was notable by the lower demand for energy. As this vulnerability diminishes, it has economic and strategic implications. Strategic implications suggest a lighter US footprint globally and hence more political risks abroad as some have noted. Economic implications vary from the lower need to hedge oil imports which strengthens the USD to an improved balance sheet for the US. The Fed's ability to weaken the usd is reduced as the back end of the UST curve will be in limited demand from foreigners, if they continue to expect an eventual normalization of Fed policy. A higher yield reduces the need to divest out of the USD, reducing an accelerator of usd weakness. If the sequester (the cuts to military spending) go through, people will look back and find it interesting that Washington grew willing to make cuts just as people started to talk about declining US oil imports.
ABCDemocratic Rep. Keith Ellison and Republican Tom Cole got into a back-and-forth over the across-the-board cuts scheduled to take effect due to the looming sequester.† Ellison brushed back at Cole's suggestion that the sequester was President Barack Obama's idea, blaming Cole and other Republicans for first threatening to not raise the nation's debt ceiling in the summer of 2011. "Well, Tom, the problem with saying this is the president's idea is that you voted for the Budget Control Act," Ellison said on ABC's "This Week" with George Stephanopoulos. "I voted against it. We wouldn't have ever been talking about the Budget Control Act but for your party refused to negotiate on the debt ceiling, something that has been routinely increased as the country needed it.  "You used that occasion...†You used it at that occasion in 2011, August, to basically say, we are going to let ó we're going to default on the country's obligations or you're going to give us dramatic spending cuts. That's how we got to the Budget Control Act." Cole said that Republicans would not accept any new revenue in a deal to avert the sequester. He suggested that the two parties' positions had flip-flopped from the fiscal cliff, when Obama and Democrats had leverage. "Politically, the Democrats are exactly where the Republicans were six weeks ago. Look, taxes were going up by law. ...†Now these cuts are coming by law. And it's law that the president signed and advocated," Cole said. But Ellison, who is part of the Progressive Caucus proposing a "Balancing Act" to replace the sequester, warned of the consequences of the sequester's implementation. "It's going to do everything opposite to what your party says that they want," Ellison told Cole. "It's going to create uncertainty. It's going to increase the deficit. It's going to increase unemployment. It's going to be a problem." Here's video of the pair's back-and-forth, via ThinkProgress: 
Fox NewsHouse Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said today that the looming cuts associated with the sequester are a "bad idea all around," advocating a replacement solution that includes a mix of spending cuts and revenue through closing tax loopholes. Pelosi argued on "Fox News Sunday" with Chris Wallace that economic growth wouldn't come from some of the cuts in the sequester that target education, food safety, and other areas. "It's almost a false argument to say we have a spending problem. We have a budget deficit problem that we have to address," Pelosi said. Those comments drew a swift response from the Republican National Committee, which blasted out a video of an excerpt of Pelosi's interview. Pelosi said that she would back a "big, bold" solution to slow long-term spending. But she said that revenue-boosting solutions like ending tax subsidies on oil corporations and eliminating some loopholes have to be a part of the solution. "We have to make a judgment about how do we get growth with jobs ó that's where the real revenue comes from," Pelosi said. "You don't get it by cutting ... into education, cutting back on education in science and investments in the National Institute of Health, food safety, you name it."So, it isn't as much of a spending problem as it is a priorities. And that's what a budget is ó setting priorities." Watch the RNC's video of Pelosi's appearance: 
koadmunkee / FlickrThere are plenty of reasons to be nervous about adding emerging markets exposure to your investment portfolio.¬† Many are worried that they haven't completely recovered from the global financial crisis.¬† Many are also concerned that countries like China are maturing and that the their era of high growth is ending. However, the emerging market bulls' case continues to be robust with evidence that these regions offer tremendous investment opportunities. US Funds Frank Holmes recently presented a monster slide deck that made a big bull case for gold and other commodities.¬† Much of his thesis was supported by growing demand from the emerging markets. Holmes shows how these economies have evolved, where they stand today, and what their consumers are consuming. We pulled the 13 most relevant charts from his 77-slide presentation.
A key policy goal right now is to minimize short term austerity since the deficit as a percent of GDP is already shrinking quickly, and the deficit should continue to shrink over the next few years. So my view has been that something would be worked out on the "sequester" that would minimize immediate spending cuts.  It appears I may be wrong, and the "sequester" cuts might happen on March 1st. From the LA Times: Automatic budget cuts are almost certain In less than a month, a budget ax is set to fall on the federal government, indiscriminately chopping funding or the military and slicing money for various programs, including preschools and national parks. The $85 billion in cuts that would take effect from March 1 through September ‚Äî the first installment of $1.2 trillion in reductions over the next decade ‚Äî would strike just about every agency and service n an attempt to ease the budget deficit. The slashing, part of an automatic process known as sequestration, would affect the economy, government workers and average Americans in ways big and small ... Economists project the budget cuts would reduce the nation's total economic output by about 0.6 percentage points this year, a significant hit when growth remains sluggish. This is a significant amount of short term drag, especially combined with the increase in payroll taxes (part of "fiscal agreement"). Brad Plumer at the WaPo describes how the sequester cuts would work: The sequester, recall, will cut $85.3 billion from the federal budget in 2013 and affect everything except Social Security, Medicaid, a few targeted anti-poverty programs, and the ongoing wars. The Pentagon budget would face an immediate 7.3 percent cut and domestic discretionary programs would be cut by more than 5 percent. The key feature of the cuts is that they would affect all agencies and programs equally ... Here is the White House fact sheet on some of the cuts.This is obviously bad policy.¬† First, the US doesn't need immediate spending cuts (if anything, with a 7.9% unemployment rate, we need additional short term spending), and second, we don't need indiscriminate cuts. No one supports these¬†specific cuts, but they might happen anyway ...
The NOAA has a very cool film loop (via Gregor Macdonald) showing the progression of the Chinese night sky from 1992-2010. You can watch the full animation here. Below are 1992 and 2010.1992 NOAA 2010NOAA ¬†One interesting follow-on observation as made by Jon Belk on Twitter. Note how there's been literally no change to North Korea in this time. NOAA SEE ALSO: 10 ways China's manufacturing makes the rest of the world look small &gt;
Flickr / Nick Sherman Geopolitics continue to have investors worried. With that in mind here are some important geopolitical events in February you need to watch, from Nomura's Alastair Newton.
If you've been reading the site, or following any financial news over the last several months, you've no doubt heard a lot about the Japanese yen. It's been declining precipitously thanks to the pro-stimulus policies of Japan's new Prime Minister. But really, who cares about the yen? Why talk about it so much? Well for one thing, Japan is still one of the biggest economies of the world, so there's an inherent interest in anything Japan-related. But beyond that, it's interesting to see how pivotal the yen is in certain financial markets. In a note, Citi's Steven Englander presents a few charts which show just how pivotal the strength of the yen is. To start, the rise in the Nikkei is almost 100% related to the relative strength of the yen against the dollar. Citi On a relative to US stocks basis, the yen is once again a key driver of what's pushing Japanese stocks. Citi And if you look at Japan vs. Korean equities, it's all about the yen vs. the Korean won. Citi So for one of the biggest economies, their market is being driven almost entirely by the currency lever.
Nearly 11 million borrowers are underwater on their mortgages, owing more than their homes are worth, according to CoreLogic, and yet home equity lines of credit are suddenly on the rise again. During the housing boom of the last decade Americans withdrew over $1 trillion in home equity. They did it through cash-out refinances, home equity loans, and home equity lines of credit. The latter allowed them to use their homes like an ATM. They spent the money on cars, televisions, vacations and fancy home upgrades. It was seemingly endless equity, until suddenly that equity was gone. "Home prices are definitely a factor" in the recent rise home equity lines of credit, said Brad Blackwell, an executive with Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. "As they increase, people have more available equity." (Read More: New Housing Fears: Home Prices Are Rising Too.) Blackwell also pointed to increased consumer confidence, meaning borrowers now feel better about their ability to repay these loans. Both factors fueled a 19 percent jump in originations of home equity lines of credit at the end of last year, according to Equifax. In 2008, as housing was crashing, home equity line originations dropped 55 percent. "Nationally we've seen a 31 percent increase in HELOC's year-over-year," said a spokesperson from JPMorgan Chase. With home prices up 8 percent year-over-year in December, according to the latest reading from CoreLogic, homeowners are regaining home equity at a fast clip‚Äî1.4 million borrowers rose above water on their mortgages through the end of September. That number likely increased as price appreciation accelerated toward the end of the year. Does this mean a return to the reckless equity withdrawals of the housing bubble? Likely not. "I would guess that most of the current home equity line borrowing is quite prudent. We know that it is being very conservatively underwritten with plenty of equity," said Guy Cecala, editor of Inside Mortgage Finance. (Read More: Housing Already Shows Signs of a New Bubble.) While it is too early to say exactly what borrowers are spending this new cash on, anecdotal evidence shows borrowers are largely sinking the money back into their homes. "We are seeing more responsible uses today, like home improvements, education expenses or other major expenses that would be a more responsible use of a customer's home equity," Blackwell said. The average home equity line in October of 2012 was just below $90,000 compared to October 2006, when lines averaged just over $100,000, according to Equifax. Despite the recent surge, volume is still down dramatically from the height of the housing boom. Borrowers in 2012 took out a collective $7.2 billion in home equity lines through last October, compared to just over $28 billion in 2006. (Read More: Why Home Builders Won't Drop New Home Prices,) The numbers are expected to go up in 2013, not just because home prices are rising, but because interest rates are rising. With higher rates, borrowers will not want to give up their rock-bottom fixed rates to do cash-out refinances; rather, they will turn to home equity lines instead. While these lines usually carry variable rates, banks are now offering new products with fixed rates. Wells Fargo recently promoted a line of credit where a portion of the loan is fixed for up to three years. "We clearly want to lend, and we want to lend to the types of needs that our customers have," Blackwell added. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Diana Olick; Follow her on Twitter @Diana_Olick or on Facebook at facebook.com/DianaOlickCNBC Questions? Comments?  RealtyCheck@cnbc.com 
FlickrWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Jack Lew, President Barack Obama's pick to be U.S. treasury secretary, is expected to come under fire for the administration's budget policies and a nearly $1 million bonus he received from bailed-out bank Citigroup when he testifies on Wednesday before a Senate panel vetting him for the job. The hearing will briefly become ground zero in the pitched political battle over the federal budget, with Republicans set to attack over what they contend is Lew's devil-may-care attitude to reducing the U.S. budget deficit. Republicans have signaled that Lew, Obama's former chief of staff and budget director, will be critiqued for his role in preparing proposals that piled on deficits and probed on the president's plans to put government-run healthcare and retirement programs on sounder footing. "He'll be used as a political ping-pong ball," said Ted Truman, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics who served briefly as an adviser to Obama's former treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner. Geithner left the administration in January. Lew was the administration's point person during budget talks in 2011 that ended with a deal to raise the nation's debt ceiling, cap discretionary spending and put in place $1.2 trillion in automatic budget cuts over 10 years. During those negotiations, his hard-line position in defense of government-run benefit programs angered Republicans. Most Republicans, however, have said they will reserve judgment on Lew until after Wednesday's hearing, and he is widely expected to win the Senate's needed backing even if he ends up facing substantial opposition. Republican lawmakers are expected to push Lew on his earlier resistance to proposed changes to the Medicare healthcare and Social Security retirement programs, such as using an slower growing inflation index to calculate retirement benefits. "We need a better understanding ... of what kind of plan the Obama administration has to confront our skyrocketing debt and our broken entitlement programs," said Senator Orrin Hatch, the top Republican on the finance panel. Realistically, it does not appear Lew could win confirmation earlier than February 25. After the hearing, the former budget chief will need time to respond to any additional questions senators may have and Congress begins a one week break on Friday. That means the Senate would not be able to confirm Lew in time for him to attend a meeting of finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations in Moscow on Friday and Saturday. CITIGROUP AND THE CAYMAN ISLANDS At the hearing, Republicans plan to zero in on Lew's short stint at Citigroup. Lew, who has publicly said that he has scant expertise in financial markets, spent two years at the bank during Wall Street's meltdown, earning a combined $2.65 million in 2007 and 2008, according to a transcript of his confirmation hearing in 2009 for a State Department post. Hired with a recommendation from then-Citi executive and former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, Lew became chief operating officer of Citigroup's global wealth management division in July 2006. He later became COO for Citi Alternative Investments, a largely administrative role that was apart from investment decisions that hurt the bank. Republican Senator Charles Grassley said he will ask Lew about a $940,000 bonus he was given just before the bank received a taxpayer-funded bailout. The bonus came as Lew was getting ready to serve as a State Department deputy for the Obama administration. "The Treasury secretary can't owe anyone on Wall Street any favors," Grassley, a member of the Finance Committee, said in an emailed statement. "He has to be independent from special interests and put taxpayers first." Lew's record at Citigroup came up during his confirmation hearing for the State Department position, but it failed to prove a stumbling block. "This is not his first rodeo," said Jared Bernstein, a former adviser to Vice President Joe Biden who is now with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. "It just doesn't seem to me that there's a smoking gun there." Republicans also want to ask Lew about a $56,000 investment he once had in a Citigroup venture capital fund registered in the Cayman Islands. Lew lost $1,582 when he had to divest his position in the fund to serve as Obama's budget chief. The CVCI Growth Partnership II fund's registered office is listed as the Ugland House, according to a securities filing, a Cayman Island office building with thousands of companies registered that has become a symbol of offshore tax evasion. Ugland House was criticized by Obama when he was campaigning for president. The White House said Lew's investment was disclosed during both his confirmation for the State Department post and for White House budget director. "(Lew) played no role in creating, managing or operating the fund and he sold his investment in 2010 at a net loss," said White House spokesman Eric Schultz. "There are no new facts that provide a basis for senators to reach a different conclusion about Mr. Lew's nomination than they reached twice before." Although Democrats control the Senate 53-45, they would need at least seven Republicans to support Lew if any lawmaker decides to throw up a procedural hurdle. Senator Jeff Sessions, the top Republican on the Budget Committee, has said Lew is not fit to become treasury secretary and has threatened to make the confirmation difficult unless the White House clears up a healthcare law dispute. Bernie Sanders, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats, has also said he will vote against Lew. (Reporting by Rachelle Younglai and Anna Yukhananov; Additional reporting by Roberta Rampton; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Eric Beech) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
There's no shortage of people who are freaking out about inflation, thanks to the Fed's ultra-easy monetary policy. However, convincing evidence of inflation has yet to appear in the economic data. Russ Koesterich, Chief Investment Strategist at BlackRock, has a new post on the iShares blog titled When to Worry About Inflation. He says concerns of inflation are premature for at least two reasons (verbatim): Koesterich, however, says that inflation is something we may have to worry about in 2014 and beyond.† Read more at iSharesBlog.com.
But a New York Times op-ed by the union-backed Economic Policy Institute, ìAmericaís Genius Glut,î ventures into the hysterical when attacking the idea of a tech workers shortage and†a new bill that would increase the number of high-skill temporary and permanent visas: If there is no shortage of high-tech workers, why would companies be pushing for more? Simple: workers under the H-1B program arenít like domestic workers ó because they have to be sponsored by an employer, they are more or less indentured, tied to their job and whatever wage the employer decides to give them. Moreover, too many are paid at wages below the average for their occupation and location: over half of all H-1B guest workers are certified for wages in the bottom quarter of the wage scale. Bringing over more ó there are already 500,000 workers on H-1B visas ó would obviously darken job prospects for Americaís struggling young scientists and engineers. But it would also hurt our efforts to produce more: if the message to American students is, ìDonít bother working hard for a high-tech degree, because we can import someone to do the job for less,î we could do significant long-term damage to the high-tech educational system we value so dearly. Do we have too many high-skill workers already? One piece of evidence, says the EPI op-ed, is that ìthe unemployment for high-tech workers may seem low ó currently 3.7 percent ó thatís more than twice as high as it was before the recession.î I am not sure where that number comes from. The unemployment rate for workers with a college degree or higher is 3.7%, according to the BLS. But the rate for workers with a doctoral degree is just 2.5%. And many tech occupations have bottom-barrel unemployment rates: ñ Computer and information research scientists, 0.9% ñ Network and computer systems administrators, 1.7% ñ Computer and information systems managers, 2.2% ñ Software developers, applications and systems software, 2.3% Some of those high-skill immigrants become entrepreneurs, and there are danger signs there.†In Silicon Valley, according to one study, foreign-born founders have tumbled from 52% to 43%. Anyway, given the huge positive impact of highly-educated, high-skill immigrantsñparticularly in the STEM fieldsñI am not sure a glut is even possible in 2013 America. Economist Giovanni Peri: 1. While accounting for only 13 percent of the population, foreign-born individuals account for about one-third of U.S. patented innovations. 2. One-quarter of all U.S.-based Nobel laureates of the past fifty years were foreign born. Immigrants have been founders of 25 percent of new high-tech companies, with more than $1 million in sales in 2006, generating income and employment for the whole country. 3. Over the period 1975ñ2005, all of the net growth in the number of U.S.- based Ph.D.s was due to foreign-born workers. 4. Currently about half of the Ph.D.s working in science and technology are foreign born. Innovation and technological progress are the engines of economic growth. 5. A high-skill job in a city creates 2.5 additional jobs in the local nontradable sector through linkages of production and local demand effects. 6. An increase in the share of college-educated immigrants by 1% increases productivity and wages for everybody in a city by 1%. 7. Immigrants accounted for well over 50% of the growth in employment in STEM-related fields between 2003 and 2008. Then there is the way immigration helps a nation take advantage of globalization. AEIís Nick Schulz: Many major American firms are multinational in their orientation, with growing presences in foreign markets around the world. Think of great companies such as Coca-Cola, Microsoft, Intel, Caterpillar, 3M, or Ingersoll-Rand. Skilled immigrants possess valuable knowledge of foreign market customs, mores, obstacles, and opportunities. Their knowledge can offer an additional edge to the companies that employ them or the new companies they start. Skilled immigrants also help established companies by their interaction with new foreign markets. The presence of these immigrants working for American companies can help boost trade, according to the OECD, ìby lowering trade-transaction costs as a result of migrantsí knowledge of markets back home and their contact networks.î Highly educated immigrants are also great for the US fiscal situation: AEI Too many smart, highly-skilled people in America? More please!
eschipul at www.flickr.comThe super-rich ñ the top 1% of earners ñ now pocket 10p in every pound of income paid in Britain, while the poorest half of the population take home only 18p of every pound between them, according to a report published this week by the Resolution Foundation thinktank, which reveals the widening gap between those at the very top and the rest of society. Inequality has grown sharply over the past 15 years, according to Resolution's analysis: the top 1% of earners have seen their slice of the pie increase from 7% in the mid-1990s to 10% today, while the bottom half have seen their share drop from 19% to 18%. There was a dip in top earnings between 2009-10 and 2010-2011, but Resolution's analysis suggests that may have been because highest-paid employees brought forward earnings to avoid the 50p top tax rate on earnings above £150,000, which Chancellor George Osborne has cut to 45p from this April. Matthew Whittaker, senior economist at the thinktank, said: "If we take the longer view, we see the very wealthiest have continued to prosper while many others have not. "The growing gap in incomes is pronounced when you look at the top 10th of households, and overwhelming when you consider the position of the top 1%. The rest of society hasn't kept up. It's the squeezed majority, not just the squeezed middle." Resolution's calculations do not include the impact of benefits and tax credits, which top up the incomes of the lowest earners, yet show the polarisation in the UK's flexible labour market between top earners' soaraway salaries and stagnant wages for those at the bottom of the pile. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development used its annual health check of the UK economy to warn of the dangers of increasing inequality, saying: "Labour market conditions are widening the income gap between full-time employees and an increasing share of the workforce on part-time, insecure and low-wage jobs. This comes in a context where income inequality was already high and rising before the recession." Tackling the gap between rich and poor is a growing political issue. The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, has called for a policy of "pre-distribution" to try to narrow the gap between the best and worst paid, while politicians from across the spectrum, including the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, have praised the idea of employers promising to pay the Living Wage, currently £8.55 an hour in London, and £7.45 elsewhere. The deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, last week revived the idea of a "mansion tax" on homes worth more than £2m, or higher council tax bills for the costliest properties. In its report, Squeezed Britain 2013, the Resolution Foundation will focus on the fortunes of middle-earners, many of whom have seen their real incomes stagnate over the past decade in the face of high inflation and weak bargaining power in the workplace.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
The lower cost of living in China is often confused with a lower price of consumer goods. This Great Graphic from Economy Watch, shows that many consumer goods, particularly international brands, are more expensive in China. ¬† Economy Watch drew from data on three different web sites: ¬†e.weibo.com, East-West-Connect.com and sohu.com.¬† To understand why this is the case requires shedding light on the cost structure of good that consumer purchase. ¬†We have discussed this in terms of the good imported to the US and how 30-50% of the price American consumers pay is incurred locally for marketing, storage and transportation.¬† While many foreign brands have a cache, associated with higher status and prestige, there are economic reasons why China's consumers pay more. ¬†It has to do with the cost of internal movement of goods in China. The domestic cost structure, such as gasoline and tolls, boost the price of logistics. ¬†At nearly a fifth of GDP (18.4%), the cost of logistics in China are twice what they are in high income countries (9%). ¬† It costs more to ship goods from Guangzhou to Beijing than from Guangzhou to the US. The significance of internally derived costs also points to a problem with purchasing power parity and its numerous derivatives, including the Big Mac index. ¬†Simply put, the price of internationally traded goods is often impacted by local costs. business.sohu.com / English translation by East-West-Connect.com Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
As people are coming to understand, Asian economic growth over the past two decades‚Äîdespite its great adoption of oil‚Äîessentially runs on electricity, most of which is supplied by the burning of coal. Here is the night sky over Asia twenty years ago, as captured in a still photograph from a film loop provided by NOAA‚Äôs national geophysical data center. (see: NOAA -Nightime Lights of China 1992-2010): NOAA Recently, in the past three months, a consensus has begun to form that China‚Äôs use of coal may have just slipped past the fattest part of it growth curve. That may be true. But as you can seen on the 2010 photograph below, China is not the only ‚Äúcountry‚Äù in Asia that has seen its demand for electricity advance strongly, since 1992: ¬†NOAA It‚Äôs understandable for people to be encouraged by recent trends in global coal consumption, mostly in the United States. If China‚Äôs rate of coal consumption growth is also about to slow, that too is encouraging. The problem however, is that China would be slowing its rate of growth from a very, very high level of absolute demand. Further, as you gaze across other regions of southeast Asia in the above photos, global coal consumption is less about ‚Äúcountry‚Äù and more about population. 1.2 billion people in the world are still unserved by electricity. A good portion of them live in India, for example, where you will notice the ‚Äúadvance of nighttime‚Äù lights has also been quite strong. While there is certainly a possibility that Non-OECD countries will adopt more wind and solar‚Äîowing to the relative simplicity of those technologies‚Äîwe need to be sober about current trends. The great trajectory of coal underway the past decade has a number of competitive advantages, especially the phenomenon known as path dependency. This is why I say the great news for clean energy, on a global scale, does eventually come but not until later in the century. Before then, the world unfortunately is transitioning even harder to fossil fuel energy, of the dirtiest kind. ¬† Read more posts on Gregor.us ¬ª
