boston-to-a-T on twitter.comBoylston Street, Boston, 2:49 p.m., April 15th, 2013.It has been two weeks since two homemade bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and wounding 260. In those two weeks, we have learned much about what happened and why. We have learned about the innocent victims of the attack, as well as about the deranged young brothers who allegedly carried it out. We have watched a dramatic 24-hour manhunt that paralyzed the city and ended with one brother dead and the other handcuffed to a hospital bed. The story of what happened in Boston has emerged gradually, with new information appearing daily. Early inaccurate reports have been revised, and early mysteries have been resolved. There are still some questions to answer, but after two weeks, the picture is coming into sharper focus. The story below is what we know so far. It is based on eyewitness statements and photos, press conferences, a criminal complaint, and the reporting of more than a dozen media organizations, including this one. (Please see the last page of this story for specific sources and credits.) The Richard FamilyOn Monday, April 15, 2013, an 8-year-old boy named Martin Richard went to the Boston Marathon with his family. It was a beautiful spring day. Around 2:45 p.m. that afternoon, Martin was standing up on a guardrail on Boylston Street to get a better look at the marathon runners nearing the finish line.  Martin loved sports. He was a Red Sox fan, and he played Little League. He had a big black infielder's glove, and he listened carefully to his coaches. Martin's Little League team, the Rangers, had been practicing for their first game of the season, which was the last Saturday in April. Martin would never play in that game. The picture below shows Martin Richard in the last few seconds of his life, standing on the guardrail near the marathon finish line. Martin's father Bill, his mother Denise, and his 7-year-old sister Jane are with him. reddit/MelGibsonDerp Remarkably, this picture also shows the backpack containing the bomb that was about to kill Martin, as well as the man who allegedly planted it. Briefly known as “Suspect 2,” the man in the white baseball hat in the background is 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, an American college student from Cambridge. Dzhokhar has allegedly just placed the backpack near the guardrail and is walking away. Like the Richards, Dzhokhar had arrived at this, his targeted location, at approximately 2:45 p.m. Shortly thereafter, authorities say, he moved to the guardrail and dropped the backpack onto the ground. After walking past the Richards and other spectators, Dzhokhar loitered in front of the Forum restaurant at 755 Boylston Street for about four minutes, looking occasionally at his cell phone and once appearing to take a picture with it. Eventually, at 2:49 p.m., Dzhokhar lifted the phone to his ear.  A few seconds later, down the street, a bomb exploded. That bomb was allegedly made and placed by Dzhokhar's 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan.  Like the one in Dzhokhar's backpack, it was a homemade “improvised explosive device” — a pressure cooker filled with gunpowder, ball bearings, and nails. The bomb was designed to kill and maim people, and it did. It also created a fireball and blast that could be heard up and down Boylston Street. At the sound of the explosion, virtually everyone standing on Boylston Street near Dzhokhar Tsarnaev turned their heads and looked down the street in bewilderment and alarm.  But not Dzhokhar.  Dzhokhar remained calm, as though nothing had happened. After the explosion, amid the confusion, Dzhokhar rapidly began walking west, away from the marathon finish line. The backpack he had placed near the guardrail was still on the ground. Twelve seconds after the first bomb went off, the homemade pressure-cooker bomb inside Dzhokhar's pack exploded.  Shrapnel from the second bomb tore through the Richard family and other people nearby, literally blowing them apart. The bomb killed 8-year-old Martin Richard. It tore off his sister Jane's leg. It put his mother in the hospital with a serious brain injury. It blew off limbs, ripped gashes in dozens of people, and sprayed blood, flesh, and bone all over the sidewalk. The devastation caused by the bombs turned Boylston Street into a war zone. The photos of the blasts and the chaotic and horrifying moments that followed are unforgettable.Vine90.7 RAV FM  YouTube/NekoAngel3Wolf Boston Globe via Getty Facebook In the chaos that followed the blasts, a remarkable thing happened. Despite the risk that other bombs might explode anywhere at any time, policemen, race volunteers, doctors, and spectators immediately descended on the carnage and began helping those who had been crippled and hurt. Firefighters began searching frantically for a rumored third bomb. Runners stopped running to help victims. These and other quick responses saved several people who might otherwise have bled to death. A 27-year-old named Jeff Bauman, for example, had both legs blown off below the knee. A marathon spectator named Carlos Arredondo, who had lost one of his sons in the Iraq war and the other to suicide, was attending the marathon to support a runner honoring his sons. Arredondo tied a cloth tourniquet around one of Bauman's legs and pinched Bauman's bleeding artery closed on the other. Moments later, Arredondo, still wearing his cowboy hat, helped two others wheel Bauman toward a medical tent. AP Photo/Charles Krupa A race volunteer named E.J. Occhiboi, who was volunteering two blocks away from the marathon's finish line, saw a medical tent reserved to treat marathon finishers and sprang into action with the wounded. One bystander who'd been rushed into the tent had a deep, three-inch-wide gash in his leg with a piece of shrapnel sticking out of it. “You could just see ... a chunk of his hamstring was gone,” Occhiboi said. A 17-year-old named Sydney Corcoran had a gash torn in her femoral artery, an injury that you don't survive for long without help. Sydney's mother, Celeste, lost both of her legs below the knee.  Up and down Boylston Street, volunteers, runners, firefighters, policemen, and medical personnel rushed to help the victims of the bombs. This response was one of the first of many inspiring moments that would occur in Boston over the next five days. Bloomberg via Getty Jim Rogash/Getty ImagesREUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi AP Photo/Charles KrupaOver the next several hours, there were frequent rumors and reports of other bombs. Authorities were briefly worried that a third bomb had been placed under the grandstand, and firefighters searched desperately for it. A fire in the JFK library was initially linked to the bombings. Backpacks and other belongings abandoned by fleeing spectators, or just lost in the confusion, had to be searched, for fear that they contained more bombs. As word spread of the horror, relatives and friends of runners and spectators began trying to make contact with their loved ones, desperate to make sure that everything was OK. The cellular networks didn't work, however, so many of these communication attempts failed. In most cases, this brief panic ended as it did for the man and woman below — in joy and relief. In many other cases, however, it didn't. REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi In all, 260 people were wounded by the blasts. Three were killed. Speaking from the White House Monday evening, President Barack Obama vowed that those responsible for the attacks would be found.  Police had no suspects, however. No motive. And no leads.  Tuesday As the immediate horror of the bombings passed, the focus turned to the victims. The first confirmed death was 8-year-old Martin Richard. When Martin's father, Bill Richard, returned to the family's house in Dorchester Monday night, he was still wearing hospital scrubs. A neighbor asked if he was okay. He didn't respond. A friend who had driven Bill home explained that Martin was the child who had died. The neighbor said her “heart just fell.” The Richards were deeply involved in the Dorchester community, and Martin's death was felt far beyond the family. On Tuesday, Bill Richard made his first public statement:  “My dear son Martin has died from injuries sustained in the attack on Boston. My wife and daughter are both recovering from serious injuries. We thank our family and friends, those we know and those we have never met, for their thoughts and prayers.” Martin Richard's wide, gap-toothed smile quickly became a defining image of the tragedy. Mourners left flowers, stuffed animals, and “Peace” signs in the Richard family's driveway. Another photo of Martin also went viral.  In the photo, Richard is holding up a sign he made after learning of the death of Trayvon Martin. “No more hurting people,” it reads. “Peace.” “The outpouring of love and support over the last week has been tremendous,’’ Bill and Denise Richard would later say after burying their son. “This has been the most difficult week of our lives and we appreciate that our friends and family have given us space to grieve and heal.’’ FacebookKrystle Campbell.Krystle Campbell, 29 — who had gone to the marathon with her friend Karen Rand to watch Rand's boyfriend cross the finish line — was the second bombing victim to be identified.   A restaurant manager from Arlington, Krystle made friends easily, and kept them: She had been a bridesmaid in 17 different weddings. At her job at Jimmy's Steer House, she oversaw a dining room staff of 45 servers, and she was known for her ability to handle difficult customers. Krystle's grandmother Lillian told Sports Illustrated that her happiness was so infectious that “no one could be depressed around her.”  Krystle went to the marathon every year. The day of the bombings, having not heard from her, Krystle's family went to Massachusetts General Hospital to look for her. To their great relief, they were told that Krystle was hurt, but alive.  For many hours, doctors occasionally emerged from an operating room to tell Krystle's parents, William and Patty, how she was doing. At 2 a.m., the Campbells were finally allowed into a recovery room to see Krystle. It was there that they discovered that the patient the doctors had been working to save was not Krystle, but her friend, Karen Rand, who had lost a leg. Krystle, the Campbells soon learned, was dead. AP ImagesLingzi LuFriends of another young woman, a 23-year-old Boston University graduate student named Lingzi Lu, had also been searching frantically for her since the bombs went off.  They began posting to Facebook and Twitter on Monday afternoon. Lingzi had gone to the marathon, they said, and now she was missing. Lingzi's friends posted pictures of her online and begged people to help find her. The next morning, having heard nothing, Lingzi's roommate at BU and other friends went looking for her. They traveled from hospital to hospital until they reached the Boston Medical Center, where they learned that doctors were treating an unidentified Asian woman who was not well enough to be seen. Lingzi's roommate and friends waited for hours at the hospital, only to learn, as Krystle Campbell's parents had, that the patient being treated was not Lingzi. And then they learned that Lingzi was dead. Lingzi was from a city in northeastern China called Shenyang. Her friends described her as “a kind young woman with a passion for music who hoped to find love in America.” Her teachers described her as “bubbly” and as an exceptional student. The day before she was killed, Lingzi learned that she had passed a key part of an exam required for her degree in statistics.  Lingzi's death was not publicly confirmed until Wednesday. Shortly afterward, more than 14,000 condolence notes had already been posted to her page on China's version of Twitter, Sina Weibo.  Her parents called her death a “dagger to the heart.” How to relax after a mass-murder? Play soccer on XBox On the same day that Lingzi Lu's friends were searching for her, one of the men who had allegedly killed her, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, returned to his normal life as a student at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth.  In what might be described as a case study on the banality of evil, Dzhokhar worked out at the college gym on Tuesday night. He played FIFA soccer on an Xbox in his dorm room. He smoked pot, which is something other students said he frequently did. And he resumed his frequent postings on Twitter. twitpic.comDzhokhar's first Tweet after the bombings had appeared at 5:04 p.m. on Monday afternoon, only two hours and 20 minutes after the bombs exploded: “Ain't no love in the heart of the city, stay safe people,” it read. Later that evening, Dzhokhar's tweets continued. The user Dzhokhar was replying to below has since deleted the account, so it's not clear what Dzhokhar was talking about, but the middle tweet, especially, is chilling: @J_tsar               At 9:34 p.m. on Monday evening — seven hours after the bombings — Dzhokhar concluded his public statements for the day. His final tweet appears to shed some light into his state of mind: @T_tsar       Dzhokhar resumed his tweeting on Tuesday morning. He responded to other Twitter users, giving one advice to use “Claritin Clear.” He also provided some commentary about the bombings, deeming one story “fake.” And he tweeted some lyrics from the rapper Emininem expressing the feeling that what most normal people talk about is “gibberish.” Toward the end of the day, Dzhokhar also proudly announced that he was “a stress free kind of guy.” @T_tsar Dzhokhar Tsarnaev did not appear to have been actively trying to “blend in” during the days after the bombings. He just appeared to be doing what he normally did: Hang out in the dorm. Work out. Go to class. Play video games. Outwardly, at least, the experience of allegedly becoming a mass-murderer did not appear to have changed him. The behavior of Dzhokhar's brother Tamerlan in the days after the bombings was less public than Dzhokhar's but perhaps no less mundane. Tamerlan, 26, was married to an American woman named Katherine Russell, and they lived in an apartment in Cambridge. Tamerlan, neighbors said, often stayed home and took care of his 3-year-old daughter while his wife worked as a home health aide. Neighbors described Tamerlan as friendly and outgoing and said he, too, often played video games. Johannes HirnIn the days after the bombings, Tamerlan reportedly shopped at Whole Foods. He took his daughter to the park. He asked one neighbor whether the neighbor had “seen what happened,” referring to the bombings. In short, Tamerlan seemed to do what he usually did. By Tuesday evening, reporters from most major TV networks and news organizations had descended on Boston, desperate for any information about the bombers. The FBI and other authorities, however, had provided little new information. Special Agent Rick Deslauriers from the FBI vowed that authorities would “go to the ends of the Earth” to find those responsible, but he had nothing new on leads or suspects. Finally, on Wednesday afternoon, the media thought it had what the whole world wanted: A bombing suspect. Better yet, the suspect had been apprehended and would now be marched in front of TV cameras for a perp walk. Shortly after noon, reports began trickling out that authorities had a suspect in custody. In one of several major media gaffes during the week, CNN reported this information, along with the Associated Press and Boston Globe. The suspect was being taken to the federal courthouse, some of these reports said, and media and spectators descended on the place. Then, minutes later, to the dismay of the CNN newsroom and millions of people around the world, the reports were retracted. These media reports and others drew a scathing rebuke from the FBI, who worried that the false reports could affect the ongoing investigation. “Over the past day and a half, there have been a number of press reports based on information from unofficial sources that has been inaccurate,” the FBI said. “Since these stories often have unintended consequences, we ask the media, particularly at this early stage of the investigation, to exercise caution and attempt to verify information through appropriate official channels before reporting.” Unbeknownst to the media, the FBI did have suspects by this time — they just didn't yet know who they were.  Thanks to surveillance cameras near the scene of the bombings, and information gleaned from one of the survivors, the FBI was focusing on two men in baseball hats who were seen leaving backpacks where the bombs exploded.  Some of the information investigators received came from one of the men who was nearly killed by the bombs — 27-year-old Jeff Bauman. When Bauman woke up from surgery, after losing both of his legs, he immediately asked for a pen and paper. “Bag, saw the guy, looked right at me,” Jeff wrote, Jeff's brother Chris later told Bloomberg. AP Photo/The Lowell Sun & Robin YoungThe man who looked into Jeff Bauman's eyes had been wearing a cap, sunglasses, and a black jacket over a hooded sweatshirt. He had dropped a bag at Jeff Bauman's feet. Two and a half minutes later, the bomb in the bag had exploded, blowing off both Jeff's legs below the knees. Although no one yet knew it, the man who had dropped off the bag was Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Later, when the identity of the suspects was released, a consensus quickly developed that Tamerlan Tsarnaev had been the driving force behind the bombings. His younger brother Dzhokhar, most friends and relatives agreed, had likely followed Tamerlan's lead. Tamerlan Tsarnaev had emigrated with his family from Dagestan, Russia, a decade earlier, when Tamerlan was about 16. Tamerlan's grandparents had been native Chechens, who had been deported to Kyrgystan by the Stalin regime. Tamerlan's father, Anzor, was one of 10 siblings. His wife Zubeidat came from Dagestan, a republic of Russia. Anzor became a lawyer and worked in the prosecutor's office in Bishkek, Kyrgystan. He and his wife had four children: Tamerlan, two daughters named Ailina and Bella, and Dzhokhar. According to a comprehensive profile of the family by the Wall Street Journal, Anzor Tsarnaev was fired from his job in 1999, after the Kremlin tried to suppress an insurgency. To feed his family, Anzor worked as a mechanic. The family moved to the capital of Dagestan, Makhachkala, and then to the United States. The Tsarnaevs lived near Boston, on the border between Somerville and Cambridge, in a cramped third floor apartment. Once again, Anzor worked as a mechanic, often fixing cars on the street for $10 an hour. Anzor's wife, Zubeidat, became a cosmetologist and gave facials at a spa. The family received food stamps and welfare payments. Tamerlan and Dzhokhar both attended Cambridge Rindge &amp; Latin high school. Tamerlan was said to be quiet and often skipped class. His passion was boxing. Photo by Glenn DePriest/Getty ImagesTamerlan Tsarnaev (L) fights Lamar Fenner (R) during the 201-pound division boxing match during the 2009 Golden Gloves National Tournament of Champions May 4, 2009 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Tamerlan's father Anzor had been a boxer, and Tamerlan followed in his footsteps and eventually became one of the best amateur boxers in the country. He won a New England regional competition in 2009 and qualified for the National Golden Gloves tournament, where he lost in the first round. He won the regional competition again the next year. He was described as a smooth but “cocky” and “arrogant” fighter, who seemed disdainful of other competitors.  Tamerlan attended community college for a while, but he didn't have a steady job. And by 2009, he had developed another passion: religion.  The Tsarnaev brothers' uncle Ruslan, who lives in Maryland and would later dominate network television during the all-day manhunt for Dzhokhar, said that by 2009, Tamerlan had changed and was increasingly “spewing this radical crap.” Tamerlan was offended by Muslim immigrants' attempts to “assimilate” into the United States. He berated members of his local mosque and Muslim community who weren't as devout as he thought they should be. In a boxing profile that was widely shared, Tamerlan was quoted as saying, “I don't have a single American friend. I don't understand them.”  In 2009, Tamerlan was arrested for domestic abuse after slapping his girlfriend. In 2011, to his father's dismay, he also quit boxing. On September 11th of that year, in a case that has yet to be solved but is now getting renewed scrutiny, one of Tamerlan's friends, Brendan Mess, was brutally murdered in Waltham. Natick PoliceAlso in 2011, the Russian authorities reportedly taped a telephone call between one of the Boston suspects and his mother, Zubeidat, in which the topic of jihad was vaguely discussed. Zubeidat had joined Tamerlan in his zealous devotion to radical Islam and had returned to Russia after she and Anzor had split up.  Earlier that year, as Tamerlan requested permission to leave the United States to visit Dagestan, the Russian authorities asked the FBI to investigate him. Neither the FBI nor the CIA found anything worth following up on. Thursday  White HousePresident Barack Obama started out Thursday promising that the U.S. would find those responsible for the attacks. That morning, Obama gave an emotional speech at an interfaith memorial service at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston, decrying the “small, stunted individuals” behind the attacks. “Yes, we will find you,” Obama said. “And yes, you will face justice.”  At that time, the FBI had not publicly revealed if more than one person was behind the attacks. But what had started out as a promising investigation was stalling. The FBI had images of the two suspects, but it was hesitant about going public with them, for fear of tipping off the suspects and letting them get away. By then, though, the FBI was also getting nervous that the suspects would strike again. On Thursday morning, the FBI briefed members of the Obama Administration and Congress on the progress of the investigation. That afternoon, when the flow of promising leads had run dry, the FBI decided to release pictures of the suspects and enlist the public's help in identifying them. FBI At a news conference shortly before 5:30 p.m. on Thursday, officials unveiled grainy pictures of men they labeled “Suspect 1” and “Suspect 2.”  The pictures were broadcast on nearly every major television station and published by nearly every online news organization within seconds. The reaction was immediate. The release of the pictures set off a furious chain reaction that over the next 30 hours would lead to another murder, a car-jacking, a sustained shootout, and a day-long manhunt that mirrored a real-life episode of the television show “24.”  At 9:04 p.m. that evening, an acquaintance of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's tweeted a closeup of one of the FBI's pictures at him, presumably assuming that the “Suspect 2” in the FBI photos merely looked like Dzhokhar: “Lol... Is this you? I didnt know you went to the marathon!!!” By then, Dzhokhar and Tamerlan had probably long since figured out that their days of anonymity were over. If they had planned or prepared for this possibility, however, it certainly didn't show in their actions that evening. Dzhokhar would later tell investigators that the idea for the bombing itself had been spontaneous, which might be why the brothers didn't even bother to disguise themselves as they allegedly walked down Boylston Street with their bombs. And the brothers' actions the night the pictures were released appeared to be even more spontaneous. By mid-evening, the brothers were on the move. They surfaced in Cambridge. via Twitter.com/buzzfeedSean CollierAt about 10:20 p.m., a young police officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was sitting in his campus patrol car at the end of his eight hour shift. The patrolman, 27-year-old Sean Collier, was well-known and well-liked on campus. He had become friends with some MIT students and had gone hiking and skiing with them. He had also recently been offered his dream job, a spot on the Somerville police force, and would be taking it that summer. That night, The New York Times reported, an ambulance staffed by students drove past Collier's parked car. Collier flashed his blue lights briefly to say hello, and the students in the ambulance responded with a flash of their red ones. Shortly thereafter, two men approached Collier's car from behind and shot him five times, including twice in the head. The shootings were not provoked. They were not a confrontation. They were, police later said, “an assassination.” The motive for the shooting was at first mysterious, but would later become clearer: The shooters may have wanted Collier's gun.  After killing Collier, police say, the shooters tried to steal the gun. But Collier had a triple-lock holster, and they couldn't figure out how to open it. So, once again, the Tsarnaevs are alleged to have killed an innocent bystander for nothing. A few minutes later, the ambulance that had flashed its lights at Collier just before he was shot was called back to try to save his life. It was too late. Sean Collier had allegedly become the fourth person murdered in the Tsarnaevs' crusade. Just before 11 p.m. that night, about 25 minutes after Collier was killed, a 26-year-old Chinese entrepreneur named “Danny” was driving his Mercedes SUV on Brighton Street in Cambridge when he pulled over to answer a text. Danny had gotten a Masters in Engineering at Northeastern the year before, and now he worked at a startup. Initially, it wasn't clear exactly what had happened to Danny that night, but a reporter named Eric Moskowitz of the Boston Globe later interviewed him and got the full story. As Danny sat by the side of the road answering the text, a Honda Civic sedan swerved up behind him. A man jumped out of the car, approached Danny's Mercedes, and then knocked on the passenger-side window. The man was speaking rapidly, but Danny couldn't hear him well, so he rolled down the window. The man then reached through the window, unlocked the door, and climbed in. The man demanded money and pointed a silver handgun at Danny. The man, authorities allege, was Tamerlan Tsarnaev. “Don't be stupid,” Tsarnaev said. Tsarnaev asked Danny if he had followed the recent news. “Did you hear about the Boston explosion?” Tsarnaev asked. “I did that. And I just killed a policeman in Cambridge.” Tsarnaev then removed a magazine from his gun, showed Danny that he had a bullet in it, and re-inserted the magazine. “I am serious,” he said. Danny had only $45 in cash, which had been stuffed in an armrest, and a wallet full of credit cards. Learning this, Tsarnaev told Danny to drive. As Danny drove, Tsarnaev told him where to go. Take a right on Fordham Road. Take a right on Commonwealth. As the Mercedes rolled along, the Honda that Tsarnaev had jumped out of followed along behind. Danny's heart was racing so fast that he couldn't stay in his lane. Tsarnaev told him to relax. They crossed the Charles River into Watertown. Tsarnaev found Danny's ATM card in his wallet and demanded the ATM password. Then Tsarnaev directed Danny to a side street in Watertown and told him to pull over. When the SUV stopped, Tsarnaev got out and ordered Danny to move to the passenger seat. If Danny didn't comply, Tsarnaev made clear, Tsarnaev would shoot him. Danny complied. The Honda had stopped behind them, and now the driver, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, got out. For a few minutes, the brothers transferred what Danny assumed was “luggage” from the sedan to the Mercedes. It turned out to be bombs. Then Tamerlan Tsarnaev climbed into the driver's seat and Dzhokhar got into the back behind Danny. And the Mercedes pulled away. They stopped at the Watertown Center. Dzhokhar got out and withdrew cash from an ATM using Danny's card. Sitting alone in the car with Tamerlan, Danny wondered whether this was his chance to escape. But all the stores nearby were dark and locked, so there was nowhere to flee to. When Dzhokhar returned, Tamerlan told Danny that they both had guns. Danny never saw a second gun, however, and despite many early reports to the contrary, the police never found one. The brothers began speaking to each other in a foreign language. Danny caught one word: “Manhattan.”  Bizarrely, Tamerlan then asked Danny whether his car could be driven out of state. Danny didn't understand. “Like New York,” one brother said.  The car continued west, toward Waltham. The brothers demanded that Danny show them how to use the radio. As they flipped through the stations, they avoided the news, and when they couldn't find music they liked, they asked Danny whether he had any CDs. Danny didn't have any CDs, he said — he listened to music on his iPhone.  In what would turn out to be a lucky break, the Mercedes' gas tank was almost empty. Tamerlan pulled up at a gas station, but the pumps were closed. He turned the car around and headed back toward Boston. Eventually, Tamerlan returned to the sedan they had left in Watertown, and the brothers moved some more stuff out of it into the Mercedes. This time, when they started driving again, one of the brothers produced a CD with music that Danny said sounded like a Middle Eastern call to prayer.   Suddenly, Danny's iPhone buzzed with an incoming message. Eric Moskowitz of the Boston Globe describes what happened next: [It was] a text from his roommate, wondering in Chinese where he was. Barking at Danny for instructions, Tamerlan used an English-to-Chinese app to text a clunky reply. “I am sick. I am sleeping in a friend’s place tonight.” In a moment, another text, then a call. No one answered. Seconds later, the phone rang again. “If you say a single word in Chinese, I will kill you right now,” Tamerlan said. Danny understood. His roommate’s boyfriend was on the other end, speaking Mandarin. “I’m sleeping in my friend’s home tonight,” Danny replied in English. “I have to go.” “Good boy,” Tamerlan said. “Good job.” A few minutes later, Danny finally saw his chance. The SUV pulled up at a gas station on Soldiers Field Road. Dzhokhar got out to fill the tank, planning to pay with one of Danny's credit cards. A moment later, Dzhokhar rapped on the driver's side window. “Cash only,” he said to Tamerlan. Looking down, Tamerlan counted out $50 of cash and handed it to Dzhokhar. Dzhokhar headed for the gas station office to pay. Tamerlan's gun was in the driver's-side door well. Tamerlan was fiddling with a GPS. Danny's reflexes took over: “I was thinking I must do two things,” he told Moskowitz of the Globe. “Unfasten my seat belt and open the door and jump out as quick as I can. If I didn’t make it, he would kill me right out, he would kill me right away. I just did it. I did it very fast, using my left hand and right hand simultaneously to open the door, unfasten my seat belt, jump out . . . and go.”  As Danny bailed out of the car, he heard the startled Tamerlan yell, “Fuck!” And he felt Tamerlan make a grab at him.  Danny didn't look back. He dashed into the street and ran toward the lights of a Mobil station. Reaching the station, Danny charged inside and told the clerk to call the police. Then he dashed into a storeroom. The clerk initially thought Danny was drunk. CNNTareq Ahmed.“The door opened quickly,” the clerk, Tareq Ahmed, later told WHDH. “I thought it was a drunk man because of how he opened the door. I got up quick and wanted to yell at him and ask him why he would open the door like this. He fell down right there and then he said, ‘Please call the police. There are people who want to kill me. There are people who want me dead. They have guns and they have a bomb.  “I grabbed the phone and I made sure I was not panicking,” Ahmed continued. “I swear to God I was making the call and I was worried that someone may just come in and shoot me. I couldn’t even look outside. I closed my eyes and I was talking on the phone expecting death at any minute. ... Just in case someone outside saw me moving, in case they suspect I’m doing something wrong inside and they come in. I wanted to make sure everything looked normal.” Ahmed dialed 911 and then took the phone to Danny. Across the street, the Tsarnaev brothers took off. Because of the murder of Sean Collier earlier in the evening, the area was full of police. Officers arrived at the Mobil station in minutes, and Danny told them what had happened. He told them that the Mercedes could be tracked using a Mercedes satellite system. He told them that his iPhone was still in the Mercedes and that it, too, could be tracked. Danny had been held prisoner by the Tsarnaevs for nearly an hour and a half. His daring escape had finally given the police the break they needed. And, given the brothers' apparent intention to drive to New York, it had possibly saved New York from a terrorist attack. By now, it was early Friday morning. The hunt for the Boston bombing suspects was more than four days old. And, finally, the Tsarnaevs' luck was about to come to an end. After Danny escaped, the Tsarnaevs returned for a third time to the Honda sedan they had been driving before they carjacked Danny's Mercedes. As they drove, the police tracked the SUV using the Mercedes' GPS system.  At 12:42 a.m., a dispatcher announced that the Mercedes was in Watertown, near 89 Dexter Street.  A single Watertown officer, Joe Reynolds, replied. “I'm right behind that vehicle,” he said. The Sergeant on duty, John MacLellan, told Reynolds to hang back, not to engage. Reynolds did not engage. But suddenly, the SUV turned a corner and stopped in front of the Honda sedan. The brothers jumped out. Courtesy of Andrew KitzenbergThe suspects hiding behind the SUV.“They jump out of the car and unload on our police officer,” Boston police chief Edward Deveau later told CNN. “They both came out shooting — shooting guns, handguns. He's under direct fire, very close by. He has to jam it in reverse and try to get himself a little distance.” Reynolds pulled back from the shooting. Then Sergeant John MacLellan arrived. As MacLellan drove up the street in a Ford Expedition, a bullet hit the windshield. Both officers got out of their cars and began firing back at the brothers. A third officer, Tim Menton, was on his way home from his shift when he heard the radio call. He raced to the intersection of Laurel and Dexter streets. When he hit Dexter, a bullet blew through his windshield. Watertown Sergeant Jeff Pugliese was also on his way home when he heard the call. He, too, raced toward the scene. Then two more officers arrived. At one point in the firefight, a Laurel Street resident told the Globe, a policeman shouted toward the brothers: “Give up! There's no way out! Give up!” Still sheltered behind the Mercedes SUV, Tamerlan Tsarnaev shouted right back: “You want more? I give you more!” In a clever maneuver, Sergeant MacLellan put his Expedition in neutral and let it roll slowly toward the Tsarnaevs with its lights flashing. He hoped the brothers would think he was still in it and shoot at it, using up valuable ammunition. Meanwhile, he would be in a position to get a good shot at them.  Then the brothers began throwing explosives. One was another pressure-cooker bomb, which set off a huge explosion and blew the lid of the pressure cooker into a nearby car. Two more bombs exploded. Two more were duds. “There are [expletive] bombs, they’ve got [expletive] IEDs,” one FBI agent reportedly shouted, as he ran toward the scene. “Everyone get your [expletive] phones off. No phones. They’ve got IEDs. [Improvised Explosive Devices]” Meanwhile, Watertown Sergeant Jeff Pugliese went for position. Instead of rushing right into the firefight, Pugliese drove up a side street. He ran through a backyard, scaled a chain link fence, and then approached the Tsarnaevs from the side. He got within 12 feet of Tamerlan Tsarnaev and started firing. Tamerlan turned and fired back.  Pugliese thinks he hit Tamerlan, wounding him. Then Tamerlan ran out of ammunition, and threw his gun at Pugliese, hitting him in the arm. Out of bullets and hurt, Tamerlan suddenly ran toward the main group of officers. Pugliese, Reynolds, and MacLellan charged Tamerlan, tackling him to the ground and then handcuffing him. Then they heard an engine roar. Up the street, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was behind the wheel of the still-operable Mercedes. Turning around and accelerating rapidly, Dzhokhar drove straight at the officers, his brother, and the police barricade. As the Mercedes approached, Pugliese, MacLellan, and Reynolds dove out of the way. Dzhokhar drove right over Tamerlan, dragging his body about 30 feet. One Watertown resident saw the lights of the SUV lurch up and down as Dzhokhar hit his brother. Another, watching from her second-floor window, said Tamerlan was still moving when the SUV separated from him. Tamerlan was lying on his belly, she said, trying to lift his head. At 12:48 a.m., Dzhokhar careened through the two police cars at the end of the street and drove off into the darkness. AP Photo/Matt RourkePolice officers walk near the shootout scene, Friday, April 19, 2013, in Watertown, Mass. The gunfight had lasted about four minutes. More than 250 shots had been fired, the vast majority of which had likely come from the police. The next day, when police searched the scene, they found only one silver handgun of the brothers' — Tamerlan's. In another indication of the Tsarnaevs' lack of preparedness, they also found a BB gun. A Transit Authority officer, Richard Donahue, was severely wounded in the firefight. A witness told the Globe that police officers had been firing from behind Donahoe, and it's possible that the bullet that hit Donahue came from them. (The D.A. is investigating.) Donahue was hit in the femoral artery, and very nearly died. Only the desperate efforts of several police officers to stanch the bleeding, get Donahue into an ambulance, perform chest compressions, and drive the ambulance to Mount Auburn hospital saved his life. After fleeing the firefight, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev drove the battered SUV about a half a mile, to the corner of Spruce and Lincoln Streets. Then he took off on foot. Dzhokhar was wounded — he had what appeared to be shrapnel wounds, perhaps from the brothers' bombs, on his neck, ear, and thigh — and the police found blood in the SUV. They also found blood and urine in a nearby yard.  But for another 16 hours, that would be all they would find. According to a Watertown resident, the police were only about 45 seconds behind Dzhokhar as he sped away from the scene. Soon, they were swarming the neighborhood, going house to house. They set up a command post in the Arsenal mall. They searched the abandoned SUV. They began analyzing the scene of the firefight. They drew up a five-sector search grid, with a 20-block perimeter around the SUV. They searched hundreds of houses. They stripped and handcuffed a man who seemed suspicious (the famous “naked man” that many TV viewers and digital sleuths were convinced was Tamerlan), and then determined that he was a resident. And they kept searching in vain for Dzhokhar, who had disappeared into the night. REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi By morning, an estimated 1,000 police officers were roaming the streets of Watertown, including SWAT teams and the National Guard. Police were running down every tip that came in, including many that came from crazy or paranoid people. Residents said the police searched everywhere, sometimes multiple times, but some residents also said they didn't do a particularly thorough searching job.  One resident near where Dzhokhar was eventually found, for example, showed police into a barn and had to remind them to suggest that they search the basement. Another resident said a policeman shone a flashlight at a person-sized hole in the crawl-space under his house — but then never bothered to look in it. And no one, apparently, thought to look in a large covered boat in the backyard of a house on Franklin Street called “Slip Away 2.” Meanwhile, the entire city of Boston had been shut down. Public transportation ceased operating. The Red Sox and Bruins games were cancelled. Schools were closed. Residents were asked to stay in their homes. For a whole day, with the exception of the non-stop action in Watertown, the city became a ghost town. Harvard Square, empty [via @thecrimson @pourmecoffee]. twitpic.com/ckg83s The city is almost deserted... #Boston #lockdown #manhunt #ATVNyourview twitter.com/zachherbert/st… View from my daughter's dorm window of the Boston Common. "Empty. Like a ghost town," she says. twitter.com/cloepoisson/st…   #Boston empty. mass ave bridge. twitter.com/cr3dit/status/… #Boston empty. back bay. twitter.com/cr3dit/status/… #Boston empty. kenmore-ish. twitter.com/cr3dit/status/… Downtown Crossing 10:30 am twitter.com/WBURSteve/stat… Streets in Cambridge and Somerville eerily empty. twitter.com/davabel/status… Boston a ghost town. RT @nbcnews: Photo: City on lockdown; an empty Kenmore Square in Boston. (via Andrew Golden) twitter.com/NBCNews/status… Inman Square, normally one of the busiest intersections in Boston area, basically a ghost town twitter.com/Dan_Rowinski/s…   This is what rush hour looks like in #Boston. Empty-so eerie and quiet. #fox6wbrc twitpic.com/ckfh7r Streets are nearly empty in #downtown #Boston. twitter.com/mollyoehmichen… Boston Common, totally deserted — via @cj_stevenson twitter.com/CJ_Stevenson/s… RT @stevenerlangerDowntown Boston Friday at 9 am. Virtually deserted twitpic.com/ckf4i6Retweeted by Julia La Roche The Boston Univ. campus is deserted as everyone is urged to stay indoors and city is shutdown. twitpic.com/ckfmvh At 6 p.m. on Friday, after 15 hours of fruitless searching, Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick told people they could finally leave their houses. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had disappeared. It was time for life to return to normal. WCVBDavid HenneberryOver on Franklin Street, Watertown resident David Henneberry was glad to finally be able to go outside.  He had been looking at his boat, the Slip Away 2, out his windows all day, and something had been bugging him about it.  Two pads that he had put under the boat's shrink-wrap cover to stop chaffing had fallen to the ground. It had been windy, so he didn't think this was strange, but he wanted to put the pads back.  Henneberry went outside and put the pads back. The strap holding the shrink-wrap down was also loose, but the wind could have done that, too. So Henneberry tightened the strap and returned to his house. But something was still bugging him. So he went back outside to check out the boat again.  This time, Henneberry got a ladder, and climbed up. He rolled back the shrink-wrap and looked in the boat. Then he saw blood. A lot of it. He didn't think, “Holy crap, I've found the bomber!” He thought, “Did I cut myself last time?” Then he looked farther into the boat, behind the engine block. And then he saw Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Henneberry doesn't know whether he knew the body he saw in his boat was Tsarnaev's, but he didn't stop to think about it too hard. He also “didn't ask him if he wanted a cup of coffee.” Henneberry doesn't remember climbing back down the ladder or calling 911.  But, soon, the police were there, and he and his wife were being escorted off the property. Massachusetts Police There were soon reports and videos of another intense firefight between the suspect and police on Franklin Street. All of that firing, however, came from the police. Someone started shooting, a Superintendent later explained, and then lots of other people started shooting, and then the Superintendent yelled “Hold your fire!” By that time, the Slip Away 2 looked like Swiss cheese.  The police established another command post nearby and coordinated an approach on the boat. Nearly three hours later, at 8:45 p.m. on Friday evening, five days after he and his brother had allegedly blown apart men, women, children, friends, and families near the finish line of Boston marathon, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was finally in custody. He could face the death penalty.   This story was written by Brett LoGiurato and Henry Blodget.  Additional reporting was provided by Michael Kelley, Adam Taylor, Joe Weisenthal, Julia LaRoche, Gus Lubin, Erin Fuchs, Grace Wyler, and other Business Insider staff. Business Insider's full coverage of the marathon bombings is here. The story draws on the reporting of many journalists and stories published by other news organizations over the past two weeks. The Boston Globe, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, CNN, NBC, and local news sources were particularly helpful. The stories we drew details from included the following: 102 Hours In Pursuit Of Marathon Suspects, by the Boston Globe staff. (This is an excellent story of the entire week.) Clerk Helps Man Carjacked By Bombing Suspects, by Janet Wu of WHDH. Bomb Hero Who Lost Both Legs Gave 18th Birthday Gift To Teen Wounded Alongside Him, by Hayley Peterson, Mail Online. Watertown Boat Owner Tells Story Of Finding Boston Marathon Suspect, by Ed Harding, Newscenter 5. Valor, Devotion Brought Watertown Drama To End, by Kevin Cullen, Boston Globe. Watertown Police Chief "Amazed At How Much Ammunition" Bombing Suspects Had, by KARE 11. Lone Officer Confronted Marathon Suspects In Firefight, Chief Says, by Pete Williams, et al, NBC News. Boston Manhunt Began With Intense Firefight In Dark Street, by Melissa Gray, CNN. Carjacking Victim Describes Harrowing Night, by Eric Moskowitz, Boston Globe. "Dedicated Officer" Gunned Down By Boston Suspects At MIT, by Elizabeth Chuck and Miranda Leitsinger, NBC News Tamerlan Tsarnaev: "I Don't Have A Single American Friend," by David Weigel, Slate. Turn To Religion Split Suspects' Home, by Alan Cullison, Paul Sonne, Anton Troianovski, and David George-Cosh, Wall Street Journal. BU Student's Life Ends In City She Had Grown To Love, by Evan Allen, Boston Globe. Third Victim Identified As Chinese Student Lingzi Lu, by David Knowles, New York Daily News. Martin Richard Epitomized Spirit Of His Community, Little League, by Pete Thamel, Sports Illustrated. Thousands Line Streets As First Bomb Victim Is Laid To Rest, by Daily Mail staff. Krystle Campbell Was A Young Woman Everyone Seemed To Love, by David Epstein, Sports Illustrated. Boston Bomb Victim Helped Identify Suspect, by Asjylyn Loder and Esme Deprez, Bloomberg. Officer's Killing Spurred Pursuit In Boston Attack, by Wendy Ruderman, Serge Kovaleski, and Michael Cooper, New York Times.
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiA few weeks ago, billionaire financier George Soros gave Germany a policy ultimatum: he said the country ought to agree to "Eurobonds" – which would mutualize the public debts of euro area member states – or leave the common currency so that the remaining member states could proceed to introduce Eurobonds together, thus effectively ending the euro crisis. Soros's speech is the subject of German economist Hans-Werner Sinn's latest piece for Project Syndicate: "Should Germany Exit the Euro?" Sinn argues that Germany should neither accept Eurobonds nor exit the euro. In short, peripheral countries should continue to undergo austerity: From this perspective, the crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union that includes competitive countries. The only way to avoid it would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies. But, so far, they have not been willing to go this route... Thus, the only remaining option, as unpleasant as it may be for some countries, is to tighten budget constraints in the eurozone. After years of easy money, a way back to reality must be found. If a country is bankrupt, it must let its creditors know that it cannot repay its debts. And speculators must take responsibility for their decisions, and stop clamoring for taxpayer money whenever their investments turn bad. In the comments section, George Soros dropped an 818-word response to Sinn's critique of the speech. "Hans-Werner Sinn has deliberately distorted and obfuscated my argument," he begins, and proceeds to argue that if Germany accepts Eurobonds, it could "work wonders" in healing peripheral economies by allowing them to undertake tough structural reforms in a more benign environment. On the other hand, if Germany continues to reject them, Soros says weakness in the peripheral economies will eventually drag Germany down too, as the latest economic data releases seem to be hinting at. George Soros's response to Hans-Werner Sinn is included below. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Hans-Werner Sinn has deliberately distorted and obfuscated my argument. I was arguing that the current state of integration within the eurozone is inadequate: the euro will work only if the bulk of the national debts are financed by Eurobonds and the banking system is regulated by institutions that create a level playing field within the eurozone. Allowing the bulk of outstanding national debts to be converted into Eurobonds would work wonders. It would greatly facilitate the creation of an effective banking union, and it would allow member states to undertake their own structural reforms in a more benign environment. Countries that fail to implement the necessary reforms would become permanent pockets of poverty and dependency, much like Italy’s Mezzogiorno region today. If Germany and other creditor countries are unwilling to accept the contingent liabilities that Eurobonds entail, as they are today, they should step aside, leave the euro by amicable agreement, and allow the rest of the eurozone to issue Eurobonds. The bonds would compare favorably with the government bonds of countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, and Japan, because the euro would depreciate, the shrunken eurozone would become competitive even with Germany, and its debt burden would fall as its economy grew. But Germany would be ill-advised to leave the euro. The liabilities that it would incur by agreeing to Eurobonds are contingent on a default – the probability of which would be eliminated by the introduction of Eurobonds. Germany would actually benefit from the so-called periphery countries’ recovery. By contrast, were Germany to leave the eurozone, it would suffer from an overvalued currency and from losses on its euro-denominated assets. Whether Germany agrees to Eurobonds or leaves the euro, either choice would be infinitely preferable to the current state of affairs. The current arrangements allow Germany to pursue its narrowly conceived national interests but are pushing the eurozone as a whole into a long-lasting depression that will affect Germany as well. Germany is advocating a reduction in budget deficits while pursuing an orthodox monetary policy whose sole objective is to control inflation. This causes GDPs to fall and debt ratios to rise, hurting the heavily indebted countries, which pay high risk premiums, more than countries with better credit ratings, because it renders the former countries’ debt unsustainable. From time to time, they need to be rescued, and Germany always does what it must – but only that and no more – to save the euro; as soon as the crisis abates, German leaders start to whittle down the promises they have made. So the austerity policy championed by Germany perpetuates the crisis that puts Germany in charge of policy. Japan has adhered to the monetary doctrine advocated by Germany, and it has experienced 25 years of stagnation, despite engaging in occasional fiscal stimulus. It has now changed sides and embraced quantitative easing on an unprecedented scale. Europe is entering on a course from which Japan is desperate to escape. And, while Japan is a country with a long, unified history, and thus could survive a quarter-century of stagnation, the European Union is an incomplete association of sovereign states that is unlikely to withstand a similar experience. There is no escaping the conclusion that current policies are ill-conceived. They do not even serve Germany’s narrow national self-interest, because the results are politically and humanly intolerable; eventually they will not be tolerated. There is a real danger that the euro will destroy the EU and leave Europe seething with resentments and unsettled claims. The danger may not be imminent, but the later it happens the worse the consequences. That is not in Germany’s interest. Sinn sidesteps this argument by claiming that there is no legal basis for compelling Germany to choose between agreeing to Eurobonds or leaving the euro. He suggests that, if anybody ought to leave the euro, it is the Mediterranean countries, which should devalue their currencies. That is a recipe for disaster. They would have to default on their debts, precipitating global financial turmoil that may be beyond the capacity of authorities to contain. The heavily indebted countries must channel the rising their citizens’ discontent into a more constructive channel by coming together and calling on Germany to make the choice. The newly formed Italian government is well placed to lead such an effort. As I have shown, Italy would be infinitely better off whatever Germany decides. And, if Germany fails to respond, it would have to bear the responsibility for the consequences. I am sure that Germany does not want to be responsible for the EU’s collapse. It did not seek to dominate Europe and is unwilling to accept the responsibilities and contingent liabilities that go with such a position. That is one of the reasons for the current crisis. But, willy-nilly, Germany has been thrust into a position of leadership. Europe would benefit from a benevolent hegemonic power. So would Germany.
Japan's stock market has been on a tear since last fall thanks to a new government and a commitment to more aggressive fiscal and monetary easing. But the verdict is still out on the economy. However there are signs of things humming to life. Tonight Japanese manufacturing PMI for April came out, and the reading (via Markit) was the best in 13 months. Markit And that's not all. Retail spending (which has been notoriously weak for ages in Japan) just came in with a surprisingly strong number. Japan March household spending +5.2% y/y (vs. +1.6% expected) bit.ly/ZSmi7e Japan March unemployment rate 4.1% (vs. 4.2% expected) bit.ly/12LtLVX
Bloomberg TVMeredith Whitney, the banking analyst who once correctly predicted Citi would have to slash its dividend, has been taking a lot of heat for predicting cascading defaults in the municipal bond market. This call has not panned out. Whitney first went public with this call in a a 60 Minutes interview back in December 2010. And she is showing no signs of letting up. According to Investment News' Jeff Benjamin, Whitney continued to hammer her message at the Investment Management Consultants Association conference in Seattle on Sunday. From Benjamin: This is just the beginning, and this stuff will take a long time to play out, she said. This is not fun stuff to talk about; the fun stuff to talk about is all the good stuff that governors are doing around the country. Along those lines, Ms. Whitney laid out an investment theme that involves digging deep into state and municipal budgets that will tell the story of where and how money is going to be spent over the next few decades. People who don't like the taxes in one state will move to another state and that creates the negative feedback loop from hell, and something has got to give, she said. The investment side of the issue is the demographic landscape of the United States is changing before our eyes and this is what is important for the next 25 years. Yikes. Read more at InvestmentNews.com.
Today the market returned to a level very close to its all-time high. There have been a lot of all-time highs this year, but it's worth noting that markets had a bit of a scare earlier in the month: specifically two or so weeks ago when commodities were getting crushed, and we had a day down over 200 points on the Dow. Suddenly the dreaded "d-word" deflation was back on the radar. A quick look at Google Trends shows that the word deflation was used more in April than in any month in the last several. Google Trends Combining this with some weak economic data (in China, Europe and the US) as well as the big "triple top" in the market (we're basically at the same level we were at before the last two crashes) there was a sharp turn for the negative. Yet here we are, basically having erased all of that. Scare over.
APPresident Obama has a less than stellar reputation with corporate America, but he gave businesses a sweetheart tax deal that tacked several billions of dollars onto the national debt. As part of his 2009 stimulus package, the president tried to jumpstart the economy for part of 2010 and 2011 by letting companies deduct the full cost of new computers, machinery and office equipment—what accountants call “bonus depreciation.” The plan halved the size of the deduction for 2012 and 2013, even though the results appear to be lackluster. One industry official who advocated for the write-off confided to The Fiscal Times, “It would have been worse without it, sure, but it didn’t have that much effect on decisions to invest, since the economic uncertainty still had business owners extremely worried about future sales.” None of this should be a shocker. The president’s former budget director had previously documented that past attempts at bonus depreciation were underwhelming. But desperate times called for desperate measures, and it’s only now that the full costs of the tax break are becoming known. The Government Accountability Office revealed this month that companies saved $76.1 billion on their 2011 tab with the IRS.  But it’s unclear how crucial it has been to a slow recovery. The White House forecast back in 2010 that the 100 percent depreciation would produce $50 billion in new private investment. It would come at a $150 billion price tag for two years, but the additional corporate spending and return to normal growth patterns would bring that expense down to $30 billion over a decade, the administration said in a white paper. What complicates those initial White House estimates is that a strong recovery never materialized, and the administration continued the accelerated depreciation—albeit at 50 percent—for 2012 and 2013.  And the costs of the accelerated tax write-off may have backfired by robbing federal coffers of substantial revenue. According to Steve Wamhoff, an analyst at the Citizens for Tax Justice the constant use of bonus depreciation—which President George W. Bush also relied on in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005—make it less likely that the government will ever fully recover the $120 billion in revenues first projected by the Obama administration. “It’s meant to be a short-term stimulus that helps in the long-term, but since they keep extending it, it’s likely going to hurt since we’re not collecting enough in taxes,” Wamhoff said. It’s tough to measure the direct impacts of accelerated depreciation. Dominion Resources, a Virginia-based energy company, for example, told The Wall Street Journal that it plans to save a total of $1.2 billion in income taxes between 2011 and 2013 thanks to the write-off. Clearly, they invested heavily in equipment, which could have resulted from the stimulus. That’s what the stimulus was intended to do on a large scale to help drive the economy. In 2010, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that allowing full or partial expensing would, in the best case scenario, raise output by $1 per each dollar spent by the federal government. In the worst case scenario, the return would be just 20 cents on the dollar. The CBO separately studied bonus depreciation in 2002 and 2003 (at 30 percent), and found that it produced “relatively modest” results. In fact, then-CBO director, Peter Orszag, called the results “somewhat disappointing.” Orszag later served as Obama’s budget director from 2009 to the middle of 2010, when the president put forth an even larger bonus depreciation as part of a stimulus package that topped $800 billion. Currently, bonus depreciation is at 50 percent, and will be until the end of 2013. Obama’s fiscal 2014 budget does not extend the provision, but it does continue bonus depreciation for small businesses. Of course, the president’s budget is more a framework for spending than an actual blueprint. So, there’s no telling whether the subsidy will hold on for another year, even though interest groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are hoping to preserve the tax break. During a congressional hearing earlier this month, a top Chamber official told lawmakers that it was vital to continue accelerated depreciation. “Increasing the tax write-off for these capital investments increases the cash flow available for use in growing the businesses and creating jobs,” the Chamber said in a statement, adding that eliminating these write offs is “likely to harm economic growth.” The Myth of Being ‘Rich’ at $250,000 a Year States Betting on Big Year for Online Gambling Ron Paul: 16 Eye Opening Things You Don’t Know
GettyST. PAUL, Minn. (TheBlaze/AP) — In the wake of the 2012 election, many Republican strategists have concluded they simply cannot win as long as they seem so “polarizing.”  One of the more contentious issues is gay marriage, with those on the left often accusing Republicans of being intolerant.  But now, a national group of prominent GOP donors is pouring new money into lobbying efforts to get Republican lawmakers to vote to make gay marriage legal. American Unity PAC was formed last year to lend financial support to Republicans who bucked the party’s longstanding opposition to gay marriage. Its founders are launching a new lobbying organization, American Unity Fund, and already have spent more than $250,000 in Minnesota, where the Legislature could vote on the issue as early as next week. The group has spent $500,000 on lobbying since last month, including efforts in Rhode Island, Delaware, Indiana, West Virginia and Utah. Billionaire hedge fund manager and Republican donor Paul Singer launched American Unity PAC. The lobbying effort is the next phase as the push for gay marriage spreads to more states, spokesman Jeff Cook-McCormac told The Associated Press. “What you have is this network of influential Republicans who really want to see the party embrace the freedom to marry, and believe it’s not only the right thing for the country but also good politics,” Cook-McCormac said. In Minnesota, the money has gone to state groups that are lobbying Republican lawmakers and for polling on gay marriage in a handful of suburban districts held by Republicans. So far, only one Minnesota Republican lawmaker has committed to voting to legalize gay marriage: Sen. Branden Petersen, of Andover. “I think there will be some more. There are legislators out there that are struggling with this,” said Carl Kuhl, a former political aide to former GOP Sen. Norm Coleman and Republican gubernatorial candidate Tom Emmer. Kuhl’s public affairs firm is contracted by Minnesotans United, the lead lobby group for gay marriage in Minnesota and main recipient of American Unity’s Minnesota spending. House Speaker Paul Thissen, DFL-Minneapolis, said he has encouraged advocates of the marriage bill to round up Republican votes, if nothing else than to send a message to Minnesota residents that it’s not a partisan proposition. But that will be politically risky; the main opposition group to same-sex marriage, Minnesota for Marriage, has said it will seek consequences for Republicans who stray on gay marriage. Part of American Unity PAC’s original mission was to spend money on behalf of Republican gay marriage supporters. Many GOP lawmakers have faced primary challenges funded in part by anti-gay marriage groups such as the National Organization for Marriage, which argue that the lawmakers had betrayed the party’s core principles. Since forming the lobby group last month, American Unity also spent money to win over Republican lawmakers in Rhode Island, where last week all five Republicans in the state Senate jumped on the gay marriage bandwagon. Rhode Island is on track to legalize gay marriage by next week, which would make it the 11th U.S. state where gay marriage is legal. There are also plans to lobby federal lawmakers on gay rights issues. “We intend to work on this effort until every American citizen is treated equally under the law,” Cook-McCormac said. Other wealthy, traditionally Republican donors giving money to the group include Seth Klarman, David Herro and Cliff Asness. Though only one current GOP officeholder in Minnesota is on record supporting gay marriage, a handful of prominent Republicans have spoken out in favor of it. They include former state auditor Pat Anderson and Brian McClung, who was spokesman for former Gov. Tim Pawlenty. Prominent Republican donors including former politician Wheelock Whitney and businesswoman Marilyn Carlson Nelson have also lent support and donated money. Since it first formed to campaign against last fall’s gay marriage ban and then shifted to pushing for its legalization at the Capitol, Minnesotans United has been building Republican alliances, hiring multiple lobbyists with Republican ties. What do you think of the group’s efforts?  Should the GOP be supporting gay marriage?  Or will it further alienate conservative voters?
An epic tweet from Black Swan/Antifragile author Nassim Taleb today: Moral courage doesn't reside in "doing good" so much as in fighting the bad. My moral obligation is to destroy econ estblshmnt, and I will. Last week, Taleb went after economist Karl Whelan on Twitter after a few jokes were taken the wrong way. The Twitter brawl that unfolded between Taleb and Whelan ultimately inspired this post on Taleb's Facebook page:  Facebook/Nassim Taleb Then, in a follow-up comment to the Facebook post shown above, Taleb identified his next targets: Facebook/Nassim Taleb Sounds like Taleb is on the warpath.

This weekend I shared this Globe &amp; Mail story about the hedge fund manager betting big against Canada, specifically the Canadian banking sector, housing market and the country's currency. He sees a crisis coming for the real estate market up north that will wreck the economy. It's an interesting view, but one that I think will be wrong. Five quick reasons why: 1. A lot of the money fueling the boom is coming from Asians (especially from China) who want to get some assets outside their country. Real estate is how they're doing it. A new boom in China fuels more of this as there is more money to be invested. A crash in China fuels it even further as the newly minted millionaires and billionaires seek to protect even more of their wealth from local conditions. It's virtually guaranteed to continue. 2. The rest of the money is coming from gold mining, oil drilling and nat gas discovery. Gold may be in or out of fashion, but its been a Canadian mainstay industry since the flag was first planted. It isendogenousto their culture and way of life. Oil and gas prices rise or fall but the underlying need and demand really don't. In short, the prices of materials fluctuate but its not likely that activity in finding and producing these materials will ever stay down for long. 3. Have you met any Canadians? Outside of hockey arenas and beaver-trapping blinds, they tend to be well-educated, clean, smart, well-mannered, fastidious and responsible. Yes, this is a stereotype, but most stereotypes contain a kernel of truth, it's how they get started to begin with. Look at the loan-to-value rates in Canadian housing, look at the percentages of equity being put down, look at the sheer amount of activity taking place with cash on the barrel head and no debt. It's hard to call this a mania or a free-for-all. 4. Canada's housing supply is mostly igloos, which will eventually melt, thus preventing massive overstock in the market place. This factor should keep pricing somewhat stable over time. 5. I don't have a fifth, it's been a long day, add your own below.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Managers Shift Natural Gas Bets [Wall Street Journal] Natural gas has been on a tear lately. Goldman Sachs commodity strategists recently dubbed it the "new safe haven" trade. However, managers are now turning cautious on natural gas ahead of an expected slowdown in the spring. They cite unusually cold weather – which is expected to dissipate soon – as a key support for natural gas prices in recent months. The Most Underappreciated Threat to the Advisory Industry [Advisor Perspectives] Bob Veres cites Wealthfront USA, an online service that helps individuals assemble portfolios of low-cost index ETFs, as a business model disrupting the financial advisory industry. He says online investment technology has finally come of age, and advisors who are not doing anything particularly interesting or creative with their clients' portfolios should watch out for services like Wealthfront. CITI: Here's What The Profit Margin Doomsayers Get Wrong [Business Insider] Citi strategist Tobias Levkovich argues that the profit margin debate is best viewed from a sector perspective. "The real mistaken view comes from misunderstanding the overall margin environment when removing the Tech sector’s influence (see Figure 6)," he writes in a note to clients. "If one looks at margins ex-Tech, it is easy to recognize that margins were higher elsewhere for years before the 2008-09 downturn, and there is still upside to most other S&amp;P sectors’ profit opportunity." Citi Research Americans Spend Less On Finance As Doubt Lingers [FA Mag] Americans' spending allocation toward investment services continues to remain depressed in the wake of the financial crisis and Great Recession of 2007-2009. Spending on those services currently accounts for 1.3% of total consumption, down from 1.6% before the crisis. PNC Financial Services Chief Economist Stuart Hoffman takes this as a sign that the public still isn't ready to move back into the stock market yet, even despite the remarkable rally that began over four years ago.  Why Shorting the Aussie Is 'Trade of the Century' [CNBC] Paul Gambles, managing partner at advisory firm MBMG International, says the Australian dollar could fall by 40% over the next 18 months against the U.S. dollar. Gambles cites the possibility of a slowdown in China and weakening commodity demand as possible triggers that could spur the Reserve Bank of Australia to cut interest rates, which would be negative for the Aussie. "[The Aussie dollar] upside seems capped and downside seems pretty well unlimited," Gambles told CNBC.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidHerbalife's Q1 2013 earnings are out. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $1.27, better than the $1.06 expected by analysts. Revenues came in at $1.12 billion, in line with company guidance but slightly above analysts' estimates for $1.11 billion in sales. The company also raised full-year 2013 earnings guidance to a range of $4.60-4.80 per share. Analysts were expecting $4.66. Shares are up slightly in after-hours trading. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; Below is the text from the release: LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today reported first quarter net sales of $1.1 billion, reflecting an increase of 17 percent compared to the same time period in 2012 on volume point growth of 13 percent. Adjusted1 net income for the quarter of $137.4 million, or $1.27 per diluted share, compares to 2012 first quarter net income of $108.2 million and EPS of $0.88, respectively. On a reported basis, first quarter 2013 EPS of $1.10 increased 25 percent compared to the $0.88 reported in the comparable quarter last year. “We continue to deliver record results in sales and profitability as our independent distributors successfully execute numerous growth strategies that enable deeper market penetration, developing customers using our weight management and targeted nutrition products every day,” said Michael O. Johnson, Herbalife’s chairman and CEO. “Obesity and poor nutrition are global public health problems. Our distributors are proud to be part of the solution.” For the quarter ended March 31, 2013 the company generated cash flow from operations of $137.6 million, an increase of 14 percent compared to 2012; paid dividends of $30.9 million; invested $24.9 million in capital expenditures; and repurchased $162.4 million in common shares outstanding under our share repurchase program. Herbalife is arguably one of the most embattled stocks in America as multiple hedge fund titans square off over its future. On one side is Bill Ackman, who released a massive, 342-slide presentation in December arguing that the company was a Ponzi scheme and that shares would go to $0. Ackman describes his hedge fund's short position in Herbalife as "enormous." On the other side are activist investor Carl Icahn and hedge fund manager Dan Loeb, who both decided to invest in the stock after Ackman went public with his short call.
Flickr/crzaRemember when we were talking about a spring slump for stocks? First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,818, +106.2 pts, +0.7%S&amp;P 500: 1,593, +11.3 pts, +0.7%NASDAQ: 3,307, +27.7 pts, +0.8% And now the top stories:
New Jersey Governer's OfficeNew Jersey Governor Chris Christie has uploaded a series of photos to Facebook that show the progress the Jersey Shore has made in the six months since Hurricane Sandy. The rebuilding has only just begun, however. Christie is announcing today federal approval for plans to spend over $1.8 billion in federal grant money in the state. The photos are from a variety of locations in Jersey, including Seaside Heights, Long Beach Island, and Sea Bright. The image at the top shows destruction from just after the storm, while the bottom image shows the situation now.
Wikimedia Commons/Florian HirzingerThe U.S. Treasury forecasts that it will pay down $35 billion of debt in the second quarter of 2013. In February, it estimated that it would need to borrow $103 billion over the same time period. The Treasury cites higher tax receipts and lower spending outlays as reasons for paying down the debt. If the projections play out, it will be the first time since 2007 that the U.S. government has paid down debt during a quarter instead of adding to it. For the third quarter, though, the Treasury estimates it will have to borrow $223 billion. In the first quarter, it borrowed $349 billion. Below is the full statement from the Treasury. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- TREASURY ANNOUNCES MARKETABLE BORROWING ESTIMATES WASHINGTON - The U.S. Department of the Treasury today announced its current estimates of net marketable borrowing for the April – June and July – September 2013 quarters: During the April – June 2013 quarter, Treasury expects to pay down $35 billion in net marketable debt, assuming an end-of-June cash balance of $75 billion. This borrowing estimate is $138 billion lower than announced in February 2013. The decrease in borrowing relates primarily to higher receipts, lower outlays, and changes in cash balance assumptions. [1] During the July – September 2013 quarter, Treasury expects to issue $223 billion in net marketable debt, assuming an end-of-September cash balance of $80 billion. During the January – March 2013 quarter, Treasury issued $349 billion in net marketable debt and ended the quarter with a cash balance of $79 billion. In February 2013, Treasury had estimated $331 billion in net marketable borrowing and assumed an end-of-March cash balance of $30 billion. The increase in the cash balance [1] was driven primarily by higher receipts and lower outlays. Additional financing details relating to Treasury’s Quarterly Refunding will be released at 9:00 a.m. on Wednesday, May 1, 2013.
Elin Nordegren, Tiger Woods' ex-wife, was spotted in D.C. this weekend at the White House Correspondents' dinner as a guest of People magazine. Nordegren, who has been rumored to be dating her coal magnate neighbor, Chris Cline, was at the event alone. While rumors the two are a couple have been floating around since March, neither Nordegren nor Cline have commented on their relationship. There were also rumors recently that Woods' asked Nordegren to marry him again. Those rumors however, were put to rest when Woods' and Lindsey Vonn announced they were dating. As for Tiger, he too was spotted solo this weekend at Michael Jordan's wedding. Guest of a Guest snapped this photo of Nordegren: Guest of a Guest

Jim O'Neill, the Goldman Sachs economist who coined the BRICs acronym, recently published his final note and gave his last presentation. He discussed at length his long-term forecast for the world economy, which will be heavily dependent on growth from China, India and the other developing markets. "If China grows by 7.5% in this decade, and if the developed world returns close to trend, then the world will grow by around 4%," he said. In his presentation, he included a chart that captures China's evolution from an investment-driven economy to a consumer-driven one. This "is my regular guide to the relative performance of consumer spending compared to industrial production and is especially important while reasonably encouraging," he said. Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Goldman Sachs Asset Management"I have chosen to focus on the world," said Jim O'Neill in his final note as an economist for Goldmans Sachs. O'Neill, who is famous for coining the acronym BRICs, discusses how the BRICs and other growth markets will continue to be an increasingly important driver of global growth. "If China grows by 7.5% in this decade, and if the developed world returns close to trend, then the world will grow by around 4%," he said. And in this environment, O'Neill argues that the stock market is a great place to be invested. "Current ERP(equity risk premium) levels continue to indicate that equity markets are still quite attractive in many parts of the world," he said. O'Neill provides forecasts for all of the major economies in both the developed and developing worlds. Thanks to Jim O'Neill and Goldman Sachs Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Investors are constantly looking for nuggets of wisdom from the Oracle of Omaha, Warren Buffett, so this tidbit on Omaha.com caught our eye. It's just one quote from Buffett. He was at a 165 person Columbia University investing class, and one of the students asked him how to prepare for a career in investing. From Omaha.com: ...Buffett thought for a few seconds and then reached for the stack of reports, trade publications and other papers he had brought with him. Read 500 pages like this every day, said Buffett, or words to that effect. That's how knowledge works. It builds up, like compound interest. All of you can do it, but I guarantee not many of you will do it. Knowledge is power, y'all.
(from my colleague, Dr. Win Thin) China official manufacturing PMI will be reported Wednesday, and is expected to drop to 50.7 from 50.9. HSBS final manufacturing PMI will be reported Thursday, and is expected at 50.5 vs. flash reading of 50.6 and 51.6 final in March. We continue to believe that China growth will stabilize around the 8% level, but the risks are tilted more towards 7.5-8.0% than 8.0-8.5%. A slowdown below 7.5% would probably lead to another round of stimulus by China. China markets are closed through Wednesday. PBOC yuan fix last Friday was at cycle highs against the dollar, but we do not think it can continue appreciating at this pace. The rest of the EM manufacturing PMIs will also come out this week, and most are seen weakening from March. April inflation readings will come out for many EM countries this week too, with most readings expected to show easing price pressures. Czech central bank holds policy meeting Thursday, with no change in policy expected. Policy rate is stuck at the record low 0.05%, but we know policymakers are debating whether to use more unorthodox measures to stimulate the economy. Weakening the koruna remains an option, but the market is doing the heavy lifting already, taking EUR/CZK to new highs for the cycle near 26.00 earlier this month. However, renewed optimism regarding the euro zone has seen the CEE currencies start this week on a firm note. Further koruna gains would force the central bank to consider weakening the koruna sooner rather than later. Korea will provide the first trade readings for April on Wednesday, which will be quickly followed by Brazil on Thursday. Consensus is for both countries to see a rebound in exports. March global trade data was mixed, disappointing those looking for a palpable improvement in the global outlook. Early China data for April suggests the global and regional slowdown is carrying over into Q2, and so there is scope for disappointment with the trade reports. Note, however, that Koreas current account data for March released overnight showed a sizable surplus. The Reserve Bank of India holds its policy meeting Friday, and is expected to cut policy rates 25 bp while keeping reserve requirements steady. Price pressure have eased recently, enough to warrant cautious easing but still elevated. Combined CPI eased to 10.4% y/y in March from 10.9% y/y in February, while WPI eased to 6% y/y from 6.8% y/y in February. RBI has been unhappy that fiscal consolidation has not been more aggressive, and yet it cut policy rates by 25 bp each in February and March and cut reserve requirements 25 bp in January. We expect further easing to remain very cautious, though lower commodity prices will be good for Indias inflation outlook. The Israeli shekel is in play. Keep an eye on the shekel as it trades below 3.60. USD/ILS was making new lows below 3.60 back in early April before central bank intervention drove the pair back near 3.65 from below 3.60. Now that we are testing that level again, we would expect more intervention on a clean break below. That said, we think Israel is only trying to lean against the wind, and we do not expect more aggressive Brazil-type measures. Governor Fischer steps down at the end of June, so it will be interesting to see if his replacement will have a different strategy with regards to the exchange rate and interest rates. Read more posts on Marc to Market 
Getty Images/ Winslow TownsonMajor League Lacrosse had its 13th season opener this weekend.   Lacrosse, which is the fastest growing sport in America, has a lot of Wall Streeters who play professionally in addition to their finance careers. RBC Capital Markets financial advisor Kyle Dixon absolutely crushed it during his team's game.  From Major League Lacrosse staff reports:  Veteran midfielder Kyle Dixon piled up seven points and tied a Major League Lacrosse record with three 2-point goals as the Chesapeake Bayhawks opened the 2013 season by beating the Rochester Rattlers 17-14 in a wild shootout in front of 3,940 fans at Al Lang Stadium in St. Petersburg, Fla. ... Dixon, in his eighth MLL season, had his cannon crank shot on target and increased his MLL career record for 2-pointers to 50. The perennial All-Star also dished off an assist as Chesapeake began defense of its MLL championship with a thrilling victory. "I guess you could say I was feeling it tonight," said Dixon, who was named Bud Light Player of the Game. Dixon, who was a two-time USILA All-American (second team and first team) while at the University of Virginia, was featured on our best lacrosse players on Wall Street. 
Twitter.com/LauraDimonJPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon's daughter Laura has an articlein the Daily Beast about women going No. 2 in the office. Laura's piece features a series of anecdotes on how women are pooping at work without getting caught. Here's an excerpt: One 27-year-old at a financial services firm in New York City brings her BlackBerry along while she does it, and sends an email during the experience so that she has an alibi.A popular national morning TV show host in her 40swho, like most others interviewed in this story, asked to remain nameless to avoid embarrassmentsaid that she walks 10 minutes to another section of her midtown office building to do it, and still then only does it when no one in the hallway sees her en route. And another: Jill, 28, a Vancouver native now working at an insurance company in New York City, said that if she absolutely cant avoid the act entirely, she lifts her feet off the ground and props them up against the side of the stall to avoid the chance that the person next to me would recognize my shoes and forever hold in their heads that I was the girl defecating in the ladies room. Fascinating. Laura is a master's student at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism, according to her website.Her articles have been published in The Daily Beast, The Huffington Post and Morocco World News.
Gary Burke / FlickrIt's the time of year when college seniors around the country say goodbye to their carefree childhood and get ready to join the real world. And if that real world is going to be Wall Street, they're about to experience a totally new way of life  long hours, intense bosses, hard work etc. But they know that. No one makes it to Wall Street blind. There are some things, however, that aren't obvious before you start the job. That's why we asked some current and former Wall Streeters what they wish they had known on day one. It's coming.
Google FinanceStocks are up early in the U.S. trading session. The S&amp;P 500 is at 1,593.57, which is just above its all-time closing high of 1,593.37. Both the all-time closing and all-time intraday (1,597.35) highs were achieved on April 11, 2013. The rally comes despite weak personal income and Dallas Fed manufacturing reports this morning. However, the new pending home sales and consumer income numbers were a bit better than expected.
Mike BootMike Boot, managing director at Society of Actuaries.Actuaries have the best job in America, according to a recent study by CareerCast.com, which looked atwork environment (includes physical and emotional demands), income, stress, and hiring outlook. This was a rather surprising conclusion.Analyzing statistics for calculating insurance risks and premiums is not exactly a glamorous line of work. For insight into this supposed great job, we talked to a real-life actuary  who agrees that he has the best job in America. Growing up, Mike Boot was the guy you wanted to sit next to in math class. "I would be that curve buster in the class," Boot says. "Iscored very well in national tests, very much at the top and I loved the challenges that went along with that." While a freshman math major at Calvin College in 1975, Boot first learned about being an actuary and realized it was the job for him. "Quite frankly, there are relatively few actuaries, and people in our profession are well compensated for their jobs" Boot tells us. "It's typically an office environment so it's notphysically draining and there are opportunities to advance." In 2010, the median salary for actuaries was $87,650 with 27% projected job growth, according to theLabor Department. Actuariesevaluate the financial consequences of risks thatpeople or, more often, corporations take. These include financial risks, operational risks, reputational risks, andlongevity risks, which is what happens when people run out of money because they didn't expect to live so long. It's not easy to price such complicated things. Boot, who worked as an actuary for 25 years  firstat Principal Financial Group, then at Allstate Financial  said it takes a lot of research, a lot of assumptions, and running "a lot of numbers through a whole range of interest rates." Nearly three decades after starting his career,Boot  now themanaging director at the Society of Actuaries still finds his job exciting. "A lot of our work is very much impacted by regulations, which change, and as they change you need to be able to recognize that and do the best for you and your company," Boot tells us. "Thechallenges people face today are different than five years ago. The economic environment is different, technology is different and so is big data." As the Baby Boomer generationgets older (driving demand for insurance) and big data becomes readily available, the actuary profession is booming,says Tony Lee, publisher of CareerCast.com. In the past decade, Boot say he has seen a rise in actuaries working in life insurance, pensions, and enterprise risk management (ERM) which means you're looking broadly across an organization for risks. Although the pay is good and the stress is manageable, Boot says he would be cautious in recommending this job to someone because of the "very challenging and rigorous program" you need to go through to become certified. "You're competing against other people who are equally bright and I didn't pass every exam that I took"  not unusual for those studying to become an actuary  and sometimes, these people who have received good grades their entire lives, it's the first time they're faced with failing, so "youneed to have a willingness to be a lifelong learner." To become an actuary, you need to pass a series of exams offered by the Society of Actuariesor the Casualty Actuarial Society, although there are several universities who have launchedactuary science programs.
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonJohn Broz wears a cowboy costume during a surf contest in Santa Monica.We recently told you the story of why Vegas-based robotics startup Romotive is moving to California. The gist of their reasoning was that while they knew they'd be paying more in taxes, but that they'd be in closer proximity to like-minded firms and entrepreneurs, as well as investors. We were interested by their story in the first place, though, because California's business climate has received some bad press this year. And the state most responsible for giving it? Texas. It started with Gov. Rick Perry's move to run advertisements in the Golden State touting Texas' more favorable tax and regulatory environment. This was followed, among other things, by an op-ed from the Texas Public Policy Foundation"dispelling" myths about Texas' disadvantages versus California. The TPPF's mission, in case you didn't know, is to "promote and defend liberty, personal responsibility, and free enterprise in Texas." So arguably they may not be the most impartial arbiter of the question. So we have taken it on ourselves to be so. We looked at five broad categories  taxes, health, education, housing, and sports and leisure  to determine which state is superior. We took the perspective of a business executive or family trying to determine which of the two states is for them. It comes down to the wire. But the winner makes a convincing case.
NEW HAVEN – At 7.7%, China’s annual GDP growth in the first quarter of this year was slower than many expected. While the data were hardly devastating relative to a consensus forecast of 8.2%, many (including me) expected a second consecutive quarterly rebound from the slowdown that appeared to have ended in the third quarter of 2012. China doubters around the world were quick to pounce on the number, expressing fears of a stall, or even a dreaded double dip. But slower GDP growth is actually good for China, provided that it reflects the long-awaited structural transformation of the world’s most dynamic economy. The broad outlines of this transformation are well known – a shift from export- and investment-led growth to an economic structure that draws greater support from domestic private consumption. Less well known is that a rebalanced China should have a slower growth rate – the first hints of which may now be evident. A rebalanced China can grow more slowly for one simple reason: By drawing increased support from services-led consumer demand, China’s new model will embrace a more labor-intensive growth recipe. The numbers seem to bear that out. China’s services sector requires about 35% more jobs per unit of GDP than do manufacturing and construction – the primary drivers of the old model. That number has potentially huge implications, because it means that China could grow at an annual rate in the 7-8% range and still achieve its objectives with respect to employment and poverty reduction. China has struggled to attain these goals with anything less than 10% growth, because the old model was not generating enough jobs per unit of output. As Chinese manufacturing moved up the value chain, firms increasingly replaced workers with machines embodying the latest technologies. As a result, its economic model spawned a labor-saving, capital-intensive growth dynamic. On one level, that made sense. Capital-labor substitution is at the heart of modern productivity strategies for manufacturing-based economies. But it left China in a deepening hole: increasingly deficient in jobs per unit of output, it needed more units of output to absorb its surplus labor. Ultimately, that became more of a problem than a solution. The old manufacturing model, which fueled an unprecedented 20-fold increase in per capita income relative to the early 1990’s, also sowed the seeds of excessive resource consumption and environmental degradation. Services-led growth is, in many ways, the antidote to the “unstable, unbalanced, uncoordinated, and ultimately unsustainable” growth model that former Premier Wen Jiabao’s famously criticized in 2007. Yet services offer more than just a labor-intensive growth path. Compared to manufacturing, they have much smaller resource and carbon footprints. A services-led model provides China with an alternative, environmentally friendlier, and ultimately more sustainable economic structure. It is premature, of course, to conclude that a services-led transformation to slower growth is now at hand. The latest data hint at such a possibility, with the tertiary sector (services) expanding at an 8.3% annual rate in the first quarter of this year – the third consecutive quarter of acceleration and a half-percentage point faster than the 7.8% first-quarter gain recorded by the secondary sector (manufacturing and construction). But it will take more than a few quarters of mildly encouraging data to validate such an important shift in the Chinese economy’s underlying structure. Not surprisingly, China skeptics are putting a different spin on the latest growth numbers. Fears of a shadow-bank-induced credit bubble now top the worry list, reinforcing longstanding concerns that China may succumb to the dreaded “middle-income trap” – a sustained growth slowdown that has ensnared most high-growth emerging economies at the juncture that China has now reached. China is hardly immune to such a possibility. But it is unlikely to occur if China can carry out the services-led pro-consumption rebalancing that remains the core strategic initiative of its current (12th) Five-Year Plan. Invariably, the middle-income trap afflicts those emerging economies that cling to early-stage development models for too long. For China, the risk will be highest if it sticks with the timeworn recipe of unbalanced manufacturing- and construction-led growth, which has created such serious sustainability problems. If China fails to rebalance, weak external demand from a crisis-battered developed world will continue to hobble its export machine, forcing it to up the ante on a credit- and investment-led growth model – in effect, doubling down on resource-intensive and environmentally damaging growth. But I remain hopeful that China’s new leadership team will move quickly to implement its new model. There are no viable alternatives. Financial markets, as well as growth-starved developed economies, are not thrilled with the natural rhythm of slower growth that a rebalanced Chinese economy is likely to experience. Resource industries – indeed, resource-based economies like Australia, Canada, Brazil, and Russia – have become addicted to China’s old strain of unsustainable hyper-growth. Yet China knows that it is time to break that dangerous habit. The United States is likely to have a different problem with consumer-led growth in China. After all, higher private consumption implies an end to China’s surplus saving – and thus to the seemingly open-ended recycling of that surplus into dollar-based assets such as US Treasury bills. Who will then fund America’s budget deficit – and on what terms? Just as China must embrace slower growth as a natural consequence of its rebalancing imperative, the rest of the world will need to figure out how to cope when it does.
In December, we told you about Discover Channel's "Gold Rush" had become the hottest show on the network. It follows a group of miners who've bet their livelihoods on finding gold in the wilds of Alaska. Now Discovery is out with "Backyard Oil," which follows almost the exact same premise as "Gold Rush," with oil replacing gold and Kentucky replacing Alaska. And after one episode, it looks just as good. Unlike some of the gold rushers, most of the oilmen (and women) seem to already be financially stable, with the narrative focusing more on a day in the life of a driller than watching someone turn into an overnight millionaire. But the stars of "Oil" are just as insane as "Gold"  and will tell you as much. We recently spoke with Jimmy Reliford, who for nearly 40 years has run a successful drilling business out of Adair County, Kentucky. "My name is J.R. Ewing and I'm an oil man from Dallas," he boasts in the first episode. He told us he was instantly hooked into the business when, in 1974, the first three wells he ever dug proved gushers  they're still producing today. "It's like Paul Harvey  'Now you know the rest of the story,' " he said. Reliford Drilling Co. has been the go-to shop for drilling wells in the area ever since. We didn't ask him how much he's got to his name, but we didn't have to  here he is posing with one of his latest toys: Discovery Reliford says shooting the show has been "a really big time" and that any and all audiences will find it entertaining. The oil fields being tapped are conventional, meaning they're not part of the shale boom other parts of the country are seeing. But Reliford says he favors of all drilling. "We need to hit all the oil we can here in the U.S." he said. The show airs Tuesdays, 10 Eastern. Here's a clip: 
Wikimedia CommonsItalian Prime Minister Enrico LettaItalian markets were up big today after Italy managed to form a coalition government over the weekend. The FTSE MIB 35 stock index closed up 2.2% while Italian 10-year government bond yields fell 14 basis points to 3.91%. Over the weekend, center-left politician Enrico Letta was sworn in as Prime Minister of Italy, with a member of Silvio Berlusconi's center-right party as deputy prime minister. Italy has been without a proper government since the federal elections held at the end of February resulted in a hung parliament, so the news out over the weekend is welcome relief for Italian markets – especially stocks, which have been relative underperformers against other euro zone countries. In a note to clients this morning, Société Générale economist Michala Marcussen writes: Sunday saw Prime Minister Letta’s new grand-coalition government sworn in. Structural reform is a top priority combined with economic growth. Hope is that the electoral law that resulted in the stalemate at the last election can be reformed, but of equal importance is to address the structural deficiencies of the Italian economy. The new government is characterised by several technocrat appointments with notably Mr. Saccomani from the Bank of Italy serving as Finance Minister. Given the electorate’s rejection of painful structural reform and the marked divides that still shape Italian politics, the fear is that the government will prove short-lived. Regardless, financial markets like the news today.
It's one thing to see profits rise as revenues rise. It's a whole other thing to see profits rise as revenues fall. The latter is what's going on in America's largest corporations.  They're telling us revenue growth is negative.  Yet profits, as measured by earnings per share, are on the rise. This is happening thanks to a combination of fatter profit margins and stock buyback programs the have reduced outstanding share counts. And these fat profit margins have come at the cost of the American worker, who is either now unemployed or being squeezed to produced more than normal. Intuitively, this is not sustainable.  Eventually, corporations will need its customers to start buying more. Here's some more color from FactSet's John Butters: At just past the mid-point of the Q1 earnings season, 73% of S&amp;P 500 companies have reported EPS above the mean estimate. This percentage is consistent with the average over the previous four years (73%). As a result, the earnings growth rate for the quarter has increased to 2.1% today from -0.7% at the end of March. In fact, the earnings growth rate for the first quarter is back to the levels expected at the start of the quarter (2.1%). However, only 44% of S&amp;P 500 companies have reported revenues above the mean estimate to date. This percentage is below the average of 57% over the past four years. As a result, the revenue growth rate has declined to -0.6% today from 0.4% at the end of March and 0.9% at the start of the quarter. If the final revenue growth rate for the quarter is -0.6%, it will mark the second time in the past three quarters that the S&amp;P 500 will have reported an aggregate year-over-year decline in revenues. "It is interesting to note that the market does not seem to be reacting negatively to the unusually high percentage of companies reporting revenue below analyst expectations and the falling revenue growth rate for the quarter," notes Butters. "Since March 29, the price of the index has actually increased by 1.0% (to 1585.16 from 1569.19)." Here's the chart from FactSet.  The green line shows how Q1 sales growth expectations have only deteriorated. FactSet
New York Times columnist, statistician and poker star Nate Silver is giving a talk on his book, 'The Signal and the Noise: The Art and Science of Prediction' at the London School of Economics tonight. Silver, you likely remember, accurately predicted the outcome of the 2012 election, and this book discusses his method and the overall challenges of figuring out the future. LSE will be streaming the talk for everyone at 11:00 pm EDT. You can also follow it on Twitter using the hashtag #LSE538. And if that's past your bedtime, don't worry, LSE will have the event up as a video or podcast in a few days. You're welcome.
flickr / david.nahasThe Dallas Fed's monthly survey of regional manufacturing activity is out. The headline index plunged to -15.6. Economists expected +5.0 after last month's +7.4 reading. The index was dragged lower by the prices paid for raw materials sub-component, which fell to 2.5 from 19.1. Elsewhere, the biggest weakness was seen in the new orders sub-component, which fell to -4.9 from 8.7, the shipments sub-component, which fell to -0.4 from 10.6, and the production sub-component, which fell to -0.5 from 9.9. (Any index reading above zero indicates expansion whereas any reading below zero represents contraction.) The table below shows a breakdown of the various sub-components of the headline index: Dallas Fed Below is the full text from the release: Texas factory activity was flat in April, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, fell from 9.9 to -0.5. The near-zero reading indicates output was little changed from March levels. Ebbing growth in manufacturing activity was reflected in other survey measures as well. The capacity utilization index came in at 2.7, down from 5.5, and the shipments index fell to zero after rising to 10.6 in March. The new orders index fell nearly 14 points to -4.9, posting its first negative reading this year. Perceptions of broader business conditions worsened in April. The general business activity index plummeted from 7.4 to -15.6, reaching its lowest level since July 2012. The company outlook index turned negative as well, declining from 9.6 to -2.2. Labor market indicators remained mixed. The employment index has been in positive territory so far in 2013 and moved up to 6.3 in April. Twenty percent of firms reported hiring new workers compared with 14 percent reporting layoffs. The hours worked index pushed further negative, from -2.4 to -6.5. Price pressures abated in April. The raw materials price index dropped from 19.1 to 2.5, posting its lowest reading since last July. The finished goods price index dipped to -3 after posting positive readings throughout the first quarter. Thewages and benefits index edged down from 18.5 to 17.7, although the great majority of manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs. Looking ahead, 34 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 21 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions fell markedly in April. The index of future general business activity fell 22 points to -6.7, its first negative reading in five months. The index of future company outlook also plunged, dropping from 21.6 to 6. Indexes for future manufacturing activity fell slightly this month. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected April 16–24, and 94 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted as necessary. Click here for the full release &gt;
1. Direct hiring into government jobs. The stigma of long term unemployment may be ameliorated by a short run jobs program that recruits the long term unemployed to assist with the normalfunctions of government. This may allow individuals to look for a new job while employed, a change that may have a large impact on placement. 2. Policies directed at geographic mismatches. These might include improved empowerment zones, and possibly programs to assist workers as they move from areas with weak labor markets to areas with strong labor markets. 3. Privatized training. Our government training programs are a national embarrassment, and the unemployed would be better off if the monies were available to individuals who themselves chose the skills they wish to acquire. 4. Work subsidies. Programs that provide employers with tax incentives to employ the long-term unemployed may encourage them to hire them. 5. Work Share programs. The U.S. currently has some programs that allow employers to cut hours of workers in downturns and let them receive some unemployment insurance, but they are very little used. 1. As Hassett said, This is an area that is crying out for policy experiments that can be rigorously evaluated. I dont think policymakers, especially on the center right, should quickly rule in or out anything  especially since the long-term unemployed are a sort of special case where a rising tide may not lift all boats (or at least not so quickly given deteriorating skills or workplace bias). 2. A March paper co-authored by David Neumark is encouraging on the use of tax policy: This paper provides evidence on the effect on job growth of hiring credits adopted during the Great Recession. For many of the types of hiring credits we examine we do not find positive effects on job growth. However, some specific types of hiring credits  including those targeting the unemployed and those that allow states to recapture credits when job creation goals are not met  appear to have succeeded in boosting job growth. 3. Reihan Salam offers some thoughts on direct employment programs. 4. Ezra Klein is mildly skeptical on German-style work-share programs. 5. Enrico Moretti has suggested the unemployed in areas with above-average unemployment rates should receive part of their unemployment insurance check in the form of a relocation voucher to help with moving expenses.
Courtesy of ARKThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at the 10th Annual ARK Gala Dinner. A lavish annual hedge fund charity gala dinner in London has been called off this year.  Hedge fund correspondent Sam Jones at the Financial Times reports that the ARK Gala Dinner, a $15,500-per-ticket event attended by financiers, celebrities and royalty, will not be happening. It seems some felt the ostentatious event was out of step with the current economic conditions.  From the FT: "It was all getting to feel a little bit 1788 and all that," said a person connected with Ark, in a comparison of the gala to the court of Louis XVI on the eve of the French Revolution. The annual dinner raised funds for ARK (Absolute Return for Kids), a charity co-founded founded by London-based French hedge fund manager Arpad Busson. Guests at past dinners have included the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Madonna, Bill Clinton,Pierre Lagrange (co-founder of GLG Partners), Louis Bacon (Moore Capital) and Kevin Spacey, according to Dealbook's Julia Wedingier. It's unclear if there will ever be more annual ARK gala dinners in the future.
Reuters PhotographerQuartz's Adam Pasick points us to a report from the FT's Simon Rabinovitch on China condemning salaries among its top corporate execs. The thing is, they're not even that high, at least compared with their American counterparts. The head of China International Marine Containers, Mai Boliang, came in at No. 1 with $1.6 million in comp, despite net profits at the firm falling 47 per cent last year. Meanwhile Jiang Jiaqing, who last year made the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China the world's most profitable financial institution, took home just $185,000.  That was still too much for the state-owned news agencies, Rabinovitch writes: ...Xinhua news agency said in an editorial: “If the top executives of state-owned companies just fatten themselves, giving themselves high salaries and rich benefits, this is a departure from the original intent of the founding of these companies.” The People’s Daily, the mouthpiece of the Communist party, said: “High pay for high-level executives and low pay for ordinary employees is immoral. Not all share this view: some academics argue higher pay would help stem the country's runaway corruption problems. Read the full story at FT.com &gt;
wordpress.com“I meet a lot of these people on Wall Street on a regular basis right now...I am going to put it very bluntly: I regard the moral environment as pathological. And I am talking about the human interactions . . . I’ve not seen anything like this, not felt it so palpably...They have no responsibility to pay taxes; they have no responsibility to their clients; they have no responsibility to people, to counterparties in transactions...They are tough, greedy, aggressive and feel absolutely out of control in a quite literal sense, and they have gamed the system to a remarkable extent.” The above comes from a no-holds-barred talk Jeffrey Sachs gave that literally stunned the crowd at a recent conference focused on fixing the financial system. There are many industry insiders and watchers who agree with Mr. Sachs that things are more disgusting than ever, thanks in part to the de facto guarantee that none of the surviving institutions post-crisis are going to be touchable for new offenses. The government has admitted as much with their brand new Too Big To Prosecute mentality. Yes, this exists, in recent congressional testimony from Eric Holder, US Attorney General, the following incredible comment was given a public airing (but then The Voice came on that night and we all forgot about it): “I am concerned that the size of some of these institutions becomes so large that it does become difficult for us to prosecute them when we are hit with indications that if we do prosecute — if we do bring a criminal charge — it will have a negative impact on the national economy, perhaps even the world economy,” Mr. Holder told the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I think that is a function of the fact that some of these institutions have become too large.” I see this attitude creeping back along with the fund flows and the major stock market averages. Everyone on The Street can feel it. The thing is, most people are someone's payroll or are benefitting from the new Niagara Falls of legal and investment fees to some extent. They have no incentive to open up the way Jeffrey Sachs does here. The politicians on both sides are similarly silent, having taken in more than a quarter of a billion from The Street during the last election year. Business as usual and the music's playing once again - we're all dancing. Sources: Influential economist says Wall Street's full of 'crooks' (New York Post) Realities Behind Prosecuting Big Banks (DealBook) Read Also: It would be hilarious if it weren’t so frightening. (TRB)
Images_Of_Money via flickrThe March reading of pending home sales is out. Sales jumped 1.5% from last month.  Economists were looking for a 1.0% gain. However, February's reading was revised down to -1.0% from an initial reading of -0.4%. "Contract activity has been in a narrow range in recent months, not from a pause in demand but because of limited supply," said Lawrence Yun of the National Association of Realtors.  "Little movement is expected in near-term sales closings, but they should edge up modestly as the year progresses. Job additions and rising household wealth will continue to support housing demand." Some of the recent housing data has suggested that the housing recovery is slowing.  As such economist will want to keep a close eye on this report.
Alyson Shontell/Business InsiderChris Dixon and TechCrunch co-editor, Eric EldonChris Dixon, like many other Silicon Valley investors, is really excited about Bitcoin. He says he's invested a significant amount of money into it. Bitcoin is a digital currency that was first introduced in 2008 and allows instant transfers to anyone, anywhere. Dixon spoke about why he and the rest of Silicon Valley are excited about Bitcoin, and what types of Bitcoin startups he's looking to invest in. The Andreessen Horowitz partner says some of the smartest entrepreneurs in California are thinking about starting Bitcoin companies. They're working on PayPal-like models, exchanges that will help people trade the currency, and banking models to help people store bitcoins. Dixon says Bitcoin is exciting partially because it offers relief to "pent-up frustration" surrounding the financial-tech industry. "I think for a lot of people in tech, finance has been this very frustrating area," says Dixon. "We see what happens on Wall Street, it's very corrupt, and it's so highly regulated that, when you do try to start a company, you run into all these regulations. [Bitcoin is] this release for the pent-up frustration. Finally something is happening in finance tech....[We spent] years in the desert there.
I had ZERO but I said, “a million dollars”. This was in 2002. In the prior two years I had lost all the money I ever made and my home. Now I was broke. He said, “how can you afford to live on that?” Which strikes me as ludicrous now but I felt every blood cell in me turn upside down in shame then. I felt he would think it was courageous if I threw the question back at him. “Well, how much money do you have?” He said, “one hundred million dollars.” Who knows? One friend of mine told me something, “you can never tell how much money someone has until they file for bankruptcy.” I read a statistic that people lie (including ”white lies”), on average, 10-200 times a day. I also read that people say, on average, 2500 words a day. So one technique to stop lying is to stop talking. I try not to talk. I try to say around 1000 words a day. The hedge fund manager and I then went out to dinner with his wife. He was cheating on his wife but I didn’t know that yet. I had read all his favorite books so I was able to quote from them. “What are your favorite books?” he said. I quoted from those books (Ayn Rand). Then I quoted from a research paper he wrote in 1969 that I had found buried in some journal. He asked me, “What are my interests outside of finance?” I knew he liked baseball so I talked about various histories of baseball I had just read. Baseball is boring. The hedge fund manager gave me money to manage. It was my first “job” in the financial space. In a very short time I more than doubled the money he had given me. A year or so later I wrote a book about how I did it. He instantly fired me. He thought I had revealed too much. He wrote, “our financial relationship is now over.” I wrote, “it’s not. You owe me money because I have made you so much.” So he instantly sent a check. One day, I had to return my dad’s car to the dealership. My dad had a stroke and was in a coma and would never drive a car again. After I dropped it off the hedge fund manager called me and invited me to dinner. I went to the dinner and started drinking quite a bit. I was feeling depressed. To my right was the mistress. And in front of me was the hedge fund manager’s daughter. I was shy and had a crush on the daughter and so I blurted out the only question I could think of, “so what do you think of [manager] and [mistress] being so out in the open?” [Daughter] looked at [mistress] and said, “I think she is a money hungry slut.” And then she got up and walked out of the restaurant . I was horrified and embarrassed. [The wife] even wrote me the next day and was upset at me and [manager] was upset at me until finally I said to everyone, “this is your family issue. I have my own family issues.” Anyway, my book came out right after that and I was fired. All of this is to say, better to speak fewer words. Less lies, more time to listen and learn and think and daydream. Less embarrassing situations. Less masks to wear. My mental closet can only fit so many masks. The older I get, the less masks fit in that closet. More benefits of not opening your mouth: flies don’t get in your mouth. Less food gets in your mouth so you eat better. You give less advice. Nobody listens to my advice anyway. People do what they want until they are injured like a kid putting his fingers on the stove. Telling the truth is easier. It means you just have to remember things. Telling a lie means you have to remember, AND THEN keep track of the lie. Too much stress! (Polygraph machines, in fact, work by measuring stress levels). Less “mouth” means you start to use your eyes and ears more. Like the way blind people can hear and touch better. Blind people seem to develop super powers with their other senses. People who talk less are like superheroes in the same way. If you become a superhero and see me lying homeless in the gutter, please save me.
Wikimedia CommonsSisyphusThe S&amp;P 500 gained a notable 1.7% last week, and it sits just points from its all-time high. This comes as U.S. economic data continues to signal a spring slowdown.  Q1 GDP grew at a slower pace than expected, durable goods orders disappointed in April, and the housing market is showing signs of slowing. Meanwhile, the current earnings season continues to be less than stellar. Experts have offered two interesting theories for the persistent stock market rally, which we will get to a little later. This week will be loaded with economic data and earnings announcements from around the world. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update So, with the recent economic data disappointing and earnings announcements lagging, what's driving the markets? Analysts have advanced at least two interesting theories. 1) Cash Return: "[D]uring the current earnings season, US corporations continue to announce dividend increases and more share buybacks," said stock market guru Ed Yardeni as he rationalized the rally. "Previously, I’ve shown that this corporate cash flow into the stock market--which totaled $2.1 trillion for the S&amp;P 500 since stock prices bottomed during Q1-2009 through Q4-2012--has been driving the bull market since it began." 2) The End Of Austeriy: "Some traders ... think that the new rally really kicked in when news that a graduate student had found flaws in the Reinhart/Rogoff paper on the limiting power of public debt on the economy – thus casting doubt on that thesis," said UBS's Art Cashin. Cashin is talking about UMass grad student Thomas Herndon, who has basically turned the global austerity movement into a joke. Austerity has been a major drag for economic growth, especially in many of the developed European countries.
JPMorgan Chase's Matt Zames has been a standout at the bank during the last year. In a press release yesterday, the bank announced that Zames, the current co-chief operating officer (COO), will take over the position entirely, effective immediately. The other co-COO Frank Bisignano is leaving to become the CEO of First Data Corp. "I am pleased that Matt Zames is expanding his role," JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said in a release. "He is a proven business executive, who has performed exceptionally well since coming into his corporate role in May of last year. He'll continue to have an important impact on our company." Zames is considered a total rockstar at the bank. Zames was the highest paid executive at JPMorgan getting $17 million ( $6.1 million and $9.2 million of restricted stock), Bloomberg News reported citing a proxy filing.  He even took home more than Dimon. According to Bloomberg News, JPMorgan's board said Zames "demonstrated leadership and risk-management discipline."  Zames was elevated to co-chief operating officer after serving a stint as the chief investment officer following the London Whale trading losses.  "Matt Zames is a world-class risk manager and executive — highly regarded for his judgment and integrity," Dimon said in a statement when Zames was named CIO. Before taking over as CIO after Ina Drew's depature last May, Zames served as the co-head of global fixed income in the investment bank and the head of capital markets within the mortgage bank.   Zames, 42, has been considered a potential contender to succeed Dimon as CEO.  Zames was also identified in federal bankruptcy court filing by Irvin Picard as the JPMorgan employee who warned a bank executive back in 2007 about Madoff's returns speculating that it was a Ponzi scheme, according to a New York Times' report.  Before joining JPMorgan in 2004, Zames worked as a managing director at Credit Suisse where he was the co-head of US Rated Trading.  Prior to that, he was a trader at Long Term Capital Management INC -- a hedge fund that failed in the late 1990s. He's a member of the MIT Sloan Finance Advisory Board, chairman of the U.S. Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee and a member of the JPMorgan Investment Bank Management Committee. He graduated from MIT Sloan School of Management with a bachelor's degree in 1993.
Jim Edwards / BIThe March reading of personal income and spending is out, and the report is mixed. Spending unexpectedly climbed 0.2%. Economists were looking for an unchanged reading. Personal income kept pace, increasing 0.2%.  However, economists were looking for a 0.4% gain. The savings rate stayed flat at 2.7%. "We already know from last week’s GDP data that real consumption rose at an impressive annualised rate of 3.2% in the first quarter, so the interest in March’s personal spending and income data will be to see just how sharp the slowdown in spending was at the end of the quarter," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. Indeed, income was down from a 1.1% growth rate in February.  Spending is down from 0.7%.
Citi ResearchRecord high corporate profit margins have allowed corporate America to maintain profit growth even as revenue growth has stagnated. Some, like John Hussman, warn that these margins will inevitably have to revert to a mean. However, there are many who believe these high profit margins are sustainable and could actually rise further. In his latest note to clients, Citi's Tobias Levkovich points to one structural aspect of profit margins that often goes overlooked by the bears. From his note: A peak in corporate margins has been forecast by several market observers for much of the past two years even as the components of those S&amp;P 500 margins tell a somewhat different tale. Essentially, profitability corrections typically are tied to economic recessions as fixed overhead costs are under-absorbed in the economy (often because companies cannot reduce employment staff as quickly). But the real mistaken view comes from misunderstanding the overall margin environment when removing the Tech sectors influence (see Figure 6). If one looks at margins ex-Tech, it is easy to recognize that margins were higher elsewhere for years before the 2008-09 downturn, and there is still upside to most other S&amp;P sectors profit opportunity. The bears tend to look at margins more from a top-down, big picture perspective. Of course, corporate America as a whole will not be able to squeeze out profits like this forever. However, the warnings of imminent doom are a bit overstated.
S&amp;P 500 profit margin estimates are also holding up, with 9.8% expected this year and 10.5% expected next year. I expect margins to remain flat in 2013 and 2014. So earnings should grow at the same pace as revenues. For earnings, I am still predicting $110 per share this year, up 5.9% y/y, and $118 next year, up 7.3%. Obviously, I am more optimistic about the prospects for revenues than the analysts. However, because they are more optimistic on margins, they are currently predicting that earnings will be $111 and $124 this year and next year. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Austerity &amp; Disruptive Innovation. 1) From Tribeca to London. (2) If I had a hammer. (3) Stockman, Psy, and me. (4) Christensen, Schumpeter, and Marx. (5) Capitalism creates winners and losers all the time. (6) Politicians know how to win. (7) The anti-austerians fight back. (8) Reinhart &amp; Rogoff’s big error. (9) Frustrated central bankers do more of the same. (10) The anti-austerity bull market in stocks. (11) The BRAINE revolution. (12) GDP is a mix of new and old normal. (13) “Mud” (+). (More for subscribers.)
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
The resilient Australian dollar, which has overcome global headwinds to stay above parity against the U.S. dollar for most of the past two years, is due for a major correction, according to one analyst who predicts the currency could fall over 40 percent in the next 18 months. "It's difficult to see any clear major direction in any of the currencies other than the Aussie dollar longer term, which we obviously think looks like the trade of the century, trying to short the Aussie, "Paul Gambles, managing partner at advisory firm MBMG International told CNBC's "Asia Squawk Box" on Monday. Gambles said he expects the Aussie dollar to fall as low as 60 U.S. cents from the current $1.03 mark within 18 months. "I would be surprised if the Aussie dollar is still holding above 90-99 US cents by the year-end, but once the move comes then parity to 60 handle could happen within a matter of just a few months," Gambles said. Earlier this month, the commodity currency came under pressure, falling to a six-week low of $1.0219 last week Tuesday after data showed manufacturing activity in its biggest export market China fell to a two-month low in April. But since then, the Aussie has staged a comeback, rising 0.5 percent. (Read More: Not Just the Yen, This Currency's Tanking Too) Headwinds Facing Aussie Gambles said an intertwining of several factors like a slowdown in China and falling global commodity demand could lead to weakness in the domestic economy. This in turn can push the Reserve Bank of Australia, which has kept interest rates steady this year, to cut rates, which will be negative for the Aussie. In a pre-budget speech on Monday, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard said that a stubbornly high Australian dollar has played a part in government revenue falling to $12.3 billion, less than expected, for this fiscal year that ends in June. "[The Aussie dollar] upside seems capped and downside seems pretty well unlimited," Gambles said, adding that the Australian economy has become "totally dysfunctional' relying on an "ephemeral" boost from China. He added that "speculative, yield-seeking inflows that currently inflate the Australian dollar value by some 15 percent will not only disappear, but actually turn negative." - By CNBC.com's Rajeshni Naidu-Ghelani; Follow her on Twitter @RajeshniNaidu
Wikimedia CommonsItaly's new Prime Minister, Enrico Letta.Europe is in a gigantic economic and political mess. But one area where it's not a mess (at the moment) is at the sovereign debt front. Borrowing costs for peripheral nations continue to drop nicely. Via WSJ: Italy auctioned 3 billion ($3.91 billion) of five-year bonds and 3 billion of 10-year bonds. The yield on the five-year debt was 2.84%, down from 3.65% at the last debt auction on March 27, while the 10-year yield was 3.94%, down from 4.66%. The yields mark the lowest funding costs Italy has achieved at a debt auction since October 2010. There are two things going on. One is Italy-specific, and that's that the country has finally selected a new Prime Minister (Enrico Letta) establishing some stability after its election in February. And the other news is that thanks to the ECB, Japan, and the hunt for yield, investors are snapping up government debt, optimistic that there will be a central bank backstop. Everything's still miserable, but at least people aren't betting that governments are about to go bankrupt.
Gold crashes two weeks ago. The lower prices have prompted headline-grabbing purchases of physical gold in Asia. We've seen tons of pictures like this one, showing people racing for the gold stores, and cleaning out shelves of their inventory. REUTERS/Bobby Yip  But gold bulls shouldn't get too excited by this. Because while the gold selloff has prompted some buying from consumers, it's resulted in panic selling among ETF holders. This chart from Nomura shows the huge gold outflows from gold ETFs since the crash. Nomura You can see in the deep red lines in recent days that the outflows from ETFs have been massive, offsetting any demand from physical. Both the physical buying and the gold selling make sense when prices crash. Buyers of jewelry like the low prices. Speculators who only care about price see reason to sell. Physical alone buying isn't enough to change the story.
From Goldman's Weekly Kickstart note, a great breakdown of S&amp;P 500 earnings (so far) categorized by sector, showing which have been beating on earnings and revenue and which have come up short. The real insight here is in the "surprise" columns for both earnings and revenue. As you can see, 42% of companies have had a positive earnings surprise. Just 19% have had a positive revenue surprise, meaning companies are (once again) doing much better squeezing out productivity and keeping wages down than they are growing the top line (growing the business). This has been the trend for awhile, leading to record high corporate profit margins (which some view as unsustainable) but for now they're holding on. Goldman Sachs
Mike Konczal has a new article where he claims there is now a great natural experiment unfolding in the U.S. economy, allegedly one that Ramesh Ponnuru and I proposedback in 2011: We rarely get to see a major, nationwide economic experiment at work, but so far 2013 has been one of those experiments — specifically, an experiment to try and do exactly what Beckworth and Ponnuru proposed. If you look at macroeconomic policy since last fall, there have been two big moves. The Federal Reserve has committed to much bolder action in adopting the Evans Rule and QE3. At the same time, the country has entered a period of fiscal austerity. Was the Fed action enough to offset the contraction? It’s still very early, and economists will probably debate this for a generation, but, especially after the stagnating GDP report yesterday, it looks as though fiscal policy is the winner. So Mike Konczal's assessment of this experiment is that monetary policy has not been able to offset fiscal austerity. Paul Krugman  agrees as do other observers who question the effectiveness of monetary policy in a liquidity trap. I agree that there is an interesting experiment going on, but Konczal and Krugman (K&amp;K) oversell what it means and ignore other recent developments that shed light on the efficacy of monetary policy. For starters, this experiment is only measuring whether QE3 is powerful enough to offset fiscal austerity. It is not measuring whether the proposal Ramesh and I laid out in 2011, a nominal GDP level target (NGDPLT), is capable of offsetting fiscal austerity. QE3 is a big change in Fed policy, but it is still far from a NGDPLT in terms of efficacy. One way to see this is to note that QE3 constrains asset purchases to a fixed dollar amount of $85 billion per month no matter how fast or slow the economy is converging to the Fed's inflation and unemployment targets. Consequently, if a spate of bad economic shocks--more Eurozone uncertainty, sequestration, China slowdown concerns, etc.--suddenly increased money demand the $85 billion injection may not be enough to offset it. In this case, aggregate demand would slow down and stall the convergence to the Fed's target. QE3, then, is like taking a road trip and applying the same pressure to the gas pedal regardless of whether one is driving up a hill, down a hill, or on a flat terrain. The trip's length would depend on the changing terrain of the road (the shocks) and would be hard to know ahead of time even though you know your trip's destination (the target). This is better than taking a QE2 road trip, where you don't know your destination, but there is still much uncertainty about how long the QE3 trip will take. Now imagine you turn on cruise control at 70 MPH so that your car automatically adjusts the amount of gas based on the terrain. There would be much more certainty about the trip and much better expectations management. This would be much closer to a NGDPLT and provide the real test of  whether monetary policy can offset fiscal austerity. It could be operationalized by conditionalizing the size of the QE3 asset purchases each month so that constant progress to the Fed's targets were being maintained. QE3, therefore, is farm from ideal and, as Matt O'Brien observes, it is not even clear the Fed is fully on board with it. With that said, one can still learn a lot about the potential of monetary policy to offset fiscal austerity by looking at the fiscal consolidation in the United States over the past few years. As I have noted before, fiscal austerity has been happening in the U.S. economy since about mid-2010. And yet, the Fed has kept NGDP growing on a remarkably steady growth path (albeit, below its pre-crisis trend path). This performance is even more remarkable when you consider that there have been other negative AD shocks buffeting the U.S. economy. K&amp;K ignore this achievement and its implications for monetary policy offsetting fiscal austerity. Evan Soltas notes that further insights about the potential of monetary policy to offset fiscal austerity can be gleamed by comparing the U.S. economy to the Eurozone economy over the past few years. Below are some figures that make this comparison. The first one compares government spending in both regions in absolute dollar and euro amounts. The figure shows that both regions experienced a similar flattening of government spending beginning around 2010. (Total federal expenditures actually decline in the United States. I couldn't find a similar measure for the Eurozone.) Macro and Other Market Musings  If we now look at government spending as a percent of NGDP, we see that government spending's share has been falling in both regions. The U.S. decline has been the sharpest.  Macro and Other Market Musings So we have two large economies experiencing fiscal austerity as seen above. Both are receiving the fiscal austerity 'treatment'. What effect is that treatment having on their NGDPs?  The figure below shows the respective NGDP growth rates in both regions: Macro and Other Market Musings The U.S. series shows a stable NGDP growth rate of about 4%, consistent with the NGDP level figure linked to above. The Eurozone NGDP, however, shows a pronounced decline starting in 2010. So both regions have fiscal austerity, but only the United States has stable aggregate demand growth. The easiest explanation for this gap is the differences in monetary policies: the Fed has been far more aggressive than the ECB in responding to the slump. Yes, this is not definitive evidence, but it certainly is suggestive that monetary policy makes a big difference in offsetting fiscal austerity.
This is not an indicator that we typically follow that closely, yet it's still interesting. Retail PMI for Europe for April shows how dismal the situation is for the consumer. Like other PMI indices, anything sub-50 is contraction. Anything above 50 is growth. As you can see, Eurozone retail PMIs show deep sub-50 numbers, indicating ongoing shrinkage in total retail sales. Via Markit: Markit
After cratering two weeks ago, gold is having a good 10 or so days. The metal was up again over night, and is edging closer back to $1500/oz. Kitco
">http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Oil_well.jpgCommodities have had a bad year, and they've been really ugly over the last few weeks. The response has been: 'Uh-oh, deflation!' Added together with the weak data out of Europe, China, and the US, the decline in commodities looks like demand is slackening yet again. Yet maybe that's not it. In his weekly 'Sunday Start' letter, Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels presents the other side of the commodity collapse, and a reason to be optimistic: Somehow the proverbial American optimism must have affected me also when it comes to the cyclical outlook. What Ive been telling investors on my trip is that despite the soft patch in the US economic data, the wobbly recovery in China and what looks like a deepening recession in the euro area following this past weeks PMI, Ifo and INSEE business surveys, my confidence in our twilight to daylight saga of a second-half global rebound is actually even stronger now. Why? One reason is the much-discussed drop in commodity prices. My sense is that this is not just a reflection of recently weaker global growth data. I rather suspect it is also due to the supply response in many commodity markets that has been elicited by years and years of elevated prices, and to a growing realization by investors that global money-printing does not necessarily lead to high inflation, which has probably reduced the demand for commodities such as gold and oil as inflation hedges. In any case, lower commodity prices lead to what I call good disinflation as consumers real disposable incomes benefit from lower energy and food prices. Hence, I expect the global soft patch to give way to a consumer-led re-acceleration in the next couple of months. The second half of the explanation, that there's been a sea-change in thinking among investors about the relationship between "money printing" and high inflation is an important one. We've seen the gold bugs and Fed haters go from saying that hyperinflation is right around the corner to saying that the Fed is incapable of engendering inflation, even when it wants to. Take famous gold bull Jim Rickards. It's a sad day when a central bank really wants inflation and can't make it happen on.wsj.com/12FSxa1. Price projectile dysfunction. Another reason to get more upbeat on the cycle is monetary policy. The Bank of Japans regime change, the economic soft patch, and the global retreat of inflation have already led to more dovish noises from many central banks in recent weeks. Well see whether the statement following this coming Wednesdays FOMC meeting already drops some hints, but my conversations in Washington the other week suggest that US policy makers have taken note of the recent decline in US inflation, which was underscored by the easing of the core PCE deflator to 1.3% in 1Q in Fridays GDP data. Undesirable disinflation, along with a continuing miss on the second part of the Feds dual mandate (note we expect the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 7.6% in Fridays labour market report) is likely to make the talk about tapering off QE taper off.
Two weeks ago, it felt as though a deflationary breeze was blowing and stocks and commodities got whacked. Last week markets regained their footing. In the early innings of this week, markets are looking strong. Asia was basically closed today. But US futures are up, and stock markets are up across the board in Europe. The big winner is Italy, which has finally put its government issues to bed with the choice of Enrico Letta to be the country's new Prime Minister. Italian stocks are up nearly 1.6%. FTSE MIB Things are very quiet news-wise, but remember that this week is going to be huge for economic data. So we'll get some answers to some of the big economic questions out there.
Wikimedia CommonsJudgement DayJeremy Grantham, the well-known head of investment firm GMO, has become increasingly vocal about his concerns for the fate of the world. "Our global economy, reckless in its use of all resources and natural systems, shows many of the indicators of potential failure that brought down so many civilizations before ours," writes Grantham in his new quarterly letter titled "The Race Of Our Lives." In 10 pages, he compiles some key points we've heard him discuss at length in his recent media tour.  He spends most of his message on what makes him optimistic.  We summarize is letter here. Civilizations Fall Even the greatest civilizations like Rome eventually fell.  Citing research, Grantham told Charlie Rose that civilizations have an average lifespan of around 250. He hammers on this topic at length in his letter. "Probably the greatest agreement among scholars, though, is that the failing civilizations suffered from growing hubris and overconfidence: the belief that their capabilities after many earlier tests would always rise to the occasion and that growing signs of weakness could be ignored as pessimistic," he writes. Fortunately, we might not be doomed.  Grantham sees two things that might save us. Declining Fertility Economist Thomas Malthus warned us that the growing population would eventually outpace the earth's ability to feed it. "Malthus, however, completely missed declining fertility, a potentially very long-term and hence much more critical factor to the survival of our species," writes Grantham. "Neither he nor anyone else before 1960 even dreamed that we would voluntarily decide to have fewer children even as we became richer. In his day and until the early twentieth century, rich families routinely had eight or more children." In nearly every major economy, fertility rates have been falling.  He includes five charts showing this, including one that stood out. GMO Here's Grantham: Exhibit 3 shows selected important and sometimes spectacularly unexpected examples. At the top of the unexpected list is Iran, which has dropped from a fertility rate of 7 – children per woman! – in 1960 to an almost unbelievable 1.6 today. Another remarkable example of a large Islamic country is Bangladesh, which has also fallen from 7 in 1960 to 2.2. This is extraordinary given their extreme poverty. The particularly important India, with its 1.2 billion people, has fallen from 6 to 2.6. This is quite remarkable in absolute terms, but given the previous two examples and given India’s pressure from overpopulation, it’s almost a disappointment. In addition to fertility rates falling, the world population could see an inflection point.  This is according to the United Nations' scenario analysis. GMO "The lower population track... holds out a strong hope of survival – that is, of maintaining a reasonably stable global civilization and continuing to improve the quality of the average life," writes Grantham. "The return, therefore, to helping encourage a lower population everywhere is incredibly high." Cheaper Renewable Energy Renewable energy sources are expensive.  But that's quickly changing.  Here are some projections. GMO Meanwhile, we're also learning to live with less energy. "For once, all of the innovations, corporate start-ups, and risk taking – the best part of the capitalist system – work to decrease our use of depleting hydrocarbons and therefore to increase our chance of stabilizing our civilization before the cliff edge is reached," writes Grantham. China There's still a long way for renewable energy technologies to go. And it'll take a lot of money to finance to the need research and development. But that's where China -- Grantham's secret weapon -- comes in. Grantham believes a smart 25-year plan by China could have huge implications.  And China has the money and the incentive to make big moves in renewable energy development. "Such a massive broadbased program would potentially give them global dominance in the most important industries of the future and would relieve them of their greatest single worry: energy security," writes Grantham.  "It would also relieve them of what will surely become their greatest societal irritant: the incredible air pollution of their major cities, which must already be reducing life expectancy in those cities by several years, as well as substantially increasing health costs." So... "The bottom line is that if we put our minds to it we can overcome normal inertia and abnormally powerful vested interests that oppose necessary change," he writes. "Whether we can move fast enough on these fronts and at the same time reduce the output of greenhouse gases to avoid going off the cliff is simply not knowable for certain, but every minute saved and improvement made, betters our odds. Let the race begin."
