REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke takes his seat to testify before a Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee hearing on "The Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress" on Capitol Hill in Washington July 18, 2013.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department on Friday asked an appeals court to reverse a judge's ruling last month that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke must testify in a lawsuit about American International Group Inc's &lt;AIG.N&gt; 2008 bailout. Bernanke cannot be forced to sit for a deposition because high-ranking U.S. government officials are generally protected from being drawn into time-consuming civil litigation, the Justice Department said in its petition. The petition was filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington. "The demands of civil litigation, if not appropriately limited by the courts, will impair the ability of senior government officials to lead the departments and agencies for which they are responsible," the petition said. Parties to a lawsuit also do not have the right to depose agency officials to cross-examine the basis of their decisions, the Justice Department argued. Former AIG chief Maurice "Hank" Greenberg's Starr International Co. is suing the U.S. government for allegedly short-changing AIG shareholders by tens of billions of dollars during the bailout. Starr was once AIG's largest shareholder, with a 12 percent stake. Alanna Rutherford, a lawyer for Starr, said in response to the government's filing: "It's disappointing that the government seeks to delay discovery of the facts in this important case." (Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Dan Grebler)
WILMINGTON, Delaware (Reuters) - Activist investor Carl Icahn's legal effort to derail a $25 billion takeover of Dell Inc stalled after a judge refused to fast-track his lawsuit against the personal computer maker, blunting an integral part of his months-long opposition campaign. Delaware Court of Chancery Judge Leo Strine on Friday waved off Icahn's request to accelerate the lawsuit, dismissing claims that the company and its board wronged shareholders by accepting an undervalued offer from Chief Executive Michael Dell. Icahn had hoped to head off a September 12 special shareholders' vote on a takeover proposal that the hedge fund billionaire and other major investors argue cheapens the company. He wanted the company to hold its annual general meeting - at which he intends to try and replace the board - at the same time as the vote, hoping that will force the CEO to put his best and final offer on the table. But Strine was dismissive of Icahn's argument that Dell Inc, and the special committee formed to review the buyout offer, was trying to push the CEO's deal at the expense of shareholders. He opened the proceedings with a 45-minute reading of a prepared opinion, and no lawyers from either side got the chance to speak. The broader conflict between CEO Dell and Icahn adds more uncertainty to a company that once ruled the global personal computer market, but is now trying to move into the relatively unfamiliar field of enterprise computing services as mobile devices pummel sales of computers and laptops. Dell marks the latest board skirmish for the 77-year-old New York investor, who specializes in buying stakes in companies in flux and agitating for change. He has recently had run-ins with management at Biogen and Transocean Ltd. He holds 8.9 percent of Dell Inc, making him the second-largest shareholder behind Michael Dell, with about 16 percent. Dell argues its special committee has done everything it can to safeguard shareholders' interests, and has said the decision to hold the annual general meeting on October 17 means it will take place swiftly after the special vote. "It is probably within the time the court itself might set," Strine said on Friday, referring to the meeting. Under Delaware law, company annual general meetings have to be held within 13 months of each other or shareholders could sue to force one. Strine said an October 17 date would be considered overdue, but added it was not uncommon for corporations to hold late shareholder meetings. Lawyers for both sides did not respond to requests for comment. Icahn plans to use the October meeting to launch an assault on Dell's upper echelons. The investor and Southeastern Asset Management filed a preliminary proxy statement on Friday urging investors to elect their slate of nominees to the board. They include Rahul Merchant, New York City's chief information officer; Jonathan Christodoro, managing director at Icahn Capital; Icahn Enterprises President Daniel Ninivaggi, who previously sat on the board of Motorola Mobility; and Harry Debes, a technology veteran who is an operating partner with buyout firm Advent International Corp. PLATONIC GUARDIANS? Some of the conflict has centered on the company's worsening fundamentals. On Thursday, it reported a 72 percent plunge in second-quarter earnings that analysts say stresses the urgent need for a serious business overhaul and shores up the attractiveness of Michael Dell's offer. But Southeastern, which holds about 4 percent of Dell's stock, argued on Friday that the results showed a strong increase in cash flows and robust growth in revenue from enterprise software and services, supporting its case that the company still had strong long-term prospects and that the CEO's proposal thereby undervalued the company. More immediately, Icahn has to make his case in court. Icahn's legal team has said in court papers that the question before the court is "whether our law will allow these directors to act as Platonic guardians, repeatedly refusing to take 'no' for an answer on the merger, stacking the cards in its favor and deliberately postponing the annual meeting." Icahn also wants Dell Inc to reverse its decision to nullify abstentions from the buyout offer's vote count, reverting to treating them as opposing votes. Such a move is negative for the CEO's camp, which estimates that holders of almost a quarter of eligible shares will abstain from voting. Strine said on Friday he saw no evidence the company was trying to rig the shareholders' votes. Friday's courtroom drama was a facet of battle waged since March between Michael Dell, who wants to overhaul the company he created in college in 1984 away from the investor spotlight, and shareholders like Southeastern Asset Management who want a higher price. Michael Dell and Silver Lake have already sweetened their offer. On August 2, they delivered what they called their final offer, a special dividend of 13 cents a share on top of a 10-cent increase in the sale price to $13.75 per share. Dell's shares rose 0.8 percent to close at $13.82 on Nasdaq. They had traded around $10 before news of the buyout offer emerged in February. (Corrects first paragraph to show Icahn's opposition campaign is directed against the buyout) (Additional reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, writing by Edwin Chan, editing by Bill Rigby, Bernard Orr, Andrew Hay and Richard Chang)
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. The Biggest Problem Clients Face When Evaluating A Fund (Pragmatic Capitalism)  Over the last 30 years the wealth management industry has created a bunch of fund styles that are essentially quite like index funds. And one of the biggest problems investors face when deciding whether or not to own a fund, is benchmarking, writes Cullen Roche.¬† "The benchmarking issue is the one that always comes up as being the most problematic when trying to justify whether a client should own a fund.¬† The fund is either benchmarked incorrectly or it doesn‚Äôt perform well relative to a highly correlated index.¬† To me, that‚Äôs the biggest problem when evaluating a fund. "Not only should we be ensuring that we‚Äôre benchmarking the funds properly (because the fund rating companies don‚Äôt always do it properly), but we should be ensuring that the funds we‚Äôre picking are actually a good value relative to the benchmark.¬† That requires some risk adjusted return calculations and some modestly sophisticated understanding.¬† But it‚Äôs no excuse for lazily looking at past performance, fees or other problem areas.¬† The devil is in the detail in most funds.¬† And sadly, when we look close, most of them are worse than their star rating states‚Ä¶." Why There Can't Be A Yelp For Advisors (Investment News/Nerd's Eye View) Evolution Finance has launched WalletHub as a personal finance social network where investors can review financial companies and products. It also has a section for financial advisors allowing investors to rate and review them. But Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View doesn't think there is much of a market for what is essentially a Yelp for financial advisors. This is in part because "‚Äúreview‚Äù sites of all types rely on a relatively smaller percentage of actual customers/users to leave reviews‚Ä¶ Even if we generously assume that 1% to 2% of clients will leave a review and that the advisor has a ‚Äúbig‚Äù client base of 150, that means most advisors will never have more than 1-3 client reviews, which isn‚Äôt enough review quantity to be credible." The Benefits Of Delaying Social Security Benefits (The Wall Street Journal) Jane Ross of Philadelphia-based RTD Financial Advisors thinks advisors should teach clients the importance of waiting before taking Social Security benefits. In a new WSJ column, she writes, "Many clients don't even know that they have options. They hear "full retirement age," and decide that's the time to start taking their benefits. But if clients hold off, they receive a guaranteed additional 8% increase each year up to age 70. That's the best annuity and the best interest rate around. Currently, the average Social Security benefit is $1,250 a month, which amounts to only $15,000 a year. The amount remains low because so many seniors elect to start receiving benefits early. "However, the difference, if you wait, can be astounding. I have one client who was able to wait until she was 70 before drawing on her Social Security benefits. She rarely earned the maximum Social Security credits during her working career, but she receives more than $34,000 a year." Here's What Happened Before The Stock Market Crashed In 1987 (Morgan Stanley) Many are warning that the stock market has got too expensive and that we should expect a major correction if not a crash.¬† "The equity rally that began in 2009 has pushed valuations higher, but has received little support from earnings," writes Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker in a new note to clients. "Indeed, since June 2012 the equity market rally was entirely driven by valuation and not earnings." "While there have been cases when better economic conditions pushed up earnings, providing equity market support, there have also been occasions when valuation driven equity market rallies translated into weakness, as witnessed in October 1987," adds Redeker. "The equity market rally which began in 1986 and peaked in the summer of 1987 falls into this category, as can be seen in Exhibit 6." Morgan Stanley Bank Of America Prepares To Dissolve Merrill Lynch Unit (Bloomberg) Bank of America is dissolving its Merrill Lynch unit but plans to keep the Merrill Lynch brand for its retail brokerage, Bloomberg reported. Bank of America will take over Merrill Lynch's debt. Jerry Dubrowski, a Bank of America spokesman told Bloomberg that this would have "no impact" on how clients are served, or on the Merrill Lynch brand.
New York TimesIn July 2012, we argued that the Dow Jones Industrial Average would rise to 20,000 within a decade. At the time, the 20,000 Dow looked impossibly far off. With the market up over 20% since then, our forecast now seems less ambitious. What has changed over the past year? And what should we expect looking forward? A year ago, many investors were worried about the fiscal cliff in the US, recession in Europe and a crash landing in China. While risks remain, the fiscal cliff was averted, and private-sector strength is blunting the impact of US federal budget sequestration. Europe appears to be emerging from recession. China‚Äôs slowdown is real, but to a pace most countries would find desirable. Improving conditions drove the market upward. Stocks are no longer as cheap as a year ago. Valuations are now about in line with long-term averages. Bond yields, while rising, are still very low; stocks remain very attractively valued versus bonds. The S&amp;P 500 (a broader representation of US stocks than the Dow) was trading at only 14 times consensus earnings estimates for the next 12 months at the end of June, compared to over 25 times in March 2000 just before the tech bubble burst. In addition, companies now boast very strong balance sheets, with a net debt to equity ratio of 34%, far below the 63% of the October 2007 market peak. So even with the rally over the past year, US stocks are not overpriced or overleveraged, and remain more attractive than at prior peaks. Secondly, interest rates have risen over the past year.¬† While rates are no longer at all-time lows, they remain very low. We expect rates to gradually trend higher.¬† But a slow rise in rates from current low levels is unlikely to derail our 20,000 Dow forecast. As my colleagues Chris Marx and Alison Martier explained in a recent article, the stock market has rallied in most historical periods of rising interest rates, as both the stock and bond markets priced in expectations of stronger economic growth. The exceptions were a few periods when inflation was getting out of control, most notably in the 1970s. History suggests that inflation below 5% or so is unlikely to be bad for stocks. And inflation for the time being remains very subdued. Based on current conditions, we now project that in median markets the Dow would reach 20,000 by late 2018, as the display below shows. We think that is a fairly modest target: less than a 30% gain over five years, perhaps with significant volatility along the way. Alliance Bernstein As always, our projected range of outcomes for stocks reflects thousands of plausible economic and capital market scenarios, some of them very grim. Persistent deflation or a sharp run-up in inflation, for example, could delay the Dow‚Äôs reaching 20,000 by many years, but we think the odds of either are slim. By the same token, if economic and earnings growth accelerates sharply, the market could roar ahead, possibly reaching our target as soon as late 2014. In short, we think stocks still offer good return potential‚Äîespecially compared to bonds‚Äîalthough with higher risk. Most investors with a long-term horizon should have a healthy allocation to stocks; in practice, many investors today have too little. Of course, most investors also need the relative stability, income and diversification benefit that bonds can provide. We counsel investors to weigh the substantial risk of a large peak-to-trough loss from an equity-heavy portfolio against the substantial risk of running out of money from a bond-heavy portfolio, the shown in the second display, below. Alliance Bernstein For most investors, the best mix of growth and stability will be somewhere in between.¬† The key is to find the right mix and stay with it, rather than becoming exuberant in strong markets and panicking in down markets. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. The Bernstein Wealth Forecasting System, based on the Capital Markets Engine, uses a Monte Carlo model that simulates 10,000 plausible paths of return for each asset class and inflation rate and produces a probability distribution of outcomes. The model does not draw randomly from a set of historical returns to produce estimates for the future. Instead, the forecasts (1) are based on the building blocks of asset returns, such as inflation, yields, yield spreads, stock earnings and price multiples; (2) incorporate the linkages that exist among the returns of various asset classes; (3) take into account current market conditions at the beginning of the analysis; and (4) factor in a reasonable degree of randomness and unpredictability. Seth J. Masters is Chief Investment Officer of Bernstein Global Wealth Management, a unit of AllianceBernstein, and Chief Investment Officer of Defined Contribution Investments and Asset Allocation at AllianceBernstein.
The FDNY put out the truck fire on the Queensboro Bridge at 12:30 p.m., but the bridge remains mostly closed to traffic, and that's causing a nightmare for anyone trying to get around or off Manhattan. The bridge has one Manhattan-bound lane open, but nobody can use it to get off the island. As you can see from Google Maps' real time traffic data, that's causing a real mess. Alternative crossings, like the Robert F. Kennedy and Williamsburg Bridges, are snarled too as they pick up diverted traffic. Google mapsReal-time traffic in Manhattan as of 5 PM, August 16 And routes going across, up, and down town are also snarled as drivers who would normally cross the Queensboro seek to access other crossings. If you're trying to get to the Hamptons, we suggest the Manhattan Bridge or the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, if you can reach them. Staying put on Manhattan is also an option.
Hedge funds and other large speculators tripled their bets against 10-year Treasury futures in the week ended August 13, according to the latest Commitments of Traders report from the CFTC. With a net short position of 66,432 contracts ‚Äì versus 20,096 in the previous week ‚Äì hedge funds have now placed their biggest bets against 10-year Treasury futures since July 2012. Today, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to a fresh two-year high of 2.86% before retracing to close at 2.83%, up 6 basis points from Thursday's close. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
REUTERS/Wolfgang RattayGerman three-time Red Bull Formula One world champion Sebastian Vettel takes to the air during a soapbox fun race in the western German town of Herten, near Gelsenkirchen, July 14, 2013.The stock market spent most of the afternoon in the red, and recovered most of its losses. But bonds tanked, sending interest rates higher. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
REUTERS/Tomas Bravo A couple admire Mexico flags used through its history at the Obispado lookout in Monterrey September 14, 2010. Mexico is preparing lavish celebrations this week to mark the 200th anniversary of the day rebel priest Miguel Hidalgo set it on a path to independence. Mexico recently announced it would probably begin opening its oil fields to private foreign investment for the first time in 75 years. A proposed change to Mexico's constitution would upend the country's defacto nationalization of its fossil fuel reserves. UBS analyst Jon Rigby thinks this only adds to the bullish oil story that continues to develop in the Americas. The bill will have to be approved by Mexico's senate, but it's believed President Enrique Pena Nieto has enough votes to push it through. The hope is that new investment would grow oil output 20% to 3 million barrels a day and gas output 38% to 8 billion cubic feet per day by 2018. On the surface, that's a lot for Mexico, but not for overall global balances. However, Rigby argues there is actually an immediate impact: It will accelerate shifting the center of gravity for global fossil fuel production from the Middle East to the Americas: In terms of long-term balances and the effect on the global outlook, an opening up of the Mexican upstream would further cement the Americas as the most important source of supply growth in years to come. In our outlook, we expect the US, Canada and Brazil to make up the bulk of new oil production this decade, driven by shale oil, oil sands and pre-salt barrels respectively. The only other truly major source of new oil is expected to be Iraq. † Rigby pulls data showing production rates when Mexico went through its first big ramp up in the '70s: UBS They write: ...on the basis of what are expected to be substantial unmapped reserves in both Mexicoís deepwater and in shale formations onshore, there is significant potential for further growth in subsequent years. Indeed, a look at Mexicoís original ramp-up in oil production in throughout the 1970s show that strong growth rates were achieved, albeit not nearly as strong as seen in the recent growth spurt in US shale oil, for instance.† So, it's a significant development that is likely to become an even bigger deal down the line.
Back in May, Noah wrote about the amazingly good deal that is the PhD in economics. Why? Because: (Note: This guide is mainly directed toward native English speakers, or those from countries whose graduate students are typically fluent in English, such as India and most European countries. Almost all highly-ranked graduate programs teach economics in English, and we find that students learn the subtle non-mathematical skills in economics better if English is second nature. If your nationality will make admissions committees wonder about your English skills, you can either get your bachelor&rsquo;s degree at a&mdash;possibly foreign&mdash;college or university where almost all classes are taught in English, or you will have to compensate by being better on other dimensions. On the bright side, if you are a native English speaker, or from a country whose graduate students are typically fluent in English, you are already ahead in your quest to get into an economics PhD.) Fortunately, if you&rsquo;re weak in math, we have good news: Math is something you can learn. That may sound like a crazy claim to most Americans, who are raised to believe that math ability is in the genes. It may even sound like arrogance coming from two people who have never had to struggle with math. But we&rsquo;ve both taught people math for many years, and we really believe that it&rsquo;s true. Genes help a bit, but math is like a foreign language or a sport: effort will result in skill. If you took some math classes but didn&rsquo;t do very well, don&rsquo;t worry. Retake the classes. If you are worried about how that will look on your transcript, take the class the first time &ldquo;off the books&rdquo; at a different college (many community colleges have calculus classes) or online. Or if you have already gotten a bad grade, take it a second time off the books and then a third time for your transcript. If you work hard, every time you take the class you&rsquo;ll do better. You will learn the math and be able to prove it by the grade you get. Not only will this help you get into an econ PhD program, once you get in, you&rsquo;ll breeze through parts of grad school that would otherwise be agony. Here&rsquo;s another useful tip: Get a book and study math on your own before taking the corresponding class for a grade. Reading math on your own is something you&rsquo;re going to have to get used to doing in grad school anyway (especially during your dissertation!), so it&rsquo;s good to get used to it now. Beyond course-related books, you can either pick up a subject-specific book (Miles learned much of his math from studying books in the Schaum&rsquo;s outline series), or get a &ldquo;math for economists&rdquo; book; regarding the latter, Miles recommends Mathematics for Economists by Simon and Blume, while Noah swears by Mathematical Methods and Models for Economists by de la Fuente. When you study on your own, the most important thing is to work through a bunch of problems. That will give you practice for test-taking, and will be more interesting than just reading through derivations. This will take some time, of course. That&rsquo;s OK. That&rsquo;s what summer is for (right?). If you&rsquo;re late in your college career, you can always take a fifth year, do a gap year, etc. When you get to grad school, you will have to take an intensive math course called &ldquo;math camp&rdquo; that will take up a good part of your summer. For how to get through math camp itself, see this guide by J&eacute;r&eacute;mie Cohen-Setton. One more piece of advice for the math-challenged: Be a research assistant on something non-mathy. There are lots of economists doing relatively simple empirical work that requires only some basic statistics knowledge and the ability to use software like Stata. There are more and more experimental economists around, who are always looking for research assistants. Go find a prof and get involved! (If you are still in high school or otherwise haven&rsquo;t yet chosen a college, you might want to choose one where some of the professors do experiments and so need research assistants&mdash;something that is easy to figure out by studying professors&rsquo; websites carefully, or by asking about it when you visit the college.) If you&rsquo;re a disillusioned physicist, a bored biostatistician, or a neuroscientist looking to escape that evil  Principal Investigator, don&rsquo;t worry: An econ background is not necessary. A lot of the best economists started out in other fields, while a lot of undergrad econ majors are headed for MBAs or jobs in banks. Econ PhD programs know this. They will probably not mind if you have never taken an econ class. That said, you may still want to take an econ class, just to verify that you actually like the subject, to start thinking about econ, and to prepare yourself for the concepts you&rsquo;ll encounter. If you feel like doing this, you can probably skip Econ 101 and 102, and head straight for an Intermediate Micro or Intermediate Macro class. Another good thing is to read through an econ textbook. Although economics at the PhD level is mostly about the math and statistics and computer modeling (hopefully getting back to the real world somewhere along the way when you do your own research), you may also want to get the flavor of the less mathy parts of economics from one of the well-written lower-level textbooks (either one by Paul Krugman and Robin Wells, Greg Mankiw, or Tyler Cowen and Alex Tabarrok) and maybe one at a bit higher level as well, such as David Weil&rsquo;s excellent book on economic growth) or Varian&rsquo;s Intermediate Microeconomics. Remember to take a statistics class, if you haven&rsquo;t already. Some technical fields don&rsquo;t require statistics, so you may have missed this one. But to econ PhD programs, this will be a gaping hole in your resume. Go take stats! One more thing you can do is research with an economist. Fortunately, economists are generally extremely welcoming to undergrad RAs from outside econ, who often bring extra skills. You&rsquo;ll get great experience working with data if you don&rsquo;t have it already. It&rsquo;ll help you come up with some research ideas to put in your application essays. And of course you&rsquo;ll get another all-important letter of recommendation. And now for&hellip; Here is the most important tip for everyone: Don&rsquo;t just apply to &ldquo;top&rdquo; schools. For some degrees&mdash;an MBA for example&mdash;people question whether it&rsquo;s worthwhile to go to a non-top school. But for econ departments, there&rsquo;s no question. Both Miles and Noah have marveled at the number of smart people working at non-top schools. That includes some well-known bloggers, by the way&mdash;Tyler Cowen teaches at George Mason University (ranked 64th), Mark Thoma teaches at the University of Oregon (ranked 56th), and Scott Sumner teaches at Bentley, for example. Additionally, a flood of new international students is expanding the supply of quality students. That means that the number of high-quality schools is increasing; tomorrow&rsquo;s top 20 will be like today&rsquo;s top 10, and tomorrow&rsquo;s top 100 will be like today&rsquo;s top 50. Apply to schools outside of the top 20&mdash;any school in the top 100 is worth considering, especially if it is strong in areas you are interested in. If your classmates aren&rsquo;t as elite as you would like, that just means that you will get more attention from the professors, who almost all came out of top programs themselves. When Noah said in his earlier post that econ PhD students are virtually guaranteed to get jobs in an econ-related field, that applied to schools far down in the ranking. Everyone participates in the legendary centrally managed econ job market. Very few people ever fall through the cracks. Next&mdash;and this should go without saying&mdash;don&rsquo;t be afraid to retake the GRE. If you want to get into a top 10 school, you probably need a perfect or near-perfect score on the math portion of the GRE. For schools lower down the rankings, a good GRE math score is still important. Fortunately, the GRE math section is relatively simple to study for&mdash;there are only a finite number of topics covered, and with a little work you can &ldquo;overlearn&rdquo; all of them, so you can do them even under time pressure and when you are nervous. In any case, you can keep retaking the test until you get a good score (especially if the early tries are practice tests from the GRE prep books and prep software), and then you&rsquo;re OK! Here&rsquo;s one thing that may surprise you: Getting an econ master&rsquo;s degree alone won&rsquo;t help. Although master&rsquo;s degrees in economics are common among international students who apply to econ PhD programs, American applicants do just fine without a master&rsquo;s degree on their record. If you want that extra diploma, realize that once you are in a PhD program, you will get a master&rsquo;s degree automatically after two years. And if you end up dropping out of the PhD program, that master&rsquo;s degree will be worth more than a stand-alone master&rsquo;s would. The one reason to get a master&rsquo;s degree is if it can help you remedy a big deficiency in your record, say not having taken enough math or stats classes, not having taken any econ classes, or not having been able to get anyone whose name admissions committees would recognize to write you a letter of recommendation. For getting into grad school, much more valuable than a master&rsquo;s is a stint as a research assistant in the Federal Reserve System or at a think tank&mdash;though these days, such positions can often be as hard to get into as a PhD program! Finally&mdash;and if you&rsquo;re reading this, chances are you&rsquo;re already doing this&mdash;read some econ blogs. (See Miles&rsquo;s speculations about the future of the econ blogosphere here.) Econ blogs are no substitute for econ classes, but they&rsquo;re a great complement. Blogs are good for picking up the lingo of academic economists, and learning to think like an economist. Don&rsquo;t be afraid to write a blog either, even if no one ever reads it (you don&rsquo;t have to be writing at the same level as Evan Soltas or Yichuan Wang);  you can still put it on your CV, or just practice writing down your thoughts. And when you write your dissertation, and do research later on in your career, you are going to have to think for yourself outside the context of a class. One way to practice thinking critically is by critiquing others&rsquo; blog posts, at least in your head. Anyway, if you want to have intellectual stimulation and good work-life balance, and a near-guarantee of a well-paying job in your field of interest, an econ PhD could be just the thing for you. Don&rsquo;t be scared of the math and the jargon. We&rsquo;d love to have you. Update: Miles&rsquo;s colleague Jeff Smith at the University of Michigan amplifies many of the things we say on his blog.  For a complete guide, be sure to see what Jeff has to say, too. Follow Miles on Twitter at @mileskimball. Follow Noah at @noahpinion. We welcome your comments at ideas@qz.com. Back in May, Noah wrote about the amazingly good deal that is the PhD in economics. Why? Because: (Note: This guide is mainly directed toward native English speakers, or those from countries whose graduate students are typically fluent in English, such as India and most European countries. Almost all highly-ranked graduate programs teach economics in English, and we find that students learn the subtle non-mathematical skills in economics better if English is second nature. If your nationality will make admissions committees wonder about your English skills, you can either get your bachelor&rsquo;s degree at a&mdash;possibly foreign&mdash;college or university where almost all classes are taught in English, or you will have to compensate by being better on other dimensions. On the bright side, if you are a native English speaker, or from a country whose graduate students are typically fluent in English, you are already ahead in your quest to get into an economics PhD.) Fortunately, if you&rsquo;re weak in math, we have good news: Math is something you can learn. That may sound like a crazy claim to most Americans, who are raised to believe that math ability is in the genes. It may even sound like arrogance coming from two people who have never had to struggle with math. But we&rsquo;ve both taught people math for many years, and we really believe that it&rsquo;s true. Genes help a bit, but math is like a foreign language or a sport: effort will result in skill. If you took some math classes but didn&rsquo;t do very well, don&rsquo;t worry. Retake the classes. If you are worried about how that will look on your transcript, take the class the first time &ldquo;off the books&rdquo; at a different college (many community colleges have calculus classes) or online. Or if you have already gotten a bad grade, take it a second time off the books and then a third time for your transcript. If you work hard, every time you take the class you&rsquo;ll do better. You will learn the math and be able to prove it by the grade you get. Not only will this help you get into an econ PhD program, once you get in, you&rsquo;ll breeze through parts of grad school that would otherwise be agony. Here&rsquo;s another useful tip: Get a book and study math on your own before taking the corresponding class for a grade. Reading math on your own is something you&rsquo;re going to have to get used to doing in grad school anyway (especially during your dissertation!), so it&rsquo;s good to get used to it now. Beyond course-related books, you can either pick up a subject-specific book (Miles learned much of his math from studying books in the Schaum&rsquo;s outline series), or get a &ldquo;math for economists&rdquo; book; regarding the latter, Miles recommends Mathematics for Economists by Simon and Blume, while Noah swears by Mathematical Methods and Models for Economists by de la Fuente. When you study on your own, the most important thing is to work through a bunch of problems. That will give you practice for test-taking, and will be more interesting than just reading through derivations. This will take some time, of course. That&rsquo;s OK. That&rsquo;s what summer is for (right?). If you&rsquo;re late in your college career, you can always take a fifth year, do a gap year, etc. When you get to grad school, you will have to take an intensive math course called &ldquo;math camp&rdquo; that will take up a good part of your summer. For how to get through math camp itself, see this guide by J&eacute;r&eacute;mie Cohen-Setton. One more piece of advice for the math-challenged: Be a research assistant on something non-mathy. There are lots of economists doing relatively simple empirical work that requires only some basic statistics knowledge and the ability to use software like Stata. There are more and more experimental economists around, who are always looking for research assistants. Go find a prof and get involved! (If you are still in high school or otherwise haven&rsquo;t yet chosen a college, you might want to choose one where some of the professors do experiments and so need research assistants&mdash;something that is easy to figure out by studying professors&rsquo; websites carefully, or by asking about it when you visit the college.) If you&rsquo;re a disillusioned physicist, a bored biostatistician, or a neuroscientist looking to escape that evil  Principal Investigator, don&rsquo;t worry: An econ background is not necessary. A lot of the best economists started out in other fields, while a lot of undergrad econ majors are headed for MBAs or jobs in banks. Econ PhD programs know this. They will probably not mind if you have never taken an econ class. That said, you may still want to take an econ class, just to verify that you actually like the subject, to start thinking about econ, and to prepare yourself for the concepts you&rsquo;ll encounter. If you feel like doing this, you can probably skip Econ 101 and 102, and head straight for an Intermediate Micro or Intermediate Macro class. Another good thing is to read through an econ textbook. Although economics at the PhD level is mostly about the math and statistics and computer modeling (hopefully getting back to the real world somewhere along the way when you do your own research), you may also want to get the flavor of the less mathy parts of economics from one of the well-written lower-level textbooks (either one by Paul Krugman and Robin Wells, Greg Mankiw, or Tyler Cowen and Alex Tabarrok) and maybe one at a bit higher level as well, such as David Weil&rsquo;s excellent book on economic growth) or Varian&rsquo;s Intermediate Microeconomics. Remember to take a statistics class, if you haven&rsquo;t already. Some technical fields don&rsquo;t require statistics, so you may have missed this one. But to econ PhD programs, this will be a gaping hole in your resume. Go take stats! One more thing you can do is research with an economist. Fortunately, economists are generally extremely welcoming to undergrad RAs from outside econ, who often bring extra skills. You&rsquo;ll get great experience working with data if you don&rsquo;t have it already. It&rsquo;ll help you come up with some research ideas to put in your application essays. And of course you&rsquo;ll get another all-important letter of recommendation. And now for&hellip; Here is the most important tip for everyone: Don&rsquo;t just apply to &ldquo;top&rdquo; schools. For some degrees&mdash;an MBA for example&mdash;people question whether it&rsquo;s worthwhile to go to a non-top school. But for econ departments, there&rsquo;s no question. Both Miles and Noah have marveled at the number of smart people working at non-top schools. That includes some well-known bloggers, by the way&mdash;Tyler Cowen teaches at George Mason University (ranked 64th), Mark Thoma teaches at the University of Oregon (ranked 56th), and Scott Sumner teaches at Bentley, for example. Additionally, a flood of new international students is expanding the supply of quality students. That means that the number of high-quality schools is increasing; tomorrow&rsquo;s top 20 will be like today&rsquo;s top 10, and tomorrow&rsquo;s top 100 will be like today&rsquo;s top 50. Apply to schools outside of the top 20&mdash;any school in the top 100 is worth considering, especially if it is strong in areas you are interested in. If your classmates aren&rsquo;t as elite as you would like, that just means that you will get more attention from the professors, who almost all came out of top programs themselves. When Noah said in his earlier post that econ PhD students are virtually guaranteed to get jobs in an econ-related field, that applied to schools far down in the ranking. Everyone participates in the legendary centrally managed econ job market. Very few people ever fall through the cracks. Next&mdash;and this should go without saying&mdash;don&rsquo;t be afraid to retake the GRE. If you want to get into a top 10 school, you probably need a perfect or near-perfect score on the math portion of the GRE. For schools lower down the rankings, a good GRE math score is still important. Fortunately, the GRE math section is relatively simple to study for&mdash;there are only a finite number of topics covered, and with a little work you can &ldquo;overlearn&rdquo; all of them, so you can do them even under time pressure and when you are nervous. In any case, you can keep retaking the test until you get a good score (especially if the early tries are practice tests from the GRE prep books and prep software), and then you&rsquo;re OK! Here&rsquo;s one thing that may surprise you: Getting an econ master&rsquo;s degree alone won&rsquo;t help. Although master&rsquo;s degrees in economics are common among international students who apply to econ PhD programs, American applicants do just fine without a master&rsquo;s degree on their record. If you want that extra diploma, realize that once you are in a PhD program, you will get a master&rsquo;s degree automatically after two years. And if you end up dropping out of the PhD program, that master&rsquo;s degree will be worth more than a stand-alone master&rsquo;s would. The one reason to get a master&rsquo;s degree is if it can help you remedy a big deficiency in your record, say not having taken enough math or stats classes, not having taken any econ classes, or not having been able to get anyone whose name admissions committees would recognize to write you a letter of recommendation. For getting into grad school, much more valuable than a master&rsquo;s is a stint as a research assistant in the Federal Reserve System or at a think tank&mdash;though these days, such positions can often be as hard to get into as a PhD program! Finally&mdash;and if you&rsquo;re reading this, chances are you&rsquo;re already doing this&mdash;read some econ blogs. (See Miles&rsquo;s speculations about the future of the econ blogosphere here.) Econ blogs are no substitute for econ classes, but they&rsquo;re a great complement. Blogs are good for picking up the lingo of academic economists, and learning to think like an economist. Don&rsquo;t be afraid to write a blog either, even if no one ever reads it (you don&rsquo;t have to be writing at the same level as Evan Soltas or Yichuan Wang);  you can still put it on your CV, or just practice writing down your thoughts. And when you write your dissertation, and do research later on in your career, you are going to have to think for yourself outside the context of a class. One way to practice thinking critically is by critiquing others&rsquo; blog posts, at least in your head. Anyway, if you want to have intellectual stimulation and good work-life balance, and a near-guarantee of a well-paying job in your field of interest, an econ PhD could be just the thing for you. Don&rsquo;t be scared of the math and the jargon. We&rsquo;d love to have you. Update: Miles&rsquo;s colleague Jeff Smith at the University of Michigan amplifies many of the things we say on his blog.  For a complete guide, be sure to see what Jeff has to say, too. Follow Miles on Twitter at @mileskimball. Follow Noah at @noahpinion. We welcome your comments at ideas@qz.com.
As stocks continue to fall from their all-time closing highs, UBS strategist Julian Emanuel offers an interesting chart looking at the internal dynamics of the NYSE-listed stocks. "[I]n an environment where the S&amp;P 500 Index has remained near all-time highs yet the number of "strong" stocks is declining (Chart 7)," said Emanuel.† The dark purple line represents the percentage of NYSE stocks closing above their 200 day moving averages, which is trending down. Meanwhile, the 200-DMA of all of those stocks is trending up. For what it's worth... UBS
The U.S. Treasury market is having another rough session today, and the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note just broke through to new multi-year highs. Treasuries put in their highs of the morning around 9:20 AM ET and have been sinking ever since. Right now, 10-year Treasury futures are down 0.5%, and the 10-year yield is up 7 basis points from yesterday's close to 2.84%. At the height of the selling this afternoon (shortly before 2 PM), the 10-year yield hit a high of 2.86%. This morning, the preliminary results from the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey suggested that confidence unexpectedly fell sharply this month. However, the release did not appear to have an effect on the bond market. The chart below shows trading in 10-year Treasury futures. Thinkorswim
Business Insider / Matthew LynleyThe owner of the Dallas Mavericks, Mark Cuban,†recently described how†he tries to to create a lot more value with the team than mere money. Sports teams are different than other businesses in some ways.†But Cuban's philosophy should serve as an inspiration for every business owner and leader in the country. One of the problems in the U.S. economy right now is that our big companies have become so obsessed with creating one kind of value--profits for shareholders--that they're scrimping on the value they could otherwise be creating for customers, communities, and employees. Profit margins at big American companies are at a record high, for example, while wages are at a record low. And full-time employees of some of our wealthiest and most successful companies are paid so little that they must live in poverty. Aside from a lack of basic human virtues like fairness and sharing, there's an economic cost to this profit obsession. The employees of big American companies are also American consumers, so viewing them as "costs" to be minimized is starving middle-class consumers of purchasing power. And without middle class purchasing power, it's hard for our economy (and companies) to grow. As Mark Cuban shows with the Mavericks, it doesn't have to be this way. Great businesses can create value for several major constituencies, not just shareholders. They can create value for customers, shareholders, employees, and communities. If America's biggest companies were willing to more evenly share the value they create--if, for example, they were willing to reinvest some of their record profits in their people and future projects--our economy would be much healthier. Just as important, this more balanced corporate mission would give the people who work for these companies--the people who create their value--the same sense of pride and mission that Mark Cuban describes: The sense that they are dedicating their efforts to something worth more than just a paycheck or a financial bottom line. Mark Cuban: [T]he Mavs are a business. I want to make a profit. But unlike every other business, making the most money possible is not a driving motivation... [I want] to make sure that every Mavs game is about far more than basketball. I want to make sure that every time any fan walks into the American Airlines Center they know that they will feel special. They will have a special experience. They will have an emotional connection. They will feel an energy and excitement they can not get anywhere else. They will be able to see a look of joy in their family members. They will know that we respect the financial, emotional and time investment they have made in our Mavs. In a years time they wonít remember the score, or even a single play from the game, but they will remember who they were with and how they felt during the game. It is a special trust that is incumbent on me and all Mavs employees to live up to. It is expensive to deliver on this goal. But it is worth every penny. No matter what it costs.† Mark Cuban also shares some of the emails he has received from Mavericks fans (customers). The emails†illustrate some of the non-financial value that a more balanced business philosophy can create.†These emails, too, should inspire every business leader and owner in the country: Dear Mark,A friend of mine gave me your email. I have a friend who has a 15 year old boy with an inoperable brain tumor. He left MD Anderson today after the doctors telling him there was nothing else they could do for him. We are from OK and they are on their way home tonight. They are attending the game tonight. I called the head office and was able to get him in the ìhigh five lineî! Heís making his bucket list on the drive home and the first item on the list is meeting ****** Is there anyway you could make this kid have a great evening after this horrible day? Heís a great kid with a very positive attitude and has just been handed his death sentence. Thank you so much for your time in reading this!! Mark,I received an invitation to select someone to present a game ball at one of the Mavericks home games. I canít tell you how thrilled and what a blessing it has been to extend this opportunity to patients. I wanted to share one of my experiences. There is a patient that is a single mother of 2 young children that does not have a good prognosis. We thought this would be an exciting opportunity for her and her kids. When I sat down to talk with her about, the look of joy that came over her face, as she was sitting in our infusion room receiving her chemotherapy treatment, cannot be described. I want to thank you for giving us this opportunity. The generosity of the Mavericks organization is second to none. The generosity spills over and blesses others, like me, who got to see the joy as I talked to her about what she would be doing. Thank you so much to the Mavericks organization for not just providing us with entertainment and team to route for, but for making a difference in our community. Mr. Cuban,I would like to commend your staff at the Mavs. My coworker Robin was hesitant to even contact your staff. She wanted to something special for her brother. Besides her brother being special needs he has been diagnosed with cancer. He is not a child physically but he just does not understand what is happening to him but he loves Basketball. So as a Mavs fan myself I would like to bring to your attention the special thing your staff is doing to make a light at the end of the tunnel for this special man. It is a great thing to witness that the Mavs go above and beyond as small as it may seem to the Mavs it is huge to this gentleman. Hello Mark,Just wanted to THANK YOU for an awesome overall experience we had at the MAVS game Friday night. I was lucky enough to receive two tickets from a friend who had to go out of town at the last minutes, and was able to take my 12 year old daughter to her first MAVS game. I watch every MAVS game on TV, and sheíll watch about half of them, but 12 year olds have a lot more distractions to deal with. The entire vibe of the building was just electric, and you donít get that feel on TV. When I asked her what the favorite part of the night was, she listed the MAVS dancers, the Maniac dancers cracked her up, the drum line, and of course the game itself! You are a guy who puts is information out there, and Iím sure you get more complaints and questions, but I just wanted to make sure to let you know what a great time we had! Her one time being there has her looking at the schedule for all the next games on TV!! She is now an MFFL!!! Hi Mr. Cuban. I am *****s mom. She is one of the Maverickís ballkids. This is her second year in the program. I just wanted to say thank you for creating this wonderful environment for my child to learn and grow. The program has given her SO much confidence. She has loved the Mavericks for as long as I can remember. You may be the only one more passionate about the team than her, seriously. We make her watch the games in her own area of the house if she isnít at the game. You have made the NBA exciting and you have created the Mavs to be a beloved team. The excitement and love you show for this team teaches everyone what true passion can create. Those are the things that my daughter learns from you. You can read more of the emails here. † This is the sort of value a great business can create for the people and community it serves.† Great businesses can and should aspire to create more value than the bottom line. And they should share this value with more than their shareholders. SEE ALSO: This One Tweet Shows What's Wrong With American Business†
via Street EasyThe Wall Street Journal reports that Jimmy Cayne, the former CEO of now-defunct investment bank Bear Stearns, is selling his Park Avenue apartment for $14.95 million.¬† According to the Journal, Cayne and his wife purchased the apartment in 1981 for $1.1 million. They haven't lived in it for years.¬† Dolly Lenz Real Estate has the listing for the 510 Park Avenue apartment. Now we're going to take a tour.¬†
Pandora shares are up 6.5% today to $21.15 after a team led by Goldman Sachs' Heath Terry upgraded the online radio service to "buy" with a $27 price target.¬† It's an interesting development given the results of our (admittedly small sample size) survey showing Spotify beating out Pandora for most popular streaming service¬†among BI'ers, and also revealing that none of us is paying for Pandora's premium, ad-free subscription service. So let's see what Heath and co. had to say. The bump comes primarily from three-straight quarters of accelerating ad revenue, especially on mobile devices. Below is a chart of where Pandora's share of mobile listening stands compared with other, selected competitors. Heath and co. also note that for the first time, ad growth has¬†surpassed the growth rate for the cost of buying music licenses. Subscription growth has also accelerated in the past three quarters, they say, thanks to continued expansion into cars, televisions and on Android phones. And the company recently imposed a new cap on free listening on mobile devices. Heath and co. say this will continue to be a "big boost" to subscriptions, and also hold margins down by cutting of some of Pandora's heaviest users. Somewhat surprisingly Heath and co. say the threat from competitors has now "diminished." Here's how they frame it: Competitive concerns better understood.  Since going public in mid-2011, seven of the 10 days in which Pandora has sold off 10% or more have been the result of news or speculation around emerging competitive risks. With iTunes Radio, Google Play, and Spotify‚Äôs Internet radio services better understood, we believe the potential for major competitive headline risks has largely diminished. In addition, over the past 16 months, Pandora‚Äôs share of mobile Internet radio minutes has remained relatively unchanged, hovering around 80% despite the introduction of multiple competitive services. Note that they're comparing Pandora to Spotify radio. They actually make the case that there is little overlap between users of Spotify's core service of selecting your own song, and core Pandora streaming service: we believe at this point, customers care most about the brand and the type of listening model, with Pandora and services like Songza being known for ‚Äúlean-back capabilities‚Äù (selecting a song, artist, or album, or in Songza‚Äôs case, a mood or activity, and allowing the service to generate a playlist for you), or something like Spotify‚Äôs more well-known ‚Äúlean-forward model‚Äù (allowing the user to select particular songs and generate their own playlist). Heath and co. acknowledge that we are well past Pandora's heyday when its first launched in 2005, and that people have moved on to other platforms. Usage growth has steadily decelerated since Pandora went public, albeit on large rates of growth, and where that growth could stabilize is a point of contention. While listener hour growth had slowed to 50% in 4Q13 from over 100% just a year earlier, the decline from 50% down to 18% in 2Q14 was largely driven by the free mobile listener hour cap which was imposed in March (April listener hour growth slowed to 24% from 49% in April). Active listener hour growth has remained more stable at 30% growth in 2Q14 from 35% in 1Q14 and 40% in 4Q13. They also note the cost of licensing music has grown¬†25% per song over the past three years, and is expected to rise 16% per song over the next two. The initiative to get Congress to change the royalty rate Pandora must pay has stalled. But those concerns appear to be muted by all the other acceleration going on. Let's see what happens.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg For the vast majority of the current crop of Wall Street traders, a bull market in bonds is really all there's ever been. One has to go back more than 30 years ‚Äì to the late 1970s and early 1980s ‚Äì to find the last bear market in bonds. Yet things have changed in 2013. The consensus on Wall Street now expects the Federal Reserve to announce a tapering of the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program at the September FOMC meeting. The mere thought of such a decision in the minds of traders and investors was enough to spark a violent sell-off in the Treasury market this summer ‚Äì the yield on the 10-year note is up 118 basis points since May 2 alone at current levels near 2.8%. Now, the long bull market in bonds is widely perceived to have come to an end. "A remarkably low 3% of investors expect long-term bond yields to be lower in 12 months," said BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett of the bank's August Global Fund Manager Survey. As Treasuries have declined in value this year, many bond investors have seen something they aren't used to seeing: negative returns in their monthly statements. In fact, according to ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas, there may be a lot of people out there who didn't even know that was possible. "I have had more than one high-net-worth broker tell me that his clients think the 'Risk Free Rate' means that you never see a mark down in the value of your Treasury portfolio," says Colas. "They are only now discovering their error, and the realization is unwelcome." The "risk-free rate" is a theoretical concept used in ubiquitous financial calculations like the capital asset pricing model to value securities. The "risk-free rate" in these models usually refers to the yield on U.S. Treasuries, where the rate of return (yield) is viewed as "riskless" because Treasuries don't contain default risk. So, apparently there are investors out there who heard the term "risk-free rate" and assumed that an investment in Treasuries would never lose money. "Fixed income isn‚Äôt a one-way bet," says Colas. "That fact spills over into everything from corporate capital allocation to equity market valuations. And it will take longer than to Labor Day to accommodate this new fact."

Bloomberg: - The RBI cut the amount local companies can invest overseas without seeking approval to 100 percent of their net worth, from 400 percent, according to a statement on Aug. 14. Residents can remit $75,000 a year versus the previous limit of $200,000. The authority said banks accepting deposits after Aug. 24 from Indians living abroad need no longer keep 4 percent of the funds in cash and invest 23 percent in government-approved securities. India also boosted import duties on bullion on Aug. 13 and banned inward shipments of gold in the form of coins and medallions to reduce the trade deficit. In a briefing in New Delhi on Aug. 14, Mayaram said imported gold must be stored in government-mandated warehouses. It didn't do any good. Driven by expectations of impending exit from QE3 in the US, the rupee punched through 62 this morning, hitting a new all-time low. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† At these levels inflation will soon become a concern. Investors continued dumping short-term government bills, with the 6-month paper going above 11% for the first time.  The stock market, which has all but ignored India's currency crisis, tumbled 4% today. The reality of the situation is finally setting in.  The retreat across capital markets was exacerbated by escalating tensions with Pakistan. The Times of India: - Using heavy calibre guns, Indian Army retaliated strongly after Pakistani troops on Thursday resorted to unprovoked and indiscriminate firing with rocket and mortar shell attacks at LoC posts in Jammu &amp; Kashmir's Poonch sector that injured three Army jawans and a civilian. This is the 11th ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the past five days, Army officials said. As capital outflows continue, India is struggling to plug its widening current account gap (6.7% of GDP last year). This has become the worst economic crisis for the nation since 1991, when India's government, faced with depleted foreign reserves, had to resort to asking the IMF for help. At the time, the country had secured a $2.2bn loan, backed by 67 tons of gold reserves. To satisfy the IMF's concerns about access to the collateral, the RBI had to airlift 47 tons of gold to be deposited offshore with the Bank of England and 20 tons of gold with UBS. While such action is unlikely this time around, if the crisis continues to escalate, Asia's third largest economy will struggle to grow. Even though economists still do not expect a contraction, it is now a real possibility. Some weakening of the rupee may have been desirable for exporters, but losing control of the exchange rate was not what the RBI had in mind.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusSome investors in SAC Capital†ó Steve Cohen's†beleaguered hedge fund facing insider trading indictments†ó want to pull their money now, fearing the government will freeze assets. But Bloomberg is reporting the†$14 billion fund told clients that final payments will be made at the end of the year as usual, despite some investor pleas to recoup all of their money before then. SAC has tried to keep a "business as usual" mentality, despite the highly-publicized investigation.  But the numbers tell another story. SAC execs think all outside investor money could be gone from the firm by the beginning of 2014 (from Bloomberg): SAC started the year with $15 billion of assets, about $6 billion of which belonged to outsiders. As†insider-trading†probe against the firm intensified, clients redeemed more than $3 billion in the first half of 2013, which is being returned over the course of this year. SACís executives have said they expect the firm to start 2014 with about $9 billion in assets and that virtually all outside investors will be gone by then, according to people familiar with the firm. At least 11 former or current SAC employees have been tied up in the investigation, Bloomberg reports. Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
NOTE: UBS's Paul Donovan cautions on how we interpret this data. One of the biggest fears in the financial markets is that foreign investors will stop buying U.S. Treasury securities, causing borrowing rates to surge. Not that this is the beginning of a frightening trend, but new data from the Treasury Department shows that foreigners were net sellers in June. In fact, this is the largest net sale of U.S. securities since August 2007. Here's a graphic from Reuters: REUTERS GRAPHICS
YouTube/movieclipsHollywood and booze have been synonymous for a long time. So it's no surprise that many iconic beverages gained prominence in our bars and restaurants thanks to the silver screen. From cult movies to blockbusters, many films' secret stars are really the cocktails consumed by overpaid actors. We picked out 12 famous adult beverages to grace some of the best movies in history.
REUTERS/Andrija IlicThere are two main things †law enforcement and lawyers are thinking about in the case of the two former JP Morgan traders accused of trying to hide the 'London Whale' trading loss ó first, how to get them to the U.S., and then, how to defend them once they get here. It's all broken down in the Wall Street Journal. The two men,†Javier Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout, face criminal charges including††wire fraud, conspiracy to falsify books and records, and falsifying records to the SEC. †They did all of that, the Justice Department alleges, in order to hide trading losses in JPMorgan's †London Chief Investment Office that ultimately ballooned into a $6 billion hole for the bank. Right now both Martin-Artajo and Grout are in Europe on vacation, so prosecutors are trying to figure out how to get them to New York City to face charges as quickly as possible. It could mean extraditing them from Spain, where Martin-Artajo is, or France, where Grout is ó Spain would be more cooperative, says the WSJ. On the other side, defense lawyers have to be thinking about how they're going to structure the argument for their clients. One likely argument is pretty simple actually ó Because the derivatives Martin-Artajo and Grout were trading were less liquid, they were also harder to value. The defense could argue that their clients were simply confused, not criminal. There were instances when the JP Morgan traders felt their positions were being undervalued by their counterparties, and according to experts, this argument could actually work †(from the WSJ): Charges related to valuations placed on trades have had mixed results for prosecutors. Barry A. Bohrer, a partner with the law firm Schulte Roth &amp; Zabel LLP who specializes in white-collar litigation, said a challenge for the prosecution will be explaining complex and opaque financial products to jurors. The government will need to show that the traders purposely mismarked the value of the assets. "It's more art than science in an area where the prosecution has a very high burden of proof," he said. "I think it's a real question as to whether they'll be able to get a jury to find criminal liability here." Sounds familiar. On the other hand, you have to remember that the trader first pinpointed as the 'London Whale' is cooperating with the Department of Justice ó so there's that. If you want to go deeper into the legalese, head to the WSJ&gt;
Marc Faber, publisher of The Gloom Boom &amp; Doom Report, has been warning us that the stock market is expensive and that we're due for a big crash. "In 1987, we had a very powerful rally, but also earnings were no longer rising substantially, and the market became very overbought," Faber told CNBC recently. "The final rally into Aug. 25 occurred with a diminishing number of stocks hitting 52-week highs. In other words, the new-high list was contracting, and we have several breaks in different stocks." And with earnings growth limited, recent gains have been largely driven by an expanding price-earnings multiple, a measure of stock market value. "The equity rally that began in 2009 has pushed valuations higher, but has received little support from earnings," writes Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker in a new note to clients. "Indeed, since June 2012 the equity market rally was entirely driven by valuation and not earnings." "While there have been cases when better economic conditions pushed up earnings, providing equity market support, there have also been occasions when valuation driven equity market rallies translated into weakness, as witnessed in October 1987," adds Redeker. "The equity market rally which began in 1986 and peaked in the summer of 1987 falls into this category, as can be seen in Exhibit 6." Hopefully, some of the improving economic data we're getting will translate into earnings growth for stocks. Morgan Stanley
Wikimedia CommonsHere's Christopher T. Mahoney, former vice-chairman of credit rating agency Moody's, in a Project Syndicate op-ed†titled "Protestants Will Never Understand Monetary Policy," presented without comment: Why is the Right so in love with hard money, low inflation, and high unemployment? Here is my answer: because they do not believe that there is such a thing as a free lunch. You could spread out a smorgasbord of caviar, salmon, lobster and Dom Perignon, and they would turn their heads and eat a cheese sandwich. Reflation is easy and thus sinful. Itís that Protestant thing. The only people who understand monetary policy are Jews and Catholics. Read the whole piece on Project Syndicate ª
Getty Images / Kevin C. Cox A lone fan of the Michigan Wolverines sits dejected.The preliminary results from the University of Michigan's August consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index of confidence fell to 80.0 in August from July's 85.1 reading. Economists had predicted a tick up to 85.2. The sub-index of economic conditions fell to 91.0 from 98.6. The economic outlook sub-index fell to 72.9 from 76.5. Inflation expectations one year ahead were unchanged from July at 3.1%. Inflation expectations five years ahead were unchanged at 2.8%.
YouTubeThe opening bell just rang at 9:30, and the stock market just went negative after futures were up marginally all morning. Right now, The S&amp;P 500 is down 0.2% to 1658.¬†S&amp;P 500 futures peaked out around 7:15 AM before turning lower. The index has closed down in seven of the last nine trading sessions. ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas argues this morning that this sell-off is the market finally returning to fundamentals. Gold initially spiked around 9:20 AM on a large buy order but has now retraced all of that move and is up only 0.1% to $1362 an ounce. JPMorgan analysts are out with a note recommending clients position for short-term gains in gold ahead of the Denver Gold Forum in late September. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is up 2 basis points from yesterday's close to 2.79%. In Europe, the London FTSE and German DAX are trading lower while the Spanish IBEX 35, the French CAC 40, and the FTSE MIB are moving higher. Sovereign bond yields across the eurozone are falling. Asian markets closed in the red overnight ‚Äì the Japanese Nikkei 225 shed another 0.8%, while the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 0.1% and the Shanghai Composite finished 0.6% lower. July housing starts and building permits data released at 8:30 AM ET revealed that activity in new home construction was growing at a slower pace than expected. Out at 9:55 AM are the preliminary results from the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey (follow the release LIVE here ¬ª). Economists expect the index to tick up a notch this month.

Park Avenue DocumentaryThe New York Post reports that there have been a series of jewelry thefts at 740 Park Avenue‚Äîthe super luxurious NYC apartment building that's home to some of Wall Street's biggest heavy-hitters.¬† From late May through early July, residents have reported about $250,000 worth of missing wedding bands, watches and other jewelry, the Post reports citing police.¬†¬† 740 Park Avenue is home to billionaire private equity tycoon Steve Schwarzman, hedge fund manager David Ganek (Level Global co-founder), billionaire hedge fund manager Israel Englander (Millennium Partners), David Koch, Vera Wang and many other powerful people.¬† According to the report, hedge fund managers Ganek and Englander and their wives were among the victims of the heist.¬† From the Post:¬† Other victims include hedge funder David Ganek, 49, and his novelist wife, Danielle Ganek, 49, who lost diamond earrings, two Patek Philippe watches and other jewelry worth nearly $100,000 from their sixth-floor pad. ... Fourteenth-floor resident Caryl Englander, 59, a philanthropist and art collector, and her hubby, Israel, lost a $7,500 Vacheron Constantin gold watch. It's believed to be an inside job, the report said citing an unnamed law enforcement officer.
ReutersJoshua Harris (left) and David Blitzer (right)A pair of private equity executives who own a majority of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team on Thursday (August 15) reached a deal to acquire the New Jersey Devils hockey team and its arena. Joshua Harris and David Blitzer bought the team from former owner Jeffrey Vanderbeek, the pair said in a statement. They did not immediately disclose the purchase price, though The Record newspaper of New Jersey valued the deal at $320 million. Harris, a billionaire managing director at Apollo Global management and Blitzer, a senior managing director at Blackstone, led a group that acquired the NBA's 76ers in 2011 for about $280 million. The Devils have played in the Newark-based Prudential Center since 2007, when they relocated from East Rutherford, New Jersey. The arena, championed by former Newark Mayor Sharpe James, has struggled to turn a profit due in part to a large number of competing sports and entertainment venues in the New York metropolitan area. Forbes magazine reported that the Devils have accumulated $230 million in debt and that Vanderbeek missed the first payment on a recently restructured bank loan. Billboard magazine rated the arena as the eighth-highest grossing worldwide for the first half of 2013. However, the venue, known as "The Rock," has struggled to generate enough revenue, particularly since the departure of the NBA's Nets to nearby Brooklyn
Americans have always been generous to those in need, and there are great charitable organizations throughout our county. The total dollars given to charity each year are significant, and totalled $316 billion in 2012 according to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. The federal government recognizes the tremendous work and impact that charitable organizations have on the wellbeing of our society and allow donors to take a tax deduction of up to 50 percent of adjusted gross income for†cash†contributions and up to 30 percent for securities. Many of us simply write a check to those causes we feel deeply about, however, there are other vehicles that can achieve our charitable goals and offer added benefits from a†tax saving†perspective. Donor advised funds have been around for more than three decades. Simply put, they are charitable organizations that allow for tax deductible donations to be made, invested and then redirected to qualified organizations. DAFs allow for donations to be deducted for tax purposes in the year of the donation, however, the donation amounts do not have to be "redirected" or granted to the final charitable organization in that tax year. They can be invested, allow to grow over time and then granted to the organization of your choice. There are many DAFs available to the general public and many are administered by large financial institutions. Such funds are very much a turn-key solution for those individuals who have a charitable nature and offer simplicity, low cost and a charitable legacy element. There are several tax-efficient strategies that can be applied to owners of DAFs. Consider the following hypothetical situation and strategy: Mr. Jones is a successful businessman and makes an annual charitable donation of $10,000. He's also a savvy investor and has a non-qualified account of†stocks†with significant unrealized long-term gains. One of the stocks in his portfolio is an energy company that has a tremendous gain; it was a gift from his father many years ago and now has a market value of $10,000 and a cost basis of $1,000. Mr. Jones has great personal attachment to that stock, the energy company is still growing its profits and he sees no fundamental reason to sell. The Tax Efficient Way to Give†. Mr. Jones decides to set up a DAF to make his annual $10,000 charitable gift. However, instead of writing a check from his bank account, he transfers the highly appreciated stock to his DAF. When the transfer is completed, he receives an immediate†tax deduction†for the $10,000 market value of the stock, then liquidates the stock position incurring no capital gain in the transaction and directs his DAF to make the grant to his charity in his name. Mr. Jones then uses the $10,000 from his checking account that he would have otherwise used to fund the charitable gift to purchase new shares of the energy company in his non-qualified account. He now still owns the same stock that his father gave him years ago, with no imbedded capital gain, received†tax†deduction for $10,000 and he satisfied his charitable goal. Charitable giving never felt so good! Dean J. Catino, CFPÆ, CPWAÆ, CPRCÆ, is a Managing Director and co-founder of Alexandria, VA-based†Monument Wealth Management, a full service wealth management firm located in the Washington, DC area. Dean and the rest of the Monument Wealth Management team can be followed on their blog at "Off The Wall", on Twitter @MonumentWealth, and on their Facebook page.
Thinkorswim A common concern among equity investors cited by Wall Street strategists is that the market is only being propelled higher by the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program, which has kept financial markets flush with liquidity for the better part of the past several years, and is driving an expansion in valuation multiples. Now that the consensus opinion is that the Fed will begin tapering back QE as soon as September, the conversation is getting a bit more urgent. Since topping out at an all-time high of 1709.67 on August 2, the S&amp;P 500 index has fallen 2.8%, closing down in seven of the last nine trading sessions. A good portion of those losses are accounted for by yesterday's 1.4% drop. ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas suggests that the markets are beginning to price in an eventual end to QE in a note to clients: Let‚Äôs play contrarian, big time, and posit that the selloff over the past few days is meaningful, for it signals a return to something capital markets thought was dead: fundamentals.¬†How many times have you heard over the last few years that U.S. stocks were the best show in town because the Federal Reserve was pushing liquidity into the system? OK ‚Äì that overarching narrative is coming to an end with talk of ‚ÄòTapering‚Äô in September. Yes, I know they Fed isn‚Äôt abandoning the financial system just yet. But like so many Americans, their job in supporting capital markets will be shifting to a part-time engagement. Colas points out that the fundamentals aren't necessarily that great to begin with, but he argues that "U.S. corporations have done tremendous work in getting profit margins back to peak levels even as the domestic economy grows only slowly and the rest of the world is pretty punk." "Our message is more nuanced, and it comes down to 'Fundamentals matter again'," says Colas.¬†"Forget the Fed."
We've never seen anything like this. A construction worker is working with some pretty rudimentary tools. So here's how got cement up this building (via BeijingCream). Clearly safety isn't a primary concern on this project. There is some debate* about whether this video was filmed in China or in Peru. Watch around the :42 mark.  *This post was updated to reflect the debate about where the video was filmed.
REUTERS/Stoyan NenovOlympic marathon hopeful Urige Buta pushes a cleaning cart as he works at a high school in Haugesund, west of Oslo on March 19, 2012.New data on the labor market is out. Nonfarm productivity climbed by 0.9% in the second quarter, which was higher than the 0.6% increase expected. During the same period, unit labor costs increased by 1.4%. Economists were looking for a 1.2% gain. In other words, companies are squeezing more out of their employees, and they're paying them more to do it. Economists argue that this is not a sustainable trend.¬† Eventually, companies will have to start hiring more aggressively.
Reuters/Chris KeaneHousing starts missed expectations rising 5.9% to an annualized rate of 896,00 units in July. This missed expectations for a 7.7% rise to an annualized rate of 900,000 units. June numbers were revised up to show a 7.9% fall to 846,000. Meanwhile, building permits also came in shy of expectations rising 2.7% to 943,000. This was below expectations for a 2.9% to 945,000. June's number was also revised up to show a 6.8% fall to 918,000. The run up in homebuilder confidence should point to stronger housing starts, but Paul Diggle at Capital Economics has previously argued that NAHB has a "history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts."
Some market pundits will tell you this is the most hated bull market in history. Everywhere, there are skeptics who have prepared a hundred reasons why the stock market shouldn't be as high as it is. And when things start flashing red, they'll tell you we've seen the top. In recent days, volatility has spiked in the global markets.¬† The S&amp;P 500 is now down 2.8% from its all-time high of 1,709, which it hit just two weeks ago. Once again, people are asking: Have we seen the top?¬† Or is this just a hiccup as the market continues to climb the "wall of worry." For some perspective, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus charted some of the big sell-offs we've seen since the March 2009 bottom.¬† Here's his commentary: The S&amp;P 500 more than doubled, rebounding some 150% from the low on March 9, 2009 through the end of July 2013. The market recovery has drawn on more than four years of unprecedented central bank action that has in our opinion effectively ‚Äïprimed the well of a recovery process that has led to -15.99% restructured corporate balance sheets, a global bank rescue, a recovery in the U.S. housing market, increased +150.62% consumer sentiment and consumer spending, improvements in the job market, and resurgent auto sales. The current 2.8% sell-off is nothing compared to the double-digit losses we saw earlier in this bull market. Stoltzfus believes that these downward moves will be short-term. "We would see a near-term pullback tied to profit taking and/or investor confusion as to when, what, and how much the Fed will "taper" as opportunity for rebalancing and adding to cyclical positions in existing portfolios," said Stoltzfus in a note to clients this week. "Our year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 remains 1,730," he said. Oppenheimer
REUTERS/Issei KatoBloomberg Markets Magazine is out with their annual ranking of America's Best Stock Analysts. These stock pickers rode the wave of 2012, a year where more than 300 S&amp;P stocks saw returns over 10%. And as individual stocks and sectors stop correlating with the market as a whole, it's even more important to know which equities to buy and sell. To compile the ranking, Stamford-based Greenwich Associates surveyed almost 950 buyside analysts at 190 different investment firms, mutual funds, hedge funds, and more asking them who they considered to be the best of the best for investment advice. The list breaks down the best analysts by sector, but the overall winner was J.P. Morgan. Under the tutelage of equity research head Noelle Grainger, the team scored the largest number in the survey for the fourth consecutive year. Thanks to Bloomberg Markets for letting us run the list. Top U.S. Research Firm Aerospace &amp; Defense Automobiles &amp; Components Banks/Large Cap Banks/Regional Biotechnology Brokerage &amp; Asset Management Cable &amp; Satellite TV Chemicals Commercial &amp; Consumer Services Finance/Consumer &amp; Specialty Food Health Care/Equipment &amp; Supplies Health Care/Services Insurance/Life Insurance/Property &amp; Casualty Internet Media &amp; E-Commerce Machinery Movies, Entertainment &amp; Broadcasting Multi-Industry &amp; Electrical Equipment Oil &amp; Gas/Equipment &amp; Services Oil &amp; Gas/Exploration &amp; Production Oil &amp; Gas/Integrated Pharmaceuticals/Major Real Estate Investment Trusts Restaurants Retailing/Apparel Retailing/Home Improvement &amp; Specialty Stores Retailing/Multiline Semiconductors Technology/Applications &amp; Systems Software Technology/Computer Hardware, Storage &amp; Peripherals Telecommunications Services Transportation/Freight (Road &amp; Rail) Utilities/Electric
The stock market has been experiencing a heightened level of volatility. The S&amp;P 500 closed at 1,661 yesterday, down 1.4%.¬† And the all-time closing high of 1,709 two weeks ago is just getting farther away. The chart watchers have noticed that the S&amp;P 500 is getting dangerously close to falling below its 50-day moving average (DMA) of 1,656. "The S&amp;P 500 has tested its 50-day five times since the end of 2012," noted the folks at Bespoke Investment Group. "As shown below, the index held its 50-day the first three times it was tested, but after an initial hold on the fourth go-around, the support finally gave way to selling pressure after a few days.¬† Will it hold again this time like the first three tests this year, or is a break coming?" The 50-DMA may seem like a metric based on a somewhat random number.¬† Nevertheless, a break below the 50-DMA would signal a significant shift in moment to the downside. Bespoke Investment Group
¬†The 10-year rate has jumped from 1.6% to 2.8% within a relatively short period of time in response to the prospect of Fed tapering, indicating that the bond market caught on to its negative implications quickly while stocks have been slow to react until very recently. The interest rate rise has increased mortgage rates significantly and will impact consumer borrowing rates for durable goods such as autos. Asset values such as stocks and real estate have become increasingly dependent on QE for growth in the absence of a self-sustaining economic recovery. With earnings growth having leveled off, the seemingly open-ended QE has been virtually the only factor holding up the market. The market similarly soared during QE1 and QE2, and corrected after they ended, only to be bailed out by QE3 and QE4, which deliberately had no definitive ending date. Now that the ending date of QE4 is no longer infinite, the market is likely to act as it did in anticipating the end of the prior QE programs. Even with QE in effect with no known ending date, economic growth remained stuck at an inadequate 2% on average, and has not been picking up. Consumer spending, accounting for about 70% of GDP, has been hampered by deleveraging as well as barely growing disposable income. Reports by WalMart, Cisco, Macy‚Äôs and others indicate that forecasts for a second half pickup in growth are highly doubtful. Auto sales returned to pre-recession levels by last November, but since then have been about flat. Housing appears to have stalled since the 10-year rate started to rise. Single-family housing starts have declined over the last three months while MBA purchase applications have dropped to the lowest level of the year as the rise in home prices and mortgage rates have led to a sharp rise in prospective monthly payments. The Fed‚Äôs desire to taper QE is therefore not being spurred by a stronger self-sustaining economy. From minutes of the FOMC meetings, Bernanke‚Äôs press conference and various speeches by Fed members, it seems apparent that they are concerned QE is becoming less and less effective with the passage of time and that the potential negative side effects are increasing. While the goal has been to raise asset values by enough to have the so-called wealth effect spread to the economy, it has not happened, and they are increasingly worried about how they are eventually going to pare down the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet that has soared to unheard of levels. Adding to the problem is the coming clash in Washington over the Federal budget and debt ceiling, with a strong faction of the House talking about closing down the Federal government. Although it probably won‚Äôt happen, the fight will be accompanied by a lot of intense conflict, political posturing and scary headlines that investors won‚Äôt like. The steep market rise since March 2009 is long in the tooth and valuations have been stretched to highs that equal every major market top since 1929 with the exception of the bubble highs in 2000 and 2007. Similar to the 2000 dot-com peak and the 2007 housing boom peak, the current market is based on the QE bubble rather than the economy. ¬† Technically, when the market broke above its previous high of 1687 on the S&amp;P 500, it stopped at 1709 and has since broken down into its previous zone, negating the validity of the breakout. Notably, average daily new highs on the most recent top were only about 400, compared to 800 on the prior peak, indicating deterioration in market action. In addition, as we mentioned above, today‚Äôs downward move broke down through a key short-term resistance point. In sum, we believe that this is the probable start of a major down leg in the market.
REUTERS/Hasan ShaabanA Supporter of Hezbollah gestures as he stands at the site of a car bomb in Beirut's southern suburbs, August 15, 2013. The powerful car bomb struck the southern Beirut stronghold of Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group on Thursday, killing 20 people, wounding 120 and trapping many others inside damaged buildings, witnesses and emergency officials said.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
XiaomiXiaomi's new phone, the "Hongmi," sold out in 90 seconds.BEIJING (Reuters) - Two years after its high-quality, budget smartphone won over millions of Chinese fans, domestic tech firm Xiaomi Tech wants to make more money from online shopping and games than it does from selling its handsets. Xiaomi is better known globally as China's answer to Apple Inc, an image that billionaire Lei Jun has fostered since he founded the company in 2010 by dressing in the black tops, jeans and sneakers favored by the late Steve Jobs. Lei has since expanded his wardrobe options and Xiaomi sold more smartphones than Apple in the second quarter in China, the world's biggest smartphone market, according to the latest data from IT industry consultancy Canalys. Xiaomi's low prices, however, mean its profit margins are thin and that's why Lei now wants to expand into China's mobile Internet business, estimated to be worth around $30 billion by 2015 from roughly $9 billion in 2012. "Xiaomi looks a bit like Apple but is really more like Amazon with some elements of Google," Lei said in an interview in Beijing, dressed in a blue shirt, blue jeans and brown shoes. "The mobile phone is only the carrier," Lei said. "Microsoft used to sell Windows in a box with a CD in it. Does that make Microsoft a paper box company?" The popularity of Xiaomi's cheap yet sleek handsets is indisputable: its flagship smartphone, the Mi 2S, was the most popular phone in China during the first half of the year, according to local benchmarking company Antutu. Xiaomi's latest smartphone, the Hongmi, sells for $130, much lower than the $770 price tag of the iPhone 5 or the $470 for the latest Galaxy model by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, the market leader in China. In the second quarter of this year, Xiaomi was ranked sixth by market share, one notch above Apple, but this lead is likely to be short-lived as the U.S. firm is expected to unveil its redesigned iPhone in September and may also release a cheaper emerging market smartphone. ReutersTROJAN HORSE? The 43 year-old chief executive said it was high time for the Apple comparisons to end and the rivalry with local tech giants Alibaba Group Holding, Baidu Inc and Tencent Holdings Ltd to start. Xiaomi currently makes around 20 million yuan ($3.27 million) a month in revenue from its mobile Internet platform, which includes a game centre, an online marketplace and a social messaging app that competes with Tencent's popular WeChat. In the first half, that figure was equivalent to less than 1 percent of monthly revenue, company data shows. Lei estimated mobile Internet revenue may rise to as much as 150 million yuan a month by the end of next year as Xiaomi develops what he called its software ecosystem. He declined to give specific details, but said Xiaomi had the hardware it needed to expand into online services. "Xiaomi selling mobile phones is like Amazon selling Kindles," he added. Industry experts warn Lei's big ambitions may be dwarfed by the size of his competitors and their already established mobile Internet offerings. Most Chinese consumers are also accustomed to free downloads and won't pay for software, making it difficult for companies to make money that way, said Michael Clendenin of Shanghai-based IT consultancy RedTech Advisors. "Apple has a great ecosystem, but that's created to keep people on their hardware. Not the other way round," he said. Xiaomi has been valued at up to $10 billion, while Tencent, China's largest Internet company by revenue, has a market capitalization of $88.6 billion. Baidu, the owner of the country's biggest search engine, is worth $49.5 billion while the impending IPO of Alibaba, the country's leading e-commerce company, may value the firm at more than $100 billion. Tencent's social messaging app WeChat is used by over half of all Chinese smartphone users and Alibaba's Taobao is one of the world's top 20 most visited websites. Sina Corp's Weibo is the dominant microblogging platform, making it hard for Xiaomi to compete in all these segments, Clendenin said. "If Lei believes that creating a great phone and then trying to use it as a Trojan horse to dethrone Tencent and similar companies, I think he's got quite a battle ahead of him," he added. (This story corrects second paragraph to say company founded in 2010, not 2011) (Editing by Miral Fahmy)
Washington Post(Reuters) - The National Security Agency has broken privacy rules or overstepped its legal authority thousands of times each year since 2008, the Washington Post reported on Thursday, citing an internal audit and other top-secret documents. Most of the infractions involved unauthorized surveillance of Americans or foreign intelligence targets in the United States, both of which are restricted by law and executive order, the paper said. They ranged from significant violations of law to typographical errors that resulted in unintended interception of U.S. emails and telephone calls, it said. The Post said the documents it obtained were part of a trove of materials provided to the paper by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who has been charged by the United States with espionage. He was granted asylum in¬†Russia¬†earlier this month. The documents included a level of detail and analysis that is not routinely shared with Congress or the special court that oversees surveillance, the paper said. In one of the documents, agency personnel are instructed to remove details and substitute more generic language in reports to the Justice Department and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. In one instance, the NSA decided it need not report the unintended surveillance of Americans, the Post said. A notable example in 2008 was the interception of a "large number" of calls placed from Washington when a programming error confused U.S. area code 202 for 20, the international dialing code for¬†Egypt. The Post said the NSA audit, dated May 2012, counted 2,776 incidents in the preceding 12 months of unauthorized collection, storage, access to or distribution of legally protected communications. The paper said most were unintended. Many involved failures of due diligence or violations of standard operating procedure. It said the most serious incidents included a violation of a court order and unauthorized use of data about more than 3,000 Americans and green-card holders. In 2008, the FISA Amendments Act granted NSA broad new powers in exchange for regular audits from the Justice Department and the office of the Director of National Intelligence and periodic reports to Congress and the surveillance court, the Post said. "We're a human-run agency operating in a complex environment with a number of different regulatory regimes, so at times we find ourselves on the wrong side of the line," a senior NSA official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told the Post. "You can look at it as a percentage of our total activity that occurs each day," he said. "You look at a number in absolute terms that looks big, and when you look at it in relative terms, it looks a little different." In what the Post said appeared to be one of the most serious violations, the NSA diverted large volumes of international data passing through fiber-optic cables in the United States into a repository where the material could be stored temporarily for processing and selection. The operation collected and commingled U.S. and foreign emails, the Post said, citing a top-secret internal NSA newsletter. NSA lawyers told the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court that the agency could not practicably filter out the communications of Americans. In October 2011, months after the program got underway, the court ruled that the collection effort was unconstitutional. Some members of the Senate Intelligence Committee, including Democrat Ron Wyden of Oregon, have been trying for some time to get the NSA to give some kind of accounting of how much data it collects "incidentally" on Americans through various electronic dragnets. The Obama administration has strongly resisted such disclosures. (Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by David Brunnstrom) Read the Post story here &gt;
Global markets are selling off. But nowhere is it worse than India. "India's Sensex 4% drop, the largest in more than 4 years, essential offset the previous four day advance," noted Brown Brothers Harriman's Marc† Chandler. "Basic materials and banks were the hardest hit sectors. "Many reports attributed the sharp losses to renewed weakness of the rupee, which fell to new record lows against the dollar, despite official efforts to tighten restrictions on capital outflows." The sell-off was also driven by Moody's move to downgrade the bank financial strength ratings (BFSRs) and baseline credit assessments (BCAs) of three Indian public sector banks. From the release: "†The BCA downgrades for Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank, and the negative outlook assigned to Union Bank of India primarily reflect the challenges of the current macroeconomic environment, which have been exacerbated by the depreciating rupee and high levels of inflation. "Measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to support the currency have not reversed the depreciation, implying that interest rates may remain elevated for a longer time. "Against such a backdrop, Moody's expects public sector banks in particular to find difficulty in responding to slower economic growth, deteriorating asset quality, and declining margins." Here's a look at the Bombay Stock Exchange's Sensex Index via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
flickr/Dave RuttFor a lot of 2013, the big economic story has been the coming rise of the American economy vis-a-vis pretty much every other major economy around the world. Europe has been the basket case of the global economy for years, China appears to be slowing (at least as of the second quarter), and emerging markets find themselves on the hot seat as investors begin frontrunning a tapering of Federal Reserve bond purchases, which could come possibly as soon as September. The thesis is that the U.S. dollar is on the verge of a secular bull market, is re-correlating with U.S. stocks (implying that U.S. stocks are on the cusp of a bull market as well), and will help contribute to U.S. economic and stock market outperformance relative to the rest of the world in the years ahead. However, in the last few weeks, signs have emerged that America may not actually have such a monopoly on the global growth story as one might think based on the narrative outlined above. DBS analysts reflect on this idea in a note Friday, given Thursday's sell-off in the United States: You know the USD is in trouble when it depreciates after US long bond yields headed to a two-year high. US stocks did not do that well either, posting its worst drop since late June. US jobs market may have improved, but same-store¬†sales at Walmart declined and Cisco cut jobs. So, what happened to the theory of higher US bond yields leading to higher US equities and a higher USD? One thing has changed recently. The US economy is not monopolizing the global growth story anymore. Japan joined in earlier this year with Abenomics, followed by stronger numbers from the UK, and now the emergence of Eurozone from recession. By the way, Germany is projected to displace America as the world‚Äôs second largest exporter this year. European stocks had been moving up last week in spite of US stocks moving nowhere. Question now is whether China is the next major economy to join the broadening growth recovery story. China‚Äôs demand for copper reportedly rose to their strongest level on record. The Shanghai Composite Index has been edging up lately. The yuan is also near their all-time high. Some concerns have arisen that China and Japan may have started to lighten their holdings of Treasuries as bond yields edged higher. Diversification often suggests a shift towards alternative reserve currencies such as the euro and the Australian dollar. In summary, currency markets may be waking up to the reality that, in a broadening global recovery, that it cannot be bullish only on America, and too bearish on Eurozone and China, and possibly emerging markets too. Equity markets may be waking up to that reality as well. This week, European equity funds recorded their biggest inflows in more than two years.
Flickr / The Brit_2Investor sentiment in China is already poor, thanks to volatility in the country's domestic stock market. And Friday's trading action did not help. Here's Bloomberg with the recap: China‚Äôs stock market was roiled by a 53 percent surge in trading volumes that sent the Shanghai Composite Index to its biggest intraday gain since March 2009. Everbright Securities Co. said it experienced a trading error. The benchmark Shanghai gauge jumped from a loss of as much as 1 percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes during the morning session as 16 of the measure‚Äôs 20 biggest companies by weighting increased by the 10 percent daily limit. The index fell 0.6 percent at the close. The exchange said trades will be settled as normal and Everbright said it‚Äôs investigating. Some experts attribute some of China's inflated home prices to investors who fear the stock market. The Shanghai Composite is down 9% since the beginning of Here's the intraday chart via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
flickr/Gerard StolkEuropean stock markets continue trading lower Friday while futures in the U.S. have stabilized somewhat for now. The German DAX is leading the way lower, down 0.3% in early trading. The London FTSE is down 0.2%, the French CAC 40 is down 0.1%, and the Spanish IBEX 35 is flat. The Italian FTSE MIB is the lone bright spot this morning, up 0.2%. In the United States, S&amp;P 500 futures are also up 0.2%. The index has closed lower in seven of the last nine trading sessions. Overnight, markets in Asia fell again in the absence of any notable economic data releases, following a big down day in the U.S. Thursday. The Japanese Nikkei 225 shed another 0.8%, while the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 0.1% and the Shanghai Composite finished 0.6% lower. Meanwhile, India's Sensex is down 4.2% as the rupee continues its freefall against the dollar. The only notable economic data releases Friday are July housing starts and building permits data in the United States, due out at 8:30 AM ET, and the preliminary results from the University of Michigan's August consumer confidence survey, out at 9:55. "So the USD was set to end the week top of the pile in FX but was overhauled by GBP overnight," writes Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale analyst Kenneth Broux in a note this morning. "USD gains will be cemented if the bullish forecasts for today‚Äôs housing starts and building permits prove correct. Emerging markets have been bruised, with the BRL, MXN and ZAR among the leading fallers. No G10 currency makes it into the bottom five vs the USD this week, and without a central bank response to further curve steepening, both the EUR and GBP downside risk will continue to be tempered by portfolio outflows from EM."
flickr/cliff1066Flight of Europa.European equity funds just had their biggest week in more than two years, taking in $2.3 billion in new assets under management (AUM). Curiously, in the same week, U.S. equity funds ‚Äì which have seen robust expansion of AUM all year, including recent notable inflows of $2 billion a day at the beginning of July ‚Äì got hit with their first outflows in seven weeks as investors redeemed $1.9 billion. "Largest weekly inflows to European equity funds in more than 2 years ($2.3bn) confirms Europe back in fashion," says BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett. Was this week just a blip, or could it be foretelling of a larger trend? On Wednesday, France and Germany reported better-than-expected GDP data, officially lifting the eurozone out of a two-year recession. To be sure, the euro area's economic woes are far from over, as unemployment rates in many countries remain at or near all-time highs. Investors may be warming to the story, though. Last week, Oppenheimer chief market strategist John Stoltzfus passed along a related observation: "Stateside investors are beginning to consider investments in Europe and elsewhere ex-U.S. for diversification once again as multiples expand stateside¬†and hints that conditions are beginning to improve outside of the U.S.,¬†particularly in the developed European markets, emanate." Below is a breakdown of this week's fund flows, via Hartnett: Asset Class Flows  Equities: modest $1.3bn inflows (7 straight weeks) (all via LO funds) Bonds: $1.4bn outflows ($60bn outflows since Jun'13) Commodities: tiny $66mn outflows (record 27 straight weeks)  Equity Flows  Largest weekly inflows to European equity funds in more than 2 years ($2.3bn) $0.8bn outflows from EM equity funds; note divergence between $1.5bn Frontier market inflows and $2.1bn Emerging market outflows YTD $1.9bn outflows from US (first outflows in 7 weeks)  Solid $0.7bn into Japan (inflows in 29 out of past 30 weeks)  By sector, Energy funds record $0.7bn inflows (largest in 6 weeks) vs $0.6bn out of Financials funds (largest in 8 weeks)  Fixed Income Flows  60 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt ($1.6bn) 18 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS ($0.2bn) 12 straight weeks of outflows from EM debt ($0.8bn) 12 straight weeks of outflows from Munis ($1.4bn) Small outflows IG bond funds ($0.4bn); HY funds eke out tiny inflows ($45mn)¬†
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldSince hitting a four-year low of $1179 an ounce on June 28, gold has shown some strength, rallying¬†15% over the past month and a half to current levels around $1360. In a note to clients Thursday titled, "Gold and the Denver play:¬†Gold Shrugs Off the Paulson Sale; Buy the Bounce," JPMorgan analysts John Bridges and¬†Anant Inani point to a number of bullish factors for the shiny yellow metal: Gold shrugged off news today that Paulson &amp; Co had cut its exchange listed gold exposure in half and rose 2.2% to $1,365/oz. This may be delivering an exclamation mark to define the end of the 10-month, 25% fall in gold and 50% fall in gold equities, (while the S&amp;P advanced 13%). The World Gold Council reported today that physical gold demand remains strong, questioning the price weakness seen in paper markets. Additionally, gold supplies could be constrained in September if labor strikes are initiated in South Africa. There‚Äôs typically some positive seasonality to the gold price in August/September helped by India, which is still the largest single (28%) gold market ... Often this strength correlates with the Denver gold conference. The conference attracts many of the larger gold investors and given the other positives for the metal (and that the depressing effect of the Q2 results is past) we would not be surprised to see a stronger gold price in the run up to the show. We‚Äôd encourage shorter-term investors to consider getting long the gold space with a four to five week time horizon. This year the Denver Gold Forum will be from the 22nd to 25th September.¬† "China and India remain large physical buyers of the metal. We believe this highlights that enthusiasm for the metal remains strong amongst the majority of the world‚Äôs population," say Bridges and Inani. "Indian demand is quite seasonal related to events and festivals. While some might argue for less Indian buying due to tougher regulations and the weaker rupee making the metal more expensive, the WGC data suggests the opposite."
