AP PhotoToday, after the closing bell, investor Carl Icahn cut his share in Netflix in half ó from†4.5% from 9.98%,†according to a 13D filing And now that he's done that, he'll never have to let us know when he's cutting his stake in controversial stock again. That's because with less than 5% ownership, Icahn ceases to be a "beneficial owner" of the stock, so he he doesn't have to disclose sales within 10 days, according to SEC rules.† He will have to list his long positions in quarterly 13F filing, but you'll have to check that out for yourself. No heads up. From the SEC: When a person or group of persons acquires beneficial ownership of more than 5% of a voting class of a companyís equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, they are required to file a Schedule 13D with the SEC. (Depending upon the facts and circumstances, the person or group of persons may be eligible to file the more abbreviated Schedule 13G in lieu of Schedule 13D.) Schedule 13D reports the acquisition and other information within ten days after the purchase. The schedule is filed with the SEC and is provided to the company that issued the securities and each exchange where the security is traded. Any material changes in the facts contained in the schedule require a prompt amendment. The schedule is often filed in connection with a tender offer. Just FYI. 
Sonja Flemming / CBSFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.The High-Water Mark For Physicists Migrating To Wall Street May Have Passed†(Financial Times) Before the crisis, physicists were flocking to Wall Street to repurpose themselves as "quants" and to model complex asset pricing. After the crisis, physicists are wondering what they were thinking.  "[F]or some of those who have crossed over or undertaken research collaborations with traders, there remains a belief that the insights of physics have been imperfectly applied. 'I think a lot of physicists were probably hired for the wrong reasons,' says Jean-Philippe Bouchaud, a statistical physicist and professor at Ecole Polytechnique outside Paris who, for two decades, has run one of Franceís most successful hedge funds. More absorbed the financial orthodoxy than were able to change it. 'They were not left enough intellectual space to criticise the Gaussian world they were asked to absorb as quickly as possible. We just had no time to say, "this seems fishy to me and I want to think it through". The dogma effect of the [financial] community was very, very strong before 2008.'" The JP Morgan Settlement May Be A Sign Of Things To Come, And Banks Are Worried (Washington Post) We may be on the verge of entering yet another, even more aggressive phase of prosecuting firms for financial misdeeds, the Post reports.†"While other banks may not pay as much as $13†billion, Justice Department officials said it is not going to be cheap for firms to settle civil cases, especially since JPMorgan is not considered the worst actor of the financial crisis. 'The industry is worried about the shift in mood from the more cooperative, lenient approach to enforcement actions to this much more aggressive and punitive one,' said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of the†Washington-based†research firm Federal Financial Analytics."  Japanese Housing Is At A 21-Year High, And Portfolio Managers Are Still Underweight (361 Capital) Today, Dan Loeb said that further reforms from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe would make his Third Point fund, "eager buyers of additional Japanese stocks beyond our significant investment in Sony and current holdings in other Japanese companies."Via a new presentation from 361 Capital, here are two more reasons why now might be a good time to jump in to Japan. First, home prices are at a 21-year high and appear to still have room to run: 361 Capital Meanwhile, funds are relatively underinvested: 361 Capital Here's What Drives Inflation In The U.S. Economy (Renaissance Macro) A great visualization, and a good reminder: Renaissance Here's What Robert Shiller Really Thinks Of Money Managers (New York Times) Robert Shiller won the Nobel Prize for proving markets don't know as much as they think they do. In case you missed what that means for money managers, here's what he told the New York Times this weekend: "[Cowles Foundation for Research in Economics] founder, Alfred Cowles, was a money manager who became disillusioned and skeptical. Money management has been a profession involving a lot of fakery ó people saying they can beat the market and they really canít. He suspected that colleagues on Wall Street were just faking it, that they had no ability to predict the market. He wanted to have real economic research, genuine research. And he collected data. I have the same skeptical nature. When I was a child, my Sunday school teacher complained to my parents that I had a bad attitude. I didnít believe anything that this guy said.Itís still with me, that Iím just naturally skeptical of people who look impressive ó but Iím naturally wondering if itís real."
Now that the government shutdown is over, we'll get the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) report on Thursday. JOLTS ‚Äî one of Fed chair nominee Janet Yellen's favorite reports ‚Äî tracks job openings, hires, quits, and other labor market indicators. And as Citi's Tom Fitzpatrick told King World News, everyone should keep an eye on the job openings chart, which "looks to be breaking out of the uptrend in a similar fashion to the summer of 2007." Fitzpatrick goes on: A lot of jobs that are being created are in service and leisure/hospitality industry (generally low paying) and part time jobs. So overall there is a very strong argument that the qualitative nature of job creation is very poor ... If we then add to this the fact that the dysfunctional environment in Washington is likely to continue to be a drag on confidence and the economy as we likely re-live the recent debacle again in 3-4 months‚Äô time... Here's the chart: Citi via King World News
The first 12 days of the federal government shutdown and debate over raising the nation's debt ceiling cost the private sector 120,000 jobs, the White House estimates in a new report from President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.† The fiscal battles also led to a 0.25% reduction in fourth-quarter GDP growth, according to the report.†The White House analysis, which consisted of daily and weekly economic data through Oct. 12, displayed growing weakness in retail sales, consumer and economic confidence, and mortgage applications, among other areas. The White House warned that because the shutdown ended and the debt ceiling was raised on Oct. 16, five days after the last date of the analysis, there could be further economic consequences. "This all just really underscores how unnecessary and harmful the shutdown and the brinksmanship was for the economy, why it's important to avoid repeating it, and instead consider jobs that are adding to growth, not subtracting," said Jason Furman, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. From the report, here's a look at the Weekly Economic Index, which shows a 1.6% reduction in GDP growth if the shutdown were sustained for the entire fourth quarter: White House Retail sales' year-over-year growth was down: White House Unemployment insurance claims were up:White House Economic confidence plunged in three different, respective indexes:White House And, finally, a look at the Weekly Economic Index combined on a chart with monthly changes in total and private employment: White House
Carl Icahn reduced his stake in Netflix to 4.5% from 9.98%, according to a 13D filing. The activist investor cited recent gains in the stock as the reason for paring his stake in the company, but said it remains "significantly undervalued." Icahn took a position in Netflix when it was trading at $58 per share. Today, the stock closed at $322.52, up about 457% from his initial purchase price. In a tweet, Icahn thanked Kevin Spacey ‚Äî the star of Netflix's hit original series, House of Cards ‚Äî and others: Sold block of NFLX today. Wish to thank Reed Hastings, Ted Sarandos, NFLX team, and last but not least Kevin Spacey: http://t.co/BRWpKOBfD2 Shares are down an additional 2% in after-hours trading on the Icahn news.
REUTERS/Joshua LottThe U.S. economy added only 148,000 jobs in September, missing analyst expectations of 180,000. The generally lackluster report ‚Äî delayed three weeks due to the government shutdown ‚Äî upwardly revised last month's figure from¬†169,000 to 193,000. The unemployment rate fell slightly, to 7.2% from 7.3% and "average hourly earnings of all employees on private sector payrolls increased 3 cents over the month, following a 7-cent gain in August," according to the BLS. In the report, the BLS breaks down the state of American jobs sector by sector.
Apple's iPad event only had two real surprises. First, it's renaming the big iPad the iPad Air. Second,¬†the new iPad Mini with a sharp Retina display will cost $399. This is effectively a price hike on the iPad Mini, and, as far as we can remember, the first time Apple has raised the price on an iOS device. Last year, the iPad Mini debuted at $329. We would have expected Apple to stick with that price.¬† This is a strange, high-risk move from Apple.¬† The tablet market is increasingly filled with low-cost competition from Amazon and Google. The 7-inch Amazon Kindle HDX is $229. The Nexus 7 from Google is also $229.¬† Arguably, both of those tablets are inferior to the iPad Mini with Retina. The iPad Mini has a bigger display, and it has a richer ecosystem with 450,000 apps built just for the iPad.¬† But, they're not¬†that much¬†worse than the iPad Mini. And, with the holiday season coming up, a lot of people are going to buy those low cost alternatives from Google and Amazon instead of the Retina Mini.  For Apple, those are customers it could lose for a while. It looks like the upgrade cycle on tablets is more like PCs than it is like smartphones. That means those people might not buy a new tablet for 3-4 years. When they're ready for their second tablet, they may stick with Android. The iPad business is robust, selling millions of units on a quarterly basis. Yet, it's also in a weird, surprisingly weak position, as unit sales were down 14% on a year-over-year basis in the June quarter. Sales could be down again in the September quarter. It's hard to imagine a more expensive iPad reigniting sales. ¬† Apple is supplementing the Retina iPad Mini with a non-Retina iPad Mini for $299. But that non-Retina iPad has been smoked by the still-cheaper Android competition. People will line up for more expensive iPad Mini whenever it's out, but perhaps not as many as would have lined up if Apple had stuck with its original $329 price.¬† We know the rationale for upping the price: It's a better screen. Apple will package in new software like iLife. But, it's odd that Apple established a $329 price in year one, then went up twelve months later. It had to know Retina was on the road map. Why did it create a bad comparison for itself?¬†
REUTERS/Dominic EbenbichlerBarbara Szabo of Hungary competes in the women's high jump qualifying round during the IAAF World Athletics Championships at the Luzhniki stadium in Moscow, August 15, 2013.Stocks continue to establish new all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Tambako the Jaguar via CompfightToday's Smart Investor tip comes from personal finance reporter¬†Marcie Geffner¬†at Bankrate.com. While most people don't think of the holidays as a good time for house-hunting, Geffner says¬†that may be just the reason to do it. Less competition with other buyers and more desperate sellers can mean a great deal. She explains why below: Sellers tend to avoid the end of the year due to the short days, wintry weather and conventional wisdom that says buyers are otherwise occupied, says Tim Deihl, associate broker at Gibson Sotheby's International Realty in Boston. But those who do choose to sell at year-end are often under pressure and highly motivated to cut a deal. "A seller who's looking to move a piece of real estate during the holidays is a seller who needs to sell, because nobody in their right mind would pick that as the most convenient time to list their property," Deihl says. And that's why the year-end might be a smart time to buy: Determined house-hunters can take advantage of sellers' urgency. Shopping off-season may give you a negotiating edge, but Geffner says the downsides include a limited supply of houses and less attentive real-estate brokers, since they will likely be focused on their own holiday plans.
After opening up nearly 9% this morning following yesterday's strong earnings report, Netflix shares have fallen rapidly, and are now down over 8%. Netflix earnings beat¬†the consensus estimate by 14%. Revenues, net income, and total domestic subscriptions surprised to the upside as well. Wall Street is concerned about the stock's valuation ‚Äî it currently trades around 200 times trailing 12-month earnings. BofA Merrill Lynch analysts Nat Schindler, Justin Post, and Jason Mitchell are among the most bearish analysts on Wall Street toward Netflix shares, maintaining an Underperform rating on the stock. "Hard to find fault, but harder still to justify price," write the analysts in a note to clients this morning, describing the company's valuation as "sky high." The Jefferies U.S. internet team, led by analyst Brian Fitzgerald, agrees. "With a modest beat and 4Q outlook above consensus, NFLX now trades at 110x our new [2014 earnings per share]," write Jefferies analysts in a note to clients. "We find it difficult to justify this valuation given the risks of rising content costs, heavy competition, and the likelihood NFLX may need to raise additional capital to fund operations. Our model gives NFLX plenty of credit for go-forward growth and margin expansion, our 4Q estimates are above Street...yet we still see 45% downside to after-hours share price. Reiterate Underperform." Still, others are bullish, looking for the stock to go higher. "We believe the positive network effects of better content and more subscribers continues to play out, as Netflix disrupts linear TV," write JPMorgan internet analysts led by Doug Anmuth in a note. "We reiterate our Overweight on Netflix shares, and our PT goes to $460 based on our sum-of-the-parts analysis." The chart below shows the drop today. Thinkorswim
The government shutdown took an estimated $24 billion out of the economy. It could have been worse. During the shutdown, gas prices saw solid declines. Between the week of Sept. 30 and Oct. 14, prices fell $0.07, to $3.35 from $3.42. Deutsche Bank's Carl Riccadonna has a rule of thumb: "A one cent change in gasoline prices reduces annual household consumption by roughly $1 billion." That's a $7 billion cushion to the economy. The run-up to the shutdown provided an even greater lift. Since the first week of August, prices have come down a full $0.27 cents, to $3.35 from $3.63. That's a $27 billion boost on the Deutsche Bank scale. Prices tend to come down around this time of year anyway, as refineries start making the switch to less expensive winter fuel blends from more expensive summer ones. But they are already actually way down year-over-year, for a bunch of different reasons, including a non-existent hurricane season and reduced Middle East turbulence (as we've discussed many times, the effect of U.S. production is not that huge): FRED In general, gas prices have provided a huge lift to consumers this year. Prices peaked way early, hitting $3.78 in February and have come down since. Compare that with previous recent peaks: FRED And, of course, this all comes on the 40th anniversary of the worst energy crisis in the country's history.¬† Anyway, even as Washington was draining the economy, consumers have enjoyed a silent but robust tailwind from the pump.
Investing in biotech can be risky. Small, publicly-traded companies, the fortunes of which are often tied to the success of a single drug in making it out of trial phases, are often prone to big price swings. In a note to clients, ISI analyst Mark Schoenebaum highlights a chart of the number of biotech stock "blow-ups" each year since 1990. "For purposes of this analysis, we have defined a 'blow up' as a one day downward stock move of 25% or more. We have defined 'biotech' as those biotech companies listed in the S&amp;P 1500 and/or the Russell 3000 in any given year," writes Schoenebaum. "If you look at the trend, it doesn't look scary to me . . . . what do you think?" ISI
Apple announced its next-generation iPads today. Here's what you need to know. The full-sized iPad got the biggest upgrade. It's now called the iPad Air and is significantly thinner and lighter than the last iPad. It weighs just one pound and is 7.5 mm thin. Click here for photos &gt;&gt; Inside, the iPad Air is powered by Apple's new A7 processor, the same zippy chip it uses in the iPhone 5S. The A7 processor is twice as fast as the chip used in last year's iPad. The iPad Air will start at $499. It goes on sale Nov. 1. Apple also updated the iPad Mini. The iPad Mini now has a sharp Retina display just like other iPhones and iPads. It also has that same A7 processor as the iPhone 5S and iPad Air. Unfortunately, it looks like the iPad Mini's new screen isn't cheap. The iPad Mini is now more expensive than last year's model at $399, a $70 price bump. Apple will continue to sell last year's iPad Mini for just $299. The iPad 2, the full-sized iPad that launched in 2011, is sticking around for another year and will cost $399. Apple didn't give a launch date for the new iPad Mini with Retina display, but did say it would start shipping in November. Along with the new iPads, Apple announced a slew of other products. The MacBook Pro laptops now have faster chips and better battery life. You can buy one now starting at $1,299. The Mac Pro, a very powerful desktop computer designed for video and graphics professionals, will go on sale this December for $2,999. Finally, Apple announced a bunch of new software. Its newest operating system for Mac computers, OS X Mavericks, will be available today as a free download for Mac owners.† iWork, Apple's suite of apps for word processing, spreadsheets, and presentations, has a new design and comes free if you buy a new Mac, iPhone, or iPad. Same goes for iLife, the suite of apps for photo, video, and audio editing. We covered all the news from Apple's event as it happened today. If you want even more details, check out our live blog below.
But what about early next year‚Äîare we going to have to go through the same fiscal fight again? To some extent the answer is yes; after all, deadlines have been set and it will be primary season for the mid-term elections. But we think it is unlikely to be a reprise of the brinkmanship and economic disruption¬†that threatened to take the United States to the brink of disaster.¬†¬† Avoiding the Sequester II The¬†January 15¬†date for funding the government in the debt ceiling deal was chosen because that is the date of the next round of automatic sequestration spending cuts. These cuts kick in unless Congress scraps the cuts mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011 or enacts other specific cuts to bring the spending subject to sequestration down to the $967 billion cap for 2014.¬† The amount of the spending cap in last week‚Äôs deal is frozen temporarily for three months at the fiscal year 2013 level of $986 billion. The Senate and President Obama want to increase that amount to $1.058 trillion.¬†Republicans want to keep the cuts but ease those on defense spending. A compromise may involve trading discretionary spending cuts in 2014 for longer-term cost savings on entitlement programs.¬†¬† While the downside of the cuts that are coming may not actually be that hard to deal with since they only total another $19 billion (the federal government spent over $3.2 trillion in fiscal year 2013), the focus may shift to the economic upside of eliminating them and even rescinding some of the 2013 budget cuts. In any case,¬†we are unlikely to see tax increases play a role in closing the gap as talk shifts from how to deal with the cuts to how to improve growth.¬†¬† Avoiding Another Debt Ceiling Showdown Last week‚Äôs deal lifted the debt ceiling until¬†February 7. Of course, the Treasury would still be able to use "extraordinary measures" to stay below the ceiling beyond¬†February 7, perhaps longer than usual given strong tax receipts resulting in a Treasury surplus in April [Figure 1]. But we may avoid another clash over the debt ceiling.¬†¬† Figure 1: The Surge in Tax Receipts in April Often Results in Treasury Surplus That Might Push Out Next Effective Debt Ceiling to Spring LPL Financial Treasury Surplus and Deficit (-) by Month in 2012 and 2013 in $ billions The debt ceiling has now been lifted twice since the August 2011 debacle without any spending cuts or other policy changes attached to it, making it less likely another push for changes in early 2014 would be worth the political and economic cost of a showdown. The Republicans saw enough negative impact on polling results to make them wary of another showdown in an election year. In addition, the desire for a bipartisan solution can be seen in the 87 House Republicans that voted for the bill to end the shutdown and suspend the debt ceiling even though less than 20 Republican votes were needed.¬†¬† Refocusing on the Positives Market participants are already back to work pushing the stock market higher into year-end as they refocus on the positives: We expect more new all-time highs for the S&amp;P 500 in the coming months with Washington out of the headlines for a while and an improving growth backdrop.¬†
HBO / Helen SloanJoffrey Baratheon, "Game of Thrones"Self-interest motivates Adam Smith's invisible hand, but economists may be taking it way too seriously. A blog post by Adam Grant in Psychology Today explores how economics majors are, on average, awful human beings. Grant quotes a study by three Cornell professors which provides evidence that economists are less charitable, more deceitful and less likely to be concerned with fairness. From the post: "Along with directly learning about self-interest in the classroom, because selfish people are attracted to economics, students end up surrounded by people who believe in and act on the principle of self-interest. Extensive research¬†shows¬†that when people gather in groups, they develop even more extreme beliefs than where they started. Social psychologists call this group polarization. By spending time with like-minded people, economics students may become convinced that selfishness is widespread and rational‚Äïor at least that giving is rare and foolish." So it's not really the economists' fault. Spending hours debating the pros and cons of an economic theory will just do that to a person.¬†
HBO / Helen SloanJoffrey Baratheon, "Game of Thrones"Self-interest motivates Adam Smith's invisible hand, but economists may be taking it way too seriously. A blog post by Adam Grant in Psychology Today explores how economics majors are, on average, awful human beings. Grant quotes a study by three Cornell professors which provides evidence that economists are less charitable, more deceitful and less likely to be concerned with fairness. From the post: "Along with directly learning about self-interest in the classroom, because selfish people are attracted to economics, students end up surrounded by people who believe in and act on the principle of self-interest. Extensive research¬†shows¬†that when people gather in groups, they develop even more extreme beliefs than where they started. Social psychologists call this group polarization. By spending time with like-minded people, economics students may become convinced that selfishness is widespread and rational‚Äïor at least that giving is rare and foolish." So it's not really the economists' fault. Spending hours debating the pros and cons of an economic theory will just do that to a person.¬†
All energy production booms must fade. Eventually it becomes too expensive to drill ó and there are, after all, a finite amount of resources in the ground. But as of October 2013, the Great American Shale Boom is showing few signs of losing steam. The EIA is out with a series documenting well production rates out of the boom's various epicenters: North Dakota's Bakken, Pennsylvania's Marcellus, Colorado's Niobrara and Texas' Permian, Haynesville, and Eagle Ford plays. (Here's the map showing where those all are:)EIAFirst, here are the EIA's conclusions: Let's see what this looks like in chart form. In both the Bakken and Eagle Ford, the amount of resources coming out of every new well drilled since about 2011 has gone up. One rig can drill multiple wells. Here's the chart for the Bakken... EIA And the Eagle Ford... EIA Older or "legacy" Bakken and Eagle Ford wells are seeing steeper production drop-offs, though this may be because oil companies don't yet feel the need to devote capital to squeezing more out of them. Bakken... EIA Eagle Ford... EIA Meanwhile, in the other regions, decline rates for oil or gas are easing up ó which, again, means† EIAEIAEIA EIA It's possible that declining oil prices ó crude dipped below $100 for the first time since July yesterday ó could slow some of this activity. But the larger point is that there appear to be plenty of resources in the ground at a mostly reasonable price if we need them.
Everyone knows income inequality is on the rise. The question is why. One literally sexy explanation that's been thrown around for awhile¬†is that the rise of "assortative mating" ‚Äî choosing to date someone with similar interests or educational backgrounds, whatever their religious or ethnic upbringings ‚Äî has produced greater inequality. In a new blog post, Federal Appeals Court Judge and economics writer Richard Posner adds a new wrinkle to this theory: online dating may be accelerating this alleged trend. "One possibility is that, because of increased assortative mating as a result of declining discrimination and of the efficiency of online search for potential mates, there are greater differences in IQ across families than there used to be...The combination of assortative mating with higher returns to IQ could have dramatic effects on relative mobility if the effect was to insulate to a significant degree a prosperous family's children from economic risk." But research has already shown more selective mating isn't having much of an impact on income inequality, if online dating has accelerated selectivity. In a 2008 study co-authored by Yale sociologist Richard Breen, assortative mating was indeed found to be increasing, but has "not [contributed] in any way to increased earnings differences between households in the United States." Other sociological factors are to blame, he writes:¬† "An increase in the share of households without a working man and the growing share of Hispanic and Other households have both tended to increase inequality, and this seems to have occurred because they led to a growth in the share of low earnings households." If anything, selective dating may provide a slight net benefit to income inequality, if the number of couples with greater incomes as a percent of the population is increasing:¬† "Conversely, the growth in educational assortative partnership had the opposite effect, tending to generate a reduction in inequality for exactly the opposite reason: it led to higher earning households increasing their share of the population." If we want to find the sources of income inequality, we should probably look beyond OK Cupid.
Getty Images/ Mark WilsonBecause the deal was still in the works, the details of JP Morgan's record $13 billion fine to settle civil violations related to mortgage-backed securities it sold before the housing crisis have been murky. But now the WSJ has the break down. For the record, the Justice Department has decided not to make JP Morgan pay punitive damages for mortgages sold by Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual, since JPM essentially helped the government out by buying the banks as they were collapsing. So that's nice, but the figure will still stay at $13 billion. Now for the numbers: According to the WSJ, all the drama surrounding this deal started on September 24th, the day the DOJ set a deadline to file a civil suit against the bank over MBS. The day before, JPM called and offered $3 billion, which the DOJ refused. Then JPM called back and said they'd negotiate a higher figure if they didn't have to go to Court. That brings us to now. After the government shut down ended, lawyers at the DOJ told JP Morgan they had six days to cobble an agreement together. What that means is that we could have a finalized agreement by this week. For the full story, head to the WSJ&gt;
Since the government shutdown ended and a debt ceiling crisis was averted, global financial stress has fallen to levels not seen since before the financial crisis. "The GFSI index, measuring market stress through 40 factors covering 5 asset classes, witnessed one of its fastest historical declines following the temporary US debt resolution last week," write BAML analysts led by William Chan in a note to clients. "The index is back down to summer 2007 levels and the 15th percentile within its history since 2000, indicating very little risk is priced into markets." Thirty-five percent of the components of the index are sending bullish signals, while 57% of the components are neutral and only 9% are bearish. The chart below details the components of the GFSI (global sovereign credit default swaps and dollar-yen basis swaps are showing a bit of stress, while everything else is looking pretty good).  BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research The stock market is at all-time highs, the VIX has collapsed to pre-government shutdown levels, and the Treasury market is rallying as investors extend further out on the calendar†their estimates for when the Federal Reserve will begin to taper quantitative easing, sending bond yields around the world lower. Here's another way of looking at it: cross-asset correlations have fallen to their lowest levels in nearly 15 years, indicating that the macro-driven era of knee-jerk "risk-on/risk-off" market reactions has come to an end. "While it might be obvious to some by simply looking at price action, correlations between so-called risk assets are normalising aggressively after having been abnormally high over the past few years," say Deutsche Bank strategists Henrik Gullberg and Siddharth Kapoor. "Indeed, our rolling aggregated correlation of daily changes in EM &amp; DM equities, EM FX, crude, CRB and the BTP-Bund spread is currently close to the lowest levels in almost 15 years, suggesting differentiation is returning as markets continue to normalise." Deutsche Bank Now, market participants are having trouble discerning what the next big macro catalyst will be. "What big movers might upset rates markets between now and early 2014?" ask SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategists Ciar·n O'Hagan and Vincent Chaigneau in a note to clients. "We were scratching our heads to come up with some good leads on the next big theme." O'Hagan and Chaigneau couldn't really come up with anything obvious. In the note, they write: - The Fed, and†central banks†generally, have†thrown in the†towel on any moves into year-end. Fed speakers have said they want to wait for clear signs of a pick-up before changing policy. That takes us into 2014. The ECBís chief concern now is regulation, which results in rates procrastination. The BoJ likewise is praying that doing nothing is still its best option.  - Politics is certainly not a mover in the US until early 2014. We just might get new elections in Italy, but that looks like a fear weíll just have to live with. Fresh German elections are a possibility. But that would just play into the hand of carry strategies big time, by freezing the ECB and banking union again.  - The German constitutional court might throw a spanner in the works. More likely it wonít. One paper even tried to talk up this risk as likely the next major "global crisis". Much more likely, the Bundesverfassungsgericht will just kick into touch. As Ed Yardeni puts it, "maybe now we should fear that we have nothing to fear for the next few months."
DassaultThe Dassault Falcon 5X is the first private jet with a skylight.French aircraft manufacturer Dassault has unveiled its first all-new private jet design in a decade, and it's a doozy. The Falcon 5X has room for 16 passengers. It's equipped with new Snecma Silvercrest engines that Dassault says make it more fuel efficient than competitors like Bombardier's Global 5000 (by 35%) and Gulfstream's G450 (by 30%). The 5X will have a $45 million price tag, according to Aviation Week. That puts it well below the $65 million Gulfstream G650, still the biggest, fastest, and overall best private jet money can buy. But Dassault strikes a blow with a cabin that is actually wider and taller (albeit shorter) than that of the G650. And, for cool points more than practicality, it even has a skylight ‚Äî an industry first.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusBloomberg News reports that Stamford, Connecticut headquartered SAC Capital Advisors plans to shut down its London office by the end of this year.¬† A bunch of portfolio managers in¬†SAC's London unit, SAC Global Investors, have already left the office¬†located at St. Martins Court on 10 Paternoster Row.¬† Back in July, SAC, which is run by billionaire Steve Cohen, was criminally indicted in federal court in New York¬†for insider trading offenses committed by "numerous employees". SAC was charged with four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud.¬† This year, the hedge fund, which employees 950 people globally, has been hit with a slew of redemptions. ¬†What's more is many traders and portfolio managers have jumped ship for rival firms. SAC¬†may end up paying a record fine of $1.8 billion¬†to settle the charges.¬†
Credit SuisseA new study from Wall Street bank Credit Suisse exposes the "dietary impact of 'sugar and sweeteners' and their role in the ongoing health debate surrounding obesity and diabetes." The accompanying video ‚Äî "Sugar: Sweet With a Bitter Aftertaste" ‚Äî visualizes the sorry state of sugar consumption. The harrowing effect of sugar consumption on American waistlines isn't necessarily new news, but Credit Suisse does an excellent job of breaking down just how out of control it has gotten (especially in the U.S., where they¬†had to literally adjust the y-axis of one of their charts so that U.S. soda consumption could be mapped). We grabbed some screenshots from Credit Suisse's video to break it down.
Hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who runs $14 billion Third Point LLC, has revealed a long equity position in Nokia.¬† He bought Nokia late in the third quarter after it sold its devices business to Microsoft for $7 billion.¬† Shares of Nokia were last trading up more than 2.8%. ¬† From Third Point's letter:¬† Equity Position: Nokia Corporation (‚ÄúNokia‚Äù) We purchased Nokia late in the third quarter following the announced sale of its Devices and Services (‚ÄúD&amp;S‚Äù) business to Microsoft for ‚Ç¨5.44 billion in an all-cash transaction. Expected to close in Q1 2014, the deal provides ‚Ç¨3.8 billion for the D&amp;S business and ‚Ç¨1.6 billion for a 10-year non-exclusive patent licensing agreement. Once the transaction is complete, ‚Äúnew‚Äù Nokia will consist of the Nokia Siemens Networks (‚ÄúNSN‚Äù), the HERE maps business, and a patent portfolio known as Advanced Technologies. At our purchase price, we seized an opportunity to create new Nokia at a substantial discount to target value. The company will have approximately ‚Ç¨8 billion of net cash when the transaction closes, and we expect a meaningful portion of the excess will be distributed to shareholders in coming quarters. Either a buyback or a special dividend is possible, which should draw additional investors to new Nokia when the cash return scenario develops following the deal closing. The de facto spin of the D&amp;S business leaves Nokia with a significantly different strategic and operational profile, with 40% of today‚Äôs market capitalization reflected in pro forma net cash and a portfolio of three distinct businesses each generating positive free cash flow. Each of Nokia‚Äôs businesses has interesting opportunities and dynamics. In the case of NSN, ¬†years of restructuring have resulted in a more profitable business, while the market structure has improved following years of consolidation ahead of a global 4G upgrade cycle. Having acquired Siemens‚Äô 50% stake in NSN this summer at a very attractive valuation, Nokia now has greater control over the operating and strategic prospects for the business. The HERE maps business has exceptional share in the built-in automotive navigation market (estimated at 80 ‚Äì 90%) along with significant potential in portable navigation, an increasingly strategic area for smartphone vendors. The Advanced Technologies intellectual property licensing business has historically operated on a net basis in commercial agreements with other smartphone vendors. Going forward, Nokia has the opportunity to realize royalty revenues on a gross basis and focus on a broader licensing program of its 10,000 patent families, which include leadership positions in 2G/3G/4G standard essential patents, as well as a broad array of non-standard essential patents. Nokia‚Äôs patent portfolio has been successfully defended in court and via settlement agreements over the years, enhancing its licensing prospects and strategic value. For years, the investment case for Nokia has centered on the prospects for the handset business with little emphasis on NSN, the maps business or the intellectual property licensing opportunity. We think the repositioning of the ‚Äúnew‚Äù Nokia story will take time for the broader investment community to absorb, which allows us to initiate the position at such a significant discount. Meanwhile, the prospect of a substantial one-time capital return and possible reinstatement of a regular dividend further enhance our upside potential. Nokia‚Äôs commitment to return excess capital and the attractive price paid for ¬†Siemens‚Äô 50% stake in NSN suggest Nokia‚Äôs leadership will remain prudent in capital allocation decisions going forward. Event-driven situations like the Nokia/Microsoft transaction are the bread and butter of ¬†our strategy. We have recently seen an increase in the number of these opportunities and ¬†welcome the chance to populate the portfolio with them. Third Point is up 18% YTD.¬†
Berkshire Hathaway remains the number one stock pick for members of Tiger 21, a New York-based peer-to-peer learning network for high net worth investors.¬† Bloomberg reports that Apple, which has traditionally held the number one position, fell to number 2 this year.¬† ‚ÄúThe bloom is off of Apple,‚Äù Michael Sonnenfeldt, founder and chairman of Tiger 21, told Bloomberg. ‚ÄúFor people who held Berkshire Hathaway it‚Äôs held its appeal, but for Apple, a lot of people who were on that ride have realized that perhaps the best days are behind it.‚Äù Apart from Berkshire and Apple, the group's top five investments included, for the first time, two exchange traded funds. The¬†iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund, which tracks developed markets in¬†Europe, Australia, Asia &amp; the Far East¬†was No. 3 and the¬†SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF Trust (SPY)¬†ranked No. 5. ETFs saw record inflows of $47 billion since the beginning of September, and have been attractive to investors because of their low fees and them providing retail investors with easy access to previously inaccessible segments of the market. Hedge funds fell out of favor with the members of Tiger 21, who said they preferred public and private equities as asset classes. According to Bloomberg, the preference for hedge funds has been declining over over the past two surveys.¬†
Last month, I explained why I think there's a decent chance that the stock market will crash in the next year or two. I also explained why, even without a crash, I think it's likely that stocks will deliver poor returns from today's level over the next 10 years. †Not negative returns, but poor returns ó average annual returns (including dividends) of only about 3% per year.†Given that stocks are usually expected to return about 10% per year, that's pretty crappy. Lastly, I explained why, even though these expected returns are pretty crappy, I'm not dumping my stocks: I expect bonds and cash to deliver lousy returns over the next 10 years, too ó maybe even worse than stocks. And I'm †also scared we'll eventually get some rapid inflation, which stocks should provide some protection from (unlike bonds). But I'm not expecting the double-digit gains we've had from stocks over the last few years to continue much longer. The reason I think stocks will deliver crappy returns is that valuation measures that have been†actually predictive ó as opposed to valuation measures that people just think are predictive ó suggest that stocks will deliver crappy returns.†† These valuation measures include the cyclically adjusted P/E ratio, which was devised by Yale Professor Robert Shiller, who just won the Nobel Prize. As you can see from the chart below, the Shiller P/E is almost 25X, which is the highest level in history with the exception of the bubble at the end of the 1990s and the end of the 1920s.† Professor Robert Shiller, Yale UniversityS&P 500 price-earnings ratio, 1870-2013 (blue) The Shiller P/E takes into account the impact of the business cycle, in which corporate profit margins rise and fall depending whether we're at a peak or a trough. Right now, corporate profit margins are at the highest level in history. † In the past, when profit margins have hit peaks or valleys, they have eventually regressed (or beyond) the mean. I think the same thing will probably happen this time.†The chart below, for example, shows profits as a percent of GDP. See how high they are? See how, in the past, they have regressed to the mean? Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax corporate profits, 1947-2013 But some people don't think today's profit margins will regress to the mean. Why not? They think it's different this time! Now, it might, in fact, be different this time. Sometimes it is. But usually, when people justify valuations by saying "it's different this time," it turns out not to be different. That's why "it's different this time" are referred to as "the four most expensive words in the English language." Back in the late 1990s, as a Wall Street analyst, I remember justifying the valuations of some Internet companies by saying, effectively, "it's different this time." It turned out it wasn't that different. That was a searing lesson, one I will never forget. But, anyway, some people aren't worried about today's high profit margins, because they think it's different this time. They also think that the Shiller PE is misleading because of the low profits companies earned during the financial crisis. And so forth. (The folks who think it's different this time have lots of compelling-sounding explanations for why it's different this time. And that's an important thing to understand: The explanations for why it's different this time†often†sound compelling.) Here's my message today, though. It's not just earnings that suggest that stocks are drastically overvalued and will have lousy returns for the next decade. Let's look at some other metrics. † The charts below were produced by fund manager John Hussman, who also thinks that long-term stock performance from this level is going to be crappy. (If you haven't heard of John Hussman, you soon will. In the comments below this article, you will soon read that John Hussman's returns have been lousy in recent years and that, therefore, you should heap ridicule on him and ignore everything he says. One important counter-point, however, is that the reason John Hussman's returns have been lousy is that he is one of the few fund managers who is not arguing that "it's different this time." Instead, he's sticking by his guns. Right now, with the market soaring ever higher, John Hussman looks like a moron. But, watch. If the market does, in fact, crash, †the same people who are now trashing John Hussman will suddenly start lionizing him as a hero. In any event, instead of attacking John Hussman, please just argue with his logic. If you think his valuation charts are wrong, explain why.) John Hussman thinks it's possible that the stock market will go higher from here ó in the final speculative blow-off of a speculative bubble ó but then he thinks stock performance is going to stink. Hussman has produced a few charts that explain why. First, here's a chart in which Hussman focuses on earnings, as I do above. This chart compares profit margins (blue) to future earnings growth (red). The profit margin line (blue) uses the left-hand scale and shows profit margins at any given time. The earnings growth line (red) shows annualized future 4-year earnings growth from that point in time. What the chart shows clearly is that high profit margins today produce lousy earnings growth over the next several years, and vice versa. And the chart also shows, again, that today's profit margins are the highest they have ever been. For what it's worth, John Hussman expects earnings to shrink by 5%-15% per year for the next 3-4 years. Imagine what stocks will do if earnings do that! Hussman Funds And now for stocks ... In case you're skeptical about the value of earnings analysis, John Hussman includes two charts comparing stock performance with other valuation measures. The first compares price-to-revenue (blue line) with subsequent 10-year stock performance. It tells the same story as the earnings analysis. In fact, this analysis suggests that stock price performance will be negative for the next 10 years. (Fortunately, we should collect some dividends, which should boost returns to about 3% per year. Hussman Funds Hussman's second valuation analysis compares the market value of non-financial stocks relative to GDP with future 10-year stock performance. It tells the same story: lousy future stock performance. Hussman Funds Lastly, for those who argue that today's stock prices are perfectly fair because of today's low interest rates, "equity premium," and prices relative to "forward operating earnings estimates" (which are often wrong), Hussman includes a chart that shows that these valuation measures are actually not particularly predictive. John Hussman, Hussman Funds So, yes, it might be "different this time." If you want to persuade yourself that it's different this time, though, you might at least want to know which valuation measures are good predictors of future performance and which aren't. And lots of the ones that bulls are throwing around ó Fed Model, "forward operating earnings," equity risk premium, etc. ó aren't very good predictors. In summary, as this last chart from Hussman shows, a whole bunch of valuation measures suggest that stocks are going to have lousy returns over the next 10 years. If you don't like one of them, use another. And then, if you disagree, ask yourself why it will be "different this time." John Hussman, Hussman Funds SEE ALSO: Here's Why I'm Not Selling Even Though Stocks Might Crash
Instagram/ TheBrownstoneNYHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who runs the $14 billion Third Point LLC, is returning about $1.4 billion to investors, according to the fund's third quarter letter.¬† Loeb says one reason why he's returning the capital is because of the fund's exceptionally strong performance. ¬†¬† From Third Point's Q3 letter (emphasis ours):¬† Year-End Return of Investor Capital  Third Point‚Äôs assets under management are currently $14 billion. Our increased size is primarily a result of a net annualized return since January 1, 2009 of 24% to investors in the flagship Partners fund and 29% in our slightly levered Ultra fund, which have led growth in the capital base since our initial close to new inflows in mid-2011. In an effort to moderate this growth, we have decided to give back a portion of 2013‚Äôs cumulative profits to investors. We plan to return approximately 10% of capital in our private funds. This amount will be based on year-end account balances and will include any requested redemptions from investors, the deadline for which is October 31st. The capital return will be made to all applicable investors on a pro rata basis, but will exclude employee investments and the investment from our listed vehicle feeder fund (which will separately pay a redemption funded dividend) Third Point is up 18% year-to-date as of September 30. ¬†The S&amp;P is up 19.8%. ¬†
In fact, the Human Rights Campaign‚Äôs (HRC) Corporate Equality Index‚Äîwhich rates companies on their treatment of LGBT employees‚Äîsaw 252 companies score a perfect 100 in 2013.¬† When the advocacy group launched this Index in 2002, only 13 companies did.¬† All of this hasn‚Äôt happened by chance. HRC, for starters, has provided companies with a roadmap on how to achieve equality. Additionally, over the last decade, consumers who care about LGBT rights have been using the HRC index to learn about companies supportive of LGBT-friendly policies. But investors haven‚Äôt had an easy option for doing something similar, such as purchasing an investment vehicle comprised solely of high-performing, LGBT-friendly companies.¬† In response to growing investor interest in such vehicles, Credit Suisse launched in October an LGBT Equality Portfolio believed to be the first-ever product that allows clients to invest in a suite of companies that have a demonstrated track record of supporting LGBT employees while also being attractive when measured by traditional valuation approaches, including forward price/earnings ratio, dividend yield and growth rate, and estimates of the stock‚Äôs potential upside.¬† ‚ÄúWe believe that companies that engage in and have good top-level policies regarding LGBT employees should see a positive bottom-line economic impact as a result,‚Äù said Eric Berger, a Relationship Manager for Credit Suisse‚Äôs Private Banking USA business and a member of the firm‚Äôs LGBT Network, which played a critical role in the product‚Äôs development over the course of the last two years.¬† To design the product, Nicole Douillet, a trader at Credit Suisse who is also the co-chair of the LGBT Network, first put together a market capitalization-weighted index of LGBT-friendly companies based on the HRC‚Äôs corporate ranking. In its current iteration, the non-tradable Credit Suisse LGBT Equality Index consists of about 200 companies with a score of 80 or above on the HRC‚Äôs Corporate Equality scorecard. All but a few are in the S&amp;P 500.¬† The next step was to create an investable, optimized instrument. To that end, Credit Suisse‚Äôs HOLT team‚Äîwhich evaluates individual companies for clients ranging from hedge funds to wealth managers‚Äîselected from a list of LGBT-friendly companies with a score of 80 or above the stocks that they believe are good investment ideas based on more traditional measures.¬† To be clear, having LGBT-supportive policies in and of itself does not make a stock (or a portfolio) a sure buy. ¬†But socially conscious investors looking for broad exposure to equities could find a possible option by choosing a diversified basket of LGBT-friendly companies, especially given the LGBT Equality Index‚Äôs more than 99-percent correlation with the S&amp;P 500 Index.¬† The ‚Äúbusiness case for diversity‚Äù does have an inherent logic. After all, a more welcoming workplace should lead to some economic benefit, shouldn‚Äôt it? To find out, Credit Suisse sponsored a study by the Williams Institute, a think tank at the University of California, Los Angeles Law School, the findings of which were published in a May¬†report¬†entitled ‚ÄúThe Business Impact of LGBT-Supportive Workplace Policies.‚Äù¬† According to the study referenced above, researchers found plenty of evidence that such policies do have positive impacts. Some are straightforward, such as increased job satisfaction and greater job commitment among LGBT employees. Some are less so, including increased productivity.¬† The not-so-good news: There was little indication that such policies actually improve profits by boosting revenues or reducing costs, which could, in turn, affect equity prices. Researchers did find one study that showed the stock prices of companies with stronger LGBT policies performed better than their peers over the course of four years, but another one showed that companies listed on the HRC‚Äôs Corporate Equality Index enjoyed a slight bump in their stock prices immediately after the report came out only to see the halo effect disappear within three days.¬† The study‚Äôs strongest finding was that employees were more likely to be open about their sexual orientation at companies with supportive policies. ‚ÄúMost of us like to keep pictures of our family at work,‚Äù said M.V. Lee Badgett, a distinguished scholar at the Williams Institute and director of the Center for Public Policy and Administration at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. ‚ÄúAnd workplace conversations do include trading stories about what we did over the weekend; these are the glue that holds a workforce together.‚Äù Still, a survey by the Center for Talent and Innovation think tank last year showed that 41 percent of white-collar, college-educated LGBT workers are still closeted at work. That‚Äôs an improvement from 48 percent in 2011, but there‚Äôs still another 59 percent to go.¬† The Williams Institute study also suggested that companies without firm non-discrimination policies and equal benefits will find it challenging to recruit highly qualified LGBT candidates, as one study showed that around 90 percent of LGBT survey respondents said it was important to them to work for a company with those rules in place. That might seem obvious. Here‚Äôs something that may not be: they will miss out on hiring highly qualified non-LGBT candidates as well. ¬†One 2006 poll cited in the review showed that 72 percent of straight respondents said it was important to work at a place with a non-discrimination policy. ‚ÄúThe younger generation looks at potential employers through a lens of overall social responsibility,‚Äù said HRC Director of Corporate Development John Lake.¬† In that vein, Badgett suggested that the increase in LGBT-friendly workplace policies has had a ripple effect that goes far beyond the employees who are directly affected by the policies. And, in her opinion, the real foundation of an argument for equality was laid when LGBT employees successfully lobbied their human resources departments and chief executives for equal benefits and non-discrimination policies. If the private sector could treat people equally without profits imploding, why couldn‚Äôt the government? ‚ÄúI think it really solidified support for equality,‚Äù said Badgett. Many corporations have now openly joined the fight. Last year, a number of them‚Äîincluding Amazon, Nike, Starbucks, and Credit Suisse‚Äîsigned an amicus brief arguing that the Defense of Marriage Act hampered their ability to recruit the best possible employees.¬† Of course, the struggle in the workplace is not over. There‚Äôs a reason the HRC is still publishing its corporate rankings‚Äîand that‚Äôs because plenty of companies have yet to make the grade when it comes to equal treatment. And, as of now, in many places, there is no legal requirement to change their ways. There is no federal law prohibiting employers from discriminating against their LGBT employees, and the HRC says that number of states lacking specific laws banning discrimination against employees or job applicants based on sexual or gender orientation stand at 29 and 34, respectively.¬† There‚Äôs nothing wrong with a company putting an LGBT-supportive policy into place not simply because it‚Äôs the right thing to do, but also because it might just have an economic benefit as well. The same goes for a portfolio of stocks. ¬†‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think this would have been imaginable a decade ago,‚Äù Lake said, referring to the launch of an investable portfolio focused on LGBT-friendly companies. ‚ÄúI think it signifies a broader social change that has been brought about by organizations like the Human Rights Campaign and others in the LGBT movement that Credit Suisse sees this not only as potentially profitable, but also the right thing to do.‚Äù
Michael SetoCool companies like Bustle, Upworthy, General Assemb.ly, betaworks, and Tinder will convene this Thursday, Oct. 24, at Business Insider's fifth-annual Startup conference on entrepreneurship in New York City. You should drop everything and reserve a ticket if you want to: Learn how to run seven startups at once like John Borthwick or how to ride your monster growth into an exit like Dan Porter  Shock your way to success like Lulu, Rap Genius, and Down (formerly Bang With Friends), which are seeing huge results while (from?) shocking the public. Learn what challenges they face, from getting kicked out of the app store to accusations of sexism. Gain inspiration and helpful contacts: We've partnered with General Assemb.ly to run ìStartup University.î Choose three classes from a schedule packed with 15 great choices and you'll soak up business lessons from industry leaders. Nail a live pitch: One entrepreneur will have the chance to pitch his or her business to three venture capitalists onstage. He'll have just 60 seconds to make his best elevator pitch and get feedback in realtime. Pick the right investments: Hear from Bijan Sabat, who was an early investor in Twitter, Tumblr, and OMGPop. Buy your tickets now before they sell out!  If you're interested in joining the Startup community by sponsoring, contact†events@businessinsider.com. Follow†@BI_Events†on Twitter for Startup updates.
Poor David Rosenberg. By getting more constructive on the economy and the markets this year, he's learned the truth about many of his fans and followers - it was never about his analysis, it was always about him adding intellectual heft to their pessimism and quasi-political, partially religious desire for the collapse of the system. Their worldview was that things were in permanent decline and his sophisticated beige-and-green charts added a veneer of respectability to their pre-existing biases. And as David's rigorous analysis forced him to warm to the possibility of a healthy investing environment, they flipped out and turned on him. Now they're going to blame him for the huge opportunity cost as the market rally goes into overdrive and they sit on the bench with nothing but lint in their pockets and a handful of busted junior mining stocks in their brokerage accounts. "What the hell, Dave? You're a traitor! Your economic song and dance legitimized us? Now what?" You'll notice, they're not even mad at him for being wrong, they're mad at him for changing his mind! As though a market pundit ought to think something one day and never allow the facts to interfere as the world changes around us. They will find someone else who will carry the torch soon enough. They'll gravitate toward Harry Dent or Doug Casey or whomever else wants to be their hero / take their money. And so it goes, here in the manic phase of a historic bull market - the finger-pointing is now well underway. Statues will be pulled down, newsletter subscriptions will be canceled. These people that would prefer Dave be loyal to their team rather than try to get it right are absolutely demented. He is fortunate to be rid of them. Read this crazy shit: Top Bear's Bullish Tilt Has Followers Growling (WSJ)
Stocks are quickly heading higher following a lackluster jobs report and slightly better-than-expected construction spending and east-coast manufacturing data this morning. The U.S. economy only added 148,000 nonfarm payrolls in September, below the consensus Wall Street forecast for 180,000. Construction spending rose 0.6% in August (0.4% expected), while the Richmond Fed Manufacturing Index unexpectedly rose to 1 (0 expected). The S&amp;P 500 is trading at a new all-time high 1759, up 0.8% from yesterday's close. Gold is 1.6% higher, trading near $1337 an ounce, while 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are 0.5% higher (the yield on the 10-year note is 8 basis points lower at 2.52%). The chart below shows the move in S&amp;P 500 futures today. Thinkorswim
Comedy Central/screenshotFormer Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan joined Jon Stewart on the Daily Show last night to promote his new book "The Man and the Territory" and discuss the errors of the financial crisis. Greenspan argued that, prior to the crisis, he thought banks would be better stewards of their own capital (and that tighter capital restrictions could have helped prevent the crisis). "Isn't it because they don't pay the penalty? The rewards that they were getting," Stewart asked. "The system was incentivized for these crazy short-term bursts of rewards." "We really can't forecast all that well and yet we pretend that we can but we really can't," Greenspan told Stewart of the markets.†"Markets do very weird things because it reacts to how people behave and sometimes people are a little screwy." "You†just†learned this?" a dumbfounded Stewart responded. Stewart was getting to the heart of the major criticism of Greenspan's new book ó that he seems to exonerate himself from creating the conditions in which a mega crisis could germinate. As the New York Times' Binyamin Appelbaum wrote†in a book review, "[Greenspan]†does not explain that under his leadership, the Fed played the lead role in creating rules that let banks set their own capital levels, with predictable results." Watch the two-part interview:  
Richmond FedThe Richmond Fed's monthly manufacturing report is out. The headline index unexpectedly rose to 1 from September's 0 reading. Economists expected an unchanged reading this month. The Richmond Fed's survey polls manufacturers from Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina on regional business conditions. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Manufacturing in the Fifth District remained weak in October, according to the most recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Shipments, capacity utilization, and the backlog of orders declined. The volume of new orders flattened, while vendor lead-time rose. Finished goods inventories and raw materials inventories also increased in October. Although the average workweek was little changed, manufacturing employment picked up slightly and average wages continued to grow. Manufacturers' outlook for the six months ahead was optimistic, though somewhat less buoyant than in recent months. Firms anticipated shipments and the volume of new orders would increase substantially, along with increased capacity utilization. They expected a build-up in their backlog of orders, and a smaller rise in vendor lead-time than they were currently experiencing. Survey participants also continued to anticipate greater capital expenditures. Additionally, producers expected that the number of employees would increase, along with a mild rise in the average workweek. Expectations were for stronger wage growth during the next six months. Manufacturing price growth moderated in October, with the annualized increases in raw materials and finished goods below last month's. Further, manufacturers expected prices paid and received would rise more slowly over the next six months. Click here for the full release ¬ª
According to the BLS household survey, part-time jobs fell 594,000 in September while full-time workers were up 691,000. This was one hopeful nugget in an otherwise lackluster jobs report. Workers are considered to be "part time" if they work under 35 hours a week. Earlier this summer, when part-time numbers looked like they might be on the rise, some¬†speculated¬†that the shift¬†was due to the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act. Under Obamacare, employers will be required to offer health insurance or face penalties (the White House recently announced it will delay enforcement until 2015). Some companies have said they will reduce their full-time staff to below the 50-employee threshold as a result, or simply shave back full-timers' hours. "If the health law were driving employers to cut employees‚Äô hours, the most vulnerable workers would likely be those working just above the 30-hour cutoff," writes the Wall Street Journal's Ben Casselman. "That means the data would show a decline in those working 30 to 34 hours and an increase in those working less than 30 hours." He explains: That isn‚Äôt what‚Äôs happening.¬†The share of part-timers who say they usually work between 30 and 34 hours at their main job has been roughly flat over the past three years, at about 28%. (September data aren‚Äôt yet available.) If anything, it‚Äôs actually risen in the past year, though the change has been minor. The share working just under 30 hours has indeed risen somewhat, but the share working under 25 hours has fallen‚Äîsuggesting that employers are giving part-timers more hours, rather than cutting full-timers‚Äô hours back. Put another way: If the Labor Department used the same definition of ‚Äúpart-time‚Äù as the health law, its data would show no increase in part-time work over the past year. Check out the chart showing that part-time workers as a share of total workers has, if anything, actually gone down. Business Insider, BLS
Every year the Office of the New York State Comptroller does a deep dive into Wall Street employment and compensation. This morning, the office released its report for 2012, and as usual Wall Street salaries trounced the average New Yorker's. The average Wall Street salary came in 5.2 times higher than the average New Yorker's at $360,700 for 2012. The NYC average came in at $69,200. For a bigger picture of how Wall Street's doing, you'll want to see how that fits in with the rest of the report. From these stats, you'll get an understanding a few really important things ó how healthy the industry is, and how it's contributing to the whole of New York City and New York state's finances. Here are the highlights (you can read the full report here, if you like): So bottom line: Wall Steeters are richer and harder to find than your average New Yorker. No surprise there. Plus, everyone should hold on tight through 2013 ó it could be "lumpy," as JP Morgan CFO Marianne Lake would say.
Wikimedia CommonsAugust construction spending data grew 0.6%. That's more than the consensus for a gain of 0.4%. But it's down from July's revised figure of 1.6%. Still, at $915 billion, spending is at its highest level since in more than four years. The jobs data reported earlier today shows construction jobs climbed by 2,000 between July and August, and 20,000 between August and September. Click here for updates ¬ª
Getty Images Latam Netflix CEO Reed Hastings.Yesterday, Netflix reported strong earnings results, beating the consensus estimate by 14%. Revenues, net income, and total domestic subscriptions surprised to the upside as well. Shares are up nearly 9% today, trading around $386. BofA Merrill Lynch analysts Nat Schindler, Justin Post, and Jason Mitchell are among the most bearish analysts on Wall Street toward Netflix shares. They actually raised their price target on the stock after last night's earnings release ó from $115 to $158 ó but the forecast is still 59% below the current share price. "Hard to find fault, but harder still to justify price," say the analysts. In a note to clients, they explain their reasoning: A valuation that is reaching ìsky highî  With Netflix stock at $400 in the aftermarket, we find the valuation difficult to justify. In order to reach its current price, we believe the company would need: 1) total subs to peak at 140mn (70mn domestic, 70mn international); 2) prices to rise by at least $3/month per user; and 3) contribution margins to grow to 47% compared to todayís 24%. This bullish view is possible, but highly unlikely in our view given that it relies heavily on Netflix maintaining growth momentum even though Netflix has already penetrated 31mn of the ~100mn households in the U.S.  Raising PO to $158 based improved subscriber growth  We are maintaining our Underperform rating while raising our price objective to $158 (from $132) based on our sum-of-parts analysis at peak penetration. Our peak penetration rate has increased from 40mn to 50mn as we believe Netflix may be able to hold current subscriber growth rates for longer than we originally estimated. Our valuation analysis (see Exhibit 3 below) assumes that Netflix will reach peak penetration of 50mn households domestically in six years while hitting that same level internationally five years later. At peak penetration we believe the business should trade at an S&amp;P multiple (15x) at best. Bull Scenario This bullish valuation scenario is based on a total subscriber base of 140mn with 70mn domestic and 70mn international subs. To reach these subscriber levels it would require an average annual sub addition rate of 5mn in the domestic business for 8 years and an average annual sub rate of 4.8mn in the international business for 13 years. In addition, subscription prices would have to rise by $3 and the effective contribution margin for both businesses would need to nearly double to 47%. We apply a 15x S&amp;P multiple for steady state growth. Assuming no slowdown in sub additions for 8 years and high 47% contribution margins seems like a bit of a stretch, in our opinion. Our valuation Our $158 valuation is based on 50mn domestic and 50mn international subscribers. This will require 3.4mn annual average subscriber additions over 6 years in the domestic business (reasonable given the current 6mn sub add rate) and an average subscriber addition of 3.8 over 11 years in the international business. We assume no price increase for subs and have effective contribution margins of 35% for both businesses which should be achievable as Netflix leverages its subscriber base. We apply a 15x S&amp;P multiple for steady state growth. Netflix shares currently trade around 205 times trailing 12-month earnings.
The U.S. economy added just 148,000 jobs in September, which was lower than 180,000 expected. However, the August number was revised up to 193,000 from an earlier estimate of 169,000. The labor force participation rate was unchanged at 63.2%, and the the unemployment rate to 7.2% from 7.3% in August. Despite the marginal improvements in the numbers, the U.S. labor market remains anemic. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
Coachís profit fell 1.6% in the most recent quarter as the luxury U.S. handbag maker faces stiff competition from Michael Kors, Kate Spade and Tory Burch.  "We were disappointed by our overall performance in women's handbags and accessories," Coach Chairman and CEO Lewis Frankfort said in an earnings call Tuesday. Net income dropped to $217.9 million ó or 77 cents per share ó down from $221.4 million a year earlier, in the companyís fiscal first quarter that ended Sept. 28, Coach said Tuesday.  A major driver behind the New York-based companyís falling profit was a 6.8% decline in sales at stores open at least a year in North America. International sales also decreased slightly ó about 0.5% ó to $365 million, the company said.† Looking ahead, Coach said it expects same-store sales in North America to continue falling at a high single-digit rate. Globally, the company expects to deliver flat-to-low single digit sales growth going forward. "The retail environment remains challenging with soft mall traffic and volatility in consumer sentiment," Coach CFO Jane Nielsen said. Frankfort and Nielsen emphasized the success of Coach's foray into men's handbags and accessories, where they said sales were up 25 percent globally in the most recent quarter. "We remain bullish about the prospects of our global menís business," Frankfort said.
Bloomberg TVEconomists have been parsing through Janet Yellen's old speeches to figure out what the Fed Chair nominee might push in terms of monetary policy. So in today's jobs report, we were looking at the long-term unemployed (those jobless for 27 weeks or more), something that Yellen has said she keeps a keen eye on. The number of long-term unemployed dropped in September according to the BLS household survey, from 4.29 million to 4.15 million. The number has been more or less steadily falling for about a year.¬† Which is likely important to Yellen. Here she is¬†speaking to the AFL-CIO in February: Individuals out of work for an extended period can become less employable as they lose the specific skills acquired in their previous jobs and also lose the habits needed to hold down any job. Those out of work for a long time also tend to lose touch with former co-workers in their previous industry or occupation--contacts that can often help an unemployed worker find a job. Long-term unemployment can make any worker progressively less employable, even after the economy strengthens. Essentially, people without a job for a long time tend to "forget" how to work ‚Äî both in terms of ethic and the networking skills necessary to find employment.¬† BLS
REUTERS According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' household survey, part-time jobs fell 594,000. Full-time workers were up 691,000. This was the second straight month of part-time jobs falling. Workers are considered to be "part time" if they work under 35 hours a week. Some economists had¬†speculated¬†that an earlier observed shift from full-time job growth to part-time job growth¬†was due to the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act Under the law, employers will be required to offer health insurance or face penalties (though the White House will delay enforcement until 2015). As a result, some companies have threatened to reduce their full-time staff to below the 50-employee bar or scale back worker hours. Though, others argue that the trend we saw this summer was merely¬†seasonal¬†and¬†expected.
The jobs report was just released, and nonfarm payroll creation was well below consensus.¬† Gold, bonds, and S&amp;P 500 futures are all trading higher. The yellow metal is trading at $1334 an ounce, up 1.4%. S&amp;P 500 futures are trading at 1742.5, up 0.2%. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.4%. The yield on the 10-year Treasury is 7 basis points below yesterday's close at 2.53%, while the dollar is sliding fast against the euro and the yen. The charts below show the reactions of various markets to the release. Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª Thinkorswim
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsAn engineer makes an adjustment to the robot "The Incredible Bionic Man" at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Washington, October 17, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderThe September jobs number is out and it's a miss. Just 148,000 jobs were created in September, well below the expectations of 180,000. The unemployment rate fell to 7.2% from 7.3%, which is lower than what was expected. A broader measure of unemployment, which includes the underemployed and discouraged workers fell from 13.7% to 13.6%. The good news, there was a big upward revision to last month, from 169,000 to 193,000. This is a turnaround from the August report, when earlier months were revised sharply downward. The market reaction is to assume that any Fed "tapering" (reduction in the pace of asset purchases) has been delayed. Gold, stocks, and bonds are all, therefore, higher. The dollar is weaker. Remember, of course, this is old data, and we had a highly disruptive economic event in the first half of October. So there remain big question marks about the current state of the economy.
financemonk.comTwitter is bearish on today's jobs report. The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is +173,000, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of 180,000. The mean estimate, however, is 202,000, suggesting a few predictions for a big blow-out number. These forecasts are provided by financemonk.com, which crowdsourced estimates from Twitter users tweeting the hashtag #NFPGuesses.
REUTERS/China DailyHouses are seen on the rooftop of a factory building in Dongguan, Guangdong province, September 10, 2013.BEIJING (Reuters) - China signaled concern on Tuesday that ample credit could fuel inflation as a report showed house prices jumped the most in nearly three years, with double-digit gains in major cities. A policy adviser to the People's Bank of China told Reuters the authority may tighten cash conditions in the financial system to address the inflation risks, while the central bank refrained from supplying cash to money markets for the second day running. If it also avoids injecting cash at its next money market operation on Thursday, the effect will be a net weekly drain of 58 billion yuan - the second biggest since February. "(Policy) will only be tightened slightly as inflation is rising. There are some concerns on bank lending," said Song Guoqing, an academic member of the central bank's monetary policy committee. "Policy fine-tuning will rely mainly on open market operations and I cannot see any possibility of changing interest rates or bank reserve ratios." Song's comments and the sharp rise in house prices highlight Beijing's policy quandary. On the one hand, policymakers want to avoid a buildup of market and economic imbalances, such as a debt-fuelled property bubble. On the other hand, they are reluctant to use more potent instruments to control the imbalances in case they also blunt a modest economic recovery ahead of a crucial policy meeting next month. China's house prices in September rose 9.1 percent from a year earlier, the sharpest rise since January 2011, calculations of official data by Reuters shows. The CSI300 &lt;.CSI300&gt; of leading Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listings fell 1 percent as investors braced for possible measures to calm the property market. Song said consumer inflation rather than property prices served as the central bank's key policy signpost. Money market traders said they would wait until Thursday's money market operation to conclude whether the central bank was trying to send a policy signal given that short-term rates have fallen sharply since the end of the third quarter. The weighted-average benchmark seven-day repo rate has dropped nearly a full percentage point over the last eight trading sessions. Traders and economists believe current ample funding conditions in the financial system reflect in part official efforts to prop up economic growth and an effort by the central bank to make amends after it engineered a credit crunch in the interbank market in late June. That move was widely seen as a warning to banks to rein in riskier lending, but the central bank appeared to have been admonished by the central government for the opaque way in which the cash squeeze was managed. Now, however, economists believe the PBOC may have gone too far in the other direction. SOLUTIONS China's economy grew at its fastest clip this year in the third quarter fuelled largely by investment, but signs are emerging that resurgent credit growth might drive up inflation even as the recovery runs into fresh headwinds. Consumer price inflation rose to a seven-month high of 3.1 percent in September from 2.6 percent in August, data showed last week. Tuesday's house price data from 70 major Chinese cities offered more evidence of price pressures.¬† Song, however, saw little risk of inflation getting out of hand given steady demand and limited potential for a pickup in economic expansion as Beijing tries to gear the country more to consumer-led growth. The adviser predicted policy fine-tuning would be sufficient to stabilize inflation at the current level in the fourth quarter and so keep the full-year rate comfortably below the government target of 3.5 percent. Economic growth could ease to 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter from 7.8 percent in the third quarter, he said. But full-year growth could still come in at 7.6 percent, just above Beijing's 7.5 percent target, he added. "A slowdown in growth in the fourth quarter would probably reawaken fears of a hard landing but we would welcome it," wrote Mark Williams and Julian Evans-Pritchard of Capital Economics in a research note. "A prolonged surge in credit-fuelled investment is the last thing China now needs." Chinese banks made 787 billion yuan ($129 billion) of new yuan loans in September, higher than a forecast of 650 billion yuan and more than August's 711.3 billion yuan, central bank data showed. At the same time, yuan has poured into the economy as a side effect of massive intervention by the central bank intended to curb the strength of a long-running rally in the local currency. With the central bank seen as reluctant to use interest rates to rein in property prices, markets will shift their focus to the ruling Communist Party's key policy meeting in November, when the leaders are expected to map out how to shape the economy in the coming decade. "With the issue in the property market becoming more and more severe, the third plenum next month should touch upon the problem," said Wang Jun, a researcher at the China Centre for International Economic Exchanges (CCIEE), a government think-tank. Securing more land for development to cool the red-hot market is one option under debate. Another is to use property taxes to rein in demand. What complicates the policy response is a divergence in house price inflation between big and small centers. The figures from the National Bureau of Statistics showed house prices in the country's largest cities continued to rise much faster than the national average. They were up 16 percent in Beijing, 17 percent in Shanghai and about 20 percent in the southern cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen. (Additional reporting by Pete Sweeney and Chen Yixin in Shanghai) nL3N0IC1F2
REUTERS/Mark BlinchDeutsche Bank analysts are preemptively cutting their earnings targets for several retailers just ahead of earnings releases scheduled to come out over the next few weeks, citing "declining mall traffic (down ~6% YOY past 3 weeks), slipping consumer confidence, lack of must-have fashion items, and unseasonable weather." "Overall, we believe sales are trending materially below our prior view and consensus, and we are therefore lowering [same-store sales] &amp; EPS estimates for [Macy's, Kohl's, JCPenney, and Nordstrom]," write Deutsche Bank analysts Paul Trussell and Matt Siler in a note to clients. "In addition, we believe the Department Store sector has experienced market share shifts to Off-Price retailers and Specialty/Vendor shops as well as a crowding out to other pockets of retail, particularly Home Improvement." The analysts write that discount stores are doing well while overall spending is lackluster: Turning to various industry sources, we continue to see a muted environment within the Department Store space, while trends at Discounters remain solid. Specifically, ShopperTrak has shown a steady decline in mall traffic of late, with QTD trends down 3.2%, continuing the weakening trend that began in earnest in 2Q. According to Redbook, trends have improved at Discounters (+4.6% QTD vs. +3.4% 1H13 Average) and remain muted at Department Stores (+2.1% vs. +1.9% 2Q). ICSC shows a similar trend, suggesting sales are up 2.1% QTD, which is below its 2.4% 2Q result, but in line with the YTD average. Finally, SpendTrend shows Department Store revenues remain muted (-3.2% QTD), although this is admittedly an improvement from 2Qís tough -8.8% reading. As for its Discounters spending data, it shows a 4.7% increase, a modest decrease from last quarter (+6.2%), but still strong relative to other segments. In terms of recent company specific data points, the vast majority have been negative including disappointing sales updates from the Buckle, Gap, Limited and Wet Seal. TJX remains an exception to the upside.† Trussell and Siler say the focus among investors "is already on Santa." "The early forecast from ShopperTrak calls for sales growth of +2.4% YOY (vs. +3.0% LY), which is the most tepid of the forecasts we have seen," they write. "The National Retail Federation is modestly more bullish in its forecast, with Holiday sales forecast to grow 3.9%, ahead of last yearís 3.5% growth but below the 5.0% increase in both 2010 &amp; 2011. Finally, Deloitte believes that Holiday sales will rise in a range of 4.0% to 4.5%, and is cautiously optimistic about the potential for the upcoming season."
Operating profit jumped 67 percent at the company's electronics and communications business, which supplies metal pastes and other materials used in solar panels. The company's safety and protection unit, which makes Kevlar bulletproof fiber, posted a 16 percent rise in operating profit. Dupont is looking at agriculture, alternative energy and specialty materials to offset flagging sales in its paint pigment business. The company said in July that it was exploring options for the paint pigment unit. Operating earnings fell 38 percent in the performance chemicals unit, which houses the paint pigments business as price declines for titanium dioxide and refrigerants offset higher sales volumes. Total net income rose to $285 million from $5 million a year earlier, when the company recorded charges related to severance and restructuring. Operating earnings were 45 cents per share. On that basis, analysts on average had expected 41 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Revenue rose 5 percent to $7.74 billion, but slightly missed analysts' estimates of $7.78 billion. (Reporting by Swetha Gopinath and Garima Goel in Bangalore)
MADRID (AP) ‚Äî Spanish construction company FCC says one or more entities linked to Bill Gates bought a 6-percent stake in the group for 113.5 million euros ($155 million), a welcome boost for the sector hardest hit during the economic crisis. An FCC statement late Monday said the purchase made the entities linked to the co-founder of Microsoft the second biggest shareholder of FCC after Spanish businesswoman Ester Koplowitz. FCC gave no more details on the identity of the purchaser. Spain's construction businesses suffered greatly after the country's bloated real estate sector crumbled in 2008. FCC's shares were up 9 percent Tuesday at 17 euros in Madrid. The company has projects across the world and in July won a 6-billion euro contract to build the new metro in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Wikimedia CommonsA soup kitchen in 1936Ugh. From a new CNN poll: In the poll that was conducted this past weekend, 71% of those questioned say that economic conditions are poor right now, with only 29% saying that current conditions are good -- a drop of 4 percentage points since late September, just before the shutdown began. "That number has not been particularly high in 2013, but throughout the year it has always been over 30%, making the current level of 29% the worst number since December of last year," says CNN Polling Director Keating Holland. What's amazing is how, since the crisis, the US continues to just shoot itself in the foot.

SG Cross Asset ResearchSoci√©t√© G√©n√©rale economist Brian Jones has the most optimistic forecast for the September jobs report on Wall Street. Jones doesn't stop at a prediction for how many payrolls were created in September, though. He also predicts exactly how markets will move immediately following the release. "The SG forecast is above consensus and a positive intraday impact for risky assets is expected if the SG forecast materialises," writes Jones. "We expect [the S&amp;P 500] to move up by 0.4% and the [10-year] USD swap rate to move up by 3 [basis points] in the first half hour after the release." Jones says there is a statistical relationship between the deviation of the actual nonfarm payroll print from the consensus forecast and the market's reaction. "The relationship between asset changes around the release and the spread NFP versus consensus is measured by a regression (OLS)," says Jones.
Anglo-Australian mining giant BHP Billiton on Tuesday raised its iron ore production forecast after operations in Western Australia achieved record output in July-September. The world's biggest diversified miner said overall production for all commodities had increased 11 percent year on year in the three months to September 30. The upbeat numbers sent BHP's share price up 2.35 percent to close at Aus$37.05. In an operational review the firm said petroleum production for the quarter came in at a record 62.7 million barrels of oil equivalent, underscored by growth in United States volumes and the start-up of a new production well. On iron ore, BHP lifted its production guidance for the 2014 financial year to 212 million tonnes, thanks to expanding production in Western Australia's resource-rich Pilbara region designed to meet demand from Asia. BHP said the Western Australian Iron Ore (WAIO) business achieved record production of 54 million tonnes for the quarter. Full year production guidance for petroleum, copper and coal was maintained. "Our pursuit of productivity gains and operating excellence is already yielding strong results," chief executive Andrew Mackenzie said. "There is no better example than in our iron ore business, where the deployment of mobile crushing units and the continued de-bottlenecking of the supply chain has underpinned a five million tonne increase in Western Australia iron ore's production guidance for the 2014 financial year." BHP said it remained focussed on the four pillars of petroleum, copper, coal and iron ore -- a commodity that has been subject to volatile prices over the past 18 months due to a slowdown in activity in China. "In addition, a 25 percent reduction in capital and exploration expenditure to US$16 billion in the 2014 financial year has significantly increased internal competition for capital," the company said. "Our rate of expenditure will decline again next year and if our investment criteria cannot be met in any one project, product or geography, we will redirect our capital elsewhere or we will not invest." BHP's report comes after rival Rio Tinto last week posted solid third-quarter production across its commodities, with strong growth in energy coal and copper and record output at its flagship Australian iron ore operations
Now Minack is working out of Sydney where he‚Äôs set up a business, Minack Advisors, and is publishing Downunder Daily to the investment community. We got hold of a note this week in which Minack looks at the income disparities in the US over the past century. He has a message for investors and the finance industry: you‚Äôve never had it so good, because the last time investors and the workers in associated industries saw earnings this strong, compared with everyone else, was the 1920s. Morgan Stanley‚ÄúInequality has not risen because the rich got richer faster than the poor,‚Äù Minack writes. ‚ÄúIt increased because the income gains of the past 30 years have gone to the top 1%. Average income for the bottom 99% is now unchanged in real terms over the past 40 years (Exhibit 3). The rising tide did not lift all the boats: it floated a few yachts.‚Äú The chart he‚Äôs referring to is on the right. Minack ‚Äì not unknown for bearishness ‚Äì continues: In 2012 the highest-paid 1% earned 21¬Ω% of total income, according to academic Emmanuel Saez (http://elsa.berkeley.edu/~saez/). This is the highest share since the 1920s. The lift in top-end income mainly reflected a rise in business income and salary payments. Exhibit 4 shows the source of income for the highest paid 0.1%, as a percentage of total US income. The income share of the highest paid did not increase just because capital has done better than labour: it also reflects the increase in the share of salaries going to the highest paid. Minack outlines other trends, including how pay for full-time workers in the finance industry has risen in line with the level of combined public and private debt: Minack Advisors The note also explores how effective tax rates are at all-time lows, especially when looking at total profits as opposed to US domestic profits. The conclusion: All these trends were favourable the owners of financial investments and for people working in the investment industry. Neither has had it this good since the 1920s. This cycle, like the 1920s, could have ended in a depression. Instead, aggressive policy response of central banks seems to have added another leg to the cycle. However, pushing these trends to historical extremes may start to cause problems for investors, as illustrated by the debt ceiling imbroglio. More to the point, it seems plausible that these trends will reverse, at some stage, to the detriment of financial assets. The note points out that rising political polarisation in the US has come about (maybe coincidentally) in line with the rise in income inequality. Hence the reference to the instability from the wrangling in Washington. But that ending is an unsubtle warning from Minack about what happened the last time we saw some of these trends. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter
We mentioned yesterday how the digital currency Bitcoin was on an insane price surge, despite the collapse of the infamous online drug marketplace, The Silk Road, which is where many Bitcoins were transacted. Anyway, the surge continues today. On the popular exchange Mt. Gox, prices just blew past $200. Bitcoincharts
As expected, existing home sales declined in September, and I expect further declines over the next several months. From the NAR: NAR President Gary Thomas, broker-owner of Evergreen Realty in Villa Park, Calif., said there are far-ranging consequences from the repeating stalemates in Washington. ìJust one impact of the recent government shutdown ñ delays in tax transcripts needed for approval of mortgage loans ñ put a monkey wrench in the transaction process and could negatively impact sales closings in next monthís report,î he said. But lower existing home sales, and slower price appreciation, doesn't mean the housing recovery is over. What matters for jobs and the economy are new home sales, not existing home sales.† And I expect the housing recovery to continue. The big story in the NAR release this morning was that inventory was now up 1.8% year-over-year in September.† Inventory is still very low,†but†year-over-year inventory has now turned positive, and I expect inventory to continue to increase.†With the low level of inventory, there is still upward pressure on prices - but as inventory starts to increase, buyer urgency will wane, and price increases will slow. Click on graph for larger image.CalculatedRiskThe NAR does not seasonally adjust inventory, even though there is a clear seasonal pattern. Trulia chief economist Jed Kolko sent me the seasonally adjusted inventory (see graph of NAR reported and seasonally adjusted). This shows that inventory bottomed in January (on a seasonally adjusted basis), and is now up about 7.5% from the bottom. On a seasonally adjusted basis, inventory was up 2.3% in September, even though the NAR reported inventory was flat (usually inventory declines in September). Important: The NAR reports active listings, and although there is some variability across the country in what is considered active, most "contingent short sales" are not included. "Contingent short sales" are strange listings since the listings were frequently NEVER on the market (they were listed as contingent), and they hang around for a long time - they are probably more closely related to shadow inventory than active inventory. However when we compare inventory to 2005, we need to remember there were no "short sale contingent" listings in 2005. In the areas I track, the number of "short sale contingent" listings is also down sharply year-over-year. Another key point: The NAR reported total sales were up 10.7% from†September 2012, but conventional sales are probably up†close to†25%†from†September 2012, and distressed sales down.† The NAR reported (from a survey): Distressed homes ñ foreclosures and short sales ñ accounted for 14 percent of September sales, up from 12 percent in August, which was the lowest share since monthly tracking began in October 2008; they were 24 percent in September 2012. Although this survey isn't perfect, if total sales were up 10.7% from†September 2012, and distressed sales declined to 14% of total sales (14% of 5.29 million)†from 24% (24% of 4.78 million in September 2012), this suggests conventional sales were up sharply year-over-year - a good sign.†  The following graph shows existing home sales Not Seasonally Adjusted (NSA). CalculatedRiskClick on graph for larger image. Sales NSA in†September (red column) are†above the sales for 2007 through 2012, however sales are well†below†the bubble years of 2005 and 2006. Earlier: ï Existing Home Sales in September: 5.29 million SAAR, Inventory up 1.8% Year-over-year
REUTERS/ Jonathan ErnstThe Bureau of Labor Statistics is back at it today releasing the September jobs report postponed during the government shutdown. Here's a quick tally of what economists are expecting: Thanks to a smattering of private sector reports that offer information on the U.S. labor market, economists can still hazard a guess on where the BLS report will land. Let's round up a few reports we've seen: Here's some commentary from market economists:
Osbornb / Creative CommonsGood morning! It's Jobs Tuesday. Thanks to the government shutdown, we're having the bizarre but delightful experience of getting a Non-Farm Payrolls report on a Tuesday in the middle of the month rather than on a Friday at the beginning of the month. The number comes out at 8:30 AM as always. In the meantime, markets are doing zilch. They were flat yesterday and are flat today. For a full preview of the jobs report, see here.
