Lululemon almost never discounts¬†its merchandise.¬† So when its $98 stretch pants go on sale, fans go crazy.¬† Carylye Wisel at The Cut braved Lululemon's warehouse sale in New Jersey and wrote about the experience.¬† Wisel took a 5:30 a.m. train from New York City to the sale, where she met other Lululemon enthusiasts.¬† Once there, she found long lines, security guards, and people who had flown across the country for the event.¬† "(One woman) chimes in¬†with war stories from¬†Chicago's¬†Lululemon¬†Warehouse Sale (much crazier than this)," Wisel writes. "Turns out¬†she¬†and her friends¬†booked a flight¬†to New York¬†the second¬†they¬†heard Long Island would be hosting this year's sale, and flew in specifically for it." The woman told Wisel that she got to New Jersey with just two hours to spare and booked a hotel room across the street from the sale.¬† The sale included $55 pants--a deep discount from the usual $98.¬† Still, it's not difficult to see why Lululemon customers are among the most fanatical in retail. DON'T MISS:¬†Sneaky Ways Retailers Track Your Every Move &gt;
The Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) slipped in the latest public data. It is now at 129.7 versus the previous week's upwardly revised 130.7 (previously 130.6). See the WLI chart in the Appendix below. However, the WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) rose, now at 8.3, up from last week's 7.2. WLIg has been in expansion territory since August 10th of last year, and it is at its highest level since May of 2010. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on one-week delayed basis to the general public, but ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan has switched focus to his company's version of the Big Four Economic Indicators I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29th Bloomberg video that ECRI continues to feature on their website. Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in at the beginning of the eighth month of a recession. Here is a chart that illustrates why ECRI's weekly indicators have little credibility -- The smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. † † First a flashback for those of us who have followed ECRI's media appearances: we know that the company adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their recession call with stunning confidence bordering on arrogance: For a few months, ECRI's indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case in the second half of 2012 -- hence, I surmise, their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. ECRI's December 7th article, The Tell-Tale Chart, makes clear their public focus on the Big Four. The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track includes real retail sales based on the same formula as the Federal Reserve economists (see this PDF file for details). By this metric, sales continued to increase until October, the data for which was significantly impacted by Hurricane Sandy, but then bounced back in November and December. In contrast, ECRI uses Manufacturing and Trade Sales data, which is updated monthly along with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release. However, the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. The series is available on the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Table 2BU. Here is a side-by-side comparison of the two measures of sales showing the percent off the all-time high. Here is a closer look at the pair since 2010. I've used markers to clarify the monthly changes. Note that the latest Manufacturing data is through November. We won't have the December numbers until March 1. But the Mfg &amp; Trade surge in November would appear to be another nail in the coffin of the ECRI recession call. My Personal View... The Fiscal Cliff is behind us and the Debt Ceiling showdown has been pushed out. The Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion, now including the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. is the January Real Retail Sales and Industrial Production. We saw a sharp increase in the income metric for November, and I think we may see another jump for December. The reason I say this is the expectation that a statistically significant amount of January income was no doubt moved to December to avoid expected tax increases. The November increase was also probably a result of tax planning. If so, then the January Real Personal Income (published at the end of February) will drop. For an illustration of the impact of this year-end tax planning strategy in the past, see this YoY Personal Income chart and note the two pairs of tax-planning callouts in the 1990s. Here is a snapshot of the version of the Big Four Economic Indicators with Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales. Last week I said that ECRI could take some temporary solace in their use of the lagging Manufacturing and Trade Sales, but the latest data point for that indicator, out yesterday, is the biggest month-over-month surge since before the last recession. Moreover, the December strength exhibited by Personal Incomes and Industrial Production and the (steady albeit slow) growth in Nonfarm Employment certainly continue to defy their recession call. I would hasten to add, however, that I don't think the US economy is out of the woods. However wrong ECRI might have been in their way-too-early recession call, significant risks remain. The greatest endogenous threat to the US economy is the impact of the expired 2% FICA tax holiday together with the decline in early 2013 personal income as a result of 2012 year-end maneuvers. The BEA sums it up nicely: If John and Mary Doe are forced to cut back on spending, we could see a daisy-chain effect on retail sales, industrial production and employment. Also, the Advance Estimate for Q4 GDP at minus 0.1 percent bears watching. Of course, the Second and Third Estimates could adjust it higher. But the last time we had a final revised negative GDP print was a long time ago -- the 0.1 percent of Q4 1977. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. Nevertheless, I continue to think that an ECRI retraction of their recession call is long overdue. † Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. † † For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. † † As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. † † Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions. † † The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. † † As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 5.8%, is unchanged from the previous weekly data. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the second half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article. † † Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call † Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula:
Say you‚Äôre a Doc, working out of NYU Hospital on 1st and 34th, and on October 29 you park your car in the lot next door. Sandy rolls in, and the next morning your car is 20 feet underwater. You‚Äôve got insurance, so a week later, check in hand, you look at new cars and narrow it down to two. A decked out Lexus LS460 and very nice Audi A8. The walk out price on both cars comes to 8o grand. Which one do you choose? That was just three months ago. At that time the relative value of these cars was equal. If you assume that 80% of the cost of the car was the imported value, then you were ‚Äúpaying‚Äù 50,394 Euros for the Audi and 512,000 Yen for the Lexus. At the exchange rates in early November, the Euro component of the Audi was $64,000 (80,000 X 80% X EURUSD 1.27).¬† The Yen cost was also $64,000 (80,000 X 80% /80.00). The EURJPY exchange rate was 102. Today the EURJPY FX rate is 1.2650. The dollar cost of those Euros and Yen have changed substantially. $68,900 is now the Euro component of the Audi (+3,900). The dollar cost of the imported Lexus has fallen to $55, 350 (-$8,649). Looking at just the FX rate changes, the cost of the Lexus is down to $71,350, the Audi is up to $84,910. In three months there is a $13,560 price gap. Now which one do you choose? I bring this up to make the point about how very rapidly the terms of trade have turned against Germany (all of the EU) and in favor of Japan. What is striking, is how quickly the adjustment has been. Consider this 15 year chart of the EURJPY: ¬†  What jumps out in the chart is the huge drop in the FX rate that occurred staring from July of 2008, and ending in February 2009. I discount that period of extreme volatility as it was marked by global instability. During those same months the S&amp;P fell 50%. Everything was going wild. If you exclude (or diminish) the 2008-09 experience, then you could could say that the movement in the EURJPY over the past six months is the most violent (vertical lines) in recent history. The period from 1999 to 2004 is notable as an ‚Äúup‚Äù period for EURJPY. The trend for that period was driven by steady currency intervention by the Bank of Japan. So the spikes higher for the EURJPY are quite different than what we are witnessing today. The Yen is not weakening because of a forceful Central Bank. If anything, the BOJ has ‚Äúdisappointed‚Äù on what it has promised to do. What we are witnessing is Yen weakness (yes, coupled with Euro strength vs the $). The rate of change has been very substantial, arguably, this is the most volatile period in FX over the past 15 years. Compare the prior periods of FX upheaval to today. In many ways, what has happened of late with the Yen versus the major currencies is unique to history. What is also amazing (to me) is that this FX violence is happening at a time when equity markets are soaring. From 1999 ‚Äì 2003 NASDAQ¬† fell 70%, the S&amp;P got clipped for 40%. 2008 ‚Äì 2009 was a horror show. Today, the equity markets are thriving on the FX instability. Are in we in one of those ‚ÄúNew Paradigm‚Äù things with markets again? A financial world that can go through a very turbulent period in FX, while there is no fallout anywhere else? For what it is worth, I didn‚Äôt believe in the New Paradigm in 2000, I don‚Äôt believe in it today.
TheeErin / FlickrThe January U.S. jobs report just came out, and it showed that the unemployment rate climbed to 7.9 percent and companies added just 157k jobs.¬† Despite beginning its recovery in early 2009, the labor market recovery continues to be painfully slow. Part of the problem is that companies continue to layoff employees in their efforts to control costs. With the help of Bloomberg, we compiled a list of the 17 biggest layoff announcements of the past year. The companies include banks, airlines, and consumer goods companies.¬† But the tech companies dominate the rankings. EDITOR'S NOTE: Earlier, we wrote that USG Corp had announced 4,700 layoffs in the past year.¬† USG actually laid off 30 employees in 2012.¬† Accumulated layoffs from 2006 to 2012 add up to 4,700. As such, USG has been removed from the ranking.
Fox Residential GroupThe heirs of the late banker Herbert Allen, Sr. have just sold his swanky, '70s-style penthouse on the Upper East Side to an undisclosed buyer for $20 million, according to The New York Daily News. The Park Avenue pad occupies both the 30th and 31st floors of the co-op building on 733 Park Avenue. It comes with three landscaped terraces, floor-to-ceiling windows in the foyer, and a private elevator. Allen was once one of the wealthiest men on Wall Street. His son, Herbert Allen Junior, now runs the boutique investment bank Allen &amp; Co. and hosts the company's annual tech/media/finance conferences in Sun Valley each year. Allen Sr. originally bought the UES penthouse for $526,500 in the '70s when the building was still new, according to The Daily News. The penthouse was listed with Fox Residential Group, and the buyer will remain unknown until the sale is registered next week.
e_calamar / FlickrThe Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above†14,000 for the first time since 2007.† And there was no shortage of good economic news to back that up. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,009, +149.2, +1.0 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,513, +15.0, +1.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,179, +36.9, +1.1 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
We're finally hearing about the fallout from a massive cheating scandal that shook Harvard University's campus last summer, in which 125 students were investigated for plagiarism and other academic misconduct surrounding their final exams. More than half the students who were investigated by the school's administrative board have been required to withdraw from the college for a period of time, Boston.com reported. Of the remaining cases, around half received disciplinary probation, and the rest were dismissed, according to the news website. Harvard's Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences informed members of the school community about the results of the board's investigations in a campus-wide email. School officials said in August that they had discovered suspicious similarities while reading through students' year-end take-home exams over the summer. The cases were heard by the school's administrative board and decided throughout the fall and winter, Boston.com reported. All of the students involved in the incident were in the same 279-person undergraduate course, Government 1310: "Introduction to Congress."
The Bank of America has been experiencing widespread outages since around 11 am today, and customers are not happy. If you're trying to get money out of a BoFA ATM or trying to use a debit card issued by them, chances are they're not working. Don't bother trying to log onto their website or mobile app either, cause they're also down. BoFA's tweeted this earlier today morning: We‚Äôre experiencing some technical issues and we are working to resolve as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience. ^bm (Via Kayla Tausche) Here's what BankofAmerica.com looks like right now. Bank Of America
How do you raise awareness about gas leaks? Bring the smell of stray fossil fuels directly to the people. Two major New York gas utilities, New York State Electric And Gas (NYSEG) and Rochester Gas &amp; Electric (RG&amp;E), will include scratch-and-sniff inserts containing the smell of leaked natural gas in customers' electric bills this month, according to The Journal News' Joseph Spector. ‚ÄúWe put a special odorant in natural gas so that our customers can easily detect any leaks,‚Äù Mark Lynch, president of NYSEG and RG&amp;E, said in a statement. ‚ÄúWhenever anyone smells natural gas at their home or business, they should get up, get out and call their utility or 911 from a neighbor‚Äôs phone.‚Äù Sulfur compounds are added to natural gas, which is otherwise odorless, to help detect leaks. So the patch will basically smell like rotten eggs.¬†Here's what it'll look like: NYSEG SEE MORE: Why You Should Let An Oil Company Frack Your Backyard &gt;
The founding partner of Silicon Valley investment firm Andreessen Horowitz, Ben Horowitz, recently gave a great presentation at the DLD conference in Munich. Ben explained how Andreessen Horowitz chooses its investments. Specifically, he laid out what might be described as a "magic formula" for building humongous,† world-dominating, dynastic-wealth-creating tech companies. Here's his presentation...
For the second straight Friday, it sure seems like no one wants to be holding Treasuries headed into the weekend. Last Friday, Treasuries went more or less straight down throughout the day. Today, after a brief spike during the deluge of new economic data released this morning, bonds have turned in a repeat performance of last week's Friday session. The chart below shows the last two weeks of trading in 30-year U.S. Treasury bond futures, with the Friday sessions circled: Thinkorswim The market is on edge right now. For the first time in a long time, traders find themselves all asking the same question:†Can yields go higher? (Yields, of course, are inversely related to bond prices, so a backup in yields causes those holding bonds to take losses on their principal investments, which is why the market is on edge.) The best explanation we've heard for this phenomenon is from Russ Certo, who heads the rates department over at Brean Capital. In a note reflecting on last Friday's performance, Certo wrote: I havenít seen too many days in the bond market recently like Friday, where the market was continuously under pressure, with seemingly paper coming out of the woodwork on any mere flirt of an uptick. In the world of ZIRP (Zero Interest Rate Policy), pegged rates, Fed owning float, and QE marginalized markets, many players on usual Fridays simply call in, lightly indulge in pizza breakfast, and maybe look to cheat an early break for the weekend with uneventful markets. Artificial markets. Same old pattern with little fundamental inputs to create volatility. Off to some shrimp on the barbie. "Not so, now." wrote Certo. "I anticipate 2013 will be far more exciting than 2012 and in some ways, already has." Today was another one of those exciting days. We had a ton of economic data out this morning ñ all important in today's bond market, given concerns that growth could really take off and cause interest rates to rise accordingly. Sure enough, we had a weaker than expected nonfarm payroll print this morning, but it was accompanied by sizable, positive upward revisions to last year's data, suggesting the labor market is actually on better footing than previous estimates suggested. We also had an unexpected rise in consumer confidence, better than expected growth in construction spending, and a surprise leap in U.S. PMI and ISM manufacturing indices ñ all arguably negative for bonds. It's pretty clear that there's been a sea change in January, and bond traders could be living in a very different world in 2013 if these sorts of trends continue on into the year. This is what the new Friday looks like.
Bloomberg TVFlows into equities this month have been breaking all kinds of records, and they've spurred a lot of chatter about a "Great Rotation" out of fixed income funds and into equity funds as stocks climb higher. Citi strategists pointed out, though, that January is always a strong month for inflows, which means what we are seeing likely owes to seasonality. Even still, flows into equity funds this January are much bigger than usual. In an interview with Bloomberg TV this morning, Mohamed El-Erian, the CEO of PIMCO ñ which is the world's biggest bond fund manager ñ offered a very simple explanation. Flows into equity funds could have been driven in part by the expiration of unlimited deposit insurance on bank accounts with balances over $250,000, which happened on December 31.† (Bank of America's Priya Misra dubbed this the '$1.6 trillion deposit cliff.') El-Erian told Bloomberg TV: If the "Great Rotation" is happening, it's not happening at PIMCO. What I think we are all seeing ñ the equity funds, the fixed income funds, the commodity funds ñ is a rotation out of money market funds and out of bank accounts that no longer have complete FDIC insurance. So, what we're seeing is cash is being pushed into both the equity and fixed income markets, and we're not as yet seeing any "Great Rotation." The chart below puts deposit outflows following the expiration of unlimited deposit insurance (TAG) in perspective. Large-cap U.S. banks have experienced big outflows in December and January: Morgan Stanley Research And Gerard Minack of Morgan Stanley pointed out the money market fund effect yesterday using this chart: ICI, Morgan Stanley Research Note the slight January uptick in money market fund flows. It seems likely that the expiration of unlimited deposit insurance on bank account balances over $250,000 would cause some money to flow out of bank accounts and into money market funds, which are perhaps considered the next most reasonable substitute in terms of safety and liquidity. However, money market funds have mostly recorded outflows in January, so perhaps there is something to El-Erian's thesis. Catch his full spot on Bloomberg TV below:†
The Bureau of Labor Statistics just tweeted a presentation incorporating the latest jobs data. One of the slides takes a look at retail hiring buildup ahead of the holidays and the subsequent layoffs. From the BLS: "The October-to-December holiday retail hiring buildup (a 9.1 percent employment increase, not seasonally adjusted) was the strongest since 2007. This stronger-than-average buildup, however, was followed by a below average layoff in January (70.6 percent of the seasonal buildup), which resulted in a seasonally adjusted gain in January." It's interesting to see how much they drop off in January. BLS
The Real DealHaving recently forked out $20 million for a second floor-unit at 640 Park Avenue, billionaire private equity mogul J. Christopher Flowers may be trying to balance his books. Flowers, who founded J.C. Flowers &amp; Co., has listed his six-bedroom, seven-bathroom spread at 66 East 79th Street for $18 million, according to Streeteasy.com. The price is $1 million less than what Flowers paid for the property in 2006. The unit is listed by Sami Hassoumi of Brown Harris Stevens, who was not immediately available for comment. This is the first time that the duplex apartment, located on the 14th and 15th floors of the building, has been publicly offered for sale. The home, which was originally designed as the largest in the building, has traded only through privately marketed transactions in the past, according to the listing. It has a 30-foot drawing room, a formal dining room and a wood-paneled library. Flowers bought the unit in 2006 from old school ad man Martin Puris, who penned BMW‚Äôs signature tag line ‚Äúthe ultimate driving machine.‚Äù That was the same year he made records for paying out $53 million for the Harkness Mansion at 4 East 75th Street. The Harkness property later sold to art world powerhouse Larry Gagosian for a loss in 2011. Gagosian paid just $36.5 million for the property, which he may turn into an art gallery. Flowers‚Äô new digs on Park Avenue reportedly have six bedrooms and 6.5 bathrooms as well as a gym and staff facilities.
ZillowThe latest buzz on Wall Street is all about the migration of hedge funds to warmer, sunnier locales¬† ‚Äî in particular, Palm Beach County in Florida.¬† The county has created the¬†Palm Beach County Business Development Board to help encourage and attract firms, especially those in financial services, to the area. Kelly Smallridge, who runs the Palm Beach County Business Development Board, told the New York Post,¬†‚ÄúWe‚Äôre not doing a multimillion-dollar marketing campaign. We don‚Äôt need to.¬†They‚Äôre coming to us.‚Äù The¬†New York Post¬†and¬†Dealbreaker¬†have discussed some of the reasons why hedge funds like Apex are moving down the coast. People aren't just going there for the fun and sun¬†‚Äî Palm Beach also makes business sense, too.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Buying Into Fear And Uncertainty Has Proven To Be A Winning Strategy (Manning &amp; Napier) There is a chance that investors are underestimating how much volatility the markets will see in 2013. At the end of 2012 companies cut back on spending in the face of policy uncertainty, and there's still a lot of work to be done in Europe. Moreover, geopolitical risks and a slowdown in emerging markets could "spark another elevated volatility regime". But they say there is opportunity in volatility.¬† "Investing in stocks exposes investors to painful volatility from time to time. Rather than fearing periods of market stress, investors should look to understand their root cause and be ready to act accordingly. Volatility has been tame in the early days of 2013, but there are events on the horizon (some known and others unknown) that could lead to a market sell-off. The challenge of buying into periods of market pessimism is overcoming our fears that things will get worse (i.e., another 2008 lurking around the corner).¬† "However, over time buying into fear and uncertainty has proven to be a winning strategy‚Äî especially in periods like today where there are not excesses built into the economy. We do not know what surprises the markets have in store for 2013. However, by being prepared, we may be able to take advantage of opportunities as they are presented." Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Team Moves To UBS (Dow Jones Newswires) Bob Rumishek, Alex Velto, Rusty Volkert and John Cowley that managed $330 million in client assets and generated $2.7 million in annual commissions and fees have joined UBS in California from Morgan Stanley's Wealth Management unit. "Sell-Signal Triggered" (Bank of America) Bank of America's strategist Michael Hartnett has a new note titled "Sell-Signal Triggered". He says this was last triggered in January 2011 and was followed by an 8 percent correction on the MSCI All World Country Index over the next two months. "On average, a 'sell' signal precedes a 5 percent correction in global equities over the subsequent 4-5 weeks." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global ¬† The Short-Term and Long-Term Risk Facing The U.S. Economy (Advisor Perspectives) Blackrock's Russ Koesterich writes that the U.S. faces two major risks. In the near-term, there is the risk that a "significant fiscal drag" will have a bigger impact on the economy and earnings than expected. The second long-term risk involves a worsening of the U.S. fiscal position as Congress keeps delaying tough decisions.¬† Congress' biggest failures have been in dealing with taxes and the entitlement system, the "long-term drivers of the U.S. deficit". ¬† Distressed Corporate Debt Investors See A Default Rate Of Below 4% Among U.S. Companies (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) Debtwire, Bingham McCutchen and Macquarie Capital polled 100 hedge fund managers, traders and asset managers and found that investors in distressed company debt expect U.S. corporate defaults to remain low this year. All of the expect the default rate to be below 4 percent, compared with 16 percent last year that expected a default rate above 4 percent.¬† Investors that deal in distressed debt by corporate debt really cheap when a company defaults or files for bankruptcy which prompts traditional fund managers to sell. Some actively restructure the companies. The Gold Era Is Coming To An End (Credit Suisse) Tom Kendall and Rick Deverell of Credit Suisse argue that with the acute phase of the crisis in global financial markets behind us, the height of the fear trade has passed and the gold era is coming to an end. "The inflection point appears to have been the day in late July last year that ECB President Draghi firmly committed the ECB to do ‚Äúwhatever it takes‚Äù to save the euro. Since then US 10-year yields have risen to 2.0%, and funds have begun to flow back to Europe. Interestingly, however, at least so far gold has not fallen but has rather drifted sideways."Although is difficult to be precise, we feel that this sideways drift will turn into a modest downward trend over the course of this year ‚Äì against any sensible benchmark gold still appears significantly overvalued relative to the long run historical experience." Credit Suisse
Google FinanceMarkets are surging. The Dow has broken through 14,000 for the first time since 2007. There was a ton of bullish economic data this morning. This comes after the January jobs report, which showed underwhelming gains in January, but huge upward revisions for December and November. Consumer confidence unexpectedly jumped to 73.8, beating expectations for 71.5, Construction spending jumped by 0.9 percent in December, beating expectations for 0.7 percent growth. The ISM Manufacturing report smashed expectations jumping to 53.1 in January.¬† This came in the wake of a bullish U.S. PMI report. SEE ALSO: 5 Cautionary Notes For Every Value Investor &gt;
ToyotaIn addition to the host of economic data out today in the U.S. and around the world, global auto makers are reporting January sales figures. Nissan reported January sales growth of 2 percent, below expectations of 3.5 percent expansion. Honda sales rose 13 percent in January. Analysts were looking for a 21 percent gain. Toyota reported auto sales growth of 26.6 percent in January, ahead of analysts' estimates of a 22 percent rise. General Motors reported sales up 15.9 percent in January, ahead of expectations of a 13 percent gain. Below are highlights from GM's press release: General Motors Co. (NYSE: GM) announced today that it sold 194,699 vehicles in the¬†United States in January, up 16 percent compared with a year ago. Retail sales were up¬†24 percent. Fleet sales were down 2 percent. ‚ÄúThe year is off to a very good start for General Motors,‚Äù said Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S.¬†sales operations. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a sense of optimism among our dealers that only comes when you pair¬†a growing economy with great new products. We started to see the benefits in 2012 with vehicles¬†like the Chevrolet Sonic, Cadillac ATS and Buick Verano. Now in 2013, we‚Äôre entering the sweet spot of our product plan in a growing economy.‚Äù Over the course of 2013, Chevrolet will launch the all-new Impala, SS, Silverado and Corvette, as¬†well as the Cruze diesel and Spark EV. Buick is launching the Encore small crossover, followed¬†by redesigns of the Regal and LaCrosse. GMC will launch an all-new Sierra. Cadillac will launch¬†an all-new CTS. Ford reported sales up 22 percent in January, ahead of analysts' estimates of a 17 percent advance. Below are highlights from Ford's press release: Chrysler was the first to post numbers. The Detroit auto maker reported sales up 16 percent in January, ahead of analysts' estimates of 15 percent sales growth. Below are highlights from Chrysler's press release: Chrysler Group LLC today reported U.S. sales of 117,731 units, a 16 percent increase compared with sales in¬†January 2012¬†(101,149 units), and the group's best January sales since 2008. The Chrysler, Dodge, Ram Truck and FIAT brands each posted year-over-year sales gains in January compared with the same month last year. The Dodge brand's 37 percent increase was the largest sales gain of any Chrysler Group brand in January. Chrysler Group extended its streak in January to 34-consecutive months of year-over-year sales gains. "It's been a good week for the Chrysler Group. On Wednesday we announced full year 2012 profits of¬†$1.7 billion¬†and followed that today with our January sales, up 16 percent, marking our 34th-consecutive month of year-over-year sales growth," said¬†Reid Bigland, Head of U.S. Sales. "Entering 2013 our product portfolio has never been stronger with our new Ram truck picking up both the 2013 Motor Trend and the North American 'Truck of the Year' awards, and the introduction of our new 30 mpg highway Jeep¬Æ Grand Cherokee equipped with our new EcoDiesel engine." Total global vehicle sales reported by all auto makers are expected to fall to 15.2 million at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate in January from 15.3 million in December. We will have more sales figures LIVE throughout the day as other auto makers report. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
BofA strategist Michael Hartnett says that something he calls the "silent peak oil trade" may be setting investors up for a "big negative surprise." In a note to clients, in a reflection on "the lust for yield, the silent 'peak oil' trade &amp; the EM barbell," Hartnett explains†(emphasis added): Many investors are fascinated by Francisco Blanche's view that WTI could fall to $50/barrel in coming years. A strong dollar-weak commodity backdrop is seen as less helpful for EM. We think the "peak oil" theme has played itself out convincingly across many equity markets and sectors in recent quarters (all the big outperformance in recent quarters has come from countries (e.g. Japan, peripheral Europe, India, Turkey) and sectors (e.g. consumer discretionary, banks) that do well when oil prices fall. This also suggests that the combo of rising yields and rising oil prices this year would be a big negative surprise to many. Below is a chart showing the relative outperformance of financials and consumer discretionary stocks versus the broader market since the beginning of 2012. The green line shows financials, the red line shows consumer discretionaries, and the blue line shows the S&amp;P 500. Bloomberg, Business Insider Financials are up 30 percent over that period and consumer discretionaries are up 30 percent. The broader market has only risen 20 percent over the same timeframe. Thus, as Hartnett suggests, if oil and interest rates end up heading higher in 2013, investors would likely be caught off guard. While the consensus expectation is that rates will rise in 2013, most expect oil to be lower. However, the commodity has been in rally mode lately, and there are always geopolitical risks and upside risks to economic growth that could support oil prices.
Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley ResearchOne of the most interesting stories to emerge out of what has been a pretty wild January for global markets is the rapid rise in European rates. That rise has Morgan Stanley rates strategist Laurence Mutkin worried about a resurgence of the European sovereign debt crisis that everyone says is over, and according to Mutkin, ECB President Mario Draghi faces a critical moment in the coming weeks. As sentiment has ramped up around the globe and investors have staged massive inflows into equity funds and other risky assets, "safe-haven" plays like German bonds and short-term debt have sold off. Draghi helped spur this rise in rates, along with that in the euro, when he announced at the central bank's most recent policy meeting that the decision against lowering benchmark interest rates was unanimous among the ECB Board of Governors. On top of everything, European banks are now beginning to repay loans extended to them by the ECB during the depths of the euro crisis. This has provided further impetus for the upward trajectory in EONIA rates as banks return to interbank lending markets to fund themselves. In his latest note to clients, titled "Now We're Getting Worried," Mutkin explains why he is so concerned about these developments. Although the ECB has provided a "backstop" in sovereign debt markets with the threat of bond market intervention via its yet-untested OMT program,†Mutkin says now is the time to start thinking euro crisis again. Mutkin writes (emphasis added): Higher funding rates are simply not good news for highly leveraged borrowers: and euro area sovereignsí debt levels are all high (indeed, higher than in 2011 and 2012). If the rise in core yields this year were driven by evidence or expectations of stronger nominal growth, one could argue that this would offset (or more than offset) the effect of higher yields. But thatís not the case. The rise in EONIA forwards, and so in Bund yields and swap rates, has been driven by the technicalities of the erosion of excess liquidity in the banking system. This may be a symptom of banksí improving health, but it still means funding costs are rising, while the outlook for nominal GDP isnít. So our conclusion is this: although there are certainly differences in each yearís specific circumstances, it may be that the rise in core rates was a significant driver of the turnaround in systemic sovereign risk in 1H11 and 1H12. Therefore, thereís reason to start worrying now, especially as the pricing of systemic sovereign risk is back at 1H12 lows, according to our PCA-derived measure. The charts above show how this year is looking a lot like the last two years so far in terms of patterns in the European interest rate markets. So, will 2013 prove to be different from 2011 and 2012? Mutkin says it's just too early to call. However, Draghi once again holds the keys to the kingdom, so to speak. Mutkin writes: In the near term, therefore, much depends on how ECB president Draghi responds to the recent rise in EONIA forwards at next weekís Press Conference. Our economists doubt heíll lean heavily against the rise in rates, but we hope he'll avoid the mistake his predecessor made in blithely characterizing the rise in EONIAs after the 1y LTROsí expiry in 2010 as being no more than evidence of the improving health of the banks.† The ECB will hold a press conference next Thursday at 8:30 AM ET, following the announcement of its interest rate decision at 7:45. We will be listening closely to see how Draghi responds.
Wikimedia CommonsGrand Central Terminal is one of New York City's most iconic landmarks, and today it turns 100 years old. The incredible feat of engineering originally debuted to the public as Grand Central Depot in October 1871, home to a massive steel and glass train shed that housed steam-driven trains.† But after a fatal accident between two steam locomotives in 1902, the transportation hub was converted to a safer electric rail system. Grand Central Station was demolished, and Grand Central Terminal was raised in its place, opening to the public on February 1, 1913.† To celebrate its 100th birthday, here's a look back at the birth, past, and present of one of the world's greatest train stations.
The Minneapolis Fed has compiled a series of interactive charts which allows users to compare U.S. recessions and the corresponding economic recoveries. In light of this week's unexpected 0.1 percent decline in 4Q GDP and today's less-than-stellar nonfarm payrolls report, it's worth taking a second look at the current recovery compare to other post-WWII recoveries. Here's employment.¬† It's another way of looking at the "scariest jobs chart ever." Minneapolis Fed And here's GDP: Minneapolis Fed The 1980 recovery had a very ugly and pronounced double-dip recession.¬† Still, fourteen quarters in, the 2007 recovery is worse than the 1980 recovery. From an employment standpoint, only the dot-com jobs recovery lags the pace of the recovery from the 2007 recession.

Our Daniel Goodman is on the scene at 23rd and Broadway in NYC, where a 36" water pipe that was installed in 1915 has burst, causing a subway shutdown. You can see from the picture what a mess it's causing. For straphangers planning their commute this afternoon, be aware that the N, Q, and R trains are suffering major disruptions. Currently there are no N, Q trains between Dekalb Ave Station and 57 St - 7th Ave Station. And no R train service between Queens Plaza Station and Whitehall Street Station. Officials from the NYC DEP and Fire Department have said no customers lost water as a result of the break, but some people downtown are reporting water disruptions. Daniel Goodman, Business Insider ¬† Daniel Goodman, Business Insider
Foursquare/ William P.Fox Business News senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino¬†told Cigar¬†Aficionado¬†recently that The Grand Havana Room is "one of the best places" to meet Wall Street sources. ¬† We've been to the private cigar club located in the penthouse of 666 Fifth Avenue a few times before. ¬†It's¬†definitely a hot spot for those in high finance to relax and socialize with fellow members over cigars and drinks.¬† Of course, it's not just Wall Streeters who frequent the place. ¬†Rev. Al Sharpton has also been spotted hanging out there, too.¬† Now let's take a photo tour of this members-only cigar club.¬†
At Seasonal Odds we analyzed the average historical performance of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) as well as key market indices in the three trading days following the Super Bowl over the last 10 Super Bowls. BUD averages a positive return of .37% in the three days following the Super Bowl, whereas the market as a whole averages a loss over the same period. Significant conclusion: Kate Upton as Treasury Secretary during economic downturns?  Seasonal Odds is a live-updating stock market Almanac and real-time back-testing engine developed at Harvard and MIT. It was created by Daniel Nadler (PhD Candidate, Harvard) and Pete Kruskall (S.B. and M.Eng., MIT).
Investors are still far more afraid of losing money in a market downturn, than they are of missing out on an upturn, according to a survey that Dorsey Wright Money Management conducted of 63 financial advisors. The survey asked advisors to answer based on what their clients felt. While there's a growing sense that "everyone is bullish" the survey results show just the opposite. There's still a ton of anti-stock paranoia out there, which really represents bull-fuel waiting to be poured. However, the spread between the two is narrowing, as investors have an increasing appetite for risk. This is good news for the stock market‚Äîwhen investors become more open to risk, the S&amp;P 500, and other indexes tend to rise. According to the survey, fear of a market downturn fell from 83% to 75%, while those afraid of missing out on an upturn increased from 17% to 25%. Here is chart that contrasts the level of the two types of fear with the S&amp;P 500: Dorsey Wright Money Management Here's another chart from the same survey that charts out investors' appetite for risk: Dorsey Wright Money Management (Via Kevin Depew)
Michael Dell is on a mission to take his $23 billion PC company private once again, and a deal could be struck as soon as Monday.¬† The final details are being worked out, Reuters reports, and everything is expected to be finalized over the weekend. Dell, the company's founder and CEO, will use up to $15 billion in debt financing to reclaim the company from¬†Barclays, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse and RBC Capital.¬†Silver Lake Partners and Microsoft would become minority investors. Dell is putting a lot on the line to gain back majority ownership, including his 15.7% stake and up to $1 billion of his personal funds. Making Dell private would allow its executive team to take bigger risks while attempting to save the company from a tanking PC market.¬†
BurberryWhen you think "Burberry," chances are classic trenches or the brand's famous check pattern comes to mind. But Burberry Prorsum decided to go in a very different direction with this season's coats, shirts, and t-shirts by making their designs with shiny metallic cloth in electric colors. The new Metallic Runway collection is made with Italian foil-bonded silk or cotton that requires hand washing. Made for both their men's and women's spring lines, the sheen is available in six shades, including pale green, electric blue, and lavender. Since it's Burberry, we're sure that the quality is impeccable, but these look more like cheap plastic than what the expensive $350-$2,995 price range would suggest.
Square-toed shoes are a polarizing topic in men's fashion. Some feel the shoes are unattractive and unfashionable (they've been likened to Pilgrim's shoes), but fans insist the shoes are more comfortable. And when respected retailers continue to sell the footwear, it's easy to see why men are confused. We asked four leading style experts for their opinions about square-toed shoes.† The verdict? A resounding "no." "I think it's great for people with square feet or people named Frankenstein. Other than that, I try not to think of square-toed shoes," said†Scott Schuman, the author of popular style blog The Sartorialist. Jake Davis, a photographer and director known for his personal style, said the shoes are "generally a sign of a douche, Wall Street type with no sense of style." "I do understand some corporate environments have dress codes but there are plenty of stylish options out there to avoid the notorious†square†toe," Davis told us. Marcus Troy, who offers style advice to thousands of men on his Twitter and blog, cited some of the more comfortable options. "Advancements in footwear design have bridged that gap between function and fashion beautifully," Troy told us. "Brands like Cole Haan have amalgamated Nike Lunar outsole technology with brogues, wingtips, chukkas, and saddle shoes, making them more awesome than ever before." But Matthew Rubinger, style expert and director of luxury accessories at Heritage Auctions, told us that fans of the shoes can hold out hope they'll come back in style. "I personally would never wear square-toed shoes, which were popular 15 to 20 years ago, and arenít anymore," Rubinger said. "But, who knows? Maybe theyíll come back, double-breasted suits did!"
Former Mayor Ed Koch, remembered for bringing NYC from the brink during the 1970s with wit and charm died this morning. Obviously in political circles he was a giant, but he was loved in the world of finance as well. This morning on Bloomberg TV, Tom Keene called him a "friend of the Bloomberg family." It isn't every day that the super professional Keene sounds even a little emotional, but it's also not every day that someone as monumental as Koch passes away either. Watch the video below (from Bloomberg TV):
It's been a historic month for equity fund inflows, and the final week of January was no exception. This week, total flows into equity funds amounted to $18.8 billion, making it the third-largest week on record. Click here for a detailed breakdown of this week's fund flow data &gt; In a note to clients this morning titled "Sell-Signal Triggered," BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett says flow signals are now pointing to a decent-sized sell-off. According to Hartnett, last time this signal was triggered, in January 2011, an 8 percent correction in global stocks followed over the course of February and March. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Hartnett writes, "On average, a 'sell' signal precedes a 5 percent correction in global stocks over the subsequent 4-5 weeks." We've seen a lot of similar calls from other strategists in recent days. Citi strategists, for example, sees these flows as seasonal, which indicates to them that a correction is looming. Read Citi's take here &gt; DON'T MISS:†We Just Witnessed Another History-Making Week For People Investing In Mutual Funds &gt;
EURJPY. For those not familiar with currency-speak, that's the Euro vs. the Japanese Yen. In case you didn't realize, the euro has been on a mega-tear, and the Japanese yen been getting crushed. So EURJPY is going vertical. Here's a 5-year chart. Note the big spike in recent months, which has pushed the pair back to levels not seen since 2010. This means that German exports (as well as other exports) are getting less cost-competitive by the day. Already you've heard calls from Angela Merkel, Wolfgang Schaeuble, and now various industrial leaders complaining about Japanese monetary policy and the price of the euro. The big question now is whether ECB acts to break the Euro. The economy is incredibly weak, and now this is making things worse. Bloomberg, Business Insider
While the RBC Canadian Manufacturing PMI has remained above 50, the index has been in decline since June 2012, which means growth has been decelerating. January's release shows the RBC PMI ticked up slightly, from 50.4 to 50.5. Here are the key points from the report: Here's a historical look: RBC, Markit The press release indicates that employment growth is weakening in the sector: Employment in Canada's manufacturing sector increased in January, taking the current sequence of job creation to 12 months. However, the rate of growth has slowed continually since reaching a peak last May, with the latest expansion only marginal. January 2012 marked the beginning of a sustained 6-month increase in Canada's PMI. We'll see if this uptick marks a repeat of this trend.
Flows into equity funds were stunning in the first three weeks of January, and the final week was no exception. This past week, total equity inflows were $18.8 billion, the third-largest on record, according to BofA Merrill Lynch. Flows into bond funds held up as well, but a clear divergence between the two asset classes has emerged in January: BofAML Global Research, EPFR Global Below is a breakdown of this week's flow data, courtesy of BofA strategist Michael Hartnett: Meanwhile, oil funds lost 3.2 percent of assets under management, government bond funds shrank 0.3 percent, and gold, silver, and TIPS funds contracted 0.1 percent. Quite a statement to begin the year. READ MORE:¬†Anyone Hoping For A 'Great Rotation' Into Stocks Must See These Three Charts &gt;
Photo courtesy of Allegra BovermanThe Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) is the best college in America¬†for many reasons. It has outstanding faculty, a top-notch engineering program, and alumni who have gone on to become notable politicians, historians, and physicists. But many of its current students have already done some pretty incredible things. These are the 14 most impressive undergraduate students on MIT's campus this semester.
TOULOUSE, France, Jan 31 (Reuters) - Airbus has studied alternatives to lithium-ion batteries for its next jet, the A350, and has time to adapt to any rule changes prompted by the problems that have grounded Boeing Co's 787 Dreamliner, its top executive said. Airbus plans to use lithium-ion batteries on the A350, similar to the technology incorporated in Boeing's 787 airliners, and so far has stood by the modern power packs. "We studied the integration of these batteries on the A350 very carefully," Airbus Chief Executive Fabrice Bregier told a group of French aerospace journalists on Thursday. "I am very relaxed about this." The first U.S. grounding of a new model of passenger jet in over 30 years has focused attention on the risks that lithium-ion batteries can overheat and ignite a fire that is harder to put out than most flames, because of the solvents involved. Airbus warned about the risks of lithium-ion batteries at a closed meeting of airlines in March 2011, according to a presentation first reported by Reuters this week. "We identified this fragility at the start of development and we think we resolved it about a year ago," Bregier said. "Nothing prevents us from going back to a classical plan that we have been studying in parallel." He did not provide details, but some aerospace industry sources caution that a redesign of the batteries could require months of engineering work and tests to obtain certification. "We have a robust design. If this design has to evolve, we have the time to do that," Bregier said. "If it has to change in a more drastic way because the authorities reach the conclusion that the technology is not mature, then we have all the time we need to do this on the A350 before first delivery in the second half of 2014." The head of the company that makes A350 batteries, France's Saft, told Reuters earlier on Thursday he did not believe there would be a radical rethink by aviation regulators on the use of lithium-ion as a result of the 787's problems. It is the first time Boeing or Airbus has used the technology in designing commercial passenger jets. POWER BOOST Lithium-ion batteries are a third lighter than their older nickel-cadmium counterparts and are also capable of supporting other electrical systems that make the plane lighter. They take up less space than the nickel cadmium batteries used on most jets. Experts say the 787 relies more heavily than the A350 on electrical systems instead of traditional hydraulics to control brakes and other systems, and therefore needs more power back-up. The head of the National Transportation Safety Board said after a press conference last week that the lack of a fire-fighting system in the 787's battery compartment, which also contains flight electronics, was one area being examined. Airbus has declined to say whether the A350 would include battery fire extinguishers, but industry sources say burning materials would instead be expelled outside the plane and that the fire hazard is reduced by electronics also provided by Saft. Saft declined to comment on the A350 battery design. Boeing's 787 batteries are supplied by French defence electronics company Thales, which sub-contracts the lithium-ion cells to Japanese company GS Yuasa Corp. A year after intense global publicity surrounding wing cracks on its A380 superjumbos, Airbus is keen to avoid a public split with its commercial rival on safety issues. But after sending a public message of support to Boeing on the 787 this month, Bregier exhibited frustration at growing speculation over the saga's impact on the A350. "I'm not going to give any lessons to Boeing. At the same time, I don't have to take any either, when I think we have done well and have a plan which allows me to have aircraft flying with batteries that don't catch fire," he said. "Let's allow the U.S. authorities to come up with their own recommendations and decisions." Boeing Chief Executive Jim McNerney said on Wednesday the U.S. planemaker was "narrowing down" the potential causes of the two battery incidents that led to the 787 grounding. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
One of the benefits of working in a media &amp; telecom group in banking is that you also get to work with¬†sports teamsand¬†leagues: after all, what media baron wouldpass¬†on the chance to own a few of their own sports franchises? So you‚Äôll see lots of sports teams and leagues owned by diversified media companies‚Ä¶ But sometimes, you need to skip all the media and telecom business and go directly to the source to advise sports teams directly. This is where finance and sports meet and what the¬†sports coverage group¬†is all about. Just like how Aerospace &amp; Defense is a cross between industrials and technology,¬†sports coverage¬†is a cross between media coverage and real estate (hospitality) coverage. You‚Äôve got media rights for sale to broadcast individual events or a series of events, and then stadiums (properties) that influence a team‚Äôs¬†valuation. This interview was inspired by the work of Robert Fuentes,¬†Michael Dinerstein, and¬†Daniel Fernandez¬†from Stanford University, who taught a seminar on the business of baseball alongside the book¬†Moneyball. Here‚Äôs the play-by-play for today‚Äôs interview: Now that we‚Äôve played out the various sports puns, let‚Äôs: Proceed to Games‚Ä¶ Q: What does it take to do well as a sports-oriented investment banker? A:¬†Randy Vataha, founder of the boutique investment bank¬†Game Plan, said it best: ‚ÄúFirst you have to have your technicals down. You‚Äôve got your attention to detail, knowledge of valuation approaches, and ability to transfer these two items into some solid financial and valuation models. Second, you need to know the sector. I‚Äôm talking about the¬†relationshipbetween a league and a team, what constitutes the composition of an outstanding or developing team, and the potential for revenue expansion for that team across (communications) medium form or geographic location.‚Äù As a senior banker,¬†it‚Äôs your task to create and cultivate relationships‚Ä¶ so you spend a lot of time speaking with sports teams, leagues, and the banks that compete to finance them, but you knew that already. Q: That seems pretty standard ‚Äì what makes your story different, and why do most people get into sports IB? A:¬†Most people who go into sports investment banking do so after spending some time at another department. It‚Äôs a¬†combination of love for the game and a commitment to the career. I joined my current bank because to me, it represents an opportunity to do something different, and not the usual thing that everyone knows about already. I‚Äôm the kind of guy who wants to play the oboe, not the violin. In some cases, it‚Äôs good to pursue a niche‚Ä¶ Sports investment banking¬†isn‚Äôt¬†about valuing physical assets or valuing technology patents ‚Äì it‚Äôs about seeing the potential of a team to win. Winning generates an interest in a particular team, and that interest translates into ticket sales, concession (food) sales, and of course purchases of official team gear. If a team¬†isn‚Äôt¬†performing, your task goes from standard assignment todistressed or even restructuring. But that isn‚Äôt always the case, and as you know, valuation is more art than science; a loyal fan base and a strong market for a team can make up for a not-so-hot win record. Reviewing the Roster: The Professional Sports Sector Overview Q: Right, that‚Äôs an interesting way to look at it: you get exposure to both traditional IB work and also some ‚Äúturnaround‚Äù strategies. So what encompasses the professional sports sector? A:¬†Baseball,¬†basketball, and¬†football¬†teams and leagues fall under my domain. There are other sports too, but those are the major ones we cover. It wasn‚Äôt always that way: there once was a time when¬†boxing¬†andhorseracing¬†were top sports. There is very little overlap when it comes to the definition of my area ‚Äì if you want good sports comps, you have to broaden your criteria and think about ‚Äúexposure to sports.‚Äù Here‚Äôs a good list of ‚Äúsports comps‚Äù that goes beyond the typical franchises you might think of, such as Manchester United and Madison Square Garden; the list includes companies like Disney because it owns an 80% stake in ESPN. Within those sports, the basic division consists of¬†teams¬†and¬†leagues.Stadium financing¬†falls under¬†public finance¬†because you have municipalities and states shelling out cash in order to sponsor construction. My coverage team might be brought in to bring a more focused (and correct‚Ä¶ arguably) perspective, but that‚Äôs more the exception rather than the rule. You see an interesting relationship between a coverage group and a product group ‚Äì sometimes the product group will get staffed on developing a sector update, while the coverage group assembles the more technical valuation work (ex: transaction comps and merger consequences analysis) and other times, the teams will work the other way around. You might also see sports coverage as part of the¬†private banking department (example for Citi here). The rationale is in-line with the whole ‚Äúwealth preservation‚Äù approach to investment. Q: What are some typical assignments in your group? A:¬†I can only speak about my bank, but most of the time you are writing up ideas on potential acquisition ideas (company profiles) and updating more product-oriented pages on who is buying, for what price and multiples, and for what reasons. Every now and then, we showcase macroeconomic data as part of the sector update and to provide some color on our commentary about the space. When it comes to capital raises, we look toward the equity comps I mentioned before, because those provide a decent barometer of whom we are looking at when it comes to raising money. Pardon the pun, but it really is a whole different ballgame, so I don‚Äôt want to look at¬†capital equipment¬†or¬†healthcare companies‚Äô¬†activities because their balance sheets are built up differently (you don‚Äôt see Manchester United offering financing options or credit cards to buy jerseys). Bases Loaded: Where Deal-Making Meets Good Sportsmanship Q: So what moves the market for sports companies? A:¬†Internally, you‚Äôre looking at the strength of the brand and audience reception. You‚Äôre also looking at the company‚Äôs ability to retain star players. Audience reception¬†is key because popularity will drive ticket sales, and in turn, ticket sales will drive merchandise sales and corporate sponsorships. Corporate sponsorships consist of arena signs, on-air commentary, print/online materials, and sometimes direct logos on an athlete‚Äôs uniform (as seen in NASCAR and in some soccer teams). You may also see pay-per-view programs brought to viewers by a particular sponsor, analogous to how individual stadiums have their names changed depending on the corporate backer. You can also generate revenue via the sale of¬†broadcasting rights and licensing. Broadcasting rights are pretty simple: you offer exclusivity to a particular television or cable channel. You‚Äôll want one that is in-line with your overall product ‚Äì you wouldn‚Äôt see a program catering toward young men on a channel devoted to women, for example. Q: What about licensing? A:¬†On licensing, imagine partnerships with particular vendors to deliver content using the themes and concepts of the sport. Similar to the selection of your investment bank, these media companies will want to choose the ‚Äúbest horse‚Äù when it comes to distribution. A particular athlete may star in a movie, so the fans will be interested. To get these fans to buy a ticket, you need good marketing and even stronger distribution capabilities. So investment or spending on a sports team really comes down to¬†how you want to reach your audience: do you want to get exposure to aparticular crowd or demographic? A sports team would be one way to go about that. For something such as the WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment), live and broadcast event ticket sales and viewership contribute a significant portion to revenue. Much like a sports event, the spectacle itself attracts a particular audience, who holds a variety of substitutes competing for equal and divided attention. The interest in individual athletes, characters, models, or even staff members constitutes the backbone of content when it comes to developing print or even video game media. The story arc among characters develops through televised programming, and you might say a chapter ends with a pay-per-view type event. These cable providers can afford to shell out higher payments to sports companies, and they represent a good source of revenue compared to regular or local network providers. Q: Great, thanks for explaining that. What about external factors that influence sports teams and leagues? A:¬†Externally, you‚Äôre looking at¬†personal disposable income, other companies‚Äô marketing (to sponsor games, uniforms, etc) and hospitality budgets (to buy premium courtside/ringside seats or even rent boxes and rooms at an arena). Above all else, the¬†popularity¬†of the sport is paramount. The main risk to any sports team is to stay relevant for the next generation ‚Äì ‚Äúcompetitors‚Äù to any sport include other sports leagues, including at the professional and college levels, and of course, online piracy (though ratings for sports events have stayed high compared to other TV broadcasts because so much of the appeal lies in watching them live). This last element is discussed and highlighted ad nauseum among movie previews and it‚Äôs even addressed through strategic partnerships with distributors such as Blockbuster (well, not so much anymore), Netflix, Hulu, and even YouTube. Now, you can watch a game two days after the fact and still be interested (highlights, anyone?). You have a diehard and loyal fan base supporting the storage of these videos. Much smaller sources of revenue might include catering services or even the sale of parts and vehicles (source: Speedway Motorsports, the operator of NASCAR events). Q: OK, so let‚Äôs say that I want to buy a sports team ‚Äì or an entire league, for that matter. Whom do I have to compete with? Other sports leagues? Media conglomerates? Mark Cuban? A:¬†Leagues are¬†akin to a fraternity, so deal-making is more like thepurchase of a seat at the table¬†and less like the purchase of a car. The purchase of teams or leagues is subject to much more¬†regulationthan you might expect. When you produce an interloper analysis, or potential buyers page, you‚Äôll have investment companies (read:¬†financial sponsors),¬†central banks, andmedia / telecom companies¬†all listed as potential buyers. Every now and then, you‚Äôll see a ‚Äúpersonality‚Äù come along and acquire a team outright, to address your point about Mark Cuban. Just as you as a banker are looking at a company, the league is taking a deep look at the acquirer as well. Due diligence goes¬†both ways¬†in this case, perhaps more so than due diligence in other industries. Q: Interesting‚Ä¶ so then what are the key deal drivers or considerations when you‚Äôre buying and selling leagues and teams? A:¬†David Blitzer of Blackstone, who has led the Tactical Opportunities Group, said it rather well: ‚ÄúRather than seeing the purchase of a team as merely the purchase of a team‚Ä¶ see it more as buying a stake in an¬†entire league.‚Äù From a financial sponsor‚Äôs standpoint, the main deal driver is‚Ä¶growth. :-) Normally, you would have a target IRR ‚Äì but acquiring a sports team is a different process. Financial sponsors tend to hold onto sports teams for longer periods, and they aim for a much higher return on investment as a result. Charles Baker of the law firm DLA Piper cited¬†uncertainty¬†as a key M&amp;A catalyst. So, for example, if the team has a high Debt / EBITDA ratio or its collective bargaining agreement is up in the air, both factors can influence the start of a sale or purchase process. Another difference between sports M&amp;A and traditional LBOs, MBOs, or even¬†Equity Buyouts (EBOs)¬†is that debt can introduce far more limitations into deals. A Technical Play Q: Would you mind sharing some pitch books you‚Äôve seen in this space? A:¬†Sure ‚Äì¬†my favorite is this one on the acquisition of the Nashville Predators, which discusses the valuation aspect quite nicely. You still see the same valuation approaches, but the operating model needs to be tweaked to consider both¬†team¬†and¬†arena revenue generation, which are influenced by the average attendance per game. You can also see how they have different operating cases there based onaverage attendance per game, which is something you would only see when working with sports teams. For a much larger team, you‚Äôre looking at commercial sponsorship, broadcasting, and match day (money generated from home games via ticket and concession sales) revenue generation (source: Manchester United). Consumer goods licensing¬†is also in play here, as you have sporting goods companies competing to be the apparel of choice for the team. Sporting goods companies have an odd challenge here because if they don‚Äôt win the contract, they won‚Äôt have something awesome to sell at the stores, which translates into lost revenue for them. As I mentioned earlier, there are media partnerships, including those with mobile providers, in order to add to the revenue base. Imagine paying for content online to watch matches. In terms of¬†valuation multiples, I focus mostly on Price / Revenue even though that might provide a pretty wide valuation range. The issue is that many sports teams and leagues have¬†negative earnings and/or cash flow, so applying traditional multiples like EV / EBITDA, P / E, and so on doesn‚Äôt necessarily work well. You may still see them calculated if the team is in better financial shape, but for comparability purposes sometimes Price / Revenue works better. Professor Christina Vogel of Wake Forest University¬†agrees: ‚Äúrevenue is a good starting point when it comes to valuation discussions.‚Äù Other sources concur: ‚ÄúUnlike industrial or financial business, which is generally valued on cash flow and assets, sport franchises are valued on their¬†revenues.‚Äù For a discussion on brand valuation, see page 16 of¬†BrandFinance‚Äôs European Football Brands Rankings. They use something called the ‚ÄúRoyalty Relief Approach,‚Äù which measures the theoretical cost of acquiring the license from a third party. Here‚Äôs their description of it:  ¬† You might wonder if the¬†stadium¬†of a team has anything to do with valuation. As¬†Phillip Miller from Minnesota State University found out, it does. There‚Äôs a slight boost to valuation once a team receives a new stadium. Even modest improvements such as a new scoreboard, more seats, or the inclusion of a night club will add to the topline, and therefore boost cash flow. It‚Äôs not so much ‚Äúif you build it, they will come,‚Äù but rather if you build it, people will be interested and might even show up, share the news, and spread the word to their friends. Q: Which banks play beautifully when it comes to covering the sports sector? A:¬†I distinguish sports coverage from sporting goods coverage because the latter is covered under¬†consumer retail. There isn‚Äôt a huge volume of deal-making in either advisory or capital raises ‚Äì so when you think about how investment banking is such a tight-knit community, the community for¬†sports M&amp;A¬†is even more tightly knit. When it comes to¬†bulge bracket (and ‚Äúelite boutique‚Äù) firms‚Äô advisory¬†(read: M&amp;A) product, take a look at Goldman Sachs, UBS, Lazard, Blackstone, and Moelis. I‚Äôve seen JPMorgan on some lists as well‚Ä¶ Among¬†boutiques,¬†Inner Circle Sports,¬†Galatioto Sports Partners,¬†Game Plan,¬†WB Grimes, and¬†Park Lane¬†are the names that come to mind. Note that most sports franchises are worth anywhere from a few hundred million USD to around $1 billion,¬†so bulge bracket banks rarely put their ‚ÄúA Team‚Äù on these deals¬†‚Äì one of the articles linked to above actually references this. As a result, a lot of smaller banks are very active in the market. Q: So what should our readers take a look at if they want to get into sports investment banking ‚Äì besides the sports pages? A:¬†While the¬†International Journal of Sports Finance¬†covers the more academic nature of sports,¬†Bloomberg hosts a more practical summit on the topic. The folks there have actually posted the¬†videos¬†as well (under the agenda section)! If I had to choose a favorite website, I would pick¬†SportsBusiness.com. Besides the usual suspects, you can take a look at¬†this primer by Fitch Ratings on sports transactions. And here‚Äôs a¬†report by WR Hambrecht that discusses franchise valuation and macroeconomics more broadly. Q: Where do sports investment bankers go once they‚Äôve achieved Hall of Fame status? A:¬†Most go to graduate school or move into the buy-side. They‚Äôre akin to the exit opportunities in the broader coverage of media and telecom, but you wouldn‚Äôt be as well-equipped to work with radio stations or commercial satellites. You also see these bankers moving into¬†corporate finance roles¬†at media outlets like¬†ESPN¬†and even at¬†sports teams. Just as there is a sort of revolving door between¬†Pennsylvania Avenue and Wall Street, there is also a revolving door between the sports sector proper and sports ‚Äúfinance‚Äù (investment banking and private equity). Q: Any parting words before we end this interview? A:¬†Winners don‚Äôt use drugs¬†‚Äì even if you‚Äôre a banker and¬†the temptation is always there‚Ä¶ Luis Miguel Ochoa¬†has worked in investment banking for several years covering the industrial sector. In addition to being an avid mentor for his alma mater, he volunteers for the Association of Latino Professionals in Finance and Accounting. In his spare time, he is fencing, and attends networking events in New York. He has graduated from Stanford with a BA in Economics.
Daniel Ravenel Sotheby's InternationalWould you like a home on South Carolina's Kiawah island? How about one with tons of office space and a humidor for cigar storage? Very attractive, of course, even more so because it's on sale. Former Golman Sachs Partner Jeffrey Weingarten has reduced the price of his vacation home from $26 million to $18 million, according to the WSJ. And he's also chaged broker. The house used to be listed with Daniel Ravenel Sotheby's International Realty and now it's with Cynthia Noble.
For super-rich sports fans, the path to the Super Bowl will be in a private jet. More than 1,000 private jets are expected to fly into New Orleans this weekend, just under last year's tally of around 1,100 planes in Indianapolis ‚Äì one of the biggest ever. So many Gulfstreams, Learjets and Citations will be landing in New Orleans that airport operators are having to close down taxiways to make room for private-jet parking. "It's going to be a very busy weekend here," said Michelle Wilcut, deputy director of Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport. (Read more: Private Jet Traffic Down for Second Inaugural) About 200 private jets are expected to land New Orleans International and around 700 expected at New Orleans Lakefront Airport, which is the main private-jet airport. Up to 100 planes could be arriving at other, smaller airports nearby. Lakefront is closing one of its taxiways to make room for private-jet parking. And other airports are shuffling planes and tarmac space to make room for the flock of planes. Private jet companies say demand for this year's game has been dampened somewhat by the lack of a New York team in the big match-up. Since New York's tri-state area is far and away the largest private-jet market, New York teams tend to be big winners for the industry. Another big market for private-jet travel is Boston and the New England region. Last year's game between the New York Giants and the New England Patriots was a dream match-up for the industry. While the San Francisco is a strong jet market, Baltimore is less of a draw. Flexjet "isn't seeing significant demand for travel to the Super Bowl this year ‚Äì due to the participating teams," the company said in a statement, but added that travelers who are flying private to the game are going earlier and staying for a few days ‚Äì a contrast to last year when they flew in and out the day of the game. (Read more: Private Jets Getting Bigger, Faster, Cheaper) "Based on what we've historically seen in the past, East Coast match-ups tend to generate the highest private jet travel demand," Flexjet said. Others say last-minute bookings may push this year's total close to last year's total. And they say fans from around the country are flying private to the game. Adam Johnson, senior vice president of sales, marketing and service at NetJets, said the company has about 120 planes going to New Orleans. He said the company "may see demand slightly above last year," since clients are flying in from around the country. He said San Francisco and Baltimore account for only about 25 percent of the traffic, while the rest is coming from the Northeast, South and other areas. "The traffic is coming from all over the country," he said. "It's such a popular event, that it's not limited to one area." Many of the super-rich Super Bowl fans are asking jet companies to fill the planes with NFL swag, from T-shirts and jerseys to footballs and hats. Many are planning big feasts for the trip down, making for the ultimate jet-tail-gating party. Catering companies say clients are ordering sushi, cheese plates, New Orleans-themed gumbo and oysters. But the big demand this year is for sliders, wings, nachos and pigs-in-a-blanket. And clients are often pairing the party foods with fines wines and vintage champagnes. "This is a guy's weekend," said Todd Rome, president of Blue Star Jets. "They know how to order." What does it cost to fly private to the game? Rome said that for a light jet, the charge is about $2,800 an hour ‚Äì as long as the round trip is the same day. That means a round trip from New York would run around $17,000. Larger jets cost more like $35,000. Yet many private jet clients are staying in New Orleans overnight ‚Äì given the city's legendary night life and flight restrictions that prevent jets from taking off from Lakefront before midnight on Sunday. Johnson said that NetJets has set up private cars, catering and other services for its fliers over the weekend ‚Äì whether they stay or not. "We cater to whatever they want," he said.
Google Street ViewA country road near where McGeever was reportedly foundKevin Michael McGeever was one of Ireland's premier property developers, making millions from investing in the UAE, and had personally prospered from the Celtic Tiger's boom years. He built a lavish, ‚Ç¨3 million mansion called Nirvana and drove around in a JT22 Porsche, one of his many cars, the Irish Independent notes. He apparently even had his own helicopter. However, the 68-year-old disappeared without a trace eight months ago in Galway, causing his family to fear for his life ‚Äî and his reappearance this week is providing more questions than answers. According to the BBC, McGeever was picked up by a couple on Tuesday night around 70 miles from Galway, near the town of Ballinamore. He was walking on a quiet country road by himself. Local Sinn F√©in Councillor Martin Kenny, who knew the couple that picked him up, describes the strange scene: "They noticed something on the road and, at first, they thought it was a traffic cone, but he was wearing red trousers." "He looked dishevelled. He did not know what county he was in, what day it was, what month it was. They noticed he had no shoes." Various reports suggest that McGeever was wearing a "plastic bag" and had no money on him but a torch and a phone. The couple then took him to the station, Kenny says: "They went to the local garda station and they got him tea and biscuits. He gobbled up the biscuits as he was ravenous so they got him some curry chips. They discovered he had been missing for the past eight months and that he was in fact an international high flyer. He was well spoken, intelligent and well educated." The Irish Independent reports that McGeever told police he had been abducted by armed men 8 months before but cannot remember after that. According to some reports he had an insult, possibly the word "thief", carved into his forehead, though Councillor Kenny told the BBC that there was "no clear evidence of that". One source told the Irish Herald that he had "sustained injuries to his body". If McGeever was abducted, the obvious questions are: who by and why? According to an Irish Daily Mail source, McGeever has told police that he was abducted because he owed money to "Russian gangsters and the IRA". However, the woman who found him has reportedly cast doubts upon this story, telling police that he told her it was "mistaken identity" and that McGeever may have "Alzheimer‚Äôs or something like that". The Irish Independent notes that McGeever is listed in legal proceedings in a case being taken against his company, KMM Properties, which began in 2009. McGeever is now recovering in hospital, where he is being protected by armed guards.
White House via FlickrIt's February 1, so we're getting the first full-month January data. And it's clear we're off to a great start. In fact, some of the biggest areas of concern are specifically being alleviated by what we're getting. Non-Farm Payrolls added 155K in January, though the revisions to December and November were so solid, that the trajectory of the labor economy looks very nice. Crucially, University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment showed a surprise jump in January, which is huge, since this directly contradicts a weak consumer sentiment survey that we got earlier this month. This question of consumer sentiment is massively important, because the increase in the payroll tax (via the expiration of the payroll tax holiday) is one of the biggest reasons to worry about the economy. If sentiment is holding up, that's great. In addition to this, we got a super-strong ISM (with great internals related to hiring and new orders) and construction spending which grew stronger than people were expecting. Meanwhile, the Dow has just broken 14,000 &gt;
A few years ago, Apple held a remarkable competitive position in the tablet market. The company was not only was first-to-market (Apple basically invented the tablet category). Apple also had both the premium product AND the lowest price. As competitors scrambled to catch up with the iPad, most of the early competitive tablets were both worse than the iPad and more expensive. That is an extremely rare position for a company to be in. And it's no surprise that Apple basically had the tablet market to itself for a couple of years. But in the last year or so, those competitive dynamics have changed. The launch of smaller, lower-priced tablets by Amazon, Google, Samsung, and others opened up a vast new tablet market. And Apple's original thesis, that any tablet under 10 inches would be a horrible user experience, proved wrong. Consumers liked the $100-$400 price points on Kindles and other smaller tablets. And the success of these tablets forced Apple to cut prices on its large iPad and then introduce an iPad Mini. With the Mini, Apple is now playing in the smaller/cheaper tablet market, which is good. Importantly, however, Apple is no longer the price leader in this category. The iPad Mini is considered by some to be the best of the smaller tablets--the premium choice--but it's certainly not the cheapest. And that difference is one reason that Apple's share of the tablet market is now shrinking fast. (Another reason is that, as happened in smartphones, the competition is catching up. Several of Apple's competitors have released tablets that even Apple fans admit are pretty darn good--especially when one considers that they cost a third or more less than the iPad Mini). According to new data from IDC, Apple's market share of the global tablet market has dropped from 52% in the fourth quarter of 2011 to 44% in 2012. Meanwhile, Samsung's share of the market has doubled, as has that of Asus, which makes Google's Nexus 7 tablet. IDC ¬† Both Samsung and Asus still have relatively small share--Asus especially. And Apple is still the world's dominant tablet maker, by a mile. But the same trends that played out in the smartphone market are beginning to play out in tablets, and these trends aren't positive for Apple. By choosing to protect its profit margin and price the iPad Mini above the competition, Apple is likely sacrificing market share. In the short term, this doesn't matter--it's a fine short-term strategy to sacrifice market share for per-unit profit. But the tablet market, like the smartphone market, is a "platform market"--which means that third parties build other products and services that run on top of tablets. And Apple's dominant market share in this platform market is a major advantage (iTunes libraries, for example, don't play on Samsung and Amazon tablets). Every point of market share that Apple loses weakens its competitive position as a platform. And if the market share dynamics in the tablet market continue to play out the way they did in the smartphone market, Apple's decision to protect near-term profits at the expense of market share may hurt it in the end. SEE ALSO: Apple Absolutely Has To Make An iPhone With A Bigger Screen
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesConstruction spending beat expectations rising 0.9 percent month-over-month (MoM) in December. Analysts polled by Bloomberg were looking for construction spending to rise 0.7 percent MoM. November's number was revised up to 0.1 percent. Investors watch this number because of its direct bearing on homebuilder stocks and commodities. Moreover, Bloomberg points out that private residential, nonresidential and government construction spending have an impact on three key aspects of GDP namely "residential investment, nonresidential structures investment, and the structures portion of government expenditures".
Matthew Lloyd/Getty ImagesGlobal PMI day is wrapping up. For the most part it was good news. Asia appears to be growing.¬† Despite a slightly disappointing reading of the official China PMI, the unofficial HSBC PMI was robust. Europe continues to be a mess, but most of the manufacturing metrics appear to be improving. US PMI slipped, but beat expectations and the subindices were quite healthy.¬† US ISM Manufacturing also crushed estimates. Markets are surging. ................................EARLIERThe world's biggest economies are releasing their January manufacturing PMI reports. This is our live scorecard. Just a few hours into the day, there was already a controversy.¬† China's official PMI unexpectedly fell, while its unofficial HSBC PMI jumped to a two-year high. Economists warn that the data is noisy, especially considering the upcoming New Years' holiday....At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan and several other major data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the manufacturing¬†purchasing managers index (PMI) for countries around the world. Each reading is based on surveys of hundreds of companies. Read more about it at Markit. These are not the most closely followed data points.¬† However, the power of the insights is unparalleled. Jim O'Neill, Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, believes the PMI numbers are among the most reliable economic indicators in the world.¬† BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks it's one of the most underrated indicators. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SCORECARD (All Time ET)
AP ImagesThe University of Michigan's January consumer confidence index reading is out. The headline number unexpectedly rose to 73.8 in January from 72.9 in December. Economists were looking for a 71.5 reading, slightly above the¬†preliminary 71.3 estimate published January 18. Gains were driven by the economic outlook sub-component of the index, which rose to 66.6 from 63.8 last month. However, the economic conditions sub-component fell to 85.0 in January from 87.0 in December. Inflation expectations one year ahead inched up to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent last month.¬†Inflation expectations three years ahead were unchanged at 2.9 percent. An alternate index of consumer sentiment published by the Conference Board on Tuesday said consumer confidence collapsed to 58.6 in January from 66.7 the month before.
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesCompleted foreclosures fell 21 percent year-over-year in December to 56,000, according to CoreLogic's latest foreclosure report. And foreclosure inventory decreased to 1.2 million homes as of December 2012, down 19.5 percent on the year, and 4.2 percent on the month. This represents 3 percent of all homes with a mortgage.¬† ‚ÄúThe rate of foreclosures continues to trend down, albeit at a slower rate as we exit 2012,‚Äù Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic, said in a press release. "This trend should continue into 2013 and is another positive signal that the gradual healing process in the housing market is gaining traction." Here are some details from the report: Here's a chart that shows foreclosure inventory in judicial and non-judicial states as of December 2012: CoreLogic ¬†
Wikimedia CommonsFord's assembly line.The January reading of the ISM manufacturing report report is out, and it's good. The headline number unexpectedly jumped to 53.1 from 50.2 a month ago. Economists were looking for a reading of 50.7. All five sub-indices (new orders, production, employment, supplier deliveries and inventories) are showing growth. Earlier this morning, the Markit US PMI ‚Äî a similar economic data point ‚Äî slipped to 55.8, but it was nevertheless much stronger than expectations. From the report: The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management‚Ñ¢ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI‚Ñ¢ registered 53.1 percent, an increase of 2.9 percentage points from December's seasonally adjusted reading of 50.2 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for the second consecutive month. The New Orders Index registered 53.3 percent, an increase of 3.6 percent over December's seasonally adjusted reading of 49.7 percent, indicating growth in new orders. Manufacturing is starting out the year on a positive note, with all five of the PMI‚Ñ¢'s component indexes ‚Äî new orders, production, employment, supplier deliveries and inventories ‚Äî registering above 50 percent in January." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 are reporting growth in January in the following order: Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Textile Mills; Furniture &amp; Related Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Machinery; Primary Metals; and Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products. The four industries reporting contraction in January are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Computer &amp; Electronic Products; Wood Products; and Chemical Products.
Bloomberg TVJefferies strategist David Zervos could not be more thrilled by today's jobs report. The title of the email he just sent out: "Perfection!!!" Why? Zervos's big trade that he's been pushing forever is "Spoos And Blues." Long S&amp;P futures, and long eurodollar futures. And as we just explained, today's jobs report is perfect for that. The data is good enough for people to keep buying stocks, but not so good that the Fed will tighten anytime soon. Says Zervos: Spoos +9, Blues +7, it just doesn't get any better than that! The Fed has your back if it gets bad, and the Fed will be slow to react when it all goes right. The basic trade of long risk/long blues is the best representation of that view in the market - hands down. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub &gt;
Andrew BurtonHeadline Non-Farm Payrolls came in a bit lighter than expectations today. But futures are nicely higher. What gives? Well, one of the big concerns that the market faces is this idea that the Fed might tighten prematurely. But the unemployment rate is one of the primary datapoints the Fed uses to determine appropriate monetary policy, and unemployment ticked higher. So we got a fine current number, great backward revisions, and no improvement in unemployment, putting no pressure on the Fed. Just one note. There might be some thinking that this means we're in a bad-news-is-good-news market, and that the Fed is the only game in town. That's not quite it. If this had been a bad number, without those positive previous revisions, and then we rallied, that would be a signal that the market is just looking for Fed juice. But it was a good number. Not great, but a sign of an improving labor market, and we get the green light from the Fed, that's the key. Stock market: rally mode. For more on the full report, see here &gt;
CNBCIn the wake of the financial crisis, some have warned that the world was headed for a currency war as global central banks unleash easy monetary policy in their efforts to weaken their local currencies.† The intention behind such actions is to boost exports and in turn boost the economy. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations, think that the world is about to tip. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Currency Warfare ñ We believe full currency warfare may be ready to break out on a global scale. The overt move to cheapen the Japanese yen has attracted both attention and participation.† (Hedge funds and pseudo hedge funds are aggressively shorting the yen and buying the Nikkei.) Competitors and trading partners from Korea to China are voicing concerns and challenges.† Countermoves may be imminent. Germany, a price export competitor of Japan (think autos for example), is being pinched as the ECB stands pat and the Euro soars. The clock has begun ticking and we will explore this topic again and again in the days ahead. SEE ALSO: The 20 Most Stagnant Economies In The World &gt;
It's that time of the month again. With today's mediocre jobs report, it's time to update The Scariest Jobs Chart Ever, which compares the trajectory of job losses and recoveries in various recession since WWII. It's a chart that's always put together each month by Bill McBride of Calculated Risk, we like to keep showing it to you, so that you don't lose sight of how unusually big and bad these job losses were. Calculated Risk
Markit's January U.S. PMI report is out. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; The headline index rose to 55.8 from last month's 54.0 reading. Economists were expecting the index to come in at 55.3. Earlier in January, Markit released a flash estimate of 56.1. Below is a breakdown of the change in the individual sub-components: Markit Click here for the full release &gt;
The January jobs report is out.¬† And after a taking a few minutes to process the information, markets are now surging. Dow futures are up 110 points.¬† S&amp;P futures are up 8 points. U.S. stock market futures were up handily ahead of the report.¬† Dow futures were up 69 pts, S&amp;P futures up 6 points.¬† The 10-year yield was at 1.99 percent. Gold jumped to $1,673 from $1,663. The January non-farm payrolls number was a bit lighter than expected, but the December and November numbers were revised up significantly. Here's a look at Dow futures via FinViz. FinViz The unemployment rate also ticked up to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent a month ago. At the December FOMC meeting, the Federal Reserve said it would employ unemployment rate and inflation rate targets to help guide monetary policy.¬† The unemployment rate threshold was 6.5 percent.¬† Given that, gold may be moving on prospects for extended easy monetary policy.
Henry LeutwylerThe jobs report was kind of a snooze. Headline Non-Farm Payrolls were basically right in line. But the real interesting stuff happened in the revisions. December was revised up by 40K. November was revised up by 86K. These both have turned out to be impressive months. That means that right in the teeth of the Fiscal Cliff fight, amid all of the "uncertainty", employment was much hotter than expected. The uncertainty myth is nonsense. As we argued on Friday, after GDP, The Confidence Fairy is dead. For the full report, see here &gt;
FlickrThe average†Twitter†prediction for today's non-farm payrolls report is +199K. The median estimate is 163K. This was based on 80 Twitter submissions using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 7:53 AM ET. Wall Street economists forecast today's headline non-farm payrolls number will come in at†165K new jobs. Click here for an in-depth preview of today's release &gt; We will have the jobs data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThe jobs report is out for January, and on the headline it's a slight miss. 157K new jobs is below the consensus estimates of 165K. The unemployment rate ticked up to 7.9%. But the report had a lot of good news as well. Last month was revised higher, from 155K to 196K. And November was revised even higher, from 161K to 247K! Those are some seriously impressive revisions. Once again, public sector employment continues to be a drag. Another 4.7K jobs were lost in local government education. Good news comes from average hourly wages, which grew 0.2%, ahead of the 0.1% that was expected. The full report is here &gt;
Great signs of growth coming from Brazil. The latest PMI reading (which measures the health of the manufacturing economy) showed a jump from 51.1 in December to 53.2. Output growth is at a 23-month high. Markit The full report is here.
Sky NewsAt least two people are dead after a¬†suicide bomber detonated a bomb at the entrance of the U.S. Embassy in the Turkish capital, according to a¬†police official and reported by The Associated Press. Sky News reports that the bomb appeared to have exploded inside the security checkpoint at a side entrance, killing the bomber and a security guard. "There was a huge bang which really shook everywhere,"¬†journalist Ilnur Cevik, who was in a car down the street, told Sky News. A Reuters witness saw one wounded person being lifted into an ambulance as police cordoned off the area. The US embassy building is heavily protected while the German and French embassies are nearby. There was no claim of responsibility for the attack, but Kurdish rebels and Islamic militants are active in Turkey. Turkish news video below.  ¬†Google MapsAnkara, Turkey in red
Back in July, several months before the iPhone 5 was released, pictures of the phone started to leak. Based on these pictures, which showed a phone with a screen that was slightly taller than the iPhone 4 screen but no wider, I wrote a post entitled "If the iPhone 5 really looks like this, Apple may be screwed." My point was that consumers really seemed to like the new, big screens on phones like Samsung's Galaxy S3 and that screen size was going to be a major point of differentiation. Well, when the iPhone 5 came out, it looked exactly like the one in the pictures--with a screen that was slightly taller than the old iPhone screen but no wider. When launching this phone, Apple made a point to say that it had intentionally chosen to go with the (relatively) small screen because the Samsung screen was too big to fit comfortably in one hand. Not surprisingly, millions of dutiful Apple fans immediately began repeating this mantra, telling anyone who would listen that any phone screen bigger than the iPhone screen was "too big to fit in your hand." And, depending on how big your hand is, that may actually be true. Well, despite some misgivings about missing out on the larger screen size, I eventually decided to upgrade my iPhone 3GS to an iPhone 5. And the iPhone 5 is certainly a good phone. As I explained here, it's noticeably faster than the 3GS. And when I pick up my 3GS again, I do notice that the iPhone 5 screen is a bit taller than the screen on the 3GS (otherwise, I don't--the added height doesn't really help.) But... I must confess to having ongoing misgivings about having chosen a phone with a relatively small screen. A couple of weeks ago, I was riding down an elevator when the person in front of me fired up a Galaxy, and I thought to myself, "wow." Last week, I watched a friend reviewing some videos he had taken of an event on a Galaxy, and I again thought to myself, "wow." And last weekend, as I spent an interminable 9 hours crammed into an airline seat, I watched the person next to me watch a concert on a Galaxy, and I thought to myself, "wow." And as much as I wanted to reassure myself that I had made the right choice, my eyes were telling me otherwise: That bigger screen is awesome. Apple's stock has cratered 35% from its peak of five months ago. This fall is the result of a lot of factors, but the biggest one is this: After five years of having the best smartphone on the planet, Apple has arguably fallen behind the competition. And the biggest and most obvious reason Apple has fallen behind the competition is its stubborn insistence on sticking with a small iPhone screen. Diehard Apple fans will no doubt dismiss me as a barbarian philistine--too much of a boor to appreciate the superior design and materials of the iPhone, too plebeian to realize that all phones other than Apple phones are just made of "cheap plastic crap" that is dumbing down civilization and ruining the world. And that's fine. I expect no less of Apple fans. But I do have a question for them: Late at night, when you are alone and not surrounded by fellow Apple fans, and you see one of those huge gorgeous Galaxy screens, do you not--just for a moment--notice that your iPhone looks puny and sad in comparison? Do you not--just briefly--wish that you had not just parrotted the mantra that "smaller is better" and, instead, kept a more open mind" Do you not wish--just briefly--that Apple's design god Jony Ive had woken up with the revelation that maybe, just maybe, bigger might be better? If you do not have these thoughts, I salute you. Your loyalty and dedication is commendable. Because I, an otherwise happy Apple customer, certainly do. SEE ALSO: If The iPhone 5 Really Looks Like This, Apple Might Be Screwed
Jason Merritt/Getty ImagesGood morning, and happy PMI Day. We're about to kick off the Superbowl of Economic Data. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Wikimedia CommonsEarly this morning the New York Post reported,¬†citing sources,¬†that former NYC mayor Ed Koch has died at the age of 88. The Associated Press has now confirmed the report. The Post report says the former mayor passed away at 2 AM. It has been known that Koch has been in and out of intensive care in recent weeks. Koch served as mayor from 1978 to 1989. The NYT has an awesome video obituary here, which we've embedded. 
Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs DivisionNew York's Grand Central Terminal turns 100 today. A vast complex of marbled halls, museums, boutiques and restaurants, it's more than just a train station, says Douglas Rogers. Happy Birthday Grand Central. Americaís most famous train station, the sprawling Beaux-Arts masterpiece that takes up two blocks of Manhattan, is celebrating its 100th anniversary. The terminus, which took 10 years to build at a cost equivalent to $2 billion (£1.26bn) today, began its first service at a minute past midnight on February 2, 1913. A star-studded ceremony yesterday, at which red carpets were unfurled and shops and restaurants put some prices down to 1913 rates - 10c shoe shines!; 19c cheesecake! - marked the start of a series of events that will take place throughout 2013. Grand Central is so much more than a train terminus. A vast complex of marbled halls, museums, tunnels, ramps, boutiques, bars and restaurants, itís almost a city in itself. Hard to believe that in the late Seventies it was crumbling, covered in soot, and slated for demolition. A campaign led by Jackie Kennedy Onassis helped save it, and over the past 15 years it has had a spectacular overhaul. The focal point remains the Main Concourse, its dramatic 125ft-high ceiling with a mural of a Mediterranean night-sky constellation is a destination in itself. When light streams through the towering windows onto the marble, it has the feeling of a cathedral. In the middle sits the four-faced Grand Central Clock, $20 million worth of brass and precious opal; probably the most iconic meeting point in the city. You need not have been here to recognize it: the Concourse has featured in dozens of movies from The Godfather to Superman, and it was here that Cary Grant first went on the run from government agents at the start of Hitchcockís North by Northwest. Indeed, amid such cultural and architectural splendor, itís easy to forget the Concourse is, ultimately, a hub; an estimated three million people pass through it every day. Adjacent to it is Vanderbilt Hall, the former passenger waiting room, now used for exhibitions and private events. Showing here, until March 16, is Grand by Design, the centerpiece of the centennial celebrations: a multi-media exhibit of wall-sized photographs and digital projections about the history of the building, its design, and how the station has shaped modern life in New York. This is to be followed on March 25-31 by a performance piece, Heard-NY, by artist Nick Cave, in which 30 colorful model 'horsesí take up residence in the hall and break out into choreographed dance. And rail enthusiasts wonít want to miss the Grand Centennial Parade of Trains Weekend (May 10-12), a rare display of historic train cars that have served the station over the years, including the celebrated 20th Century Limited (1902-1967), known to rail buffs at the time as The Greatest Train in the World. If you miss these shows, the terminal has other permanent attractions. Accessed by stairs at the Vanderbilt Avenue entrance is The Campbell Apartment, a swanky (no trainers or jeans) cocktail lounge, that was once the office of 1920s tycoon John W. Campbell. The highlight though is the Food Concourse below ground that features dozens of stores and restaurants. The best of them is the timeless Oyster Bar &amp; Restaurant, with its Rafael Guastavino-designed vaulted ceiling. The only business still going that was here the day the terminus opened in 1913, order a dozen Prince Edward Island oysters and a glass of Sancerre, and toast Happy Birthday. Just donít expect the cheesecake to still cost 19c. 
Employment in Japan's once-mighty manufacturing sector has fallen below 10 million for the first time in five decades, as a new government vows to stoke the struggling economy. Official employment data released Friday showed the number of workers in Japanese industry, which fuelled the country's stratospheric rise from the ashes of World War II, slipped to 9.98 million in December. That is the lowest level since 1961 as firms slash costs and ship manufacturing jobs to lower-cost nations overseas. Like many developed economies, the manufacturing sector has been hollowed out in high-cost Japan as it struggles to compete with manufacturing powerhouse China and rivals in South Korea and Taiwan. "During the post-war era, Japan enjoyed significant standing in manufacturing. Gradually it has been reduced as relocation of factories overseas continues," said labour minister Norihisa Tamura. "We must think about ways to keep manufacturing in Japan," he added. The decline of manufacturing and that of world-beating giants such as Sony and Panasonic has sparked plenty of hand wringing in Japan. The deflation-plagued economy remains stagnant, a far cry from the soaring growth that turned it into a world beater in the closing decades of the last century. Japan lost the title of world's second-biggest economy behind the United States to a rising China in 2010. The new employment data shows the manufacturing sector has shrunk by about 40 percent from a peak of 16 million workers in 1992, as an asset and stocks bubble burst ushering in twenty years of anaemic growth. Manufacturing has fallen from about 27 percent of Japan's overall labour force in the 1970s to 16 percent today. Japan's hard-hit electronics giants, among others, have slashed jobs and downsized domestic factories while expanding overseas, as a persistently high yen and high wages encouraged manufacturers to ship jobs abroad. However, a new conservative government under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pledged to revive Japan's economy with big spending and aggressive monetary easing. Tokyo has pressured the Bank of Japan for rocket-fuelled policy to stoke the economy, eventually bending the central bank to its will as it grudgingly set a two percent inflation target. The yen has tumbled over recent weeks and the benchmark Nikkei 225 index has shot skywards. The manufacturing jobs data was released with regular monthly employment figures, which showed Japan's jobless rate stood at 4.2 percent in December, edging up from 4.1 percent in the previous month. In 2012 the unemployment rate fell 0.3 percent, marking two straight years of improvement, according to the internal affairs ministry. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Flickr/eggplantWe've been pointing out that it's a big day for the global economy, but you might not realize how much US data there is today. With help from Calculated Risk, here's what's coming out in the US, along with the time and the official consensus estimate.
Note the highlighted part. Spanish youth unemployment: 55.6% Eurostat
The U.S. Army via flickr Creative CommonsOn Wednesday, the Q4 GDP report showed a surprise contraction of 0.1%. It was the first contraction since the Great Recession. The culprit: A marked slowdown in government spending, mostly fueled by the fastest annualized drop in military spending since the Vietnam War. So naturally, one might look at the report and conclude, perhaps, that if we don't want GDP to keep shrinking, we ought to be careful about cutting spending too aggressively. And so because of this natural impulse, libertarians and conservatives are launching a bizarre, misguided war against the GDP report. It started yesterday morning, with a post up at the Cato Institute by Daniel Mitchell, which argued that it was wrong to take the "Keynesian" lesson from GDP, and conclude that spending cuts are hurting the economy. He wrote: But here‚Äôs the problem. GDP numbers only measure how we spend or allocate our national income. It‚Äôs a very convoluted way of measuring economic health. Sort of like assessing the status of your household finances by adding together how much you spend on everything from mortgage and groceries to your cable bill and your tab at the local pub. Wouldn‚Äôt it make much more sense to directly measure income? Isn‚Äôt the amount of money going into our bank accounts the key variable? The same principle is true - or should be true - for a country. That‚Äôs why the better variable is gross domestic income (GDI). It measures things such as employee compensation, corporate profits, and small business income. Veronique de Rugy at National Review made the same argument. There's so much wrong here. First, the economy is not a "household" so right off the bat, you've got a bad analogy. But furthermore, this idea that looking at "Gross Domestic Income" is a better measure of the economy than GDP because it looks at 'income' rather than spending is objectively nonsense. GDI is just another way of measuring GDP, as is totally logical, since every dollar spent in the economy is someone else's income. If the government cuts military spending by $100 billion, then that's $100 billion lost in someone's income (military contractors, soldiers, etc.). It doesn't change anything. All you've changed is how you count it. If you keep cutting government spending aggressively, a lot of folks are going to lose their income. In theory GDP and GDI should be equal (in practice, because they're both surveys and subject to measurement error, they can differ a bit). The bigger lesson is the same. No matter how you measure it, cuts to government spending are going to hurt people's income, and thus represent a drag on the economy, at least at any given moment (acknowledging this doesn't preclude a philosophical argument that a smaller government will produce a more competitive economy). Fighting over the proper amount of government spending is fine. Slamming one measure of the economy, because it captures the extent to which a government spending slowdown is slowing the overall economy, is madness. For more on Wednesday's GDP report, see here &gt;
Courtesy of The Official Website of the British MonarchyUK PMI isn't going to move markets much. The index fell slightly from 51.2 to 50.8. This isn't too far out of line with expectations. From the report: UK manufacturing production continued to expand¬† at the start of 2013, following a further increase in¬† new orders and ongoing efforts to clear backlogs of¬† work. The labour market also continued to stabilise¬† following the job losses seen through much of the¬† middle of last year.¬†¬†¬†¬† At 50.8 in January, edging lower from December‚Äôs¬† 15-month high of 51.2, the seasonally adjusted¬† Markit/CIPS¬† Purchasing Manager‚Äôs Index ¬Æ¬†¬† (PMI ¬Æ )¬† remained above the neutral 50.0 mark for the¬† second month running.¬†¬† Manufacturing output expanded at the fastest pace¬† since September 2011.
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesThe labor market continues to be the bellwether indicator for Federal Reserve policy ñ which in turn is one of the biggest open questions in markets right now. The Fed has stated that it will not consider raising benchmark interest rates until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 percent. Most don't expect this until 2015 or 2016. On the other hand, the Fed could end quantitative easing much sooner. FOMC members have said an unemployment rate around 7 percent by the end of 2013 may be sufficient to halt bond purchases. As such, a big positive surprise from today's nonfarm payroll report could cause Treasury yields to resume their upward trajectory if it looks like the labor market is progressing toward those benchmarks faster than expected. In this environment, against a backdrop of historic equity inflows in January, the bond market is skittish. This week, we got some clues on the state of the labor market in America. Wednesday's ADP report estimated that 192,000 private payrolls were added to the U.S. economy in January, above estimates of a 165,000 gain and up slightly from the previous month's downwardly-revised 185,000 new payrolls. Initial jobless claims figures released today came in above expectations at 368,000, but the four-week moving average barely moved, at 352,000, aided by lower readings over the previous two weeks in January. The employment sub-index of today's Chicago PMI report surged from contraction in December to robust expansion in January. Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson suggests that based on the last few instances of strong employment gains in the Chicago PMI, Friday's nonfarm payrolls print†ought to exceed consensus estimates. Below are the consensus estimates for today's report: --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Citi Chief U.S. Economist Robert DiClemente: The warm and relatively dry start to the northern winter also may give a boost to job creation in the January employment report out next week. We are estimating a gain in payrolls of 190,000. The trend in job growth has been remarkably stable around 150,000 per month for two solid years and the underlying trend may be given a lift now that home building is reaching a critical recovery stage. But winter months are notoriously volatile, and in this case, that poses some upside risk. Moreover, benchmark revisions will be out with this report. Back in September, the preliminary estimate was that payrolls actually were 386,000 higher in March 2012 than initially reported. This means payroll gains may have been about 30,000 higher per month in the year leading up to March 2012. Often, trend changes based on the benchmarks are carried through the following year. If so, the payroll figures, including Januaryís, could look a look a lot better after this report. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale Senior U.S. Economist Brian Jones: Market participants focus almost exclusively on the magnitude of payroll increases, yet we believe that the breadth of recent hiring across industries is just as important in determining the strength of a report. Both government and private surveys revealed a marked widening of job gains during the final months of 2012. The†BLSí one-month private employment diffusion index ñ centred like closely followed Institute for Supply Management (ISM) activity gauges at 50 ñ climbed by 6.6 points to 63.2 in December. The three-month measure, one of the inputs into our nonfarm payroll forecasting procedure, jumped by 7.3 points to a nine-month high of 70.3. An alternative composite barometer of the extent of private job gains constructed from ISM survey data tells a similar story. Broader reports of manufacturing and service-sector hiring propelled that measure 3.7 points higher to 54.9 ñ the strongest reading since last March. BofA Merrill Lynch Co-Head of Global Economic Research Ethan Harris: We forecast nonfarm payrolls to increase 130,000 in January, keeping the three- month average close to 150,000. The unemployment rate is likely to hold at 7.8% in January. There are a few special factors this month, including the final benchmark revision to payrolls and the population adjustment to the household survey. The preliminary benchmark revealed additional job creation of 386,000 over the 12 months ending March 2012. We suspect the risk is the final benchmark will be modestly higher. The population adjustment is hard to handicap and, in prior years, has created big swings in the labor force, which biased the unemployment rate. This adds an additional degree of uncertainty for the unemployment rate forecast.  Private payrolls are likely to increase 135,000 while the government cuts 5,000 jobs. We expect weak manufacturing payrolls given the contraction in the regional manufacturing surveys in early January. On the upside, we anticipate an increase in construction jobs given the pickup in homebuilding and renovations. The upside risk to our forecast comes from the improvement in jobless claims which are averaging 347,000 so far in January, a decline of 15,000 from December. However, we are not taking much signal from this improvement in claims given the large seasonal distortions which are typical this time of year. We anticipate a bounce back in claims at the end of January. Deutsche Bank Chief US Economist Joseph A. LaVorgna: In each of the last two years, employment started the year on a strong note only to weaken noticeably by the third quarter. In point of fact, nonfarm payrolls (adjusted for temporary Census hires) registered a three-month rate of change of +239k in April 2011, and subsequently slowed to only a +78k rate in July 2011. Last year, the three-month rate of change peaked at +252k in February and then slowed to just +67k in June. January 2012 also represented the strongest intra-year month of jobs gains at +275k. This weekís ADP survey imparts some upside risk to our forecast. Conceivably, financial markets will react less enthusiastically to news of strong January results this morning given the recent propensity of early year strength to make way for mid-year weakness. What are we projecting? We estimate nonfarm payrolls advanced +170k and that private payrolls increased +180k, which would be the best showing since last August. Post-revision, these estimates are essentially in line with trendóremember the BLS will also release annual revisions to payrolls, hours and wages. UBS Chief Economist Maury Harris: ADP estimated that private payrolls rose 192k in Jan. The consensus for the†official BLS number due on Friday is 168k (the same pace as in Dec); we forecast†a stronger 185k. There's no real reason to trust or to mistrust this ADP estimate: ADP adopted a†new payroll sampling method in Oct, and while early results were good, the Dec†estimate again showed its characteristic year-end upward bias. We just don't know†how reliable the new methodology is. ADP offered no reason to change our estimates for Fridayís employment report.†We continue to forecast a 175k rise in total payrolls (cons 161k), 185k in private†payrolls, and the unemployment rate down a tick to 7.7% (cons 7.8%). Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson: The range for the first employment report of 2013 spans 115-230,000 additional payrolls. We estimate a nonfarm payroll reading of 180,000 which should exceed a surprisingly strong December report of 155,000 as well as the median forecast gain of 165,000. Because of the year-end strength and despite the potential freeze on account of the fiscal cliff we tend to prefer the path of the ADP report, which has been more upbeat surrounding labor market prospects and seems to better capture changes in construction payrolls after two-years of housing recovery. We also sense that if payrolls were unrestrained by the fiscal cliff at yearís end, employers will put their best foot forward to start 2013 ñ resolution or not on the spending front. We will have all of the data here Friday morning at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
This is a truly amazing chart from Markit, the organization that publishes all of the monthly PMI manufacturing reports. It shows the divergence between the French survey and the German survey. As we've reported, German PMI surged in January, while the French PMI tanked. The trend is extraordinary. Whereas German output is rebounding sharply since the middle of last year, France has gone into flatline. Both countries are the pillars of "core" Europe, but right now they're seeing vastly different fates. 
The hottest currency in the world -- the euro -- is going bananas again today. The latest culprit? The solid Germany PMI report, which shows the German economy bounding back at a rate quicker than expected. From FinViz, here's a chart of EUR vs. USD. FinViz
Germany shows why it's the envy of Europe once again. The PMI index for Germany came surging back to 49.8, nearly back into expansion mode. This is far better than the modest improvement in Spain and Italy, and clearly WAY better than the decline in neighbor France. From the report: Germany‚Äôs manufacturing sector started 2013 with improved trends in output and new business levels, contrasting with the declines seen through much of last year. The return to growth in production and new work helped lift the final seasonally adjusted Markit/BME Germany¬† Purchasing Managers‚Äô Index a composite indicator designed to provide a single-figure snapshot of the performance of the manufacturing economy ‚Äì to 49.8 in January, from 46.0 during December. This was only fractionally below the neutral 50.0 value, with an acceleration in job shedding the main factor weighing on the headline PMI in the latest survey period. The index has now posted below 50.0 in each of the past 11 months, but the latest reading signalled the slowest pace of deterioration over this period.¬† 
No green shoots here. Whereas Spain and Italy both saw improvement from December, France did not. French PMI fell to 42.9 from 44.6. Here's the damage in one quick image summary. 
flickr/marcelgermainMore green shoots in Europe. Italian PMI has rises to 47.8, from 46.7 last month. Anything below 50 is "contraction" but this means the data was "less worse" than last time. For full PMI coverage, see here &gt;
The Spanish stock market is having one of those mornings that we haven't seen in awhile. While most European markets are up (Italy, Germany, etc.), Spain is getting slammed. It's main IBEX index is down nearly 2%, and banks are getting hammered.  The decline is not related to today's PMI release, and in fact the market is up a bit since that data came out. Jamie McGeever of Reuters tweets what's going on in the banks. The fragility of Spain's banks: BBVA Q4 profit tumbles 44% to Ä1.68B, Banco Popular posts biggest ever annual loss of Ä2.46B. More on Spanish banks - Popular takes Ä9.6 bln in provisions to cover bad real estate loans. Spanish banks -3% in early trade. And -9% this week, the biggest decline since the week before Draghi's speech last July.
AlJazeeraFirst out of the gate for the major European PMI reporters: Spain. PMI just rose their to 46.1, up from 44.6 last month. This is a very "green shoots" type of report. A PMI reading below 50 signals contraction in the manufacturing sector. But this number is less-worse than previous months, so it's a second-derivative gain. This paragraph from the press release was very characteristic of the whole report: Total new orders continued to contract at a solid pace, although the rate of decline eased to the weakest since June 2011 as a result of increased new export orders. New business from abroad rose for the third time in the past four months, and at a broadly similar pace to that seen in December. And finally, here's a chart showing the improvement.  For full PMI day coverage, see here &gt;
Flickr / Randy Le'Moine PhotographyLet's do this folks. US futures are rallying on what will be a huge day for the economy. European markets have opened higher, with the exception of Spain, which is getting slammed. We've got several big European PMIs coming up over the next hour or so. Then the focus will shift to the US where we've got US manufacturing data, US car sales data, and of course the monthly jobs report. While you were sleeping, China and Japan both rallied, with the latter hitting a 33 month high as the yen fell some more. For the full, live PMI scoreboard as it happens, see here &gt;
Not long ago, phrases like "China hard landing" and "Euro crisis" kept traders, investors, and policymakers up at night. Sure, many of the related problems have gone unresolved.† But the idea of crises have certainly receded.† And this is reflected by a plunging volatility index (aka VIX or fear index) and surging stock markets. Bloomberg BRIEF economist and chart guru Michael McDonough just tweeted this chart tracking stories with the words "China," "slowdown," "Europe," and "crisis." It's unclear if the decline in stories caused volatility to recede or vice versa. Regardless, the correlation seems pretty clear.† Here's McDonough's chart: @M_McDonough
en.wikipedia.orgThe World Bank recently slashed its outlook for global growth in 2013 to 2.4 percent and 2014 to 3.1 percent.¬† It also unveiled its lackluster 2015 forecast: 3.3 percent. "While diminished, downside risks to the global economy persist and include a stalling of progress on the Euro Area crisis, debt and fiscal issues in the United States, the possibility of a sharp slowing of investment in China, and a disruption in global oil supplies," they write. The organization's new report, Global Economic Prospects, provides outlooks for the individual economies it follows. The laggards include economies that rely on tourism like Belize and Jamaica.¬† It also includes nations struggling with corruption and crime. But for the most part, they are the major developed economies like the U.S., Japan, and the members of the European Union. (For the purposes of this report, the EU is considered one economy.) We pulled the 20 slowest economies from the World Bank's report based on compound annual growth rate (CAGR) through 2015.
