Wikimedia CommonsThere's†a common stereotype†that millennials are entitled, self-absorbed, unwilling to work hard, and doomed to a semi-employed life living with their parents. At the†Fortune Global Forum in Chengdu, China, JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon said the idea that millennials have a bad attitude is "hogwash," and that new talent is better than ever. That doesn't mean that they have an easy path though. The generation faces a level of global competition that definitely is unique,†Dimon said. "The next Steve Jobs is not going to come from Stanford," he said, but will probably be from outside the US. The combination of a weak job market, skill mismatch, and the fact that firms can get cheaper and better talent abroad means that even bright and talented college graduates might be riding the couch for a bit.
The Nikkei bottomed at 7054 on March 10, 2009. The DJIA bottomed at 6547 on March 9 of that same year. They both rose to just over 11000 during April 2010. They started to diverge after that, with the Nikkei not just underperforming the DJIA but actually trending down slightly until late 2012. The Nikkeiís spectacular rally starting near the end of 2012 propelled this stock index all the way back up to slightly surpass the DJIA on May 21. On that day, the DJIA closed at a record high of 15387, while the Nikkei closed at a six-year high of 15627 the following day. As noted above, since then the Nikkei is down 16.7% to 13014, while the DJIA is down 2.8% to 14960. The same story can be told comparing the Nikkei to the S&amp;P 500 since the start of 2009. Ed Yardeni Today's Morning Briefing: Inflection Point? (1) New vs. old stock market adages. (2) Go away on May 21. (3) A correction in a secular bull market. (4) The trouble started on May 22. (5) Putting the Nikkei and the Dow on the same page. (6) Curbing our enthusiasm for now. (7) QE may be losing its magic. (8) Nikkei drops despite BOJís massive liquidity pumping. (9) QE goes from win-win to lose-lose. (10) So what should we be rooting for? (More for subscribers.)
screenshotBig Brother, as depicted in the movie adaption of George Orwell's "1984"Earlier this evening, the Washington Post reported an extraordinary story about a secret government program in which the National Security Agency and FBI have teamed up with nine of the country's most powerful tech companies to spy on the companies' users. In this program, called PRISM, the tech companies were said to have knowingly given the government direct access to their servers so the government could monitor real-time communications and activity of individual users. The companies that partnered with the government, according to the story, included Google, Apple, Facebook, Yahoo, and Microsoft (Skype). This government-company partnership, the story reported, created a surveillance system so powerful that it allowed the government to follow the communications, document-creation, and other activities of hundreds of millions of people in real time. The intelligence officer who leaked the story and documents to the Post, in fact, was said to be so horrified by the capabilities of the PRISM partnership that he went public to expose it.¬†¬† ‚ÄúThey quite literally can watch your ideas form as you type,‚Äù the officer reportedly said. And if the truth is exactly as the story describes it, the power of this partnership is indeed frightening. If the government really does have direct real-time access to the "central servers" of Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, and Yahoo, as the story says, the government has an unfettered, unsupervised, real-time ability to monitor the communications and activity of hundreds of millions of people around the world ‚Äî including Americans, though the story emphasized that the point of the program is to spy on foreigners, not Americans. The story emphasized that, given the complexity of the technology involved, such direct access to central servers would be impossible without the companies' cooperation. And the story said that the companies were indeed "knowingly" participating in the partnership. But here's the problem. In the few hours since the story appeared, all of the major tech companies named in the story as "partners" in the PRISM program have denied giving the government direct access to their servers. Apple even went so far as to say that it had never even heard of the PRISM program. The companies all said they do provide the government with data about specific users when such responses are required by law, but this is not news. Americans have long understood that telephone companies, Internet companies, and other service providers provide government investigators with customer data when the law requires them to do so. Providing historical data about specific users in response to specific subpoenas, however, is far different than "partnering" with the government and providing open, real-time access to central servers. And it was that assertion that was the new and shocking part of the Washington Post's PRISM story: The assertion that the government had "partnered" with nine leading tech companies and been given the ability to "directly tap into their central servers ... extracting audio and video chats, photographs, emails, documents, and connection logs." If that part of the story is not true ‚Äî and, so far, almost every company named in the story has said emphatically that it is not true ‚Äî the most important assertion in the story is wrong.
In basically just over 2 weeks, Japan has gone from the hottest market in the world to a bear market. With today's early dive, the Nikkei is now 20% off its highs, which is the technical definition of a bear. Nikkei.com
She lives in the dense Ballston neighborhood right over the line from Washington D.C. and likes the hustle of the city and her ability to get around without a car. She moved to Ballston from a D.C. exurb that she says did little to cater to older adults. ‚ÄúCompared to that, this is heaven,‚Äù she says. RELATED:¬†15 Best Cities for Retirees City leaders and planners around the country are hoping to convince future retirees to think like her. In this decade, the population aged 65 and over will grow by 36 percent to almost 55 million, according to Census Bureau projections. It‚Äôs not just that there are a greater proportion of older Americans‚Äîpeople are also¬†living longer: In 2011, the 65-74 age group was about 10 times larger than in 1900, but the 85+ group was¬†40 times larger. As baby boomers retire in droves, cities big and small are doing what they can to lure them, or keep those they have, by redesigning their services and infrastructure. That‚Äôs partly because retiring boomers wield enormous economic clout. By 2017, the U.S. adult population age 50 and older will control 70 percent of the¬†country‚Äôs disposable income. Even before boomers started retiring, studies in several states showed that in-migrating retirees can help lift local economies. A 2006 study in Georgia, for example, estimated that if the state had held onto just 10 percent of its migrating retirees in 2007, it would have experienced significant growth in jobs, personal and disposable income, and net state revenues. And a 2011 study in South Carolina found that an influx in retirees in two counties was associated with wage growth, a rise in home values, job growth, and higher rents. RELATED:¬†Why Boomers Are Ditching Retirement to Go to Work With that in mind, the competition among cities for retiree dollars is heating up. States like Mississippi, Texas, and North Carolina have set up programs to designate cities and towns that meet certain criteria‚Äîsuch as offering quality medical care and recreational opportunities for seniors‚Äîas ‚Äúcertified retirement communities.‚Äù Ten cities are making changes required to qualify for AARP‚Äôs list of ‚Äúage-friendly communities.‚Äù Bloomington, Indiana is designing a ‚ÄúLifetime Community District‚Äù that has retiree-friendly features like access to transportation, basic and preventive health care, and other services. Other jurisdictions are launching their own marketing campaigns‚ÄîLawrence, Kansas¬†for example, is budgeting $60,000 to $80,000 a year for an advertising blitz to convince retirees to settle there. One focus of planners‚Äô efforts is helping older adults get out and make connections, which is especially important for retirees who have moved away from family and friends. The Chamber of Commerce in Oxford, Mississippi, one of the state‚Äôs certified retirement cities, came up with a ‚Äúnewcomer‚Äôs club‚Äù that holds monthly events for relocated retirees and others, says Margaret Wylde of ProMatura, a market research firm specializing in consumers age 50-plus. In Auburn Hills, Michigan, the city‚Äôs recreation department and department of senior services are collaborating to get older adults out with concerts, potlucks, and fishing competitions, says Auburn Hills‚Äô senior services director Karen Adcock. Cities also are redesigning transportation systems to meet the needs of older adults who have hung up their car keys or want to. In a 2010¬†AARP survey, about half of adults age 45 or older said living in a place where it‚Äôs easy to walk or living near church or social organizations was important to them. In the Rockville Pike corridor outside Washington D.C., for example, planners are clustering housing units around transit hubs, tearing down large retail spaces in malls, and rebuilding them closer to the street to make them pedestrian friendly, says AARP‚Äôs Amy Levner. In cities like Philadelphia, it also means they‚Äôre doing basics like making sure buses are handicap-accessible and putting roofs on bus stops so riders can get out of the rain. Other cities are creating districts with wider sidewalks and where traffic signals have been slowed to allow older adults more time to cross. Many merchants have also agreed to widen aisles and put out benches, says John McIlwain of the¬†Urban Land Institute. New York City and Charlotte, North Carolina are¬†using¬†school busesto transport older people to shopping destinations after the buses have finished taking children to school. RELATED:¬†The 10 Best Jobs for Older Americans Other cities are focusing on better services. In Auburn Hills, the city set up a senior home repair assistance program that uses volunteers to do home repairs and provide services for older adults, like yard maintenance, painting, and fixing faucets‚Äîrecipients have to pay for supplies but not the services, and the program has no income restrictions. With more older adults wanting to keep working, city and county agencies and¬†nonprofits in Miami¬†are holding workshops for employers to encourage them to hire older adults and are planning how to use city parks to offer senior-targeted fitness programs. Some cities are ditching the old model of senior center services by turning the centers into hubs for skills development‚Äîthey‚Äôre putting in broadband and offering computer training and entrepreneurship programs, says McIlwain. Jurisdictions also are preparing for the coming retiree wave by changing their building codes. For some new construction, Atlanta and Tucson are requiring wider doorways and hallways, no-step entrances, and reinforced walls so that grab bars can be added. Cities also are changing their zoning codes to allow homeowners to add small apartments where their parents might live, says McIlwain. While the most popular urban magnets for retirees still lie in the country‚Äôs warmer latitudes, cities like New York and Philadelphia hope their efforts will help them better compete as retiring boomers decide where to live. Along the way, improvements like better transportation hubs and walkability, says Levner, will benefit not just those 65-plus, but everyone.  More From The Fiscal Times: ‚Ä¢ The Hot Trend In Housing That Saves Money, Space And Time ‚Ä¢ Ready To Retire? 7 Things You Need To Know Now ‚Ä¢ 56 Percent Of People Tip For Terrible Service
Even though we don't always see it every day, technology and businesses are moving at a breakneck pace, dismantling industries, saving lives, and transforming the world. ¬† McKinsey recently released a report on the 12 technologies that are disrupting the global economy, from advanced robotics and next-generation genomics to self-driving cars. Here's a chart from the report on how fast these technologies are getting better: www.mckinsey.com
UPDATE: Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Google have all denied involvement in the PRISM program. EARLIER: A top-secret April PowerPoint slideshow details how the National Security Agency partnered with nine tech companies, including Apple, Microsoft and Google, to monitor users' activity, according to the Washington Post and the Guardian. According to the presentation, the NSA got direct access to these companies' servers in order to directly watch user communications. The program, called PRISM, is nominally aimed at foreign actors, but the Post reports that purely domestic communications could easily end up in NSA hands, so long as an algorithm estimated at least a 51 percent probability that they were foreign. Here are the slides showing how the NSA reportedly got its hands on your data: NSA via Washington Post The slides reflect that nine companies participate in the program, starting with Microsoft in 2007. The following entrants were Yahoo, Google, Facebook, PalTalk, YouTube, Skype, AOL and Apple. YouTube is a Google subsidiary and Skype is a Microsoft subsidiary. NSA via Guardian They say that the NSA gets vast amounts of information from the participating companies ‚Äî email, chats, videos, photos, stored data, voice-over-IP communications, and more. The companies also take "special requests." NSA via Guardian Many foreign communications travel through the U.S., giving the NSA the opportunity to intercept them.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Gary Shilling's Five Investment Themes (A. Gary Shilling Insights) Central bank easing propelled stocks, and the quest for yield benefited junk bonds, even as the global economy remained weak. This "Grand Disconnect" saw a "risk on" atmosphere, according to Gary Shilling. But talks of the Fed reducing or even reversing its quantitative easing program might be "the shock we've been looking for that will initiate a "risk off" strategy that favors Treasury bonds and the dollar while disparaging stocks and commodities," he writes. In his latest A Gary Shilling Insights, Shilling writes that there are five attractive investment themes 1. Treasury bonds. 2. Investment-grade bonds and dividend-rich stocks. 3. Consumer staples and food stocks. 4. "Selected healthcare provider equities and direct ownership of medical office buildings." 5. "The dollar, especially against the yen, euro, and the Australian dollar. Also long Japanese stocks." Shilling also thinks emerging market stocks and bond are unattractive, as are some commodities and junk bonds. "With the fog still thick, we've raised cash by reducing our long positions on Treasury bonds and Japanese stocks and have cut our yen shorts. We've also reduced our short euro-currency exposure and dollar index long positions. Our long positions on U.S. defensive stocks like utilities and health care remain intact but we've added to our short position on junk bonds and initiated shorts on emerging market stocks and bonds." Most UK Financial Services Workers Think They're Paid Too Much (Money Beat)  A survey of 1,026 U.K. based financial services workers by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development found that most of them think they're overpaid. 75% of those in financial services said people at their firms were overpaid, and this increased to 80% in the banking sector. 66% of senior manager thought some people at their firms made too much money.  $70.3 TRILLION: US Household Net Worth Just Hit An All-Time High (The Federal Reserve) The Federal Reserve's latest "flow of funds" report showed that the U.S. household net worth hit a record high of $70.3 trillion in Q1 2013. Around $2.3 trillion of the $3.003 trillion increase in Q1 household net worth was because of rising asset and real estate prices. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg † Infrastructure Funds Are Getting More Attention (The Wall Street Journal) The gradual global economic recovery has investors turning to mutual funds that invest in infrastructure like power plants, toll roads, and cell-phone towers. Investors haven't poured money into these funds yet but "interest is building," the WSJ reports.† Morningstar found that the 12 mutual funds it tracks with "infrastructure" in their title, took in $1.06 billion through April 30 this year, up from $749.7 million all of last year. Everyone Is Now Paying Attention To The 50-Day Moving Average (Miller Tabak) After a strong rally, stocks began to slip and the S&amp;P 500 is now down 4.6% from the 1687 high on May 22. Miller Tabak's Chief Technical Market Strategist Jonathan Krinsky writes that all eyes are now on the S&amp;P 500's 50-day moving average. "ÖAs we look ahead into June, we think the odds of an 8th consecutive monthly gain become slim. That is not to say we are expecting a major downturn, but we think a test of the still rising 50 DMA around 1600 should not be surprising. 1597-1600 also represents the April highs. Below that, the 1576 area will likely be defended as it was prior resistance from October 2007, and represents a major multi-year breakout level."
Alex Davies / Business InsiderRoman Abramovich's Eclipse yacht.In February, Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich's megayacht Eclipse showed up in New York City and docked near midtown Manhattan. The 533-foot ship stayed there for about two months, until after the birth of Abramovich's daughter Leah Lou, to mother Dasha Zhukova. During that time, the Eclipse docked at Pier 90, operated by the New York City Economic Development Corporation. It's not cheap: A spot costs $2,000 per day, spokesman Patrick Muncie told the New York Times. A two-month stay then, would have cost Abramovich $112,000. It turns out that's not the most expensive spot in the city, at least not for a yacht as big as the Eclipse. Chelsea Piers, 1.6 miles downriver, charges $7 per foot, per night for docking, Crispin Baynes, sales broker at yacht brokerage firm Burgess says. Baynes also pointed out that docking fees are just a small part of what Abramovich pays to keep the Eclipse running. Costs for food, fuel, upkeep, and salaries for the 70-person crew send the bill much higher. Tim Thomas, editor of Boat International, estimated that running the Eclipse costs more than $500,000 per week, according to Forbes. Based on the lowball $500,000 number, Abramovich's stay in NYC cost him around $4.1 million. The Eclipse cost about $500 million to build, according to Forbes. It has two swimming pools, two helicopter pads, and a mini-submarine. It is equipped with a missile defense system and bullet-proof windows around Abramovich's suite, according to the Daily Mail. It was the largest yacht in the world until April, when boat maker L¸rssen announced the launch of Azzam, a 590-foot beast reportedly built for the Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates.
BiblioArchives / LibraryArchivesEvery war has had one day that changed the tide--where one side began winning, and the other side began to lose. That moment in the Second World War was D-Day--June 6, 1944--the day Allied forces crossed the English Channel and began to reclaim the European mainland. Today is D-Day's 69th anniversary. As we remember those who were there, we offer the following images.
Flickr / Homies In HeavenAfter falling to lows around noon, markets made a huge turnaround in anticipation of tomorrow's big jobs report. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,040.39, +79.80†pts,†+0.53%S&amp;P 500: 1,622.46, †+13.57 pts,†+0.84%NASDAQ: 3,424.05,†+22.58 pts,†+0.66% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Via Wikimedia commonsOur bags are packed, we're ready to go, we're standin' here outside your door, and you bet, we're gonna wake you up to say goodbye.† Yes, R29 HQ has officially moved! It's out with the old and in with the Financial District!† And since we expect that you'll be stopping by to say hello, grab a bite, and challenge us to a friendly game of ping pong (you†will†lose), we thought we'd extend the olive branch by bringing you our official FiDi guide.  CafÈsBlue Spoon CoffeeBlue Spoon Coffee has served the best of the best since its opening in 2005. Intelligentsia-brand coffee and teas, fresh sandwiches on Balthazar Bakery bread, great music, free WiFi, and more. If you're really lucky, you might even be within their delivery zone. Then again, their charming space shouldn't be missed.Blue Spoon Coffee, 76 Chambers St (between Broadway and Church Street); 212-619-7230.Flickr/goodiesfirstCrepes Du NordThe first "Farm-to-Table" crÍperie, CrÍpes du Nord is all about providing the deliciousness of sweet and savory crepes with responsibly sourced ingredients to boot.Crepes Du Nord, 17 South William Street (between Broad and William streets); 212-422-9500.FIKA†FIKA gets its name from the Swedish verb that roughly translates into "taking a coffee break," usually with something sweet on the side. Hence the introduction of the establishment, known for its wide selection of coffee and chocolate. A perfect pair.Fika, 66 Pearl St (between Broad and William streets); 646-837-6588.Magic Mix JuiceryMagic Mix Juicery, or MMJ, wants you to be healthy†and†happy. Fresh, organic ingredients are combined to create made-from-scratch nutritious juices every day.†Magic Mix Juicery, 102 Fulton Street (at William Street); 646-454-0680.Robusta Espresso BarOnly two years old, this vibrant espresso bar accomplishes its goal of injecting energy ó literally and figuratively ó into its customers every day. The decor, ambiance, and Italian AnËri espresso beans blend together to produce the perfect amount of jolt for any caffeine-craving visitor.†Robusta Espresso Bar, 7 Hanover Square (near William Street); 212-797-9797.Takahachi BakeryThis adorable spot is home to some of the most delightful pastries you will ever see. Cherry-blossom and green-tea macaroons are treats for the eyes and the mouth.Takahachi Bakery, 25 Murray St (between Church Street and Broadway); 212-791-5550.TerriA vegetarian option that even non-vegetarians will love. With limited seating, Terri's vegan and kosher superfoods ó grab a "Live Long And Green" juice or delicious quinoa salad ó are perfect for those on the go.Terri, 100 Maiden Lane (entrance on Pearl Street); 212-742-7901. Food And DrinkFlickr/Benny WongBeekman Beer GardenWhether you're looking for an outdoor concert, a game of ping pong, a cold beer, or oysters on the half shell, Beekman Beer Garden has it all. Dine off their house menu or plan a custom event of your own. The spacious venue and helpful planning staff will prove to be everything you need.Beekman Beer Garden, 89 South Street (between Fulton and Beekman streets); 212-896-4600.Mulberry &amp; VineNow that FiDi is our local 'hood, we're all about eating, well, local, too. Mulberry &amp; Vine gives this a whole new meaning with their organic and (you guessed it)†local†fare that happens to be delicious, too.†Mulberry &amp; Vine, 73 Warren Street (at West Broadway); 212-791-6300.Zeytuna Market†Where do you go when you don't know what you want because you know you want a bit of everything? Yep, this is your new go-to grocer.†Zeytuna Market, 59 Maiden Lane, (between William and Nassau streets); 212-742-2436.†Stone Street TavernFeaturing a hard-to-beat outdoor seating area right on lively Stone Street, the Stone Street Tavern is a charming spot for beer, "bar bites," and brunch. Plus, every Wednesday night is ladies' night, thanks to Russian Standard Vodka.Stone Street Tavern, 52 Stone Street (enter at William Street); 212-785-5658.Flickr/dumbonycThe Cinnamon SnailFamous for its #FiDiThursdays, this vegan, organic food truck, featuring "food to inspire peace and bliss," will be cruising the neighborhood on the reg. Get in line first by following its whereabouts onTwitter.Ulysses†Featuring pub fare and a Saturday-evening music series, this folk house is a great backdrop for a perfect summer night.†Ulysses, 95 Pearl Street (between William and Broad streets); 212-482-0400.Sole di CapriThis place had us at "homemade pasta." Filling portions that are equally delicious make this all-you-can-eat breadsticks and salad place a must. Owned by two brothers, soon to be frequented by us.†Sole Di Capri, 165 Church Street (between Reade and Chambers streets); 212-513-1113.Flickr/JeffreyUrban Lobster Shack†Whether you stop by their brick-and-mortar restaurant or track down the Urban Lobster Shack on wheels, you won't regret standing in line for that delicious lobster roll (or two).†Urban Lobster Shack, 15 Stone Street (between William and Broad streets); 212-809-2626.†Vintry Wine &amp; Whiskey†To some, the pairing of wine and whiskey under one roof might seem surprising. But to Peter Poulakakos, of Harry's CafÈ &amp; Steak fame, the two go hand-in-hand.†Vintry Wine &amp; Whiskey, 57 Stone Street (enter at William Street); 212-480-9800.The WoolyHoused in the basement of the Woolworth Building, this beautifully decorated space is home to delicious cocktails and an epic calendar filled with private events (many times, hosted by yours truly!) Perfect for your next birthday, album launch, or dance party (especially if the dress-code reads, "All pink everything").The Wooly, 11 Barclay Street (between Broadway and Church Street); no phone.†The Dead RabbitThe Dead Rabbit Grocery and Grog is filled with personality and flair. Enjoy bottled punch on the ground-floor taproom or small plates on cocktails in the upstairs parlor.†The Dead Rabbit, 30 Water Street (near Broad Street); 646-422-7906. Food And Drink (More!)†Adrienne's PizzabarIf you're looking for a great slice, head to Adrienne's. But be sure to get there early ñ Adrienne's has made "being square" the coolest thing around with its deliciously crisp, thin-crust pizzas. You may have to fight a crowd, but trust us, it will be worth it.†Adrienne's Pizzabar, 54 Stone St (enter at William Street); 212-248-3838.Flickr/jasonlamVeronica's KitchenThere are many street-food options when it comes to the Financial District, but not all of them put thesoul†in soul food. For that, we turn to Trinidadian food-truck Veronica's Kitchen for jerk chicken, yams, and collard greens. Oh, and it happens to be super affordable, too.†Veronica's Kitchen, 125 Front Street (at Wall Street); no phone.†Barbalu RestaurantOpening this summer, Barbalu is the restaurant baby of husband and wife-team Stefano Barbagallo and Adriana Luque. With a fine Italian menu along the way, Barbalu will take the place of Barbarini Alimentari, formerly co-operated by the Barbalu team and another couple, but destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. You'll want to keep your eye out for this one.†Barbalu, 225 Front Street (between Beekman Street and Peck Slip); 917-815-7701.†Flickr/goodiesfirstCowgirl Sea HorseSurround yourself with seahorses ó who doesn't want that?! ó at this quirky spot great for a quiet drink.Cowgirl Sea Horse, 259 Front Street (at Dover Street); 212-608-7873.Delmonico'sIf age equals wisdom, Delmonico's has got to be the smartest. Opened in 1837, the Delmonico brothers introduced the first fine-dining restaurant in the country, featuring private rooms, a wine cellar, and of course, a delicious Delmonico steak.Delmonico's,†56 Beaver Street (at William Street); 212-509-1144.Dig InnDedicated to making it easier for New Yorkers to eat well, Dig Inn offers humanely raised meats, locally grown produce, and the like with 100% transparency. Meaning that they're happy to talk about their market selections with complete honesty, all in the name of creating a healthier community.Dig Inn, 80 Pine Street (at Pearl Street); 212-785-1110.†Flickr/luisvillaThe Porterhouse at Fraunces TavernIn addition to providing an educational experience about the history of New York City, the Fraunces Tavern Museum offers numerous options for wining and dining in The Porterhouse's many party rooms, Dingle Whiskey Bar, and restaurant.†Fraunces Tavern, 54 Pearl Street (at Broad Street); 212-968-1776.†GRK Fresh GreekGRK is bringing New Yorkers a fresh take on classic Greek food featuring authentic yogurts, locally sourced veggies, hand-selected Mediterranean seasoning, meats roasted in-house, wood-oven-baked pita breads, and more.†GRK Fresh†, 111 Fulton Street (at Dutch Street); 212-385-2010.Harry's CafÈ and SteakThe Poulakakos family has been all over our FiDi map ó they've had a hand in establishing Delmonico's, Vintry, and others. Harry's CafÈ and Steak is a Wall Street institution, first opened by Harry Poulakakos in 1972 and reopened in 2006 by his son, Peter.†Harry's Cafe and Steak, 1 Hanover Square (between Pearl and Stone streets); 212-785-9200.Merchants River HouseEnjoy lunch, brunch, or dinner as you look out at the Statue of Liberty from the terrace of this classic American Bistro. Sunsets over the Hudson? Yes, please.Merchants River House, 375 South End Avenue (on the Hudson River Esplanade between Liberty and Albany streets); 212-432-1451. Read the full article at Refinery29
RobosaurusFriday is going to be huge. At 8:30 AM ET we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report for May. Analysts expect 163K vs. 165K last month. The unemployment rate is expected to be unchanged at 7.5%. This will be the most closely watched report in some time. For one thing, the market is the most wobbly it's been in quite some time. The 5%+ greater decline from the recent peaks is the worst drawdown since last Autumn. And everyone is Fed obsessed, and wondering when Bernanke &amp; Co. will start "the taper." Plus, we got some weak data this week, so there are some newfound economic concerns. We'll of course be covering the number, and its ramifications, LIVE when it comes out.
It's been close to nine months since Austrian skydiver Felix Baumgartner floated above Earth in a small, pressurized space capsule and became the first person to break the speed of sound in a free fall. ¬† In an interview with Business Insider during a visit to New York City, the 43-year-old revealed how he mentally and physically prepared for his record-breaking October jump. Fear can be your friend as long as you're able to control it,¬†Baumgartner¬†explained, but "as soon as fear turns into panic, you lose it," he said. To maintain focus, Baumgartner paid attention to his breathing and thought about "good things," like success, he told us.¬† Baumgartner has just two items from his historic jump ‚Äî a piece of the super-thin balloon that was attached to his space capsule and the Zenith wristwatch he wore during the dive. This is the first watch to break the sound barrier on a human.¬†Soon, Baumgartner¬†will be in possession of his space suit, which he plans to donate to the Smithsonian. The Austrian also talked about his meeting with iconic astronaut Neil Armstrong before the supersonic leap, a conversation that focused on what to eat and how to pee. Watch the interview below:¬† Produced by Robert Libetti
Ray Lane sure is having a rough year. The IRS has slammed him with a $100 million tax bill, calling his tax shelter a "sham," reports Bloomberg. Lane is the former chairman of HP and partner emeritus at venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers. In December, the IRS told said it wasn't buying into $251 million of losses from a business partnership. Without that, he owes $100 million, the IRS figures. Lane disagrees with the IRS's finding. ‚ÄúThe amount of taxes I pay are staggering, and this is the only transaction I‚Äôve been audited on,‚Äù Lane told Bloomberg. Sources close to him say that if he has to pay up, it won't bust him. Lane was the former president of Oracle. When he left the job in-mid-2000 he reportedly had more than $1 billion in stock and stock options. Still, things haven't been going well for him lately. In April, he was forced into resigning from his chairman position at HP, after shareholders nearly voted him out a few weeks earlier at their annual meeting.¬† They were angered for the part he played in hiring, then firing former CEO Leo Apotheker and HP's disastrous $11 billion acquisition of Autonomy. He is still on the HP board. For more details on his tax shelter problems, read the full Bloomberg story.
ShutterstockGlobal markets are going wild today. The big bet against the Japanese yen is unwinding, and the dollar is getting crushed against a host of currencies around the world (the dollar index is down a sizable 1.3%). Many of these currencies come from emerging markets (EM), which have been tanking over the past few weeks against the dollar as U.S. Treasury yields have risen. And the losses in EM haven't been limited to currencies ñ stocks and bonds have taken a hit as part of the EM sell-off as well. The big sell-off in the dollar today is a reversal of this trade. Now, everyone is looking ahead to tomorrow's jobs report in the U.S., which could be a crucial release in terms of determining which way the momentum in global markets swings. Will a better-than-expected jobs number confirm the strengthening dollar story of the past few weeks, or will a worse-than-expected number provide more fuel for the dollar sell-off as fears that the Federal Reserve will have to remain accommodative for longer begin to seep back into the marketplace? SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale Head of Emerging Markets Strategy†BenoÓt Anne asserts that either way, it doesn't really matter for EM. In a note to clients today, he writes: No matter what happens tomorrow, sell GEM assets Global investors await the release of nonfarm payroll tomorrow with great anticipation. However, we do not think that the NFP is a game changer and we will not alter our bearish strategic view on global emerging markets. We nonetheless recognize that there may be a†tactical opportunity to actively trade GEM assets in the event of the soft labour report. Fast-money investors may indeed elect to participate in the risk rally but the rally will likely be short-lived. Ultimately, fade that move and re-establish core bearish positions. In other words, it is all going to be about timing and execution but the end-result strategy is the same: sell GEM. Our bearish view on GEM is strategic We no longer think that tomorrowís nonfarm payroll is a game changer for global emerging markets (GEM) and therefore do not overplay its market significance from a big-picture standpoint. The only scenario which would cause us to revisit our core views would be a NFP print that would fall below 50k. Such a low number would indeed cast some major doubts about the likelihood of a speedy rush to the policy exit on the part of the Fed. But this is clearly a tail risk to watch for at this point, with a low probability. A higher NFP print than 50k will not change our core view on GEM, which is a strategic one. Over the next few months, we indeed believe that GEM assets will correct in a major way, driven by anticipation of Fed exit and the associated correction in US Treasuries. The major risks for local rates markets include the shock to risk appetite, the heavy positioning, and the sharply deteriorating local liquidity conditions. On the FX front, the strong USD has been a major force, but we are also concerned about the poor EM FX fundamentals including the combination of weak growth and monetary policy easing. In most cases, EM central banks have adopted a fairly relaxed approach towards the recent weakness, suggesting that the moves were not deemed unwelcome. SocGen's house view is that non-farm payrolls will come in at 210,000, well above the consensus estimate among market economists for a gain of 163,000. Follow the NFP release LIVE on Business Insider tomorrow at 8:30 AM ET &gt;
After a steep drop off around 12:30, markets have made a big turnaround. The S&amp;P 500 is back to about 1,610 points after falling as low as 1,599. The Dow fell as low as 14,846 but has since climbed back to 14,933 and counting. All the big indices are now basically flat. Most commodities are also up big: gold is up 1.2% and crude is up 1.28%.¬† The dollar is also falling against the Euro after resettling in the wake of a large pop today. Yahoo
Here's the hilarious cover cover for The Economist's†North American and Asian editions, previewing the upcoming meeting between President Obama and Chinese Premier Xi Jinping. It's a play on the movie Brokeback Mountain. Two pair will meet for two days in Rancho Mirage, Calif. to discuss everything from trade to North Korea to cyberhacking. The Economist seems to think they'll get pretty close... The Economist
Flickr via brightseaTraveling to certain countries can put a nice dent in your wallet, but how about living in them? ECA International, a global management consulting firm, just came out with its semiannual cost of living survey, which calculates the¬†cost of living based on prices¬†of various day-to-day goods and services. Tokyo has always claimed the number one spot as the most expensive city for expatriates to live, but this year, for the first time in three years, it was outranked by another. All prices are reflected in U.S. dollars.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithMortgage refinance applications have been taking a hit recently. This morning's MBA purchase applications showed that refinance index was down 15% for the May 31st week. The refinancing index is down four straight weeks, and was down 12% the previous week. Refinance applications tends to be more sensitive to a rise in mortgage rates. The MBA 30-year fixed mortgage rate climbed from 3.59% in the first week of May to 4.07% in the first week of June. The decline in refinance activity reflects the rise in mortgage rates, Ed Stansfield, chief housing economist at Capital Economics explained in an email interview.¬† There are three key reasons to watch this data. First, despite the recent sharp rise, mortgage rates are still at low levels. So the impact on refinance activity shows that both the housing market and overall economic confidence are still "fragile" and the the recovery is dependent on the loose monetary policy. Second, is the impact on consumer spending, which Stansfield doesn't think will be "large." Third, for those with adjustable rate mortgages (ARM) the rising interest rates have been a bigger blow. "This could offset some of the benefits of falling unemployment on delinquency rates, though again I would not really expect this effect to be large based on the rise in mortgage rates seen so far." But how significant is it? "In terms of its significance, in my view, it is less of a concern than if home purchase approvals had fallen to a similar degree ‚Äì they have been softening too, but not by as much," Stansfield said. "After all, home purchase approvals are a better gauge of the strength of the demand for housing than the number of people who are switching from one mortgage deal to another." Bottomline: Stansfield expects the housing market to continue to recover but says this data shows that the recovery "may not proceed in a straight line."
New York venture capitalist Ken Lerer (an investor in Business Insider) has founded several successful organizations over the past few decades. The first, a PR firm called Robinson Lerer Montgomery, evolved into a leading global communications company called RLM Finsbury (Lerer left the company in the 1990s). Another Lerer venture, Huffington Post, has become one of the leading digital media companies in the world. A third company, Lerer Ventures, which Lerer founded with his son Ben, has rapidly become one of New York's most visible early-stage venture capital firms. And now Lerer has launched a new project:† Stop The NRA Stop The NRA Stop The NRA is dedicated to ending gun violence in America. It is currently a three-person non-profit operation funded entirely by Lerer. It will expand as needed. Lerer has been working on the gun issue for 12 years. He has stopped giving money to Congress-people who voted against the recent gun control bill. He is working with New York mayor Mike Bloomberg on the latter's pro gun-control efforts. He also recently bought a full-page ad in The New York Times after the Newtown massacre with the aim of drawing attention to the issue. Why is Lerer so focused on the gun problem? Because, he says, "It's tearing the country apart." "I also don't like bullies," he adds. "And the NRA is a bully. And Congress needs leadership from the outside."† Stop The NRA has launched a web site dedicated to the cause. You can check it out here &gt;
Gold futures are up 1.3% to $1,416.70 per ounce today on dollar weakness. The surge in gold is being driven by dollar weakness. The dollar is currently trading around ¬•97.10 to the yen and is down 2.0% on the day. The dollar began to weaken against the euro after ECB president Mario Draghi's press conference.¬† This FinViz chart shows gold's performance today: Fin VIz
Deep within the caverns of¬†33 Liberty Street rests the New York Fed's historic¬†gold vault, home to probably the largest single assemblage of shiny yellow bars in the world. Seems simple enough¬†‚Äî¬†the tourists love it ‚Äî¬†but one theory germinating on the web the past few months alleges a vast double-counting conspiracy between the Fed and none other than Wall Street powerhouse JP Morgan Chase. Here's why. Though the United States left the gold standard long ago, the Fed still houses the precious metal.  Some argue there's no point to this. The Fed has fiat power. There's really no reason in keeping sovereign¬†gold because, theoretically, the Fed could issue IOUs to all sovereign nations whose gold it holds and then just print money should those countries ever want to redeem it.¬† The growing concern about the gold sitting under Manhattan has become a touchy subject ever since Germany announced earlier this year plans to repatriate its gold from Fed vaults. Some have said the move signifies German mistrust of the Fed. Others argue the Bundesbank is just one of many central banks keen on rebalancing its own gold reserves. So where does JP Morgan fit in? Months ago ZeroHedge drudged up the fact that JPM-owned 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza has, on its fifth sub-basement, the world's largest bank vault.  You know who else has five sub-basements? The New York Fed. You know what building is across the street from 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza? You guessed it: ZeroHedgeYup. JPM's vault, the largest in the world, is possibly inches away from the Fed's gold vault. Across the street, on the same level underground.  But are the vaults physically attached? We probably won't ever know. Either way, it would seem rather¬†advantageous¬†for a central bank housing other nations' sovereign gold to have an underground physical connection to a bank that trades in precious metals. Which, for some, raises another conspiratorial question: Could JPM and the Fed theoretically "share" the resources if the latter were ever audited by, I don't know, the Germans?¬† Who would ever know?
Mortgage rates are on their way back up. U.S. household net worth just hit an all-time high. These are among the reasons why Zillow CEO Spencer Rascoff says it's now time to sell your house (via Jim the Realtor). ¬† In an appearance on CNBC this morning, Rascoff says an ongoing lack of supply ‚Äî the result of people still trapped by negative equity ‚Äî and steady demand will only drive rates up further in coming years, That means it'll be more expensive to buy a home at a given price down the road than now. He explains:¬† If you have any equity in your home and you‚Äôre thinking about selling in the next couple of years,‚Äù he continued, ‚Äú[it's] probably best to sell now, even though home values are continuing to rise. Imagine yourself buying a $300,000 home today, and in four years you may want to trade up to a $500,000 home,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThat home is not just that much more expensive‚Äîbut because mortgage rates are going to be higher‚Äîit‚Äôs significantly more expensive. So the trade-up market is going to be very troubled in a couple of years. Here's the full clip: 
REUTERS/Vincent KesslerI realize that tennis is a niche sport that almost no one cares about except me. And I realize that Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal are foreigners and the French Open is in France, so even fewer Americans care about these two playing playing each other in Paris. But we oddballs who like tennis have been looking forward to tomorrow for more than two weeks. Why? Because tomorrow is the day that the two best tennis players in the world, Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal, will play each other at the French Open, which is one of the four most important tournaments of the year. Matthew Stockman/Getty ImagesThere is a lot riding on the match. Nadal has won 7 of the last 8 French Opens, but he missed most of last year with a knee injury. He looked sloppy and vulnerable in his early matches in Paris, and, in a refreshingly blunt self-assessment, announced that if he didn't improve his game he would be spending the rest of the French Open fishing in Majorca. Djokovic, meanwhile, is the best player in the world--better than Nadal on every surface but this one (clay). Djokovic has never won the French Open, however, and unless/until he does, he won't have achieved true dominance. Djokovic is said to be desperate to win the French, and he has been obliterating his opponents for the past two weeks en route to tomorrow. So this match is going to be epic. But you won't be able to watch it. And neither will I. My not being able to watch it will have nothing to do with not having access to a TV during work hours. I have access to many, many TVs during work hours. I work in a news room, so they just hang on the walls all around me, tuned to various channels. And thanks to this abundance of TVs, and my job as a news guy, I have been able to argue (weakly) that the reason the TV hanging directly in front of me is generally tuned to the French Open is because the French Open is news. The reason neither I nor you will be able to watch the tennis match of the year is, as usual, the result of greed and money and the stranglehold of BIG TV. It turns out that the rights to broadcast the French Open from 7am-11am ET tomorrow are owned not by ESPN, NBC, or some other widely available TV network. As Deadspin's John Koblin reports, they're owned by The Tennis Channel. This fact, which neither you nor I should ever have to be aware of or care about, will prevent both of us from watching the match of the year tomorrow. I pay extra to get the Tennis Channel at home (because I'm a freak), but we don't get it in the office (because it would be a total waste of money). So that means that we won't be able to see the match in our office. And, unless you have a TV in your office with the Tennis Channel on it, you won't be able to see it, either. And, no, the Tennis Channel won't be streaming the match online or anything. Because that would allow people like you and me to watch it. And the Tennis Channel's goal is apparently to prevent us from watching it--unless we shell out for the Tennis Channel wherever we happen to be. (Given that I pay the Tennis Channel's annoying fee at home, you would think they would at least be willing to stream it to me. But I gather they won't. I suppose there's a way I might be able to Sling it to myself, or authenticate myself as a Time Warner Cable subscriber on an iPad or something. But who has time to figure out that crap?) In other words, I am once again reminded why I HATE Big TV. I pay $165 a month to my cable company for my Internet access and hundreds of channels of TV programming that I NEVER WATCH except for live sports. And, yet, despite this--and despite my¬†paying another $3.50 (?) a month to the Tennis Channel to be able to watch some matches and replays that no one but me cares about--I will be unable to watch the only match this year that I actually really want to watch. Thanks, Tennis Channel. Thanks, Big TV. Love you guys. Rooting for ya.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis just put out a map breaking down 2012 GDP by state. The construction industry saw real GDP growth in 43 states last year, lighting it up after eight consecutive years of decline. BEA Some other takeaways:
One of the big stories in global markets today is how the long-U.S. dollar, short-Japanese yen trade seems to be completely unwinding. The dollar is currently trading around ¬•96.30 to the yen and is down 2.9% on the day after hitting a low of ¬•95.89 earlier. Per Bloomberg TV's Sara Eisen, that's the biggest single-day drop in the currency pair in 3+ years. It seems like the market has not been re-assured by recent rumblings out of Japan, where the "Abenomics"-fueled rally in stocks has come to a halt in recent weeks. Nikkei 225 futures are down a whopping 4% from today's close already in after-hours trading in Japan. If those prices hold up through Friday's close on the Nikkei, Japan will have already declined 20% from its May 22 peak, officially entering a bear market. FINVIZ.com On Wednesday, Japanese Prime Minister¬†Shinz≈ç Abe unveiled the most critical part of the experimental economic stimulus program being devised in Japan: details on structural reforms. The Japanese stock market, which has been surging as the yen has tanked, reacted negatively to the news, plummeting 3.8% in a single day. Meanwhile, U.S. stock markets have turned negative this afternoon. The S&amp;P 500 is currently trading around 1603, down 0.4%. Earlier, it crossed below 1600, hitting an intraday low of 1598. And, like the yen, the euro is rallying big against the dollar. Right now, it's trading around 1.3270, up 1.4%.
The Federal Reserve just released its quarterly Z.1 report ‚Äì known as the "flow of funds" ‚Äì which documents changes in U.S. household net worth. In the first quarter of 2013, household net worth rose $3.003 trillion to a record $70.3 trillion. In the fourth quarter of 2013, household net worth only increased (an upward-revised) $1.397 trillion. Around $2.3 trillion of the increase in household net worth in Q1 owes to rising asset and real estate prices. Below is a quick summary of the contents of the report: Household net worth ‚Äì the difference between the values of households‚Äô assets and liabilities ‚Äì was $70.3¬†trillion at the end of the first quarter of this year, about¬†$3 trillion more than at the end of 2012. In the first quarter, the value of corporate equities and mutual funds owned by households expanded $1.5 trillion and the value of residential real estate owned by households increased about $784 billion. Domestic nonfinancial debt outstanding was $40.6¬†trillion at the end of the first quarter of 2013, of which household debt was $12.8 trillion, nonfinancial business debt was $12.9 trillion, and total government debt was $14.9 trillion. Domestic nonfinancial debt growth was 4.6 percent at a seasonally adjusted annual rate in the first quarter of 2013, about ¬º percentage point less than the pace for 2012 as a whole. Household debt edged down at an annual rate of 0.6 percent in the first quarter. Home mortgage debt contracted 2.3 percent, about the same as the decline in 2012. Consumer credit rose at an annual rate of 5.7¬†percent, slightly less than the increase in 2012. Nonfinancial business debt rose at an annual rate of 5.3 percent in the first quarter, after a 6 percent increase in 2012. As in recent years, corporate bonds accounted for the largest increase. State and local government debt rose at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the first quarter, after declining slightly in 2012. Federal government debt rose at an annual rate of 10.3¬†percent in the first quarter of 2013 after a 10.9 percent increase last year. Click here for the full report &gt; Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Quick alert: The Dow Jones just broke through its 50-day moving average, a level that folks have been talking about since the recent slide began. From Stockcharts.com: Stockcharts.com
The euro and the yen are both surging against the U.S. dollar this morning¬†following ECB President Mario Draghi's press conference earlier, which sparked a big sell-off in risky peripheral sovereign debt markets in the euro area. The dollar index has been trending lower all morning, but just in the last few minutes, it's taken a big hit, and is currently down 1.2% on the day. The euro is staging a breathtaking upward run and is currently up 1.4% against the dollar (!), trading at 1.3266. Thinkorswim The yen is making a similar move. The dollar is now down 1.7% against the yen. The yen is currently trading at ¬•97.50 against the dollar after hitting a high of ¬•97.30 just moments ago. Thinkorswim
Good news for state budgets: State personal income tax collections grew 17.6 percent in the first quarter of 2013, compared to the same period a year earlier. That's the strongest growth in over six years, according to a new report from the Rockefeller Institute of Government at SUNY-Albany. Josh Barro/Business Insider, data from Rockefeller Institute This is going to take pressure off state budgets. But there are two big caveats. First, the national rise is heavily driven by a huge income tax increase that California implemented in January. California's personal income tax receipts soared 52 percent (which is why California now has a budget surplus); for the rest of the country, receipts were up 9 percent, which is still strong but not as eye-popping. Second, some of the big drivers of the national strength were temporary. Federal income tax increases for 2013 encouraged wealthy people to shift their income into 2012, for example by realizing capital gains. This boosted both state and federal tax revenues for the last two quarters and will likely do so again for the current quarter -- but not forever. The story is similar at the federal level. A one-time boost in tax receipts helped push the federal budget deficit way down for 2013, but the improvement expected in future years is much more modest. Similarly, states should be mindful that part of this revenue boost won't last forever, and they shouldn't make new long-term spending commitments based on it. Even with all those caveats, these tax data do provide promising signs that the economy is improving. Sales tax receipts were strong in the second quarter, too, up 6 percent -- tied for the strongest growth in the last six years. Josh Barro/Business Insider, data from Rockefeller Institute Unlike the income tax change, the boost in sales tax collections was not significantly driven by changes in tax rates or other one-time factors; it's a bona fide indicator that consumers are spending more, and that government finances are likely to continue getting healthier.
The founder and former CEO of Chesapeake Energy, Aubrey McClendon, is selling is gorgeous vacation home on Lake Michigan for $10 million, says the WSJ. McClendon stepped down from his post last year amid intense government scrutiny and the crash of his company's stock, but he still has a lot of cool stuff ‚Äî this house is just a small part of that. In fact, he's selling because he and his wife have another vacation house nearby, so don't feel sorry for the guy. The house is built on the Singapore Dunes, a proposed mixed-use development that McClendon owns in its entirety. Two other parcels of land on the property are being sold for $3 million and $1.5 million. But the house is the real star. It has breathtaking views of the water and you can check out through wall to wall windows. There are six bedrooms, five bedrooms and a guest house. Dick Waskin of Re/Max Saugatuck-Douglas and Andrea Crossman of Coldwell Banker Woodland Schmidt have the listing.
The former star TV anchor Dylan Ratigan recently ditched everything to go work on an organic hydroponic farm in southern California. The obvious question that many Ratigan fans had in response to this news was, "Huh? Is he having a mid-life crisis?" So we asked him that. His answer was unequivocal.† Produced by Business Insider Video
falequin/FlickrWhen I started Bankers Anonymous, I decided I would not spend any time on ‚ÄúHow to Invest‚Äù books, because I believed the whole genre unworthy of serious consideration.¬† Instead, I would consider ‚ÄúHow Not to Invest‚Äù books as decidedly more fruitful variations on a theme, warning readers about pitfalls and snake oil pitches in the books-on-investing world. Since then, I‚Äôve edged closer to reviewing on this site what most people would consider ‚ÄúHow to Invest‚Äù books. Jonathan Clements‚Äô¬†25 Myths You‚Äôve Got To Avoid If You Want To Manage Your Money Right¬†barely qualifies under my original restrictive criteria for books I can review.¬† But because he engages in a contrarian-style debunking of conventional investment wisdom ‚Äì which I like ‚Äì I‚Äôm going to offer him, and me, amnesty from my original rule. What fun are personal blogging rules if you don‚Äôt break them, anyway? Clements wrote the ‚ÄúGetting Started‚Äù personal finance column for the¬†Wall Street Journal¬†for many years, honing his writing chops for years on these topics.¬† Clements published¬†25 Myths¬†in 1998, just 3 years after Nancy Dunnan‚Äôs laughably anachronisticYour First Financial Steps, but by contrast his advice retains its freshness well past the ‚Äòsell by‚Äô date. Each chapter tackles a conventional wisdom myth of personal investing with a mini-section titled ‚ÄúWhere We Go Wrong,‚Äù followed by another mini-section titled ‚ÄúThe New Rules.‚Äù While admittedly some of these myths are really straw men ‚Äì few people who‚Äôve ever thought about the topic actually embrace the old myth being debunked ‚Äì Clements‚Äô method for teaching on the topic works well.¬† Myth, Mistake, New Rule.¬† Wash, Rinse, Repeat. In sum, I recommend this book. In the spirit of providing value-added services for Bankers Anonymous readers ‚Äì value-added or your money back! ‚Äì and because these are all thoughts worth thinking, I provide Cliffs Notes for Clements‚Äô book. Myth #1 ‚Äì You can have it all Reality ‚Äì Few of us mortals can simultaneously pay off debt, save for an emergency fund, purchase a home, maximize retirement accounts, never carry a credit card balance, pay for college, and still have something left over beyond rice and beans every day.¬† At least in the short run, you have to prioritize and make hard choices.¬† Fair enough. Myth #2 ‚Äì Get a good job and you‚Äôll be set for life Reality ‚Äì Nobody has job security anymore, pensions are few and far between, and few people spend all their working years with the same employer, or even in the same industry.¬† This seems even truer today than it was when this book came out in 1998. Myth #2 ‚Äì Stocks are Risky Reality ‚Äì In the long run, not really.¬† In the long run, bonds and money markets are risky because after taxes and inflation, they offer no real return.¬† This is among Clements‚Äô most controversial statements, and I couldn‚Äôt agree more, despite the fact that he published his book before both the tech crash of 2000 and the credit crunch of 2008.¬† In fact, myth #3 is where I decided this was a book worth reading, as it agrees on this point and others quite closely with one of my absolute faves,¬†Simple Wealth, Inevitable Wealth. Myth #4 ‚Äì You can‚Äôt go wrong with IBM Reality ‚Äì This myth is short-hand for the idea that any one company‚Äôs stock offers immunity from investing disaster and, despite the headline, Clements really focuses on Microsoft as the heralded ‚Äòblue-chip‚Äô of the 1998 time-period.¬† In reality, any single company can go horribly wrong, and most individual investors would do better to focus on sector-investing in the equity markets, rather than stock-picking. Myth #5 ‚Äì You can beat the market Reality ‚Äì We are all the market, so ‚Äòbeating‚Äô the market is both mathematically implausible for the majority of us, as well as empirically rare, and a red-herring of an investment goal.¬† For me, this myth ranks as the biggest lie perpetrated on us by the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex.¬† The goal should not be to ‚Äòbeat‚Äô the market, but rather to be exposed to the market, to achieve market returns. Myth #6 ‚Äì Your investment will make 10 percent a year Reality ‚Äì Here‚Äôs a bit of an anachronism from 25 Myths¬†since few people in 2013 expect 10% returns from the stock market on a consistent basis.¬† If Clements wrote this book in 2013 he‚Äôd have to make the myth: ‚ÄúYour investment will make 5 percent a year‚Äù just to make it a plausible straw man.¬† On the other hand, memories are short, and we‚Äôll have to forgive investors entering the field after 2009 for outlandish expectations.¬† Don‚Äôt look now, but the damn market just more than doubled in the last four years.¬† Pretty soon folks will think that‚Äôs the new normal.¬† Double my money in just 4 years!¬† Sweet! Myth #7 ‚Äì You can‚Äôt go wrong with mutual funds Reality ‚Äì Sector mutual funds can be terribly undiversified, expenses can be outrageously high, some investment managers still sell ‚Äúload‚Äù funds, and minimum investment sizes can keep people out of the market, to name just a few flaws of mutual funds, broadly understood. Myth #8 ‚Äì You can find the next Magellen Reality ‚Äì Again, an anachronism.¬† People under 40 don‚Äôt think of Peter Lynch‚Äôs fund ‚ÄìThe first $billion mutual fund and easily the most famous mutual fund of the 1980s ‚Äì when they think of investment rock-stars.¬† Legg Mason‚Äôs Bill Miller overtook that crown in the 2000s, and hedge fund managers largely replaced mutual fund managers as the sexy geniuses touted by the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex.¬† Soros, Robertson, Jones in the 1980s and 90s, Tepper, Ackman, Loeb, Cohen, Einhorn, Eisman, Paulsen in the 2000 and 2010s.¬† The point, however, is that few of us can realistically pick those winners before they were rock stars.¬† Once they are rock stars, you‚Äôre either purchasing lagging returns (an error!), or you can‚Äôt actually get into the fund (quel domage!) Myth #9 ‚Äì Index funds are guaranteed mediocrity Reality ‚ÄìIndex funds outperform most actively managed funds over the medium to long run, mostly due to the latter‚Äôs higher fees and higher portfolio churn. Myth #10 ‚Äì Nothing‚Äôs safer than money in the bank Reality ‚Äì Clements recommends money market funds, with check-writing capabilities, as a higher-yielding opportunity than savings in a bank.¬† At this point in the interest-rate cycle (zero return either way!), and with the unfortunate experience of money market funds ‚Äòbreaking the buck‚Äô in 2008 without a government bailout, I‚Äôm less inclined than Clements to point out the advantages of money market funds over money in a bank.¬† But, whatever. Myth #11 ‚Äì If you need income, buy bonds Reality ‚Äì To quote Clements: ‚ÄúInvestors love bonds.¬† It‚Äôs what you would call a sado-masochistic relationship.¬† Bonds suck investors in with their fat yields, then bludgeon them with inflation, taxes, defaults, early redemptions and more.¬† Yet folks keep coming back for more‚Ä¶What do I think?¬† I think bonds stink.‚Äù¬† The irony here is that I wholly agree with Clements despite two important situational facts: 1. I am a bond guy by training and fixed-income oriented in my investment outlook 2. At the time he published his book, bonds easily offered 6.5% US government-guaranteed yield, which any total-return-oriented equity investor would probably kill for today. Myth #12 ‚Äì Hedge your bet with hard assets Reality ‚Äì Clements points out that hard assets like real estate, precious metals, art, and collectibles should only reasonably return the rate of inflation over the medium and long run.¬† Despite my arguing in favor¬†of home ownership as a particularly advantageous hard asset investment, I agree with his expectations-setting of price appreciation when it comes to hard assets. Myth #13 ‚Äì You should own a balanced portfolio Reality ‚Äì In this context, Clements means ‚Äòbalanced‚Äô as a 60/40 split between stocks and bonds.¬† Clements points out, rightly, that many individuals would benefit from a more equity-oriented mix, and the specific 60/40 traditional blend doesn‚Äôt work for everyone.¬† Fair enough.¬† Although to pick a fight with him and myself at the same time: While 60/40 may not be the answer to everybody‚Äôs needs, there are also much worse ways to allocate your investments.¬†¬† Any individual investor should probably deviate meaningfully from 60/40, but if you were to mandate an allocation that everybody has to follow, 60/40 isn‚Äôt a terrible place to start.¬† It‚Äôs not right for me, for example, but it wouldn‚Äôt completely screw me up either, as much as other potential allocations might.¬† To pick another fight, only with Clements this time, he‚Äôs overly proscriptive and enamored with zero coupon bonds for investors.¬† I get where he‚Äôs coming from, but I certainly wouldn‚Äôt send any individual out to buy zero coupon bonds today. Myth #14 ‚Äì You need a broker Reality ‚Äì Discount/low-service/online brokerages may be just fine for the do-it-yourself generation, even more true now than it was when¬†25 Myths¬†first came out.¬† Clements wisely points out, and I concur, that a good investment advisor offers timely hand-holding when the shit inevitably hits the fan in your stock portfolio.¬† Their value-added is to get you to do nothing, because you made a reasonable plan, and now you need to be tied to the mast, and not allowed to sell out your equities at the bottom.¬† That is the true value of an investment advisor. Myth #15 ‚Äì Keep six months of emergency money Reality ‚Äì Few people can do this, and credit cards, home equity lines, or even non-retirement equity accounts may serve this purpose for many people and under many conditions. Myth #16 ‚Äì Debt is dangerous Reality ‚Äì Of course it is dangerous.¬† But it may be better than the alternative of not using debt, such as never owning a car, never going to college, always renting your home, or keeping too much cash earning zero return.¬† He points out the advantages available in stock margin accounts (too scary for me!) and¬†home equity lines of credit, which I highly endorse under certain scenarios. Myth #17 ‚Äì Buy the biggest house possible Reality ‚Äì You can lose a lot of money buying a home as everyone re-learned, again, in 2008,¬†because investing in housing is quite risky.¬† Clements supplements this chapter with wise thoughts on housing as an inflation-hedge and as a form of forced savings, which influenced my post¬†on the advantages of housing as an investment. Myth #18 ‚Äì You can‚Äôt beat the mortgage tax deduction Reality ‚Äì Clements argues correctly that having a large mortgage ‚Äòfor the deduction‚Äô is not clever but asinine.¬† You end up spending $1 to save 15 cents.¬† ‚ÄúSpend to save‚Äù is such a large part of our advertising and consumption culture that I‚Äôm not surprised the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex has convinced so many of us of this ‚Äòwisdom,‚Äô but still. Myth #19 ‚Äì Invest in your house Reality ‚Äì Houses can be huge money pits, in which we convince ourselves that spending money on the structure for consumption purposes may be mistakenly considered an ‚Äòinvestment.‚Äô¬† As Clements points out, the home improvement industry brags: you might recoup 95% of the cost of a minor kitchen remodeling, 91% of a bathroom addition, 83% of a family room addition, 77% of a bathroom remodeling, and 72% from adding on a deck. Using those numbers, in investment terms, you lose between 5% and 18% on the ‚Äòinvestment,‚Äô which makes it a terrible investment indeed. ¬†It‚Äôs fine as an act of consumption, of course, but a loser as an investment.¬† The lesson:¬†You‚Äôve got to separate the consumption and investment functions when spending money on your house. Myth #20 ‚Äì Trade up as soon as you can Reality ‚Äì Trading up in terms of house size or price ‚Äòas soon as you can‚Äô can cost you somewhere between a lot to everything, as anyone with a¬† pulse, watching the 2008 credit crunch, realizes. Myth #21 ‚Äì Protect against every disaster Reality ‚Äì Clements and I sing from the same hymnal here, in that many people purchase more insurance than needed.¬† If it¬†ain‚Äôt risk transfer, it ain‚Äôt insurance worth buying. (Apparently our mutual hymnal speaks in a terribly uneducated manner.)¬† In addition, some insurance is optional at best, useless and expensive at worst. Myth #22 ‚Äì Life Insurance is a good investment Reality ‚Äì I could kiss Clements.¬† It‚Äôs like his chapter lines up perfectly with my previous blog postings on¬†life insurance as a useful risk transfer but a terrible investment.¬† Honestly, I wrote these things before reading his book. Myth #23 ‚Äì Invest in your kids‚Äô name Reality ‚Äì Apparently this must have happened back in the 80s and 90s as a tax dodge.¬† I never hear about anyone doing this nowadays.¬† Maybe the parents I know are just poorer than the New York City-based parents Clements interacted with.¬† Or maybe parents today learned too much from the 1980s, and Studio 54, and how a lifetime of parental investments can be snorted through your child‚Äôs nose.¬† Anyway, in case you‚Äôre tempted, Clements doesn‚Äôt recommend this. Myth #24 ‚Äì Max out your IRA every year Reality ‚Äì Clements wants you to know that retirement-account funds are semi-permanently locked up, they change the eventual taxable nature of your retirement income to capital gains, you might have tax hassles, and you still pay taxes upon death.¬† I suppose he‚Äôs right, but for most of us it‚Äôs still a worthy aspiration to max out our IRA.¬† It‚Äôs unlikely, but you might miss out on a¬†Mitt Romney type situation¬†if you don‚Äôt max out your IRA ‚Äì¬†especially a self-directed IRA¬†‚Äì and¬†Roth IRAs have special powers¬†on which Clements does not elaborate.¬† So I mostly disagree with Clements on this ‚Äòmyth.‚Äô¬† Let‚Äôs move on. Myth #25 ‚Äì One day, kids, all of this will be yours Reality ‚Äì Estate planning takes a lot of work, and it is available to folks who invest a lot of time and some money in the project.¬† He urges careful organizing, talking as openly as possible with heirs, and remaining alert to the opportunities for giving tax-free.¬† Fair enough.¬† I‚Äôm not there in my life yet to have done much thinking about this, beyond paying an attorney to prepare a simple will. If you made it this far, congratulations.¬† You don‚Äôt necessarily need to buy the book,¬†but you could click through to it anyway and make a different purchase.¬† That way I can track your purchase and¬†write a funny note¬†about what Bankers Anonymous readers like to buy.¬† Would somebody please buy that¬†Hutzler 571 Banana Slicer?
The long decline of American manufacturing isn't over yet. Fifteen of the 20 fastest shrinking industries are in the manufacturing sector, according to a Bureau of Labor Statistics report on job growth from 2010 to 2020. Government jobs, especially in the postal service, are also getting axed.
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein gave the keynote address at LaGuardia Community College's 41st commencement today at the Javits Center in Manhattan.¬† He delivered his address to an audience of around 1,000 graduates from the college.¬† In his commencement remarks, he talked about his life growing up in the projects in Brooklyn and working his way to becoming the CEO of Goldman Sachs. ¬† He also gave some advice for the graduating class telling them to be confident, find a job they like, be a "well-rounded, complete person", give back to the community, keep an open mind, surround themselves with ambitious people and put themselves in situations with the opportunity for growth. ¬† Here's his full speech: President Mellow, distinguished faculty, friends, family, and the Graduating Class of 2013.¬† It is a great honor for me to share in your accomplishment and pride today. But I must admit that I approached this address with some trepidation. I suppose that more commencement speeches have been delivered more seriously, listened to more attentively, and forgotten more promptly than any other form of human communication.¬† So I will try to be brief and practical. ¬†My advice is grounded in my own experience. And my own experience, in many respects, is not that different from many of yours.¬† I grew up with the idea that college was more an aspiration than an expectation. I saw my parents struggle most of their lives and the daily battle to keep afloat sometimes even drained what hopes and dreams they had for me. They didn't go to college and neither did my only, older sibling.¬† My father sorted mail for the post office. ¬†He worked nights because it paid 10% more than a day shift. My mother was a receptionist at a burglar alarm company ‚Äî one of the few growth industries in our neighborhood. ¬†I grew up in the Linden Houses, which, as some of you know, is a housing project in East New York.¬† It was and is a tough neighborhood, though it produced some accomplished people who, despite or because of their background, did well. ¬†I attended Thomas Jefferson high school, which has since shut down as a high school and operates different training programs for various skills. ¬†Up until high school, I shared a small apartment with my extended family, which included my grandmother, my sister and my nephew. ¬† But looking back, I grew up in a world of unlimited opportunity. Each night I would read, and reading opened up the world to me. ¬†I love reading history and especially biography. ¬†In biographies, you are almost always reading about people who started out unimportant but ended up having a significant life.¬† What I liked most about biographies then and now is that the person you are reading about is in his or her early life on page 50, doesn't know about the success he or she will achieve on page 300. ¬†They couldn't see the greatness that lay ahead. If you think about it, that's a great justification for the optimism that you should have for the life ahead of you. ¬†All of you are only on about page 50 of your biography, with hundreds of pages to go.¬† Growing up, my biggest goal was just to get out of East New York. ¬†I took the college entrance exam and committed myself to getting into college. I did. The day I left for college was one of the first trips I made out of New York City.¬† College was an intimidating place for me. The other students seemed naturally confident; many had traveled and seemed to understand the world. To this day, I can't forget how insecure I felt, but it made me work harder. ¬† Once I realized I belonged, I became more ambitious. Ambition is your inner voice that tells you you can and should strive to go beyond your circumstances or station in life. ¬†You have overcome obstacles, pressures and self-doubt and you have done it because you have ambition. You want to succeed for your families and yourselves. And there is no more powerful force through which to do that than through education and know how. ¬† I'm proud that LaGuardia and Goldman Sachs have teamed up to support small businesses. Through this partnership, I've seen how many LaGuardia students are juggling school, job and family. ¬†And, I've seen how these students and all of you push yourselves and persevere.¬† By virtue of being here today, you have proven to yourself that you belong. And now that you belong, feed off your ambition. That means being focused, disciplined, demanding, self critical and open minded. Your challenges won't fall away. In fact, they may get steeper.¬† That, my friends, is life. But just as the struggles are great, so are the rewards. There's another way to look at it: ask yourself if you really have a choice. You already knew the answer to that question the first day you walked into LaGuardia. We owe it to our families and to ourselves to keep striving.¬† This is certainly not the easiest of economic times, but there's always an economic cycle. In the course of the next 50 years of your life, you'll see alot of cycles, and like this one, you'll get through it. Don't get caught up in unrealistic optimism or detached pessimism. ¬† Still, a lot can change rapidly and with a lot of force. Your security rests in knowing how to do a variety of things -- and being able to do them better than others.¬† And that knowledge and ability can be obtained only through a willingness to strike out for something better. That could mean changing careers or pushing for a new idea or strategy in your current one. In either case, push yourself to try something new and to grow with each move.¬† After college, I went to law school for three years, and then into my dream job at a big NY law firm. But even though it had been my dream, I didn't like it once I got there.¬† For the first time, I was feeling financially secure, but I knew I wasn't passionate enough about what I was doing. And because I didn't love it, I would never be fulfilled from it, or be really good at it. Someone who loved it more would have greater enthusiasm an focus. For some it was fun; for me it was always going to be a chore.¬† After five years at a law firm, I decided I wanted to try something different. I came home and told my wife I was quitting, and she cried. And not out of happiness. Anyway, it worked out. I got a new job at a small Wall Street firm, we got bought out by a larger firm, and I ended up remaining at a large firm... Goldman Sachs.¬† In my career, I've been fortunate to know and work with many of this country's top CEOs and business leaders. I'm always struck by a certain passion that defines them. While they may be wealthy and powerful, their passion goes beyond money and power.¬† I won't stand here and tell you those are bad things. They can be pretty good, but only if you have a larger purpose in mind. If you don't have passion for your work or the drive to make a better life for your kids than your own, then you won't have what it takes to keep you going.¬† So, I'd like to leave you with some specific advice that will hopefully keep you going:¬† First, confidence really matters. Recognize you have earned the right to be confident. Most of you have made great sacrifices and overcome great obstacles to get where you are today. You built up muscles that others who've had an easier time don't have. Those muscles will serve you for the rest of your life.¬† My struggle to get to and through college turned out to be an advantage for me. The disadvantages you have had become part of your personal history and track record, all advantages in your later life. So confidence is justified.¬† Second, find a job that you like. You'll be better at it and you'll last longer in it. Having said that, in a tough economy, or because of family pressures, you may not aways be able take a risk with a job choice. And, no doubt, we've all settled at various times.¬† But, don't let necessity in a give moment become the excuse for a lifetime of inertia. Keep trying to get yourself to the right place. If I'd stayed a lawyer, I could have made it work for a while, but I would have fizzled out and eventually because I didn't love it.¬† Third, be a well rounded, complete person. many of you will go for further education or career training. Of course, it's important to learn the things that you need to make a living. But, don't forget to read, and to learn history, literature and about current events.¬† You'll be more interesting to others, more interesting to yourself and you'll be more successful in your job. Most of the books I've read didn't apply directly to my job or industry, but I've applied their lessons in unexpected ways.¬† Fourth, be involved in the community. Find ways to contribute to make yourself proud and set an example to your kids. making a living is not life. It is a means to an end, not the end. You have to feel proud of yourself. There are always going to be people who struggle and for whom community work is not a realistic option, but try.¬† I've done plenty to advance myself over the years. But, the older I get, the more satisfaction I get from serving and advancing others. In fact that's how I first got involved with President Mellow and LaGuardia -- through the 10,000 Small Businesses program we initiated at your school.¬† Finally, appreciate that life is unpredictable, so don't close your mind to possibilities. Try to surround yourself with people who are equally ambitious. ¬†Put yourself in situation where you can grow ‚Äî where you'll not only push yourself but others will push you.¬† What were the chances that a kid from the projects would run one of the great financial institutions in the world? You just never know. That unpredictability is the great thing about life. You change. The world changes. You live in a country where we are still blessed with enormous opportunity. Leave yourself open to the world of possibility. You have the ambition, you have the smarts and you have the toughness. So, turn the page on your biography -- you have just started a new chapter in your lives.¬† Good luck and congratulations to you and your families.¬† Well said. Also, here's Blankfein in his full commencement ceremony regalia:¬† Julia La Roche for Business Insider
REUTERS/Jerry Lampen Chinese credit growth has outpaced GDP growth for some time. Some have argued that this is the main bear argument on China right now.¬† Many are asking why this is the case? Where all the money's gone? And is China facing it's own Minsky moment ‚Äî a phenomenon that refers to periods of speculation that lead to crisis and that was named after economist Hyman Minsky who wrote about the inherent instability of bull markets. In a new note, Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that this has raised questions about whether the non-performing loan ratios are higher than expected, if there are more artificially propped up investment projects that are using new credit for interest payments, is there more speculation than people realize¬† "Property speculation and a rising number of zombie companies," partly explain the credit-GDP growth gap he write. "More careful study tells us that the gap is smaller than what had been believed due to double counting and other distortions, and a majority of the gap could be ascribed to reasonable changes in fundamentals and short-term factors which should not be extrapolated." From Lu: "In our view, the 12ppt gap could be decomposed as follows: 2.7ppt due to double counting of funding via non-banking intermediaries; 1.0ppt on FX loans which were used for speculating on RMB/USD appreciation; 0.3ppt on RMB loans used for faking RMB trade settlement; 1.5ppt on zombie companies as a result of bad investment; 3.5ppt on changing fundamentals such as automation, rebalancing and falling returns on FAI; and 3.0ppt on short term factors such as the increased volatility in commodity prices and eased (and cheaper) credit."¬† Here's a chart that breaks it down easily: Bank of America But Societe Generale's Wei Yao is not so optimistic. In a note, excellently summed up by The Financial Times, Yao used methodology from the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) to calculate debt servicing ratio and applied it to China. Doing that she found, "a shockingly high debt service ratio of 38.6% of GDP, of which 9.2% goes to interest payment (=6.3%√ó145 % of GDP) and the rest principal. At such a level, no wonder¬† that credit growth is accelerating without contributing much to real growth! Yao does think the actual DSR is lower than her calculation but writes that "a non-negligible share of the corporate sector is not able to repay either principal or interest, which qualifies as Ponzi financing in a Minsky framework." Two slightly different takes on what this means for China? Lu doesn't see an imminent crisis but does see need for reform. "In our view the central government needs to take more responsibility in infrastructure spending, move some debt burden from local governments to itself, build a functioning municipal bond market, improve prudential regulations, restructure the stock markets to restart IPOs, and make it easier for the private sector to obtain both credit and equity funding. He also thinks the credit-GDP growth gap will narrow to less than 3 percentage points in two years. Yao on the other hand writes that this is all still being held together because the state backs both the banking system (not shadow banking), and their support to local governments. "We think this precarious equilibrium could last a bit longer but not much longer, particularly if the central government does nothing." While this may make investors wary of a hard landing, she writes that it's a good sign that the new leadership is more tolerant of slower growth. She does however expect that we will see more "corporate defaults, rising NPLs, and some degree of credit crunch," in coming years.
The selling in peripheral euro area bond markets is picking up pace following ECB President Mario Draghi's monthly press conference, before which the central bank elected to leave interest rates unchanged. Italian and Spanish 10-year government bond yields are both up 23 basis points to 4.36% and 4.65%, respectively. Portuguese bond yields are up 24 basis points to 5.95%, and Greek bond yields are 10 basis points higher to 9.17%. "It seems odd that peripheral yields would act so badly to improving growth prospects for next year unless of course spreads relative to Germany closed too quickly in the first place," said Miller Tabak's Andrew Wilkinson in an email to clients following the presser. "Keep an eye on German bund yields, which if they reach above last week‚Äôs highs, could sandbag stocks by acting in the same heavyweight fashion as the recent recovery rally in the Japanese yen." The chart below, via @cigolo, shows the sell-off in Italian government bond futures post-Draghi. @cigolo Click here for a complete summary of what Draghi said at his presser &gt;
WikimediaAfter we published our piece on what's wrong with Chicago, Chicagoan Cody Kittle, an associate at PE firm Wind Point Partners, sent us the following response: Chicago no doubt has some big issues, as was illustrated by 25 Facts that Make Chicago the Most Depressing Big City in America and Author Rachel Shteir‚Äôs recent harangue in the New York Times Book Review. ¬†Shteir‚Äôs review reads like she is surreptitiously seeking to settle a score from a ‚ÄúNY vs. Chicago‚Äù cocktail party conversation gone awry under the purview of a book review (it may take more than one read to realize, but she wrote a book review).¬† Shteir‚Äôs review comes off as bizarrely personal for commentary on something like the history of a city; herself admitting that Chicagoans' pride has ‚Äúbugged me since I moved here from New York 13 years ago‚Äù.¬† What is unfortunate about Shtier‚Äôs piece is that she presents a handful of anecdotes and cherry picked statistics from a 60 year period as sufficient in justifying Chicago as a ‚Äúpoor‚Äù city worthy of pity.¬† In doing so she misses a very critical point: that the quality of life for the average person who has the option to choose what city they are in, i.e. the individual or family gainfully employed with a college degree, Chicago is actually wonderful to live in. Here are 25 reasons why Chicago is America's most underrated city: Wikimedia CommonsMillenium Park WikimediaOak Street Beach
European Parliament / FlickrECB President Mario Draghi just wrapped up his monthly press conference following the central bank's decision this morning to leave the benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.5% and the deposit rate unchanged at 0%. European stock markets were in the green pretty much across the board before the press conference began, but now, they're all in the red. The London FTSE 100 is down 0.5%, the French CAC 40 and the German DAX are down 0.1% each, Spain is down 0.1%, and Italy is down 1.5%. Meanwhile, bond yields are blowing out across the euro area. Yields on Italian and Spanish government bonds are both up 22 basis points, while yields in France are up 9 basis points and German yields are up 3 basis points. The euro is trading around 1.3170 against the dollar, up 0.6% on the day. Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson provides some post-Draghi commentary in a note to clients: Looks like an interesting set-up for early trading in response to Draghi‚Äôs commentary. The ECB also boosted its 2014 growth outlook coupled with a downgrade to this year‚Äôs pace. The lower implied likelihood of an ECB rate cut is bolstering the euro but is boosting yields. Notably, the yield on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds is now 10bps up on the day compared to a rise of 2bps for German bunds. It seems odd that peripheral yields would act so badly to improving growth prospects for next year unless of course spreads relative to Germany closed too quickly in the first place.¬†Keep an eye on German bund yields, which if they reach above last week‚Äôs highs, could sandbag stocks by acting in the same heavyweight fashion as the recent recovery rally in the Japanese yen. Click here for a full summary of Draghi's comments at the ECB presser &gt;
The banking summer analyst and associate season is nearly upon us. In a few weeks‚Äô time the lucky few will be congregating in clusters on the streets of London and Manhattan and feeling ‚Äì momentarily ‚Äì empowered. Thereafter, reality may sink in. Because although investment banking internships are still incredibly hard to come by (Goldman Sachs receives 45 good applicants per summer analyst role), they don‚Äôt necessarily amount to much at all. If you‚Äôre about to start an internship in an investment bank, here‚Äôs how we suggest you let yourself down gently before the internship lets you down hard. Banks‚Äô careers websites are marketing tools. As such, they will paint banks‚Äô commitment to student hires in the most glowing terms they possibly can. Take the boutique investment bank Gleacher &amp; Co,¬†which¬†boasts on its website that it offers its junior bankers ‚Äòexposure to world class investment banking‚Äô and that it has ‚Äòan exceptional record‚Äô of giving students full-time jobs. This week, however, Gleacher shut its investment banking business and dismissed all its interns even before they arrived. ¬† In the good old days, investment banking internships were an important route into investment banking jobs after graduation. We spoke to one former Lehman Brothers intern who said that 90% of the bank‚Äôs fixed income class received full-time job offers in 2007 (only to be let go when they joined in 2008). One head of graduate recruitment said conversion rates of 60% to 70% used to be normal for summer internships in banks five years ago. Unfortunately, that‚Äôs all changed. The finance-focused head of the careers service at one UK-based MBA school, speaking on condition of anonymity as he doesn‚Äôt want to discourage anyone from studying an MBA or to discourage banks from hiring his students, said banks now use interns as dispensable labour. ‚ÄúBanks have stopped using internships as part of the recruitment process and started using them as flexible recruitment tools. Instead of offering students full-time job offers after graduation, they will now often now offer them another six-month internship, with the option to extend it,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúYou need to do a succession of internships before you get a job.‚Äù If you‚Äôre spending the summer interning in an investment bank, you‚Äôre probably expecting to work long days on Excel or Powerpoint. Instead, you may find you have nothing to do. As our own intern diaries regularly reflect, an investment banking internship can be a bit of a non-event. Polly Courtney, an author who previously worked at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said interns tend to fall into two categories: those who are worked to death and those who have nothing going on. ‚ÄúThere are usually a small number of interns who are assigned work and are very proud about how much they‚Äôve got to do, but most interns are under-worked and like to pretend they‚Äôre not,‚Äù she said. Interns are commonly commanded to fetch coffees on the trading floor. They are also set to work on pointless tasks simply to stop them wasting everyone‚Äôs time. ‚ÄúMost interns are incapable of doing anything except answering the phone,‚Äù said one equity salesman. ‚ÄúYou usually just throw them a pile of work and make sure they‚Äôre out of the way. The work has to be unimportant, but they have to be made to feel that it‚Äôs very important and you have to turn the screws on them to get it done,‚Äù he said. Several bankers told us that banks treat interns unusually nicely. This may be no bad thing, obviously, but it won‚Äôt prepare you for joining a bank full time. ‚ÄúInterns are given easy work, set no deadlines, can go home at 5pm and are bought numerous free drinks by ageing managers desperate to associate themselves with these fresh-faced banking prodigies,‚Äù said one accountant at a bank in London. ‚ÄúThis all helps create the illusion that the bank is a fun, friendly and stress-free place to work.‚Äù
After collapsing in the wake of the big protests, the Turkish stock market is crashing again today. The culprit: Comments from Prime Minister Erdogan about how development plans (plans to get rid of a park and replace it with a mall) will go ahead. This was the original spark that lit the protest fuse (although the protests are much broader). The Borsta Istanbul is now off about 6%. Via Bloomberg: Bloomberg.com
ECBThe ECB's June interest rate decision is out. As expected, the central bank elected to leave the benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.50% and the deposit rate unchanged at 0.00%. In the opening statement of his monthly press conference, Draghi reiterated previous comments about how he sees a gradual economic recovery in the eurozone later this year, and that the ECB will keep policy accommodative as long as needed. Draghi said the¬†ECB has downgraded its 2013 euro area GDP growth forecast to -0.6%, but upgraded its 2014 forecast to 1.0%. Risks to growth remain on the downside. On the inflation front, the ECB's 2013 forecast has been downgraded to 1.4%, while the 2014 inflation forecast is unchanged at 1.3%. Upside and downside risks to inflation remain broadly balanced. Draghi also said the Governing Council discussed nonstandard measures related to ABS, LTROs, collateral, and credit claims, as well as taking the deposit rate negative. When asked whether the ECB would consider issuing forward guidance to strengthen the effects of monetary policy, Draghi said the Governing Council has not addressed some forms of forward guidance that other central banks are exploring, but has reflected on it. Draghi also said that the decision to leave rates unchanged at this month's Governing Council meeting¬†was based on a consensus that further rate cuts were not enough to have a significant effect. When asked about how long capital controls in Cyprus would last, Draghi said the ECB is not in charge of determining when controls will be lifted. He said the ECB is aware that capital controls distort markets in the euro area, and the sooner they are lifted, the better. Draghi said the ECB continues to see a decrease in excess liquidity as euro area banks continue to pay down ECB-subsidized LTRO loans from last year, which the ECB deems a positive sign. The ECB chief asserted that the euro area economic recovery will be driven by (1) an improvement in exports across member states, and (2) accomodative monetary policy, which will gradually seep into the economy. Draghi said the "vastly prevailing consensus" was that the changes in the economic data since last month's meeting were not enough to prompt another cut to interest rates. Draghi's full opening statement is included below. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on the outcome of today‚Äôs meeting of the Governing Council, which was also attended by the President of the Eurogroup, Finance Minister Dijsselbloem. Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided to keep the¬†key ECB interest rates¬†unchanged. Incoming information has confirmed our assessment which led to the cut in interest rates in early May. The underlying price pressure in the euro area is expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. Medium-term inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2%. At the same time, recent economic sentiment survey data have shown some improvement from low levels. The accommodative stance of our monetary policy, together with the significant improvements in financial markets since mid-2012, should contribute to support prospects for an economic recovery later in the year. Against this overall background, our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary. In the period ahead, we will monitor very closely all incoming information on economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the outlook for price stability. Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting with the¬†economic analysis. Real GDP contracted by 0.2% in the first quarter of 2013, following a decline of 0.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012. Output has thus declined for six consecutive quarters, with labour market conditions remaining weak. Recent developments in economic sentiment survey data have shown some improvement from low levels. Looking ahead to later in the year and to 2014, euro area export growth should benefit from a recovery in global demand, while domestic demand should be supported by the accommodative stance of our monetary policy and by the recent real income gains due to lower oil prices and generally lower inflation. Furthermore, the significant improvements in financial markets seen since last summer should work their way through to the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal consolidation. At the same time, the remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity. Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilise and recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace. This assessment is also reflected in the June 2013 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee annual real GDP declining by 0.6% in 2013 and increasing by 1.1% in 2014. Compared with the March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic projections, the projection for 2013 has been revised marginally downwards, largely reflecting the incorporation of the latest GDP data releases. For 2014 there has been a marginal upward revision. The Governing Council continues to see downside risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area. They include the possibility of weaker than expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries. According to Eurostat‚Äôs flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 1.4% in May 2013, up from 1.2% in April. This increase was, in particular, accounted for by a rebound in services prices related to the unwinding of the Easter effect and an increase in food prices. More generally, as stated last month, annual inflation rates are expected to be subject to some volatility throughout the year due particularly to base effects relating to energy and food price developments twelve months earlier. Looking through this volatility, the underlying price pressure over the medium term is expected to remain subdued, reflecting low capacity utilisation and a modest pace of economic recovery. Over the medium term, inflation expectations remain firmly anchored in line with price stability. This assessment is also reflected in the June 2013 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee annual HICP inflation at 1.4¬†%¬†and 1.3%¬†in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In comparison with the March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic projections, the projection for inflation for 2013 has been revised downwards, mainly reflecting the fall in oil prices, while the projection for 2014 remains unchanged. In the Governing Council‚Äôs assessment, risks to the outlook for price developments are broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger than expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker economic activity. Turning to the¬†monetary analysis, recent data confirm that the underlying pace of monetary and, in particular, credit expansion continues to be subdued. Annual growth in broad money, M3, increased in April to 3.2%, from 2.6% in March, mainly due to a base effect and special factors. The same factors have impacted on the annual growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate, M1, which increased from 7.1% in March to 8.7% in April. The growth of loans to the private sector continued to be weak. The annual growth rates of loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) remained at 0.3% in April, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year. The annual negative growth of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) increased from -1.3% in March to -1.9% in April. This development stemmed, in particular, from net redemptions in short-term loans, which could reflect reduced demand for working capital against the background of weak order books in early spring. More generally, weak loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets. In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets continues to decline further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened where needed. Progress has been made since last summer in improving the funding situation of banks, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in stressed countries and in reducing reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in repayments of the three-year LTROs. Further decisive steps for establishing a banking union will help to accomplish this objective. In particular, the Governing Council emphasises that the future Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the banking system and therefore require swift implementation. To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line with price stability over the medium term. A¬†cross-check¬†with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture. With regard to¬†fiscal consolidation¬†and¬†structural reforms, the Governing Council welcomes the progress made and encourages governments to continue with determined efforts. It is essential that euro area countries do not unravel their efforts to reduce government budget deficits. The new European governance framework for fiscal and economic policies should be applied in a steadfast manner. In this respect, the Governing Council considers it very important that decisions by the European Council to extend the time frame for the correction of excessive fiscal deficits should remain reserved for exceptional circumstances. At the same time, it is necessary to continue, where needed, to take legislative action or otherwise promptly implement structural reforms. Structural reforms should, in particular, target competitiveness and adjustment capacities in labour and product markets, thereby helping to generate employment opportunities in an environment of unacceptably high unemployment levels, especially among young workers, prevailing in several countries. Combined action on the fiscal and structural front should mutually reinforce fiscal sustainability and economic growth potential and thereby foster sustainable job creation. We are now at your disposal for questions.
As Mario Draghi speaks, and offers nothing new, markets are weakening. Especially, Italy, which has fallen out of bed in the past several minutes, dropping bout 1%. FTSE MIB
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Erdogan remains defiant after returning from a four-day trip to Africa, fueling the public anger that has led to six days of intense protests. On Thursday he reiterated plans to remove trees in Gezi Park and build a mosque in Istanbul's Taksim Square, and even dismissed a question about his deputy prime minister's apology for police savagely beating protesters. Meanwhile demonstrators ‚Äî backed by Turkey's robust labor unions ‚Äî continue demanding that the government abandon plans to overhaul the heart of Istanbul, and that it sack authorities deemed responsible for violence during recent clashes. Turkey analyst and Turkish daily Vatan Washington correspondent Ilhan Tanir tweeted that Erdogan's comments "didn't didn't surprise anyone. There is no a step back, no softening the tone. Barely acknowledged the dpt PM Arinc's apology." Wow. RT @joewsj: Nosedive. RT @benjaminharvey: Stock market after Erdogan started speaking. Incredible- look at this: twitter.com/BenjaminHarvey‚Ä¶ Erdogan's tone: "we already accepted excessive use of tear gas, get over it." #occupygezi Erdogan either just doesn't get it, or doesn't want to get it. What a disaster. #occupygezi Thousands of demonsrators have established makeshift camp in the Taksim Square, which is a popular gathering place and symbol for the country's labor movement. On Wednesday Daren Butler and Humeyra Pamuk of Reuters reported "is taking on the look of a more enduring settlement" with small tents, foods, face masks, and a nascent library. So as protestsers hunker down in the park while the prime minister doubles down on plans to uproot it, the unrest continues. The Economist's cover is very interesting: Democrat or sultan? w/a gas mask. v @ekizilkaya twitter.com/WashingtonPoin‚Ä¶
tuchodi / FlickrQuick heads up: After being higher in the morning, futures have turned red, and are set to add to yesterday's steep losses. It's been a fairly quiet morning, mostly. Initial claims basically came in line. And Mario Draghi hasn't said anything too wild at the ECB press conference. But starting around 8, it's been a slide.
Wikimedia CommonsToday, over 100 masters of the universe will assemble at the swanky Grove hotel in Watford, England for one of the most clandestine and controversial meetings in the world ó the Bilderberg Conference. Bilderberg has been around for almost 60 years, bringing together the most powerful people in the United States and Europe. From CEOs to political bigwigs, it's an opportunity for the global elite to gather every year and have an open dialogue about world affairs, no reporters allowed. And since the first rule of the Bilderberg club is you don't talk about the Bilderberg club, the historic hangout session enjoys more conspiracy theories than the moon landing ó Bilderberg lore blames the meeting's attendees for everything from the most recent financial crisis to global money laundering.
UPDATE: The latest weekly jobless claims data are out. During the week ended June 1, claims fell to 346,000 from an upward-revised 357,000 in the previous week. Economists were predicting a slightly larger drop to 345,000. Continuing claims fell to 2.952 million during the week ended May 25 from an upward-revised 3.004 million the week before. Click here for the full release &gt;
The stock market has risen steadily since November without any sort of significant pullback. Since May 22, however, there's been an exciting twist: stocks have been going down. At yesterday's closing level of 1609, the S&amp;P 500 is now down 4.6% from the 1687 high on May 22. Miller Tabak's Chief Technical Market Strategist Jonathan Krinsky says now, "all eyes are on the [S&amp;P 500's 50-day moving average]," and asks, "Will it hold?" In a note to clients this morning, Krinsky writes: We have been looking for the SPX to test its 50 DMA, which currently sits at 1604. Specifically, on Monday we wrote: ‚Äú‚Ä¶as we look ahead into June, we think the odds of an 8th consecutive monthly gain become slim. That is not to say we are expecting a major downturn, but we think a test of the still rising 50 DMA around 1600 should not be surprising. 1597-1600 also represents the April highs. Below that, the 1576 area will likely be defended as it was prior resistance from October 2007, and represents a major multi-year breakout level.‚Äù On Wednesday, the SPX got within 4 handles of its 50 DMA. Of course the problem now is that everyone is looking for that. We know the old axiom: ‚Äúwhen everyone is thinking the same thing, nobody‚Äôs thinking‚Äù. Therefore, we want to keep an open mind about a possible push below 1600. The chart below plots the S&amp;P 500 against its 50-day moving average. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
In the last month, the economy gave us some particularly worrisome economic data.† Societe Generale's Albert Edwards flags two data points: Q1 corporate profit growth, which unexpectedly turned negative, and the May ISM manufacturing report, which is now signaling a contraction in the sector. "History tells us that this is a warning sign we ignore at our peril," he wrote. Edwards notes that the ISM numbers have been on the same path as they were going into the last recession. But he believes that the ISM's signal isn't quite as powerful as the signal being sent by the corporate profits report. From Edwards: The US just released its Q1 corporate profits update with the GDP data. These give a less timely but more comprehensive snapshot of what is going on with corporate profits than the S&amp;P data. Most commentators agree the BEA data is less subject to 'manipulation'. The Q1 data showed profits falling a tad on virtually every definition, My preferred measure is pretax economic profits of domestic non-financial companies which history suggests is a good predictor of domestic investment growth (see chart below). Profits for us are a leading indicator for corporate spending. Hence, with profits essentially flat for the last four quarters, history suggests this is not good news for the economy. Here's Edwards' chart: Societe Generale Edwards has subscribed to the work of John Hussman and James Montier who have argued extensively that record high profit margins are unsustainable and would inevitably revert to the mean. Profit margin contraction would translate into crumbling profits, which would ultimately take the legs out from under the stock market. This new profits data seems to only support that thesis. "Recent profits data published by the US Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) confirms our long held view that margins have been forming a peak (see chart below)," said Edwards.† "Indeed it is notable that, excluding financials, profit margins have failed to break out above their usual range. As night follows day, the market should be pricing in a decline in the margin cycle from here." Societe Generale In addition to what appears to be a peak in profit margins, revenues may be heading south to. Edwards points to the work of Ed Yardeni, which shows that S&amp;P 500 revenue is tightly correlated with the ISM manufacturing report, which we know went negative. "Thus we may well be in for a double dose of bad news - both falling revenues and falling margins," writes Edwards. "History suggests this as good a leading indicator as any other for whether the US economy will endogenously fall back into recession."
Good news from the latest Challenger job cuts report: Monthly job cuts declined for the third consecutive month in May, as U.S.-based employers announced plans to trim payrolls by 36,398 during the month, 4.5 percent fewer than 38,121 cuts in April. The May total was 41 percent lower than the same month a year ago, when employers slashed payrolls by 61,887 , according to the report Thursday from global outplacement consultancy Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas, Inc. To date, the nation‚Äôs employers have announced 219,560 planned job cuts in 2013. That is down 11 percent from the 245,540 planned cuts announced in the first five months of 2012. Challenger
REUTERS/Stoyan NenovGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.


Anti-government protests continue in Turkey. And the Turkish police continue to retaliate. Below is a picture taken yesterday in Ankara. From Reuters:¬† Anti-government protesters try to protect themselves from a water cannon as riot police disperse them during a protest in Ankara June 5, 2013. Turkish demonstrators demanded the sacking of police chiefs on Wednesday over a fierce crackdown on days of unprecedented protest against what they see as Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan's authoritarian rule.¬† REUTERS/Umit Bektas
This week we actually saw some good news on the Eurozone manufacturing front. PMI reports from across the region ‚Äî especially the periphery ‚Äî saw nice jumps in May from April. Meanwhile, if there's one country that appears to be slipping, it's Germany. Now only was unemployment higher, recently, than expected, its latest manufacturing report is brutal. German Apr Mfg Orders Adj -2.3% MM; Unadj +5.6% YY; Forecast -0.8% On Month
For much of the early part of this century, we've been used to seeing commodity prices rally on "good" news. If the stock market were accelerating, then oil would be rising too. When markets fell, commodities would also be in decline. That's not been the case over the last two years, as this chart from Morgan Stanley makes clear. Morgan Stanley So what's the story? Are commodities warning of a slowdown, or reflecting the oncoming Fed "tapering" in some way? In Morgan Stanley's note, titled The Message From Commodity Markets, strategist Manoj Pradhan argues that cyclical factors are not sufficient to explain the divergence, and that the real story is one of an actual structural shift in the commodity markets. The common structural story is composed of two halves. One is that a lot of supply has been built up during the boom. The other half is that emerging market growth has downshifted. -- Supply side: The physical capacity built in the ‚Äòup‚Äô phase of the commodity cycle was likely based on inflated expectations of real commodity demand. High commodity prices created a terms of trade shock that made investments in commodity capacity hard to ignore. Australia, Russia and Brazil have succumbed to the Dutch Disease, while Malaysia and Indonesia contracted a milder version. Even Brazil, where the export basket is far less commodity-oriented and far more diversified in commodity exports than its Latin American neighbours, around 50-60% of private investment and the bulk of FDI in 2011 were directed towards the commodity sector. As the global balance of growth has changed in the way we describe below, those expectations have proved to be difficult for reality to measure up to. -- Demand side: EM growth is at risk and the transition to more sustainable models of growth has been difficult. To boot, China‚Äôs new administration appears to be accepting both lower growth and a move away from investment to improve the quality of its growth. Both aspects of this change reflect lower structural demand for commodities. The investment-driven phase of China‚Äôs explosive growth involved a surge in infrastructure investment to support the re-export model of growth. Growth, if driven by households, is unlikely to generate the same demand for hard commodities. It could certainly drive demand for soft commodities, but consumption has not yet become the main driver of China‚Äôs growth and is unlikely to do so in the near future. Why? The associated fall in household savings would remove the implicit subsidy given to investment and hurt growth more than it would stabilize it (see again The Global Macro Analyst: Why Is EM Under Fire?). Moreover, China‚Äôs innovations in extracting more out of its domestic resources and also from lower-quality resources in the last 3-5 years are putting further strain on commodity prices. But Pradhan doesn't think these stories explain the whole thing. He's more intrigued by the idea of a re-industrializing United States, that will provide manufactured output, but at a much more commodity efficient clip than the emerging world. That's the real story, he says, which explains both commodity weakness and the strength in developed market equities.
ECBFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank is expected to keep its main interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent on Thursday but tweaks to its economic forecasts may give investors a steer on the future direction of policy. The euro zone's central bank cut its main rate last month and signaled it was ready to do more should a recovery not materialize in the second half of the year as it expects. With economic data improving in May, the ECB will probably want to save its last remaining policy firepower for a later date, while stressing it is not out of ammunition. This may include action to boost lending to smaller firms in the euro zone periphery, although plans to do so are unlikely to have been finalized. "We won't see any changes on the policy rates," ABN Amro economist Nick Kounis said. "If data were to disappoint going forward, then a refi rate cut becomes an option." The ECB will release its latest set of staff projections after Thursday's Governing Council meeting, which began at 0700 GMT (3 a.m. EDT). Analysts expect a slight downgrade to growth forecasts, while the inflation outlook is expected to be little changed from the previous forecasts, released in March. ECB President Mario Draghi said on Monday he continued to see "a very gradual recovery" starting later this year. In a Reuters poll, 78 of 81 economists expected rates to remain on hold this month. A firm majority of respondents do not expect the central bank to cut its main refinancing rate or its deposit rate again in the coming months. &lt;ECB/INT&gt; With data slightly better in May than in April, there is less need for action. Purchasing managers' index surveys on Wednesday showed that euro zone business activity shrank in May, but at a slightly slower pace. Downturns have eased in France, Italy and Spain, and Germany is stabilizing, the data showed. Inflation, which fell to 1.2 percent in April, rose back to 1.4 percent in May, closer to the ECB's target of just below 2 percent, while Eurostat confirmed that the bloc's economy contracted by 0.2 percent in the first quarter of the year from the October-December period. STAFF PROJECTIONS Analysts expect only minor changes to the ECB's outlook. "They will revise down GDP growth forecasts, while we expect next year's inflation forecast to remain unchanged," Unicredit economist Marco Valli said, adding that he expected Draghi to maintain a dovish tone. The central bank will continue to see a recovery later this year but not rule out further policy action, if needed. "Draghi will try to balance two messages. He will try to sound constructive about the economy and to also leave the door open to further policy easing," JP Morgan economist Greg Fuzesi said in a note to investors. One door the ECB will not close is the option of taking its deposit rate into negative territory from zero now - even though few analysts believe it has immediate plans to do so. At last month's post-rate decision news conference, ECB President Mario Draghi said the central bank will look at negative deposit rates "with an open mind and we stand ready to act if needed". But that might be ammunition the ECB wants to keep unused - at least unless the economy enters a downward spiral. "It's not never-ever, but probably a lot would have to happen for it to happen," ABN Amro's Kounis said. Varying borrowing costs in different parts of the common currency area have developed into a major headache for the ECB, with firms and consumers in the debt-ridden south having to pay much higher interest rates than their counterparts in the north. After months of hinting at action to help especially small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), the bloc's economic backbone, the ECB has lately sought to temper expectations, warning against expecting a bazooka. ECB Vice-President Vitor Constancio said last week that one should not "overblow" options the ECB has to repair the market for asset-backed securities, which could help access to funding when bank-lending channels are blocked. European Council President Herman Van Rompuy said on Friday he expected a joint proposal with the European Investment Bank to improve SME financing this month, although the ECB seems content to be a junior partner in any such scheme. (Editing by Catherine Evans and Susan Fenton) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
TEL AVIV (Reuters) - PepsiCois in talks to buy Israel's SodaStream International, whose machines make carbonated drinks from tap water, for $2 billion, the Calcalist financial newspaper reported on Thursday. SodaStream, which also makes flavors, carbon dioxide refills and re-usable bottles, was listed on Nasdaq in 2010 and has a market valuation of $1.4 billion. Estimates are that PepsiCo is willing to go even higher than $2 billion and might agree to pay as much as $95 per share, Calcalist said. SodaStream's shares closed at $69.35 on Wednesday. PepsiCo has already made an offer to buy SodaStream through Goldman Sachs, according to the report. Officials at SodaStream were not immediately available for comment. PepsiCo is interested in SodaStream's potential to expand in the United States after its U.S. sales doubled in 2012, Calcalist said. Calcalist also said SodaStream is checking its options for a deal with Coca Cola Cobefore moving into advanced negotiations with PepsiCo. Global sales at SodaStream, which sells at upscale department stores such as Harrods as well as at budget chains like U.S. group Target Corp, have risen more than three-fold since 2009. The group booked sales of over $436 million last year, with net profit up 18 percent to $44 million. (Reporting by Tova Cohen) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Wikimedia CommonsTomorrow is the big Non-Farm Payrolls report AKA the jobs report. The report is always the most closely-watched report of the month. The tension is especially high for a few reasons. The market remains near all-time highs, but has been weak. There are concerns about the US recovery. And there is serious talk about the Fed beginning to slow down its monetary easing in a way that we haven't seen since the end of the financial crisis. So the stakes are even higher than normal. In today's Morning Money, Ben White of POLITICO notes a two inauspicious items: JOBS DAY PREVIEW: NOT LOOKING GREAT ñ The ADP miss on Wednesday (135K, under 165K expectations) lowered hopes for Fridayís BLS jobs report. Harris Private Bankís Jack Ablin: ìWhile the job market, like many other segments of the economy, continues to expand, it appears to be growing at a slowing rate. Ö Based on a cozy historical relationship between ADP and the Bureau of Labor Statisticsí private payrolls, a simple regression would imply a disappointing net gain of only 139,000 jobs.î ISM NUMBER MAKES IT LOOK WORSE ñ Pantheon Macroeconomicsí Ian Shepherdson: ìThe ISM non-manufacturing index rose to 53.7 from 53.1, trivial- ly above the consensus, 53.5. Ö But we are less interested in the headline than† the grim employment index, which dropped to 10-month low of 50.1 from 52.0 in April. If sustained at that level, the index is consistent with private payroll growth of only about 25K per month.î Anyway, there's lots of noise with this stuff, but so far the data we've seen this week has made folks a bit more pessimistic than they were whne the week started.
Dan Greenhaus at BTIG (@danBTIG on Twitter) notes the following in response to the market's recent declines: ¬†A good few days for equities it has not been (just 31 S&amp;P names were green today). Since hitting a nearby peak on 5.12, the S&amp;P 500 is down by about 3.6%, the Russell 2000 by 3% and the Nasdaq by 2.9%. We should say that U.S. equities are not alone with the FTSE down by over 6% and Australia by 7.4% among others. While this has been a down few days for stocks and investors are beginning to question much of what‚Äôs been taken for granted, it should be noted that the decline is quite modest in the context of the November rally while the below chart hopefully adds something to the longer term perspective. Viewed from the summer of 2009 or so, the S&amp;P 500 had hit the top end of its trading channel and with it, some correction probably isn‚Äôt out of line. Plus, there‚Äôs the Hindenburg Omen so, you know, corroboration. BTIG
Hereís a great chart from JP Morgan research showing Tokyo Stock Exchange Margin trading versus the TOPIX Index (see below). One subject Iíve discussed in detail recently is the concept of disaggregation of credit. †That is the idea that credit can be used for both productive and purely speculative (often unproductive) uses. †It is my contention that our increasingly asset based policy approaches (thanks to obsessions with policies like QE) have had a huge influence on borrowing trends in speculative markets. †This has contributed to increased volatility in asset prices and negatively influenced economic stability. †I think the housing bubble was at least partially caused by a disaggregation of credit (or at least exacerbated by it). So itís particularly interesting to see this asset price targeting on full display in Japan and whatís going on in the margin accounts at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. †As you can see, the use of margin debt has tended to coincide both with speculative booms and QE. †In case you donít know, QE was also enacted in Japan from 2001-2006 and you can see what happened below. Now, some might say that correlation doesnít imply causation. †But I donít know if thatís true in this case. †Obviously, one borrows funds in order to be able to then enact a trade. †So the causation actually seems pretty clear with margin debt. †And in asset markets speculative borrowers always end up unwinding their positions often by choice, but also by requirement. †And itís that required buying (like short covering) or forced liquidation that adds more volatility. †Itís a sort of ìwhat goes up must come downî effect that looks good on the way up and sucks the air out of the building on the way down. Is that really a good thing for the economy? †Is it something we should encourage and actively promote? †I am inclined to argue no, but I guess thatís up for debate. JPM
One of the most hated currencies in the world is the Australian dollar. And betting against it continues to work very well. Overnight it fell below 95 cents against the US dollar. Here's a chart going back several months, via FinViz: FinViz There are a few reasons the Aussie is so hated. There's the commodity weakness. And there's the China slowdown, which Australia is inextricably linked to. And then just the general strength of the US dollar has reduced a lot of the appeal of all other currencies. Anyway, it's ugly.
It's a pretty quiet market for world markets following yesterday's big drubbing, which saw the Dow lose over 200 points. US futures are up modestly. Europe is flat. The big story is, again, Japan. On Wednesday the Nikkei fell nearly 4%. So would there be any kind of a bounce Thursday? Initially it looked like a modest one but the selling resumed in the final minutes of the day, and the index closed decisively lower. That's an ugly chart. Nikkei.com Meanwhile, we're getting closer to the ultra-anticipated US jobs day. In the meantime, today we get initial jobless claims.
