Celine Sotelo "likes to be on the cutting edge," so she was intrigued when a friend this summer touted the virtues of a new kind of money called¬†Bitcoin. She downloaded the software that would allow her family-owned floral shop/cafe to accept BTC, as Bitcoin is known. In August she posted a sign, "Bitcoin accepted here," at her shop on Los Angeles's Westside. She got her first taker in mid-November. She hopes it's the dawn of more demand. But Ms. Sotelo says she is also a little worried because, frankly, she doesn't fully understand Bitcoin yet. "I used the phone app and pushed the right buttons, but I'm a little freaked out," Sotelo says after the customer paid $59.95 to Le Petit Jardin by sending her digital bitcoins via his cellphone. "I have no idea if I got the money or not." RECOMMENDED:¬†Bitcoin FAQ: 7 semi-clear answers to your questions A lot of people, it seems, are both interested in Bitcoin and "a little freaked out" by it. Bitcoin, after all, does not really exist, in the physical sense. It is a digital currency, and buyers use their smart phones to swap online credits with sellers of goods and services willing to accept payment in Bitcoin. With Bitcoin use exploding since its debut five years ago, officialdom is taking notice ‚Äì and starting to ask questions. On Nov. 18 Congress held its first hearing on the subject to explore the "potential risks, threats, and promises" of code-based currency operating largely outside any governmental structure. Speculators have lately been snapping up Bitcoin, betting that demand for it will push up the currency's value, even as the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been probing the dark side of Bitcoin transactions. In the grand scope of all monetary transactions, "cryptocurrencies" such as Bitcoin are used in a tiny fraction of transactions. Only about 600 online businesses worldwide accept Bitcoin, along with a scattered number of brick-and-mortar establishments such as Le Petit Jardin. But outlets for paying with Bitcoin are multiplying. You can now use BTC to buy cupcakes in San Francisco and salmon in San Diego, rent digs in Brazil or Ireland, and scoop up "enchanting gifts" in Lancashire, England. The Federal Election Commission is discussing whether to allow BTC for campaign donations. Bitcoin is not the only virtual currency, but it is the best known. Its notoriety is not all sweetness and light, however: In October, the FBI shut down a black market website called Silk Road, where patrons bought and sold illicit goods ‚Äì such as cocaine, marijuana, child pornography, and weapons ‚Äì exclusively with Bitcoin. Copycat Bitcoin sites with similar names have already sprung up, and analysts say they are likely to keep doing so because Bitcoin offers an anonymity that is especially attractive to lawbreakers. Economist Kevin McIntyre at McDaniel College in Westminster, Md., likens the currency to the private money of Colonial times, which continued in use through the 19th century. Before the federal government began issuing cash, banks issued their own tender, backed by valuable metals in their vaults. He calls Bitcoin "private money for the Digital Age." Virtual currency appeals to some people for financial reasons, says Mr. McIntyre, a specialist in cryptocurrencies. "People are using them as a speculative financial instrument ‚Äì like investing in British pounds or the euro. People buy them, hoping the value will go up," he says via e-mail. Other people seek out Bitcoin for reasons of political philosophy, he says, noting that it is popular with the "tinfoil-hat-wearing, Ayn Rand, libertarian, anarchist crowd" that distrusts central banks and their control over money supply. Bitcoin users can remain anonymous. While there is a record of each transaction, who is paying that amount to whom is hidden by the coins' encryption, McIntyre adds. BTC's popularity has also mushroomed outside the¬†United States. Giant search engine Baidu, otherwise known as the Google of China, now takes Bitcoin as payment for select security services, joining other online businesses such as Reddit, WordPress, and OkCupid. Chinese state-run news media have suggested that the dollar may not be, in the future, the reserve currency for the world. Bitcoin enthusiasts say the virtual currency is getting an undeserved bad rap, and they caution against a rush to regulation. At the Nov. 18 Senate hearing, a representative of the Bitcoin Foundation, which promotes the currency's standardization and use, said efforts are under way to stabilize its underlying code. He urged lawmakers to weigh the benefits of any new regulation against Bitcoin's role in helping the US remain a leader in innovative technology. The entrepreneurial desire to break new ground ahead of the mainstream culture is what is driving many early adopters. Take Matt Younkle, founder and chief executive officer of Murfie.com, an online music trading site. Mr. Younkle knows Bitcoin is confusing to the average person on the street, "but most of our customers are online," he says. "For people who lead a digital lifestyle, this is a coming thing, and we want to be out in front of that." BTC "gives the site a competitive advantage," he says, "because it's the only online music site for trading CDs and other accessories with Bitcoin." Younkle uses a currency exchange, BitPay, to insulate himself from fluctuations in the value of Bitcoin. It allows him each month to trade in all his Bitcoin income for dollars. The transaction fees are much smaller than what banks charge for credit-card transactions. Three years ago Richard Kohl, another Bitcoin advocate, helped found PikaPay, a service designed to make sending Bitcoin easy by using Twitter. Since the global economic crisis, he explains, some people, especially those who are tech-savvy, have come to believe "that slightly more separation between government and banking may be beneficial to communities around the world." That belief is one of the things fueling Bitcoin as "a popular underground revolution," Mr. Kohl adds. Critics, however, point out the currency's instability, noting the wild historical price swings. For instance, when the US Department of Homeland Security in May shut down activity between a mobile payment service, Dwolla, and the largest Bitcoin exchange, MtGox, Bitcoin prices fell 75 percent. But just in the past few weeks, prices have climbed back from below $200 to nearly $600 per bitcoin. Not to worry, asserts Erik Voorhees, an early Bitcoin entrepreneur. "This is a temporary affliction, because Bitcoin is still a small market and is very new," he says. "As it matures, its price will stabilize." Mr. Voorhees is reassured by the fact that bitcoins, unlike dollars, cannot be "created out of thin air, with no limit" by the US government. Price instability is not the only concern of critics. Indeed, virtual currencies have so many challenges that they may not be surmountable, says Patrick Morris, chief executive officer of HAGIN Investment Management in New York. The major problems with Bitcoin, he says, are its attractiveness to black marketeers, money launderers, and dictators; the absence of vested national interests to support the currency in a crisis; and the risk that it could lose all its value and become extinct overnight. "History has not been kind to financial institutions or instruments that attract a large number of illegal or questionable transactions," he says. He cites the Bank of Credit and Commerce International, which, much like virtual currency, had been set up to avoid regulatory oversight. It collapsed in 1991 after regulators noticed it had become a magnet for drug and arms dealers, and rogue political figures. On the question of government support, every new financial instrument faces the music eventually, Mr. Morris says. Bitcoin is a derivative instrument. People with "real" currency ‚Äì that is, government-issued currency ‚Äì buy bitcoins and are suddenly only liquid to the extent that the Bitcoin market functions for the purchase of goods and services, he says. "There is no guaranteed 'exchange rate' for this currency against any other in the world since it has no basis of value other than the merchants or individuals who are willing to accept it," Morris says. If Bitcoin security protocols were to suddenly and dramatically fail ‚Äì which he asserts they will ‚Äì "that devalues the currency. How do you exit it without facing potentially months or years of zero liquidity?" The nature of the instrument almost guarantees that the market will lock up at some point and that the Bitcoin millionaires will be wiped out, Morris predicts. "The bad news, or the worst news, is that if Bitcoin fails it is a 100 percent loss." On the other hand, as with all technologies, Bitcoin should be expected to evolve, says Daniel Castro, senior analyst at the Washington-based Information Technology &amp; Innovation Foundation. "Bitcoin 2.0 might look different than what we have now," he says, "but it is clear that the trend is toward more electronic transactions, not fewer." RECOMMENDED:¬†Bitcoin FAQ: 7 semi-clear answers to your questions
Mary Robnett/Business InsiderCornell's campus overlooking Lake Cayuga, in Ithaca, NY[Editor's note: Due to a statistical error, Crestview, Fla. was incorrectly ranked #4 on this list. The list has been updated and corrected as of 12/6/2013] When picking a college, a school's location can sometimes be just as important as its academics.¬† The American Institute of Economic Research has released its latest College Destination Index, which compared college towns around the country based on their academic environment, quality of life, and professional opportunity.¬† The index separated the destinations by population size. Here we've rounded up the best of the small college towns, all with a population under 250,000. We've included select statistics about each town; click here to see the full report.
Screenshot via The Pruitt-Igoe MythIn August, Science published a landmark study concluding that poverty, itself, hurts our ability to make decisions about school, finances, and life, imposing a†mental burden similar to losing 13 IQ points.† It was widely seen as a counter-argument to claims that poor people are "to blame" for bad decisions and a rebuke to policies that withhold money from the poorest families unless they behave in a certain way. After all, if being poor leads to bad decision-making (as opposed to the other way around), then giving cash should alleviate the cognitive burdens of poverty, all on its own. Sometimes, science doesn't stick without a proper anecdote, and "Why I Make Terrible Decisions,"†a comment published on†Gawker's†Kinja platform by a person in poverty, is a devastating illustration of the Science study. I've bolded what I found the most moving, insightful portions, but it's a moving and insightful testimony all the way through. I make a lot of poor financial decisions. None of them matter, in the long term. I will never not be poor, so what does it matter if I donít pay a thing and a half this week instead of just one thing? Itís not like the sacrifice will result in improved circumstances; the thing holding me back isnít that I blow five bucks at Wendyís. Itís that now that I have proven that I am a Poor Person that is all that I am or ever will be. It is not worth it to me to live a bleak life devoid of small pleasures so that one day I can make a single large purchase. I will never have large pleasures to hold on to. Thereís a certain pull to live what bits of life you can while thereís money in your pocket, because no matter how responsible you are you will be broke in three days anyway. When you never have enough money it ceases to have meaning. I imagine having a lot of it is the same thing. Poverty is bleak and cuts off your long-term brain. Itís why you see people with four different babydaddies instead of one. You grab a bit of connection wherever you can to survive. You have no idea how strong the pull to feel worthwhile is. Itís more basic than food. You go to these people who make you feel lovely for an hour that one time, and thatís all you get. Youíre probably not compatible with them for anything long-term, but right this minute they can make you feel powerful and valuable. It does not matter what will happen in a month. Whatever happens in a month is probably going to be just about as indifferent as whatever happened today or last week. None of it matters. We donít plan long-term because if we do weíll just get our hearts broken. Itís best not to hope. You just take what you can get as you spot it. When neuroscientists Joseph W. Kable and Joseph T. McGuire studied time, uncertainty and decision-making, they found that virtues like patience and self-control weren't as simple as previous studies suggested. In the ubiquitous Marshmallow†study, for example, kids who ate the treat quickly were deemed impatient and kids who waited had self-control and, on the whole, went on to lead more productive lives, the study found. But rational self-control in the real world, Kable says, isn't so black-and-white. Perhaps you have enough patience to wait an hour for a train, or to lose one pound each week with exercise and dieting. That sounds responsible. But what happens if the train isn't there in 90 minutes? If you never lose weight and you're making yourself miserable with your diet? Maybe you should give up! "In this situation, giving up can be a natural ó indeed, a rational ó response to a time frame that wasnít properly framed to begin with," Maria Konnikova summed it up for the Times. As†Andrew Golis†points out, this might suggest something even deeper than the idea that poverty's stress interferes with our ability to make good decisions. The inescapability of poverty weighs so heavily on the author that s/he abandons long-term planning entirely, because the short term needs are so great and the long-term gains so implausible. The train is just not coming. What if the psychology of poverty, which can appear so irrational to those not in poverty, is actually "the most rational response to a world of chaos and unpredictable outcomes," he wrote. None of this is an argument against poorer families trying to save or plan for the long-term. It's an argument for context. As Eldar Shafir, the author of the Science study,†told The Atlantic Cities' Emily Badger:†ìAll the data shows it isn't about poor people, itís about people who†happen to be in poverty. All the data suggests it is not the person, it's the context theyíre inhabiting.î
REUTERS/Miro Kuzmanovic There's something strange going on in Switzerland. This Sunday, Swiss voters will vote on the 1:12 Initiative, a plan to limit the monthly pay of Swiss companies' top executives to the yearly pay of their lowest paid employees, an annual ratio of one to twelve. The people behind that idea hope both to curb enormous executive salaries and to raise the standards of living for the poor. Then there's another, even more radical idea ‚Äî a plan to give everyone a minimum basic income of 2,500 francs ($2,800) a month. To get this money, all you would have to do is be an adult citizen ‚Äî and you could get this money even if you had a job. A vote on this idea is likely to be held in early 2016. These ideas might sound crazy, but they're real possibilities. In fact, Switzerland has been debating a lot of ideas like this over the past year ‚Äî in March, the country approved a plan that would give shareholders an annual ballot on managers‚Äô pay (the plan was called an "initiative against 'fat cats'"), and next year the country will vote on a plan to impose a minimum wage of 4,000 Swiss francs ($4,300) a month. What's most strange about this radical egalitarianism is that Switzerland has long held a reputation as a kind of capitalist paradise, with secretive banks, low taxes, and lots of gold. To understand this shift, you have to understand the idiosyncrasy of Switzerland's political culture and political system. The government is based around a federal structure (there are 26 cantons, each of which is technically a fully sovereign state), with a remarkable system of (semi) direct democracy.¬†One key part of this system is the federal popular initiative. Citizens can propose a change to the Swiss Federal Constitution, and if 100,000 people sign it, a referendum must be held. If a double majority of citizens and representatives of the cantons agree to it, it becomes law. You can see some of the proposals on this website ‚Äî "Do not abuse our pension!" reads one, while another hopes to protect the "wolf, bear, and lynx" (both failed). Such a system relies on a remarkable ability to reach a consensus ‚Äî even if they don't like an initiative that passes, most Swiss will shut up and live with it. Clive H. Church, a professor from the Centre for Swiss Politics at the University of Kent, told Business Insider that Swiss political culture means that citizens are "willing to accept the people‚Äôs decision even if it goes against [their own]"; politicians can be counted on not to resign or protest if the vote doesn't go their way; and ‚Äî perhaps most incredibly ‚Äî Swiss citizens will happily vote many times a year. Church says that historically the Swiss left has used the initiatives to counteract a long-standing electoral weakness, adding that there has always been a "small but vociferous left wing in Swiss politics." "The popular initiative, as the Swiss direct democratic instrument per se, has ever been an approach for minorities, working class etc. to bring up their issues,"¬†Claudio Kuster, one of the co-authors of the initiative against "fat cats" says. "During the last century there have been many initiatives, trying to force fiscal equality, to introduce and extend the pension system." But what exactly is behind this recent cluster of initiatives? Daniel Straub, one of the people behind the minimum basic income initiative, said it simply came down to rising social inequality, and others seem to agree. "In the past in Switzerland, it was unusual that someone showed off their wealth,"¬†David Roth, the leader of the youth wing of Swiss party the Social Democrats, and one of the architects of the 1:12 Initiative, says. "They had some modesty in Switzerland 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, there was a relation between the highest and the lowest salary ‚Äî a relation of 1:6." For decades, Roth argues, as production rose in Switzerland, normal pay and executive pay rose in proportion, and that only changed 10-15 years ago. "Don‚Äôt forget that Daniel Vasella, then CEO and chairman of the board of Novartis, had¬† received (rather: grabbed by himself) up to 50 million USD some years ago," Kuster says. "A few years before, he started at¬† just one million. That growth was not explainable. And still isn‚Äôt." When I asked Thomas Milic, a lecturer at the University of Zurich whether the financial crisis of 2008 had played a role in people's understanding of economic inequality, he explained that the crisis hadn't really been a crisis for the Swiss. "Surprisingly, Switzerland has managed to emerge strengthened from [2008]," Milic says. "The jobless rate is low, extremely low if you compare it to the European Union. Average income is high. Thus, there is actually no mood of crisis in Switzerland." What changed in the past five years, Milic says, is the public perception of bankers. UBS, one of the biggest Swiss banks, had to be bailed out by the government, and people were not happy about it. "For decades, the bankers had been regarded as paragons of Swissness, Swiss quality, and success," Milic explains. "This changed significantly after the bailout of UBS. However, the attitude of the Swiss bankers hasn't changed a lot ‚Äî at least, that's the opinion of a majority of Swiss people. They still receives hefty bonuses as if nothing happened ‚Äî that's the view of the average citizen. As long as the banks were successful, people accepted that silently. But ‚Äî with the bankers' 'fall from grace' ‚Äî they are not willing to take that silently any more." Kuster tells me that my image of Switzerland as a "capitalist paradise" is "not that wrong." But, he elaborates, "this spirit will only be kept alive if leading persons in economics and politics are aware of their responsibility, not only [in their work], but also in terms of payment. Modesty has been an old Swiss virtue, which due to globalization has eroded somehow the last two decades." Historically, Church says, the Swiss have been proud of being an Alpine democracy which saw everyone as equal. "There is unease that the country is seen as inhabited solely by bloated plutocrats, greedy bankers and tax dodgers," Church says. "Economic equality is a way of mitigating this image." Of course, unease alone doesn't necessarily create reforms, and Swiss initiatives are lucky to pass even 20% of the time. Most of the recent initiatives that have been accepted were proposed by right-wing SVP and focused on matters very different from economic inequality ‚Äî matters like banning minarets and deporting criminals. March's "fat cat" initiative was a "truly exceptional" case, Milic told me, explaining that it most likely passed (by 70%!) because it was spearheaded by Thomas Minder, a well-known entrepreneur in Switzerland who was able to appeal to liberal and right-wing voters. So, while business leaders may be freaking out a little about Sunday's 1:12 vote, don't be too surprised if it fails. And, no, Switzerland probably isn't going to offer a minimum basic income (one person we talked to said it had "hardly any chance" at all). But, still, let's all be happy somebody is at least considering these options.
Chris Jackson/GettyLONDON (Reuters) - One of Britain's longest and most bitter divorce battles culminated on Friday with a High Court judge branding a well-connected millionaire a liar and his ex-wife a conspiracy theorist.††††††††††††† Far from being "penniless and hopelessly bankrupt", as he had claimed, Scot Young, 51, was worth 40 million pounds ($65 million) and his estranged wife Michelle Young, 49, should get half of it, judge Philip Moor ruled.††††††††††††† "This case has been quite extraordinary even by the standards of the most bitter of matrimonial breakdowns," Moor wrote in his ruling, noting that it had taken over six years and 65 court hearings to come to trial.††††††††††††† The case has made headlines in Britain because of the size of the claims and the fact that Scot Young has enjoyed financial help from high-profile friends including Philip Green, the billionaire owner of the Topshop retail chain.††††††††††††† Michelle Young has run up legal bills of 6.5 million pounds, while Scot Young has served six months in jail for failing to provide full and frank disclosure of his assets.††††††††††††† The pair were married for 17 years until 2006 and enjoyed a lavish lifestyle of mansions, jet-setting holidays and gifts of diamond jewelry funded by Scot Young's investments in property, technology and start-up companies.††††††††††††† It all fell apart when the marriage breakdown coincided with what the husband described as a total meltdown of his business empire that left him "penniless and hopelessly bankrupt" with unpaid debts of 28 million pounds.††††††††††††† The judge said it was impossible to know the full truth of his financial position due to "the significant number of lies told by the husband to so many people over such a long period".††††††††††††† He ordered Young to pay his ex-wife a lump sum of 20 million pounds within 28 days.††††††††††††† Michelle Young maintains that the meltdown was a fiction specifically designed to hide her ex-husband's wealth and deprive her and the couple's two daughters of their rightful share - a version of events also rejected by the judge.††††††††††††† "She sees conspiracy everywhere," he wrote.††††††††††††† A furious Michelle Young branded the ruling "disgraceful".††††††††††††† "I stand by what I said. He's worth billions," she told reporters outside the court, according to reports in several British national media. She also issued a written statement in which she called her ex-husband a "maniac".††††††††††††† (Editing by Andrew Roche)
Twitter The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration announced this week it is opening an investigation into the three Tesla Model S fires over the past two months, stoking the flames of a controversy of whether or not electric cars are safe. In response, Tesla CEO Elon Musk wrote a blog post pointing out that no one in any of the fires had been injured, and that each had been caused by an unusual, high-speed accident. (He also said Tesla requested the investigation, which the NHTSA denies.) But when you look at the numbers, it's clear that Musk is right to complain about all this attention: Vehicle fires are quite common, so it's unfair to go crazy when they happen in electric cars, too.¬† According to the Department of Transportation, in 2010, Americans drove 2.999 trillion miles. That year, there were 308,745,538 people in the country, and .78 vehicles per person, for a total of¬†240,821,520 vehicles ‚Äî the vast majority of which are powered by gasoline. So for the U.S. in 2010, that makes 1 fire for every 1,305 vehicles, and 1 fire for every 16.26 million miles driven. Now let's look at Tesla. According to Musk, there are about 25,000 Model S cars on the road worldwide, and they have driven over 100 million miles (we'll round that down). There have been 3 fires.¬† So for Tesla, that makes 1 fire for every 8,333 cars, and 1 fire for every¬†33.3 million miles driven.¬† The numbers stand with Musk.
Murray Close/Lionsgate"The Hunger Games" film franchise has helped to double Lionsgate's share price.ìThe Hunger Gamesî may be the most important film franchise on Wall Street. Other film franchises, like ìThe Avengersî and the James Bond movies, have sold more tickets, but the impact of the dystopian thriller and its three planned sequels on Lionsgateís fortunes has been seismic. Since the first film in the series debuted in March 2012, the companyís share price has more than doubled from $14.53 to $32.54 as markets closed on Thursday. See photos:†The Evolution of Jennifer Lawrence: From ëMonkí Mascot to Katniss Everdeen (Photos) The stock could continue to climb over the weekend once ìThe Hunger Games: Catching Fireî debuts, particularly if the hotly anticipated sequel is the kind of blockbuster hit that most analysts and Hollywood insiders widely expect it will be. The first film grossed roughly $700 million globally, a figure box office prognosticators expect the sequel to not only meet, but exceed. ìThe company has a tremendous amount of momentum,î James Marsh, an analyst†at Piper Jaffray, told†TheWrap. ìëHunger Gamesí is one of the most enviable franchises in Hollywood.î Also read:†Grading ëHunger Gamesí Stars: Why Stanley Tucci Trumps Jennifer Lawrence at the Box Office The first film also showed investors that Lionsgate, a studio best known for the Tyler Perry oeuvre and genre pictures like ìSawî that were targeted to very specific demographics, could open a film with broad appeal. ìBefore ëHunger Games,í Lionsgate was seen as an†emerging minor studio, and Iím not sure its a major studio yet, but itís certainly moved up in the ranking of people,î Hal Vogel,†CEO of Vogel Capital Management, said. Its valuation has also soared along with investorsí estimations, aided not only by Katniss Everdeen and her adventures, but by activist investor Carl Icahnís decision to end his hostile takeover campaign and by Lionsgateís merger with Summit. The companyís market capitalization has increased from roughly $1 billion in 2011 to $4.49 billion this week. Also read:†Why ëHunger Games: Catching Fireí Merchandising Is Tricky as Katnissí Fight for Her Life Also aiding Lionsgateís reputation on Wall Street: Television properties like ìOrange Is the New Blackî and ìNashville,î as well as the part it played in rolling out the final film in the ìTwilightî series ó a tween property it inherited through the Summit deal. Whatís remarkable is that Lionsgateís fortune have risen primarily on the back of a film franchise at a time when the movie business is frequently seen as the least sexy aspect of sprawling media companiesí portfolios. See video:†31 of Jennifer Lawrenceís Funniest, Most Outrageous Moments (Video) Investors tend to be far more excited by theme parks or cable, both of which offer more capacious profit margins. Just ask Comcast or Disney.†These conglomerates have become so diversified that hugely expensive movies like ìJohn Carterî or ìThe Lone Rangerî can flop spectacularly without any appreciable impact on a company like Disneyís share price. ìëHunger Gamesí is Lionsgateís most important franchise,î Marla Backer,†an analyst with†Ascendiant Capital, said. ìIt can move the needle, it will move the needle and it should move the needle.î Also read:†ëThe Hunger Games: Catching Fireí Will Crush Overseas Box Office ñ Unlike the Original The key will be sustaining that growth, Backer and others argue. To that end, Lionsgate has lined up ìDivergent,î a movie adaptation of Veronica Rothís series of best-selling fantasy novels, and has handed it the same March premiere slot that it used to launch ìThe Hunger Games,î lest anyone be confused about its ambitions. ìThereís a tug of war in the market right now over Liongate and the question is, can the company repeat the success of ëThe Hunger Gamesí?'î Marsh said. ìThereís a debate over whether or not the management was just lucky with ëHunger Gamesí or have these guys figured out a secret sauce with young adult franchises that they can repeat again and again?î If Lionsgate has indeed devised a formula that brings teenage audiences to movie theaters, look for that bit of alchemy to be reflected in its share price.
APEvery industry has its movers and shakers. Men and women who, by virtue of their chutzpah and determination, built new companies, saved them from the brink of extinction, or forged new paths for others to follow. To celebrate their creativity and bold innovation, we rounded up the business leaders who were major game-changers in tech, retail, entertainment, media, and finance this year.
AFPA picture from Bonhams of a 1932 Leica Luxus camera, sold at auction in Hong Kong for $620,000An Asian buyer purchased a rare Leica camera, one of only four of its kind in the world, for $620,000 at a Hong Kong auction, auctioneers said Saturday. The 1932 Leica Luxus II fetched HK$4.84 million ($620,000) late Friday in an auction where about 80 cameras and accessories went under the hammer in the southern Chinese city. But the selling price failed to set a new world record for a camera, as some expected, falling short of earlier sale estimates of up to HK$9 million ($1.16 million). The world record for a camera was set in Vienna last year, when a Leica camera prototype -- the 0-Series made in 1923 -- sold for 2.16 million euros ($2.79 million). Only four of the Luxus II cameras were ever made, auctioneers Bonhams said. The whereabouts of the other three are unknown. The camera, which is gold-plated and comes with a crocodile skin case, had previously belonged to a British amateur photographer who acquired it soon after the World War II, Bonhams said. A spokesman for Bonhams said the buyer was Asian, but did not reveal the nationality. Another rare camera, a 1930 Leica Luxus I, also sold for HK$4.84 million at the auction Friday, also below the estimated sale price. The prices such cameras fetch are a barometer of the growing interest for early photographic materials. "Bringing the camera sale to Hong Kong has once again been more than justified," Jon Baddeley, Managing Director of Bonhams Knightsbridge, London and Global Head of Collectibles, told AFP in an email. The former British colony has become a hub for auctions of collectibles and rare items, ranging from diamonds to stamps, thanks to growing wealth in China and other parts of Asia. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Salad Oil, Cornered and Quartered The Great Salad Oil Swindle was carried out by Anthony ‚ÄúTino‚Äù De Angelis, who traded vegetable oil (soybean oil) futures which was an important ingredient in salad oil. De Angelis had previously been involved in a swindle involving the National School Lunch Act and the Adolph Gobel Co. When it was discovered that he had overcharged the government and delivered over 2 million pounds of uninspected meat, he ended up bankrupt. Con-men don‚Äôt stop being cons, they just try to learn from their mistakes and make more money the next time around. Tino de Angelis had learned that government programs were a way to make easy money, so he started the Allied Crude Vegetable Oil Refining Co. in 1955 to take advantage of the U.S. Government‚Äôs Food for Peace program. The goal of the program was to sell surplus goods to Europe at low prices.¬† Initially, De Angelis sold massive quantities of shortening and other vegetable oil products to Europe, and when this worked, he expanded into cotton and soybeans. By 1962, De Angelis was a large enough player in commodity markets that he thought he could corner the soybean oil market, allowing him to make even more money.¬† Always the schemer, De Angelis‚Äôs plan was to use his large inventories of commodities as collateral to get loans from Wall Street bank and finance companies.¬† Buying soybean oil futures would drive up the price of his vegetable oil holdings, which would increase both the value of his inventories and allow him to profit from his futures contracts.¬† De Angelis could use these profits not only to line his own pockets, but to pay his staff, make contributions to the community, and in one case, pay the hospital bill of a government official. American Express had recently created a new division that specialized in field warehousing, which made loans to businesses using inventories as collateral. American Express wrote De Angelis warehouse receipts for millions of pounds of vegetable oil, which he took to a broker and discounted the receipts for cash. This proved to be an easy way to get money, so De Angelis began falsifying warehouse receipts for vegetable oil he didn‚Äôt have.¬† American Express sent out inspectors to make sure that De Angelis had the vegetable oil that acted as collateral, but what they didn‚Äôt know is that many of the tanks were filled mostly with water with a minimum of oil floating on the top to fool the inspectors, or that some of the tanks were connected with pipes to other tanks so the oil could be transferred between tanks when the inspectors went from one tank to the other.¬† If American Express had done their homework, they would have realized that De Angelis‚Äôs reported vegetable oil ‚Äúholdings‚Äù were greater than the inventories of the entire United States as reported by the Department of Agriculture.¬† Unsatisfied with the American Express loans, De Angelis was able to get additional loans from Bunge Ltd., Staley, Proctor and Gamble, and The Bank of America. By the time the swindle collapsed, De Angelis had gotten loans from a total of 51 companies. No Salad Today As a result of attempted bribery, delivery mistakes, and other factors, the inspectors were eventually tipped off about De Angelis‚Äôs fraud. Allied Crude was supposed to have $150 million in vegetable oil as collateral, but only had $6 million. When the inspectors found water in the tanks, and not oil, the gig was up. The futures market crashed.¬† Soybean oil closed at $9.875 on Friday, November 15, at $9 on Monday and $7.75 on Tuesday, November 19, wiping out the entire value of the De Angelis loans. As you might guess, De Angelis‚Äôs company had been losing money all along, and the loans were used to cover these mounting losses. De Angelis‚Äôs goal was to sell out at the top and cover all of his losses, but of course, his plan didn‚Äôt work out that way. The crash of the soybean oil market in November 1963 is shown below. Global Financial Data On November 19, the Allied Crude Vegetable Oil Refining Co. filed for bankruptcy.¬† No one should be surprised that millions of dollars were never accounted for.¬†¬† Fifty-one companies were stuck with bad loans from Allied Crude. Two of the brokerage houses whom De Angelis had used, Williston &amp; Beane and Ira Haupt &amp; Co. (which had been part of the famous Park &amp; Tilford Distillers Corp. whiskey dividend scandal of 1946) were suspended from trading by the NYSE. These brokerages‚Äô customers became desperate because they didn‚Äôt know if they would get back the money in their accounts. A Nation Shocked, a Market Shaken On Friday, November 22, the NYSE organized a bail out of Williston &amp; Beane, and the firm was allowed to reopen at noon on Friday. Ira Haupt &amp; Co. was a bigger problem. It collectively owned $450 million in securities and owed various banks over $37 million that it could not pay. At 1:41 pm, word that JFK had been shot flashed on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) at 1:41 pm, and stocks began to sell off.¬† The Dow Jones Industrials, which was recorded at hourly intervals in 1963, had been at 735.87 at 1 pm on November 22, and fell to 730.18 by 2 pm. Over the next seven minutes, the market traded 2.2 million shares and lost an additional nineteen points, erasing around $11 billion in capitalization, before NYSE officials halted trading at 2:07 pm to stop the panic selling. The market rested, and the next day, JFK‚Äôs body lay in repose at the White House. On Sunday JFK‚Äôs was taken to the rotunda of the Capitol for public viewing. Over 250,000 people viewed the casket as a line stretched for 40 blocks, or 10 miles. Some people waited over 10 hours in the freezing cold to pay their last respects. ¬†On Monday, the casket was transferred to the National Cathedral where his funeral mass was broadcast to a stunned nation. Kennedy was buried in Arlington Cemetery, and the eternal flame was lit over his grave. The stock market remained closed on Monday and reopened on Tuesday, November 26, when the market traded over 9 million shares, closing the day at 743.52, moving up 4.5% from the previous day‚Äôs close.¬† The table below provides the hourly performance of the DJIA on November 22 and 26, 1963. Global Financial Data The chart below, based upon hourly, intraday calculations of the DJIA between October 1 and December 31 of 1963, shows both the panic sell off on November 22, the full recovery on November 26, and the move to new highs that ultimately followed. Global Financial Data The closure of the NYSE gave the exchange some breathing space to address the problems De Angelis had created. If the NYSE didn‚Äôt resolve this problem, not only would the collapse discourage investment by small investors, but the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission would intervene, reducing the NYSE‚Äôs power. The NYSE solved the problem by imposing a $12 million assessment on exchange members and used the money to make Ira Haupt &amp; Co.‚Äôs customers whole. Creditors were not as lucky. American Express and other lenders lost millions. For the first time, the NYSE had assumed responsibility for a member firm‚Äôs failure. When the stock market reopened on Tuesday, it quickly recovered and moved up for the rest of the year. ¬† Although Allied Crude was bankrupt, De Angelis wasn‚Äôt since he had stashed half a million dollars in a Swiss bank account; however, this lead to charges of contempt because he had claimed he was bankrupt.¬† De Angelis also couldn‚Äôt explain the large cash withdrawals he had taken from Allied‚Äôs accounts. ¬†For his fraud, De Angelis received a seven-year jail term. When he got out in 1972, he got involved in a Ponzi scheme involving Midwest cattle, but this effort collapsed before it really got going. This shows that a swindler will always be a swindler. Warren Buffett Gets a Ten-Bagger And what about Warren Buffett?¬† As a result of the losses American Express suffered from funding De Angelis, American Express stock, fell in price from 65 in October 1963 to 37 in January 1964. Believing this was temporary. Warren Buffett began buying shares and established a 5% stake in American Express for $20 million.¬† As indicated by the chart below, American Express made a ten-fold move between 1964 to 1973. American Express was one of the first of the many successful investments Warren Buffett made. Global Financial Data The differences between swindlers and investors are illustrated by Toni De Angelis and Warren Buffett.¬† Toni De Angelis was a swindler and a con-man.¬† He was good at cheating other people and cheating the system, but not at making an honest profit.¬† He took advantage of government subsidies and programs, provided uninspected goods, cheated on his contracts, falsified reports, covered losses, embezzled money, and so forth.¬† At every step he was trying to beat the system, and getting something for nothing, but as with any swindler, his scams eventually caught up with him.¬† He went bankrupt twice, caused financial losses for thousands, and ended up in jail.¬† Contrast this with an insightful, aggressive market player like Warren Buffett.¬† The position he took in American Express was typical of the investing strategy that served him well for the next fifty years.¬† He chose a well-established company whose stock price had temporarily declined. ¬†He took a sizeable position in the company, held onto it for many years, and profited. The Buffett method worked in 1963, and it continues to work in 2013 for savvy investors.
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldGoldman Sachs predicts a "significant decline" in gold in 2014, following losses of around 26 percent in the previous metal so far this year. Bullion is set to fall at least 15 percent next year, the bank said in a report of the top 10 market themes for 2014 this week, which warned of the growing downside risk for commodities. The decline would bring gold down to $1,057 an ounce ‚Äì prices not seen since early 2010. Gold suffered a sharp fall this week as better-than-expected U.S. economic data raised the possibility that the Federal Reserve may start scaling back its $85-billion-per-month bond-buying program earlier than anticipated. (Read more: Gold set for biggest weekly loss in 2 months) According to some market watchers, gold has yet to fully adjust to the reality of tapering, and is vulnerable to further weakness when the central bank finally begins to wind down its monetary stimulus ‚Äì a major pillar of support that has driven gold to record high near $1,920 in September 2011. "Gold is extremely sensitive to the Fed tapering monetary stimulus. Back in September when we had a surprise announcement from the Fed that we're not going to taper anytime soon, we saw gold rally 5 percent," Matthew Grossman, senior equity strategist at T-3 live.com. "And then just a couple of days ago, the Fed minutes came out and they said taper is more likely sooner than later. And what happened? Gold fell 3 percent. We're seeing a very high correlation with that," Grossman said. (Read more: Why better US growth may not boost commodities) Gold bulls, however, remain unfazed. Victor Thianpiriya, commodities analyst at ANZ, expects the metal to hit $1,450 by end-2014, or 16 percent higher than current levels, driven by robust physical demand from China ‚Äì the world's largest jewelry market. "China has surprised the market on how strong demand has been. There's also potential for Indian demand to come back," he said. Chinese consumer demand totaled 210 metric tons in the third quarter, a rise of 18 percent compared to the same period last year, according to the World Gold council. In India, however, consumption fell 32 percent on year to 148 metric tons, due to government's crackdown on gold imports. (Read more: Precious metal hunters look to outer space) Thianpiriya said he doesn't expect gold to get caught in a major sell-off when the Fed decides to taper. "Gold has priced a lot of that in. We don't think the reaction of markets will be quite the same," he said. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Ansuya Harjani; Follow her on Twitter: @Ansuya_H
Specifically, market sentiment swung from what was perceived as dovish comments at Yellen's confirmation hearing to Fed can taper in December after reading the FOMC minutes.¬† Similarly, speculation of a negative deposit rate in Europe triggered a quick decline in the euro.¬†¬† Surveys suggest that the perceived odds of Fed tapering this year are still low and Draghi and other ECB officials played down the likelihood of a negative deposit rate (though did not take it off the table entirely).¬† The divergent performance of the US dollar makes it difficult to talk about in general.¬† The Dollar Index itself is really mostly Europe, which accounts for almost 80% of its basket.¬† Against the European currencies, the US dollar looks heavy.¬†¬† The Dollar Index can work lower. ¬† Since the ECB's rate cut on Nov 7 and the stronger than expected US employment , the Dollar Index has been flirting with the 100-day moving average.¬† After repeated attempts in vain to close above it, the Dollar Index may have to work lower first.¬†¬† A break of the 80.40 area could signal a move toward 79.50 before better support is found.¬†¬† On the other hand, the US dollar's outlook against the yen, Canadian dollar and Antipodean currencies appears more constructive. ¬† These were the worst performing major currencies over the past week, with the former two losing about 1% and the latter two losing about 2.2%.¬†¬† From a technical perspective, this divergence is set to continue.¬† The euro-yen and sterling yen crosses capture the theme.¬† Both are trading at multi-year highs, even though the dollar remains a few percentage points below the high it set against the yen in May.¬†  The euro traded down to almost the support near GBP0.8300, but sterling is at 3-year highs against the Australian dollar, while the euro is well below the peak it made in late Aug, just above AUD1.50¬† Sterling poked through CAD1.71 for the first time since early 2010, and although it pulled back, may not be done. ¬†¬† Technically, the euro and sterling have scope for additional near-term gains without encountering strong resistance.¬† For the euro the $1.3600-50 area stands in the way of the 2-year high set last month near $1.3830.¬† Sterling faces the double top set in early- and late-October near $1.6260. ¬†A convincing break could spur a move to $1.6400. ¬† For the euro, a break of $1.3400 would call this constructive view into question.¬† A similar level for sterling is near $1.6050.¬†¬†  The US dollar finished the week above JPY100 for four consecutive sessions.¬† In the last two sessions it closed above JPY101.¬† It is at the highest level since July.¬† Although we are sympathetic to the divergence of monetary policy trajectories, we not that the US 10-year premium over Japan has not risen above the Sept high near 222 bp.¬†¬†¬† Moreover, the euro gains against the yen may also not have been driven by interest rates.¬† Over the past month, for example, the German premium on 2-year as well as 10-year money actually eased compared to Japan.¬† The immediate target for the dollar is near JPY101.60 and then the May high set at almost JPY103.75.¬† We remain attentive to 1) the inverse relationship between the yen and Nikkei and 2) the risk that Japanese investors take profits on equities ahead of the doubling of the capital gains tax (to 20% on Jan 1).¬† The Nikkei made new six-month highs at the end of last week, but had a weak close before the weekend.¬†¬† While technical indicators are constructive, a wave of profit-taking could buoy the yen. ¬†¬†  The US dollar is near the upper end of its five-month range against the Canadian dollar.¬† The Bank of Canada has moved away from the forward guidance that suggested it would need to remove some liquidity (i.e. raise rates) next year and the soft inflation figures (headline CPI was 0.7% in October) may keep it on the defensive.¬† The year's high set in early July just above CAD1.06 is the next immediate target for the greenback, though it probably requires a break of the Q4 2011 high near CAD1.0660 to signal a break out.¬†¬†  The Australian and New Zealand dollars appear to have carved out a topping pattern that looks like a complicated head and shoulders pattern.¬† The objective of the Australian dollar's head and shoulders pattern is around $0.8800, which is just below the August low of $0.8850.¬† Resistance is seen near $0.9280.¬† The New Zealand dollar closed well below the $0.8200 neckline on a weekly basis.¬† The measuring objective is around $0.7950.¬† On a break of $0.8130, the next target is about $0.8030.¬† The US dollar peaked against the Mexican peso on Thursday near MXN13.15. ¬†It settled on Friday on the session lows near MXN12.97. ¬†The bottom of the recent range is a little more than another percentage point lower at MXN12.80. ¬†Real sector data has softened, but the bullish case for the peso is 1) anticipation of structural reforms and especially the measure to open up the oil and telecom sectors and 2) the clearing of the previous overhang of positions. ¬†  Observations from the speculative positioning in the CME currency futures:¬†  1. ¬†The latest CFTC reporting period, for the week ending Nov 19, position adjustment by speculators in the currency futures were generally minor. ¬†The main exception is the rise in the gross short yen position by almost 16k contracts. ¬†This market segment was anticipating the break out that took place two sessions after the reporting period ended. ¬†At 131k contracts, the gross short yen position was the largest since late March. ¬†It has risen from 80k contracts in late October. 2. ¬†The second largest position adjustment was in the rise in the gross long sterling contracts. ¬†Here too the speculators were rewarded. ¬†Sterling finished the week above $1.6200, the best level in a month. ¬†The gross short sterling positions remain substantial and the net position is still slightly short. ¬†It probably swung to the long side during the current period. 3. ¬†The speculative market appeared to get wrong-footed with the euro. ¬†They have been dramatically cutting back on gross long euro position. ¬†Since late October, the gross long position has been slashed by around 55k contracts, driving the net position below 9k contracts from 72k. ¬† The euro finished last week with its highest close of the month (thus far). ¬†The gross long euro position remains considerable larger than in any other currency futures, with sterling's nearly 54k contracts a distant second. 4. ¬†There has been a bit of a tug-of-war in the peso. ¬†The gross short position has doubled since mid-October to 31k, the highest in two months. ¬† The gross long peso position has nearly doubled to almost 41k contracts. ¬†The bulls may have been happy as the dollar slipped to new 3-week lows at the start of the week nearing MXN12.85. ¬†Two days after the reporting period ended, the dollar has rallied back to MXN13.15. The dollar reversed lower on Thursday (Nov 21) and there was good follow through on Friday, where the greenback settled on its lows just below MXN12.97. ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach Germany's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble delivers his speech at the European Banking Congress at the old opera house in Frankfurt, November 22, 2013.BERLIN (Reuters) - German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said on Saturday that there were no longer any risks of contagion in the euro zone, and Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras stressed his country did not need a further bailout. Schaeuble said Greece's achievements in the last 1-1/2 years, which included better-than-expected growth and progress in reducing its deficit, merited respect. He also pointed to the decline in the difference between yields on German and Greek bonds. He said government crises and coalition negotiations no longer posed contagion risks for the single currency bloc as a whole, without specifying which country or countries he was referring to. "The euro is stable, financial markets are no longer concerned about the future of the euro zone and there are no risks of contagion anymore," he said at a conference organized by German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung in Berlin. Speaking later at the event, Greece's Samaras reiterated that his country did not need a further bailout and instead simply needed to fulfill the terms of its existing program. Athens has said it will emerge from a six-year recession next year and has more than doubled its forecast for the budget surplus before interest payments for this year. International lenders are in the middle of their latest review of Greece's performance on its reform targets. Posting a budget surplus before interest payments would open the way for Greece to ask for debt relief. "I think that this is enough. We don't need something else - we don't need another program - we just have to stick by this program," Samaras said. After more than two months of reviewing Greece's economy, the lenders have still not agreed to release Greece's next tranche of bailout funds. Officials from the "troika" of lenders - the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund - are due to return to the country in early December. "I believe that what we need at this point is to finish the job by the end of the year of getting, that is, the approval of the troika for the next tranche," Samaras said. The prime minister stressed that Greece did not need more time to reduce its debt. "At this point I'm going very fast ... I do not need time to wait," he said. Athens faces bond payments of 1.85 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in early January. (Editing by Pravin Char)
Mike Nudelman, Business Insider The United States has been marred in slow economic growth and a weak recovery for years now. Unemployment remains high. This is despite extraordinary efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy. This drawn out period of low inflation and high unemployment has gotten more and more people talking about a "new normal" of mediocre growth. Economists have been looking for ways to give central banks more power to combat recessions and prevent these long, drawn out recoveries. Larry Summers laid out this†major impending economic challenge†in his recent speech at the IMF. Normally, when a recession hits, central banks cut interest rates to incentivize firms to invest and to spur economic growth. But when interest rates hit zero, those banks lose one of their most important tools to combat recessions. This is called the zero lower bound. Hitting the zero-lower bound means that interest rates cannot reach their natural equilibrium where desired investment equals desired savings. Instead, even at zero, interest rates are too high, leading to too much saving and a lack of demand. Thus we get the slow recovery. Until recently, we hadn't hit that bound. But since the Great Recession, we've been stuck up against it and the Fed has been forced to use unconventional policy tools instead. What Summers warned of is that this may become the new normal. When the next recession hits, interest rates are likely to be barely above zero. The Fed will cut them and we'll find ourselves up against the zero lower bound yet again and face yet another slow recovery. So what's the answer? University of Michigan economist Miles Kimball has developed a theoretical solution†to this problem in the form of an electronic currency that would allow the Fed to bring nominal rates below zero to combat recessions. He's been presenting his plan to different economists and central bankers around the world. Kimball has also written repeatedly about it and was recently interviewed by Wonkblog's Dylan Matthews. "If you have a bad recession, then firms are afraid to invest," he told Business Insider. "You have to give people a pretty good deal to make them willing to invest and that good deal means that the borrowers actually have to be paid to tend the money for the savers." But paper currency makes this impossible.† "You have this tradition that as it is now is enshrined in law in various ways that the government is going to guarantee to all savers that they will get [at least] a zero interest," Kimball said. If the Fed lowered rates below zero in our current financial system, savers would simply withdraw their money from the bank and sit on it instead of letting it incur negative returns. The paper currency itself ó because it's something that can be physically withdrawn from the financial system ó prevents rates from going negative. This is where Kimball's idea for an electronic currency comes in. However, unlike Bitcoin, which prides itself on its decentralization and anonymity, Kimball's digital currency would be centralized and widely used. He would effectively set up two different types of currencies: dollars and e-dollars. Right now, your $100 bill is equal to the $100 in the bank. If you're bank account has a 5% interest rate, you earn $5 of interest in a year and that $100 bill is still worth $100. But what would happen if that interest were -5%? Then you would lose $5 over the course of the year. Knowing this, you would rationally withdraw the $100 ahead of time and keep it out of the bank. This is where the separate currencies come in. "You have to do something a little bit more to get the negative rate on the paper currency," Kimball said. "You have to have the $100 bill be worth $95 a year later in order to have a -5% interest rate. The idea is to arrange things so letís say $100 in the bank equals $100 in paper currency now, but in a year, $95 in the bank is equal to $100 in paper currency. You have an exchange rate between them." "After a year, I could take $95 out of the bank and get a $100 bill or if I wanted to put a $100 bill into the bank, they would credit my account with $95." Got that? After a year of a -5% interest rate, $100 dollars are equal to $95 e-dollars. This ensures that paper currency also faces a negative interest rate as well and eliminates the incentive for savers to hoard dollar bills if the Fed implements a negative rate. Presto! The zero lower bound is solved. The benefits of this policy go even further though: We can say goodbye to inflation as well. "Once you take away the zero lower bound, there isn't a really strong reason to have 2% inflation at this point," Kimball said. "The major central banks around the world have 2% inflation and Ben Bernanke explained very clearly why that is. It's to steer away from the zero lower bound." He's right. Back in March, Ryan Avent asked Bernanke why not have a zero percent inflation target. Bernanke answered, "[I]f you have zero inflation, youíre very close to the deflation zone and nominal interest rates will be so low that it would be very difficult to respond fully to recessions." But if nominal interest rates are allowed to go below zero, then the Fed has ample room to respond to recessions even if rates start out low. This is another major benefit from eliminating the zero lower bound. What Kimball, whose blog is titled†Confessions of a Supply Side Liberal, is most excited about is moving beyond the demand shortfall the economy currently faces to the supply side issues that hold back long-term growth. "If you care at all about the future of this country, one of the things you need to realize is we need to solve the demand side so we can get back to the supply side issues that are really the tricky thing for the long run," he said. "The way to solve the demand side issues that is the most consistent with not messing up our supply side is monetary policy and making it so we can have negative interest rates." At the moment, e-dollars are still only a theoretical concept, but Kimball is hopeful that they could be put into action in the near future. He believes that if a government bought in, it could be using an electronic currency in three years and reap the benefits of it soon after.† "This is going to happen some day," he concluded. "Let me tell you why. There are a lot of countries in the world and some country is going to do this and it's going to be a whole lot easier for other countries to do it once some country has stepped out."
Jeff Bottari/Getty ImagesMACAU/TACLOBAN, Philippines (Reuters) - Filipino boxing great Manny Pacquiao will carry the weight of a nation in mourning when he enters the ring on Sunday in the first major international fight to be held in the gambling capital of Macau. Just a fortnight after one of the world's worst typhoons smashed into the Philippines, killing more than 5,200 people and leaving millions homeless, Pacquiao has dedicated the fight to his millions of fans back home. Away from Macau's glitzy resorts in the battered city of Tacloban, Susan Vergara, caretaker of the Tacloban Astrodome which was caught in the center of super storm, says the fight will be beamed live into the arena. Some 3,000 people left homeless by Typhoon Haiyan have made the stadium their home. The bout will also be broadcast to security forces and aid workers at Tacloban's city hall and airport, where many residents are also expected to gather. "The Pacquiao fight gives us inspiration even though we have been suffering from the typhoon. I hope he wins," said on resident, Vergara, 50. Eight-weight Pacquiao, who is also a congressman from Sarangani Province, told Reuters this week the tragedy was inspiring him to succeed. "My countrymen, I want to make them happy. To bring honor to my country." Pacquiao will also be fighting for his career when he takes on American Brandon "Bam Bam" Rios and seeks to re-establish himself as the number one pound-for-pound fighter in the sport. Two straight defeats, the second a brutal sixth round knockout by old foe Juan Manuel Marquez last December, prompted pundits and fans to suggest retirement for Filipino great. Sunday's non-title welterweight fight is Pacquiao's first in Asia in seven years. BETTING ON CHANGE The fight is being held at Sands' Venetian arena in the southern Chinese gambling territory. The company is one of six licensed casino operators together with Steve Wynn's Wynn Macau, Galaxy Entertainment, SJM Holdings, MGM China and Melco Crown. Unlike Las Vegas, renowned for shows, nightlife and trendy restaurants and where Pacquiao usually boxes his major fights, Macau's focus has been its 35 casinos. Now things are changing in the former Portuguese colony, a special administrative region like neighboring Hong Kong. China's central government is calling for Macau to diversify its turbo-charged casino industry to draw in more tourists than the hardcore punters. While revenues soar - Macau gaming revenues are expected to be seven times those of Las Vegas this year - casinos are pushing to expand their offerings. Among those expected to watch the Pacquiao bout will be former England soccer star David Beckham, who is in Macau after signing a promotional deal with Sands owner U.S. billionaire Sheldon Adelson. "This fight will mean so much to him because for a slight moment this fight is going to put a smile on the people's faces in the Philippines," said Beckham, who this week announced he will launch his own professional soccer team in Miami. Macau is the only place where Chinese nationals are allowed to gamble in casinos in the country. (Reporting by Farah Master in Hong Kong, Stefanie McIntyre in Macau and Roli Ng and Nathan Layne in Tacloban; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)
The market doesnít have to be in a bubble in order for it to be on the precipice of a significant decline.† Of all the cyclical market peaks since 1929, only the tops in 2000 and 2007 were looked back on as being bubbles. Most of the other market peaks occurred with the P/E ratio ranging between 18 and 21 times reported cyclically-smoothed GAAP earnings, compared to a norm of 15 times and bear market lows between 7 and 10 times.† At todayís market close the P/E ratio is 20.6 times earnings.† Thatís high enough to be a potential market top, especially given existing fundamental and technical conditions. The market has been moving like a yo-yo in response to the minute-to-minute perception of the prospect for Fed tapering.† Yesterday, the market tanked after the release of the Fed minutes indicated that a number of Fed members thought that tapering should begin before a definitive improvement in the economy became apparent.† The specific paragraph that got the marketís attention stated, ìÖ.participants also considered scenarios under which it might at some stage be appropriate to begin to wind down the program before an unambiguous further improvement in the outlook was underway.î† Until this statement, most investors assumed that winding down QE would only take place in a robust economy, and, therefore, would actually be positive.† The idea that tapering could begin in the absence of real economic improvement was too much for investors, at least in the short-term.† Today, however, when the Philadelphia Fed Survey released results that were much weaker than expected, the 10-year bond yield abruptly dropped, and stocks soared on the grounds that maybe the start of tapering would be delayed after all.† Such is the state of the current market. Everything hinges on QE, and little else seems to matter.† The similarity between now and 2000 or 2007 is not necessarily that we are in a bubble, but that the reason for market strength rests on such dubious grounds. In our view, the market is not supported by strong fundamentals.† The so-called strength in the economy is based on forecasts, rather than on current conditions.† But forecasts have now been overly optimistic for the last three years, and we see no change in the period ahead.† GDP has been growing at a 1.6% rate over the past year.† Similarly, real consumer spending has been rising at a 1.8% rate, and real disposable income at 1.6%----and this with a powerful dose of QE.† With the rise in mortgage rates, housing has also become a weak spot.† October existing home sales were down 3%, while the pending sales index, which leads existing sales, indicate more declines ahead. Technical conditions also point to a vulnerable market.† Breadth has been narrowing and did not confirm new highs in the averages.† Daily new stock highs peaked in May and recently have been trending lower.† The Russell 2000 has been lagging the large-cap averages.† Some speculative high-P/E momentum stocks have recently been hit hard.† Tesla is down 37%, Cree 27%, Fleetmatics 26%, Facebook 15%, and Linkedin 14%.† Investors Intelligence bulls have averaged a historically high 54% and bears 16% over the past four weeks, numbers indicative of market extremes.† According to Vanguard, investors, as a group, have a 57% allocation to equities, an amount exceeded only twice in the last 20 years----the late 1990s and prior to 2007-2009.†  All of these numbers belie the belief that most investors are still too pessimistic.†  All in all, we believe that the market is facing significant headwinds, and that a major decline is not far off. †
REUTERS/KyodoVessels from the China Maritime Surveillance and the Japan Coast Guard are seen near disputed islands, called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, in the East China Sea, in this photo taken by Kyodo, September 10, 2013.SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China on Saturday bolstered its claim to islands that Japan says it owns, warning that it would take "defensive emergency measures" against aircraft that failed to identify themselves properly in airspace over them. Ties between the Asian powers have been strained for months by the dispute over the East China Sea islands, called the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan, which are believed to be surrounded by energy-rich waters. China's government-run Xinhua news agency published a map and coordinates for the newly established "East China Sea Air Defence Identification Zone", which covers most of that sea including the disputed islands. It also released Defence Ministry identification rules for aircraft in the area. "China's armed forces will adopt defensive emergency measures to respond to aircraft that do not cooperate in the identification or refuse to follow the instructions," Xinhua said. Xinhua said the rules came into force on Saturday and the air force conducted its first patrol over the zone. The patrol included early warning aircraft and fighters, it said. A Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman said Japan lodged a severe protest at China's embassy in Tokyo and reiterated its position that the islands belong to Japan and China's action was not acceptable. "Setting up such airspace unilaterally escalates the situations surrounding Senkaku islands and has danger of leading to and unexpected situation," Japan's Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Patrol ships from both countries have been shadowing each other near the islets on and off for months, raising fears that a confrontation could develop into a clash. There have also been several incidents involving military aircraft flying close to each other. In October, Chinese military aircraft flew near Japan three days in a row, and Japan scrambled fighter jets each time in response. The new Chinese rules mean aircraft have to report flight plans to China's Foreign Ministry or civil aviation administration, maintain radio contact and reply promptly to identification inquiries, keep radar transponders turned on, and bear clear markings of their nationality and registration. The Defence Ministry said it was the "administrative organ" for the zone, Xinhua said. The zone is outside China's territorial airspace, but its establishment had a sound legal basis and accords with common international practices, Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said in an interview carried by Xinhua. He noted that other countries had established similar zones and said China would put more in place in future. "It is a necessary measure in China's exercise of self-defence rights. It has no particular target and will not affect the freedom of flight in relevant airspace," Yang said. (Additional reporting by Hideyuki Sano in Tokyo; Editing by Robert Birsel)
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann  On Sunday afternoon we will find out if Switzerland will go ahead with one of the most radical plans to fight inequality ever: Limiting the monthly pay of top executives to that of their lowest paid employees' yearly salary. Limiting compensation to 1:12 would be a historic change: Currently, a lot of Swiss firms have a ratio of more than 100:1. Roche, the Swiss drug giant, reportedly paid its top executive $13.9 million in 2012, and its lowest $59,000 ‚Äî a ratio of 1:236. This isn't just a Swiss thing either. One study has shown that the average American CEO earns 200 times the salary of their lowest paid employee. The idea was proposed through Switzerland's direct democracy system, and if more than 50% of voters and representatives of the Swiss federal states (cantons) agree to it, it must become law. Voters have had a month to vote via post, and on Sunday they can attend polling stations. It's fascinating to wonder what a country with a 1:12 salary cap would look like. David Roth, the leader of the youth wing of Swiss party the Social Democrats, and one of the architects of the plan, recently told Business Insider that he expected that salaries would go down, and then the money would be spent on lower paid workers and investing in the companies. On the other hand, however, Swiss executives had warned that their companies would leave the country if the bill passed (Roth said that such an attitude was "quite arrogant"). Of course, such a plan is a long shot ‚Äî Business Insider recently spoke to a number of experts on Swiss politics, and none of them thought the bill would pass. One recent poll says that the yes votes stand at 36%, which would mean a clear defeat. Still, Sunday afternoon will see a lot of eyes on Switzerland. The Swiss will either have one of the most radical egalitarian policies in the world, or, they won't.
