Daily TickerGold has been getting poleaxed in recent months, though it remains just below $1400/oz. In a piece up at Project Syndicate, economist Nouriel Roubini says gold will fall to around $1,000 before the end of 2015. He gives six reasons why. We summarize: Read the whole column here &gt;
AS THE grandson of a ìrich farmerî, a stigmatised class in communist China, Joe Zhang grew up on the wrong side of the ideological tracks. At school he envied the town-kids who could look forward to a cushy job minding grain-stores or writing propaganda. But after winning a spot at university, he eventually escaped into central banking in Beijing and, later, investment banking in Hong Kong. By pleading, petitioning and playing a lot of ping pong (a sport he hates) he was even admitted into the Communist Party in 1985. Then, in 2011, his social climb suffered an abrupt reversal. He took on a role that remains stigmatised and discriminated against in todayís China: he became a shadow banker. His new book, ìInside Chinaís Shadow Banking: the Next Subprime Crisis?î, recounts his trials as the head of a microlender in Guangdong. Elsewhere in the world, microcredit is a respectable, even canonised, endeavour. In China, Mr Zhang complains in his book, it is ìonly slightly more respectable than perhaps massage parlours or nightclubs.î He describes the variety of institutions and instruments that operate and innovate in the shadow of Chinaís mammoth banks, where they are hard for the authorities to see. They include the informal lenders, kerbside capitalists and back-alley bankers for which China is famous. But the most important institutions are Chinaís 67 trust companies, lightly regulated finance firms that make loans and other investments but cannot collect deposits. And the most significant instruments are the uncountable wealth-management products (WMPs), which raise money from better-off investors, in large increments (at least 50,000 yuan, about $8,160) and for short periods (typically less than six months, sometimes much less). Like banks, shadow banks are middlemen, issuing liabilities and holding assets. Another point of resemblance is that their assets are often less liquid, longer-term and riskier than their liabilities purport to be. Yet unlike banks they lack an official safety net, such as a lender of last resort, should these mismatches ever be exposed. That makes shadow banking a bit scary. The International Monetary Fund frets that ìa fast-growing share of credit is flowing through the less-well-supervised parts of the financial system.î Mr Zhangís book is marketed to people who suspect that systemic dangers lurk in these shadows. But the tale it goes on to tell is more interesting. Shadow banking, he argues, is ìmore a symptom than the disease itself.î The disease itself is financial repression. China imposes a ceiling on the interest rate that banks can pay to depositors. This keeps banksí cost of funding low, making them eager to lend. To curb their enthusiasm, the regulators must impose offsetting limits on their lending, as Dong He and Honglin Wang of the Hong Kong Institute of Monetary Research have pointed out. These limits range from conservative loan-to-deposit ratios to heavy reserve requirements and blacklists of overexposed borrowers, such as property developers or local governments. Where there is regulation, there is evasion, notes Mr Zhang. Much of Chinaís shadow-banking system serves merely to help banks evade deposit ceilings and lending guardrails. It would be less pervasive if Chinaís lending limits were less strict. But then those limits would not need to be so tight if banksí funding costs were not repressed.  Neglected by the banks, small firms are willing to pay the 20-24% interest rates charged by Chinaís 6,080 microlenders. But micro-loans amounted to only 592 billion yuan ($97 billion) at the end of last year, equivalent to less than 1% of bank credit (see table). A far bigger source of finance for illiquid firms is other more liquid ones. Non-financial companies are barred from lending directly to each other, but they can make ìentrustedî loans via a bank or trust company. This lending is sizeable, but also relatively safe, according to Standard &amp; Poorís. Most of the loans are made by big firms to their sister companies. WMP! There it is As well as midwifing loans from one firm to another, trust companies also raise pools of money from investors by issuing their own WMPs. These products amounted to 1.9 trillion yuan at the end of 2012. Most mature within 1-3 years, according to Jason Bedford of KPMG, an auditing firm. The money is often invested in loans to credit-starved enterprises. Some products are, however, more imaginative, speculating on tea, spirits, or even graveyards. In at least one case, a product was not just imaginative but entirely imaginary: raising money for a non-existent project dreamed up by a rogue trust-company manager. These products are, then, risky. But potential losses are cushioned by collateral and unmagnified by leverage, Mr Bedford points out. In principle these losses are also borne by investors. The buyers of two faltering products issued by CITIC Trust, Chinaís largest trust company, have been told not to expect a bail-out. In practice, however, many trusts are less stiff-spined. They are tempted to rescue investors to maintain their good name. Often, these trust products are sold through banks, which distribute them, without guaranteeing them. The public, however, ìpretends not to understand the distinctionî, Mr Zhang says. By feigning ignorance, aggrieved investors hope to browbeat the government into holding the banks liable, he argues. In Hong Kong banks had to ease the pain of losses on Lehman minibonds sold through their branches. It is notable that one of the banks involved, Bank of China, has been unusually reluctant to sell WMPs in the mainland, points out Mike Werner of Sanford C. Bernstein, a research firm. Trust products sold by banks tend to be confused with a less risky kind of WMP: bank products packaged by trusts. In the first case, Mr Bedford explains, the bank provides a service to the trust companies, offering its staff and branches as a distribution channel. In the second case, the roles are reversed: trust companies and, increasingly, securities companies, provide a service to the bank, helping it to package assets in its WMPs. Unlike trust products sold by banks, bank products packaged by trusts are fairly conservative. They are mostly ìdeposits in disguiseî, as Standard &amp; Poorís put it, offering yields one or two percentage points higher than the deposit-rate ceiling. As well as helping banks to breach this ceiling, these products allow banks to window-dress their balance-sheets, points out Mr Werner. The WMPs are typically timed to mature just before the end of each quarter. As the money is returned to the WMP-buyers, it is paid into their deposits at the bank, just in time to bring the bankís loan-deposit ratio below the regulatory limit of 75%. If enough of the riskier WMPs fail, it might prompt investors to stop buying fresh products. Since WMPs usually mature long before the underlying assets do, that could inflict a nasty credit crunch on otherwise solvent ventures. But the impact on the banking system would be less obvious. If investors lose confidence in WMPs, they are likely to switch to deposits instead. The result would be a run to the banks, not a run on them. The only worry is that investors may not run to the same banks that issued most of the WMPs. Chinaís smaller joint-stock banks, which have led WMPs issuance, could therefore face a funding squeeze. One answer would be to introduce formal deposit insurance. That would force banks to pay for the implicit backing they enjoy from the state. It would instil confidence in the smaller banks, as well as the ones that are obviously too big to fail. It would also draw a clearer distinction between safety (insured deposits) and risk (uninsured investments). Critics of Chinaís shadow banking like to compare WMPs to the collateralised debt obligations at the heart of the global financial crisis. But according to Ting Lu of Merrill Lynch, the banksí WMPs bear a closer resemblance to American money-market funds, investing mostly in safe, liquid, short-term paper. Those funds, which first arrived in America in 1971, competed successfully with bank deposits, forcing legislators to phase out Americaís caps on deposit interest rates in the 1980s. Perhaps the banksí WMPs will prove a similar spur to reform in China. Mr Zhang is impatient for that day. He graduated from the central bankís academy back in 1986 with a thesis entitled ìThe Path to Interest-Rate Liberalisationî. Then, he thought the removal of interest-rate controls was only five years away. Over a quarter of a century later, students are still writing the same thesis, he says. ìThose five years have never ended.î Test your EQTake our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines Want more from The Economist?Visit The Economist e-store and youíll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more
Big thanks to Josh Brown for pointing this gem out. The Wall Street Journal has made an epic editorial video blasting NYC's new bike share program (called Citibikes). The lead plaintiff is editorial board member Dorothy Rabinowitz, who calls Bloomberg totalitarian, and says that she speaks for the great majority of New Yorkers who detest the bikes, and that they're a fire hazard. Rabinowitz's best lines: "Do not ask me to enter the minds of the totalitarians running this city." "I would like to say to the people who don't live in New York... envision what happens when you get a government run by an autocratic leader." "We now look at a city whose best cities are absolutely begrimed by these blazing blue Citibank bikes." "It is shocking to walk around this city." "The most important danger in this city is not the yellow cabs... it is the cyclists, empowered by the city administration." "I invite the mayor... to stand on Lower 5th Avenue and see exactly what happens every day." "We have a mayor who is a practiced denier" "If the mayor had any guts, he would have undertaken a study." "The bike lobby is an all-powerful enterprise." "The city is helpless before the driven, ideological passions of its leader." Really you just have to watch. It's great stuff. 
The Wall Street Journal has a new story up about how Goldman and JPMorgan (especially JPMorgan) are angry with Bloomberg over their reporting tactics. That also includes this nugget about how even before the terminal spying scandal, JPMorgan had a beef with Bloomberg. J.P. Morgan already in 2012 had expressed concerns to Bloomberg about what it perceived to be unfair reporting. A December 2011 article had compared the impact of an interest-rate swap on an Italian municipality to the destruction caused in a World War II battle between U.S. soldiers and the Nazis. Bear Stearns Cos., which J.P. Morgan bought in 2008, had sold the swaps. Over the next 18 months, incensed Morgan executives had several meetings with Bloomberg, including at least one with Chief Executive Daniel Doctoroff. But Bloomberg, after an internal review, had concluded the story adhered to its standards and told the bank it wouldn't issue a correction, according to a person inside Bloomberg. Here's the article in question. Bloomberg
If you just pay attention to US equities, you probably noticed the big 200 point Dow drop on Friday, but mostly it was a fairly uneventful month. But for world markets there were huge twists and turns that will likely be echoing for a long time. Here are the big three. Despite the post-crisis economic recovery, real interest rates in the US have been on an uninterrupted steady grind lower. Real interest rates adjust nominal interest rates for inflation to give you a sense. For the first time since the crisis, we're seeing what looks like a reversal of this trend, amid all kinds of talk about economic recovery and the Fed "tapering" the pace of QE. FRED With real interest rates rising in the US, the dollar has strengthened nicely. That's one factor that's crushing the currencies of emerging markets, which had been gigantic winners. Coupled with the weakness in commodity prices (and other factors) the South African rand got absolutely poleaxed in May. Here's a chart showing the South African Rand (ZAR) vs. the US Dollar (USD) over the last month. XE.com Starting last autumn, Japan's Nikkei was the hottest market in the world, thanks to the experiment known as Abenomics (which involves extraordinary monetary easing). After a virtually uninterrupted upward surge, the Nikkei got destroyed over the last week or so, falling about 15% from the peak. Bloomberg So there you go. The turn in rates, the crushage of emerging markets, and the reversal in Japan. May was a big month. Meanwhile, there's a ton of economic data coming out this week that everyone will be watching.
Brendan Arthur Ring at www.flickr.comThere is a ton of economic data coming out next week and people are going to be laser-focused on it in a way that they haven't been in a long time. First we'll give you an overview of the data that's coming out. Then we'll discuss why people will be watching it so closely. Monday is Global PMI day. Starting Sunday night (Eastern Time), we'll get a slew of regional manufacturing reports, starting in Asia, then moving to Europe, and then ultimately to the US and Brazil. In about 12 hours, we'll get a huge sweep of the state of the global manufacturing sector through this series of regional surveys. The Asian numbers will help confirm if the slowdown is real. The European numbers will tell us if, perhaps, green shoots are coming, and of course the US data will indicate how well we're hanging on. Also on Monday we get Construction Spending and Auto and Truck Sales. Auto and Truck sales tend to be a good indicator of the state of the jobs market. Tuesday is quiet, but then on Wednesday we get labor costs (a measure of inflation), factory orders, and then PMI services, which is basically a repeat of Monday's big PMI day, except focused on the services sector. Also on Wednesday there's the ADP jobs report, which attempts to anticipate the official job report's measure of private sector job creation. On Thursday, Initial Jobless Claims get reported (a great high-frequency measure of the labor market), as well as the latest layoffs report from Challenger. And then of course Friday will be gigantic, with the Jobs Report in the morning, and then Consumer Credit in the afternoon. Last month's jobs report was solid (with good upward revisions to previous months) and expectations are for another good month. So the volume of data will be huge. But why will everyone care? Because this might not be a test. For the first time since the crisis, there's serious talk of the Fed beginning to pull back the extraordinary monetary measures it's employed to fight a weak economy. People are really talking about "The Taper", the process of reducing how much the Fed spends each month on quantitative easing. Along with this talk of The Taper, there's a sense in the markets of a major shift in interest rates. US Treasury yields have been shooting up lately, as you can see in this chart. FRED Not only are people selling Treasuries, the selling volumes are enormous. Outside of the Treasury market, we had the big 208-point down day yesterday. There's also the trouble in Japan, and the collapse of emerging market currencies, which became a story that got on everyone's radar in the last week. So in both the markets and the economy and the Fed talk, suddenly the wind is picking up. Next week's data will be huge.
Flickr / sokole oko Turns out that people are just about as likely to overestimate their financial savviness as they are their good looks. A new survey by the FINRA Investor Education Foundation found that 75% of U.S. adults say they're pros at managing their finances, but only 14% could ace a five-question quiz on basic financial concepts. This was no small study sample size either. A whopping 25,000 consumers took the quiz. Think you can do a better job? Take the FINRA quiz below, then click here to see explanations for the answers.
The rise of Asian Americans involves a lot more than relentless tiger moms. A report updated last month by Pew Research details all kinds of impressive statistics about Asian Americans, who overtook Hispanics in 2009 as America's fastest-growing racial group. Some highlights:¬† www.pewsocialtrends.org www.pewsocialtrends.org www.pewsocialtrends.org And they're excited to be here: www.pewsocialtrends.org Read the full report at Pew Research. Flickr / Sean Choe
ReutersIs there a shortage of talented workers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) in America? It's one of the most fundamental questions of the immigration reform debate. The tech industry has made their feelings widely known. Interest groups for the technology industry ó as well as some companies individually ó say we need way more STEM majors in America to meet their needs. They argue that in order to meet these needs, since there aren't enough American STEM majors, they have to look elsewhere and recruit foreign-born talent to fulfill their demand for STEM-trained workers.† But the thing is, there isn't really a STEM shortage. There are plenty of graduates of technical fields in the U.S.  There is a different kind of shortage, but the American people won't like to admit it. † What there is, is a shortage of ultra-elite American-born talent, and Silicon Valley wants to hire the very best in the world. The view from Silicon Valley is that a lot of the U.S. talent, while bountiful in number, just doesn't stack up. But Silicon Valley doesn't want to just come out and say this, since it will sound offensive to a lot of American-born grads. So Silicon Valley argues that there's a general STEM shortage. The STEM Shortage Is A Myth The Economic Policy Institute published†an informative paper several weeks ago that broke down a lot of the myths around the STEM shortage.† First, let's look at basic economics. When there's a shortage ó when demand exceeds supply ó the price of a good increases. If there were truly a supply shortage, then, why hasn't the compensation for tech workers increased dramatically? EPI Even more, were there truly a STEM shortage ó were demand for STEM majors to exceed supply ó one would expect that unemployment statistics for recent STEM graduates would be outstandingly low.† The reality? Nope. From a new report from the esteemed Georgetown Center on Education and the Workforce on recent graduate unemployment: Unemployment seems mostly concentrated in information systems (14.7 %) compared with computer science (8.7%) and mathematics (5.9%). As noted in an earlier report, hiring tends to be slower for users of information compared to those who write programs and create software applications. So if there were a shortage, it managed to completely disregard the fundamental laws of supply and demand.† Second, let's look at what the supply ó new college graduates who majored in computer science or technology positions ó has been like. It turns out, many STEM majors don't go into a field within their major. Pay attention to the two leftmost columns ó the levels for engineering and computer science: EPI It's perfectly natural for many STEM majors to not desire to work in the industry of their major, let alone STEM. Personally, I happen to be one such STEM major, and I now work in journalism. STEM training conveys a number of significant benefits to the student, and it isn't strictly STEM fields that require analytical thinking and talent with calculations.† However, there are some major red flags when you look at why some of these computer science and engineering majors are not working in the tech sector: EPI This is actually a big deal, and a core argument against a STEM shortage.† From an earlier chart, we saw that†35.4% of computer and information science majors don't work in the computer and information science field. Combining the information from these two charts about computer and information science †majors: It's the middle two of these four stats that are most concerning.† If Silicon Valley has a shortage of tech workers, why are 11% of CS majors claiming that there weren't jobs available? Likewise, if there's such a desperate shortage, why is Silicon Valley not keeping compensation on pace with demand, in order to attract the 19% who cite pay or working conditions as a reason they're not working in tech? Most importantly: Why is the technology industry citing a non-existent shortage of American STEM majors as the justification for raising the number of foreign born worker permits? There's an answer, but Americans aren't going to like it.† We clearly don't have a STEM shortage. If we did, rudimentary economics would kick in and show either low unemployment for new majors or a rising price of computer science labor. People wouldn't say they're out of the industry because of no jobs.† What we really have is a "STEM majors who have the skills that Silicon Valley needs, who are willing to work for a price Silicon Valley wants to pay" shortage. That's okay! That's a perfectly reasonable problem to try to address.  Just because someone graduates with a degree in computer science doesn't make them Alan Turing (the famous British mathematician and computer science pioneer).  There are any number of reasons that people who hold a degree in tech won't meet the actual requirements of Silicon Valley.  Not all degrees are created equal ó much has been written about the rise, for instance, of for-profit colleges, and the difficulty their graduates have in getting gainful employment ó and maybe if all it takes is a C+ to graduate, you're just not Google material.† Plus, Silicon Valley shouldn't be expected to hire every American. It's a hard truth, but frankly not everybody deserves to have the job they want. We all know there isn't enough room on the Space Shuttle for all the wannabe astronauts out there. It's the same thing with tech. The tech industry is a for-profit entity that subscribes to the musings of Adam Smith more than Emma Lazarus. BrookingsBut what makes this most galling for the Silicon Valley crowd is that they're looking at American colleges and they're seeing a whole lot of foreign born students that are crushing the homegrown talent. They want that talent. They're businesses, and in a perfect laissez-faire world they would be able to hire who they want whenever they want, regardless of visa status. BrookingsThere's a very small window for companies to hire foreign-born workers on visa.So when it comes to being forced into an annual temporary visa lottery that has escalated to the point that a year's worth of temporary work visas is gone in a frenzied five days, you can get why Silicon Valley gets peeved about the process.† But then you get to the question about how to sell this to Americans.† Do you come right out and say the truth? "Hey America, please raise the visa limit. There's a shortage of STEM talent that is willing to work for what we'll pay that also meets our high standards.†When it comes down to it, a lot of the world is better at what we need than you, and we don't feel like paying your mediocre tech talent what they expect because not everybody deserves a job and we have Samsung to beat." That's the sort of talk that gets college kids grabbing pitchforks.† Instead, you reduce it down. You say there's a STEM shortage, which is only part of the truth, but enough to get people listening.† There's nothing really wrong with that. America has some of the greatest tech companies, and they have a crucial need for talent. They should be able to get the best of the best. It's a problem that needs to be addressed.† Even more, it's difficult to overstate the positive economic benefits that additional high-skill immigrants bring. Each new immigrant provides an economic stimulus by virtue of paying taxes and spending money in the American economy. There's also the incentive that high-skill immigrants have when it comes to starting new companies and patenting new innovations.† It makes a lot of sense to increase the number of high-skill immigrants to the U.S.  It makes even more sense to hand them green cards ó permanent visas ó rather than the temporary six-year H-1B visas that Silicon Valley wants, but that's another issue entirely.† The issue is,†saying that there is a STEM shortage to justify all of those benefits runs the risk of the argument losing credibility.†
APAt Business Insider, we read a lot of investment research and market commentaries, and we talk with a lot of analysts and economists. Of course, the best insights always come from the people who really know their stuff ‚Äì and that knowledge and experience typically lends to a unique perspective that is hard to find anywhere else. We've compiled a list of the analysts, economists, and managers we consider to be some of the smartest people in finance ‚Äì the "must reads," if you will ‚Äì and what they are saying now.
ScreenshotLOS ANGELES (TheWrap.com) - Veteran scribe†Michael Green†("Green Lantern") is moving from superheroes to replicants, as he's in negotiations to write the sequel to "Blade Runner" for†Alcon†Entertainment and directorRidley Scott's production company†Scott Free, an individual familiar with the Warner Bros. project has toldTheWrap. Representatives for†Alcon†and Green did not immediately respond to†TheWrap's request for comment. While†Alcon†hasn't officially revealed whether "Blade Runner" will be a sequel or a prequel to the original 1982 movie, an individual familiar with the sci-fi project has told†TheWrap†it will be set some years after the conclusion of the influential first film. Scott will return to direct the "Blade Runner" sequel, and he's courting†Harrison Ford†to reprise his role as†Rick Deckard. Scott is producing with†Alcon†co-founders Broderick Johnson and†Andrew Kosove, as well as Bud Yorkin andCynthia Sikes Yorkin. Thunderbird Films CEOs Frank Giustra and Tim Gamble will serve as executive producers. Released by Warner Bros. more than 30 years ago, "Blade Runner" was adapted by Hampton Fancher and David Peoples from†Philip K. Dick's groundbreaking novel "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?" and directed by Scott following his landmark "Alien." The film was nominated for two Academy Awards and led to numerous feature adaptations of Dick's other works. Green, who got his start writing for "Smallville" and "Heroes," previously wrote "Green Lantern" and "The†Flash" for Warners and DC Entertainment. He also wrote the epic Moses movie "Gods and Kings" for WB. He's repped by WME, 3 Arts Entertainment and Felker Toczek Gellman Suddleson.
foursquare, Lee HSo you did your time interning at Goldman or Credit Suisse after your junior year of college, and realized that you just weren't cut out for the finance world. † Still, we can't forget about all of those psycho-competitive economics majors from college who are now working downtown and rolling in the dough. If your plan is to mingle with these Type A's over a martini (or three), check out these bars that heavily cater to the Wall Street types..
Long U.S. dollars is my favorite theme for the rest of 2013. ¬†My favorite post of the year is my Macro Wrap that I wrote on May 15th, laying out my reasons for favoring the dollar. In the past 2 weeks, the dollar has started to gain very quickly against emerging market currencies. The chart tour of 1 year daily charts of the U.S. dollar vs. emerging market currencies (with the 200 day moving average in black) illustrates that point. ¬†These charts below show USD vs. the other currency (so a higher chart is the U.S. dollar gaining value vs. the emerging market currency): Brazilian Real: USD / BRL 1 year daily, Courtesy of Bloomberg Indian Rupee: USD / INR 1 year daily, Courtesy of Bloomberg Turkish Lira: USD / TRY 1 year daily, Courtesy of Bloomberg South African Rand: USD / ZAR 1 year daily, Courtesy of Bloomberg Mexican Peso: USD / MXN 1 year daily, Courtesy of Bloomberg After this week‚Äôs moves, the U.S. dollar is trading above the 200 day moving average vs. all of these currencies. ¬†Some of them have broken down to new 1 year lows (and the dollar to new 1 year highs), with the South African Rand the weakest given its exposure to the precious metals sector. These are massive moves. ¬†Business owners and individuals who buy goods priced in dollars, but earn money in their own currency, have lost 5-10% percent of their spending power in the past month. ¬†More importantly, many emerging markets corporations and banks fund themselves in dollars (since it‚Äôs a lower interest rate than their domestic currency), and they are finding themselves in a squeeze as the dollar goes higher. ¬†It will cost them an increasing amount of local currency to pay back those dollar-based loans. As the funding currency of the world, the dollar‚Äôs weakness has been a boon to emerging market investment for the past decade. ¬†I anticipate further emerging market economic weakness in the months ahead as businesses pare back investment and consumption to make up for the currency‚Äôs fall against the dollar. ¬†Whether that eventually leads to broader financial market weakness remains to be seen.
Justin Sullivan/ Getty ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook at WWDC 2012Apple hosts its annual Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) June 10-14. The tech juggernaut isn't expected to unveil any new devices at the event, which will instead focus on the software side of things, especially the iOS mobile operating system that runs on iPhones and iPads. "As such, other than some refreshes for the Mac line, expectations for earnings-moving product releases appear to be appropriately muted heading into this event," writes a†Goldman Sachs team of equity analysts led by Bill Shope. "Nevertheless, we continue to believe that WWDC could be a positive catalyst for the story, as the reveal of iOS 7 and enhancements to iOS services could begin to change the broad perception that Appleís ability to innovate has been impaired." Here is what Goldman wants to see from Apple: The Goldman analysts have a "Buy" rating and a 12-month price target of $500 for Apple shares (which closed Friday at $449.73). "Overall, we continue to believe Apple needs to launch a series of successful new iOS products this fall for the stock to fully begin its recovery," says Shope and his team, "but in the meantime, the software and services enhancements at WWDC should serve as positive catalysts and important indicators of Appleís longer-term technology focus and direction."
YouTubeJesse Curtis MortonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - American Islamist militants jailed for threatening violence over the Internet are still posting political writings on the Web - while serving time in federal prison. Jesse Curtis Morton, a convert to Islam who writes under the name Younus¬†Abdullah Muhammed, posted a lengthy tract opposing U.S. drone policy, on May 21, on the www.islampolicy.com website that he launched in 2010. Morton is serving a prison term of more than 11 years in a¬†Pennsylvania¬†federal prison after pleading guilty in 2012 to conspiring to solicit murder, make threatening communications and "use the Internet to place others in fear." Morton, from¬†Brooklyn,¬†New York, and previously a student at¬†Columbia University, was jailed for threatening the writers of the satirical television show "South Park" for their depiction of the Prophet Mohammed in a bear outfit. Morton wrote in his latest essay that U.S. use of lethal drones against al Qaeda in¬†Afghanistan¬†and¬†Yemen¬†had encouraged homegrown Islamist extremism. "The drone assassination of¬†Anwar Awlaki¬†in¬†Yemen, an Islamic preacher with tens of thousands of ardent Western followers, has yet to be avenged but his popularity has only risen after death," Morton wrote, referring to¬†the American Muslim¬†preacher killed in a 2011 U.S. drone strike in¬†Yemen. Another American militant,¬†Zachary Chesser, who was found guilty of conspiring with Morton to encourage attacks via the Internet on the creators of "South Park," has also posted material while in prison. His postings appear on another website www.aseerun.org and mainly air personal grievances, along with some political material. Chesser is serving a 25-year prison sentence in Marion,¬†Illinois, for the "South Park" case and for attempting to join the Somali militant group al Shabaab. Neither Morton nor other representatives of IslamPolicy responded to a request for comment sent to an email address posted on the website. A telephone number posted on the site was out of order. Lawyers for Morton and Chesser¬†did not respond to requests for comment. Under free-speech guarantees in the U.S. Constitution, federal authorities cannot impose blanket bans on such postings by convicts, although email access is limited for prisoners, and messages inciting violence are prohibited. Morton and Chesser were involved in running the now defunct website RevolutionMuslim.blogspot.com. That was linked to a U.S. affiliate of banned British group Al Muhajiroun, whose followers have included a man arrested for the brutal killing of a British soldier in¬†London¬†last week. Since federal prisoners are allowed to transmit closely vetted email messages via special channels only to a small list of approved recipients, it is possible that messages and essays by prisoners such Morton and Chesser first went to some of those recipients, who then arranged for posting on the Internet. PROTECTED SPEECH Officials said they did not know precisely how Morton and Chesser arranged for the posting of their messages. "Their communications with the outside are limited to approved contacts only and subject to careful monitoring and review to ensure that they do not facilitate criminal activity or pose a threat to the public or the correctional facility," said¬†Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman. "While we may disagree with some opinions expressed by inmates in their limited communications to approved contacts outside prison, we may not prosecute individuals for speech protected under the First Amendment," Boyd said. U.S. law enforcement sources said authorities would likely move quickly against Morton if Internet materials posted while he is in prison directly encouraged violence. Morton apologized after his sentencing in 2012 and his most recent writings are not extremist by Islamist militant standards. They are mostly musings on the role of Islam in Middle Eastern political life. A senior U.S. law enforcement official said Morton's current website was still important among U.S. militants, although Morton had toned down his writings. Older material still accessible on the site includes communiques from¬†Afghanistan's¬†Taliban¬†group, videos promoting the views of Abdullah al Faisal, a Jamaican imam who was jailed by British authorities in 2003 for soliciting the murder of Jews and Hindus, and exhortations including, "No peace with the Jews!" "It is surprising and ironic that two individuals, whose extensive online activity influenced and inspired a wide network of would-be jihadists, are still able to reach those audiences from prison," said¬†Oren Siegel, director of the¬†Center on Extremism¬†at the¬†Anti-Defamation League. (Editing by Alistair Bell and Peter Cooney)
Companies around the world have issued $254 billion in high-yield debt this year, a number that includes $130.6 billion from the U.S., according to the latest numbers from Dealogic. Global issuance is up a stunning 53 percent from the same period in 2012 and has accounted for 9 percent of the total deals in the debt capital markets spaceóalso a record and fully one-third higher than last year's pace. The U.S. issuance has increased 24 percent over the previous year. Record issuance also has come from the U.K., China, Russiaóand debt-plagued Italy, which despite being at the center of the European sovereign debt crisis has seen $7 billion hit the junk bond market this year, Dealogic said. (Read More: This Tax Loophole Mistake Saves Companies Billions) Because junk bonds have a history of trading in tandem with the stock market, it's not a big surprise to see issuance swell. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 has surged nearly 16 percent this year, and the high-yield market has followed. The Barclays U.S. Corporate High Yield Index returned 4.75 percent through April. But with investors beginning to fear that the Federal Reserve may stage an early exit from its monetary stimulus programs, fears are growing that junk bonds could take a hit. "On the surface, things look pretty good in the high yield market," Citigroup analysts said in a report. "Digging a little deeper, however, we see some troubling signs." All that supply is beginning to take a toll on the secondary marketówhere those who buy the bonds from issuers go to trade themóand there are signs that demand is waning. The two leading exchange-traded funds for junkóthe SPDR Barclays High Yield Bond and the iShares iBoxx $ High-Yield Corporate Bondósustained a combined $660 million in outflows last week, the second-worst of any class after emerging markets, according to IndexUniverse. Mutual funds saw a similar trend, with $581 million in high-yield redemptions, the worst week since November, according to Thomson Reuters. (Read More: Fed Throws Junk Bond Lifeline to Weak Companies) Citi said the monthly total looks like it will be the largest high-yield selling since at least November 2008. Where the market goes from here is likely dependent on the Fed. Some Open Market Committee members indicated at the last meeting that a gradual decrease of the central bank's $85 billion a month in purchases of Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities would be warranted as early as June. In response, Treasury yields have jumped upwards, and some firmsóGoldman Sachs, in particularóare asserting that these could be the early days of the bond bull market's demise. (Read More: Goldman: This US Treasury Sell-Off Is for Real) "We've been bullish on high yield since September and will not change our view based on these developments, because we believe the market has overreacted to the Fed's comments," Citi said. "They highlight, however, the challenge for the FOMC and the risk of a policy misstep." The biggest potential misstep: A move by the Fed that would startle markets, push investors away from riskier bonds and send yield spreads wider. All that issuance suddenly would find a tougher marketplace, driving up yields and making borrowing for lower-credit companies significantly more expensive from the current yields which slipped below 5 percent in May. Citi said the exodus from high-yield has been due to "an expectation of faster liquidity withdrawal from the Fed" and warned that "as this occurs, capital flows are likely to turn negative, in our view, thereby limiting access to funding and maybe even increasing default concerns." _By CNBC's Jeff Cox. Follow him on Twitter at @JeffCoxCNBCcom.
NEW HAVEN ‚Äì The spin-doctors are hard at work talking up America‚Äôs subpar economic recovery. All eyes are on households. Thanks to falling unemployment, rising home values, and record stock prices, an emerging consensus of forecasters, market participants, and policymakers has now concluded that the American consumer is finally back. Don‚Äôt believe it. First, consider the facts: Over the 21 quarters since the beginning of 2008, real (inflation-adjusted) personal consumption has risen at an average annual rate of just 0.9%. That is by far the most protracted period of weakness in real US consumer demand since the end of World War II ‚Äì and a massive slowdown from the pre-crisis pace of 3.6% annual real consumption growth from 1996 to 2007. With household consumption accounting for about 70% of the US economy, that 2.7-percentage-point gap between pre-crisis and post-crisis trends has been enough to knock 1.9 percentage points off the post-crisis trend in real GDP growth. Look no further for the cause of unacceptably high US unemployment. To appreciate fully the unique character of this consumer-demand shortfall, trends over the past 21 quarters need to be broken down into two distinct sub-periods. First, there was a 2.2% annualized decline from the first quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2009. This was crisis-driven carnage, highlighted by a 4.5% annualized collapse in the final two quarters of 2008. Second, this six-quarter plunge was followed, from mid-2009 through early 2013, by 15 quarters of annualized consumption growth averaging just 2% ‚Äì an upturn that pales in comparison with what would have been expected based on past consumer-spending cycles. That key point appears all but lost on the consumer-recovery crowd. In recent speeches and discussions with current and former central bankers, I have been criticized for focusing too much on the 0.9% trend of the past 21 quarters and paying too little attention to the 2% recovery phase of the post-crisis period. At least it‚Äôs a recovery, they claim, and a sign of healing that can be attributed mainly to the heroic, unconventional efforts of the US Federal Reserve. This brings us to the second part of the argument against optimism: analytics. One of the first concepts to which an economics student is exposed in a basic macro course is ‚Äúpent-up‚Äù consumer demand. Discretionary consumption is typically deferred during recessions, especially for long-lasting durable goods such as motor vehicles, furniture, and appliances. Once the recession ends and recovery begins, a ‚Äústock-adjustment‚Äù response takes hold, as households compensate for foregone replacement and update their aging durable goods. Over most of the postwar period, this post-recession release of pent-up consumer demand has been a powerful source of support for economic recovery. In the eight recoveries since the early 1950‚Äôs (excluding the brief pop following the credit-controls-induced slump in the 1980‚Äôs), the stock-adjustment response lifted real consumption growth by 6.1%, on average, for five quarters following business-cycle downturns; spurts of 7-8% growth were not uncommon for a quarter or two. By contrast, the release of pent-up demand in the current cycle amounted to just 3% annualized growth in the five quarters from early 2010 to early 2011. Moreover, the strongest quarterly gain was a 4.1% increase in the fourth quarter of 2010. This is a stunning result. The worst consumer recession in modern history, featuring a record collapse in durable-goods expenditures in 2008-2009, should have triggered an outsize surge of pent-up demand. Yet it did anything but that. Instead, the release of pent-up consumer demand was literally half that of previous business cycles. The third point is more diagnostic: The shockingly anemic pattern of post-crisis US consumer demand has resulted from a deep Japan-like balance-sheet recession. With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that the 12-year pre-crisis US consumer-spending binge was built on a precarious foundation of asset and credit bubbles. When those bubbles burst, consumers were left with a massive overhang of excess debt and subpar saving. The post-bubble aversion to spending, and the related focus on balance-sheet repair, reflects what Nomura Research Institute economist Richard Koo has called a powerful ‚Äúdebt rejection‚Äù syndrome. While Koo applied this framework to Japanese firms in Japan‚Äôs first lost decade of the 1990‚Äôs, it rings true for America‚Äôs crisis-battered consumers, who are still struggling with the lingering pressures of excessive debt loads, underwater mortgages, and woefully inadequate personal saving. Through its unconventional monetary easing, the Fed is attempting to create a shortcut around the imperative of household sector balance-sheet repair. This is where the wealth effects of now-rebounding housing prices and a surging stock market come into play. But are these newfound wealth effects really all that they are made out to be? Yes, the stock market is now at an all-time high ‚Äì but only in current dollars. In real terms, the S&amp;P 500 is still 20% below its January 2000 peak. Similarly, while the Case-Shiller index of US home prices is now up 10.2% over the year ending March 2013, it remains 28% below its 2006 peak. Wealth creation matters, but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it. Sadly, most American households are still far from recovery on the asset side of their balance sheets. Moreover, though the US unemployment rate has fallen, this largely reflects an alarming decline in labor-force participation, with more than 6.5 million Americans since 2006 having given up looking for work. At the same time, while consumer confidence is on the mend, it remains well below pre-crisis readings. In short, the American consumer‚Äôs nightmare is far from over. Spin and frothy markets aside, the healing has only just begun.
This week economists, investors and politicians were treated to some of the "best" home price data since the frothy days of 2006 when home loans were given out like cotton candy and condo flipping was a national pastime. The Case-Shiller 20 City Composite Home price index was up a startling 10.9% for the 12 month period ending in March. Prices in all 20 cities were up, with some (Las Vegas, Phoenix, and San Francisco) notching gains of more than 20%. Meanwhile the National Association of Realtors announced that April pending home sales volume reached the highest level in nearly three years. The strong housing data is taken as proof that the economy has turned around and that a recovery is under way. Cooler heads may simply see how government policies have channeled money into real estate in order to reflate a bubble that has been collapsing for the last five years. Although the money is entering the market through slightly different paths than it did in 2005 and 2006, its effects on housing, and the broader economy, are the same as they were before the bubble burst. When the inevitable happens again, the ensuing damage will be eerily familiar. After five years of dismal real estate performance and a lackluster economy, it‚Äôs hard to fault people for believing that rising home prices are a good barometer of economic health. There can be little doubt that rising home prices feel good. Even single digit appreciation can make modest home buyers feel like mini-moguls. The effect is magnified in a falling interest rate environment where any appreciation can be instantly turned into an opportunity for cash out refinancing. The ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äù created by such activities then translates into consumer spending and other seemingly positive economic developments. But some things can taste great but be very harmful (cinnamon buns come to mind). It felt good when real estate prices were rising during the pre-financial crisis bubble, but that rise only exacerbated the problems when the bubble burst. The questions we should now be asking ourselves is why are prices rising, are those higher prices sustainable, and what are the costs to the broader economy? The truth is that most buyers cannot afford today's prices without the combination of government guarantees and artificially low mortgage rates. The Federal Reserve has been conducting an unprecedented experiment in economic manipulation. By holding interest rates near zero and by actively buying more than $40 billion monthly of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion of Treasury bonds, the Fed has engineered the lowest mortgage rates in generations. At the same time, Federal control of the mortgage industry has become nearly complete, with government agencies Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the FHA buying or guaranteeing virtually all new mortgages. In addition, a variety of Federal programs, such as the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) are in place to help keep underwater homeowners in homes that they could not otherwise afford. Taken together, these programs create far more favorable terms for home buyers than those that existed before the crash. The big difference between then and now however is that banks are much more reluctant to extend loans to people with bad credit. But that has not stopped money from flowing into real estate.¬† Ultra low interest rates also mean that fixed income investments, that have long been the staple of hedge funds and private equity funds, no longer deliver decent returns. To find yields in such an environment, many of these professional investment funds have scooped up single family homes out of foreclosure and put them into the rental market in order to generate a decent return on equity. These buyers come to the table with war chests full of cash which puts them in a position to avoid all of the credit obstacles that continue to plague individual buyers. This trend has allowed a recovery in home sales even while the national home ownership rate has dropped to 65%, the lowest rate since 1995 (down from almost 70% during the last decade). Now that most of the available foreclosures have been picked through (with the rest log jammed with litigation and red tape), many of the new classes of investment buyers are striking deals directly with the large home builders to buy homes before they are even built. It is no coincidence that the southern tier markets with the fastest appreciation, and the fastest declines in inventories, have been those with the greatest participation of institutional investors. But their activities have a latent downside. The new ownership class is not motivated to buy and hold the way Mom and Dad would. They are not looking for a place to live, raise families, and retire. They are simply looking for a decent return on equity relative to other investments. Many would happily put money in higher yielding bonds where landlord headaches don‚Äôt exist. If better deals beckon, or if risks increase in the real estate market, the homes they bought will be dumped even faster. In the meantime, bidding wars involving hedge funds are forcing real buyers to pay more, oftentimes pricing them out of the market completely. Then as these properties hit the rental market, an absence of qualified tenants will depress rents. Lower rents will in turn put downward pressure on property values. Many rental houses will also sit vacant. Though hedge funds are cash buyers, most borrow large percentages of that cash to lever up their returns. However, when interest rates rise and rents fall, hedge funds will be forced to sell. But where will the buyers come from? The current crop of renters cannot afford to buy even with mortgage rates at historic lows. When rates rise, prices will have to plunge before real buyers could even qualify for mortgages. The current combination of low rates and investor demand has succeeded in pushing up prices. But that doesn‚Äôt mean the market is healthy. For the first quarter of 2013, the Federal Reserve reports a 10% delinquency rate for residential mortgages (those with payments that are at least 90 days past due). This is more than 6 times the rate in the first quarter of 2006. In contrast, credit card delinquencies currently stand at 2.65%, the lowest rate in decades and 31% lower than the rate in the first quarter of 2006. Whether it is by choice, or simply by the ability to pay, Americans are clearly placing a low priority on paying their mortgages. But rising home prices are currently creating residual benefits even for those who have no intention of selling. In the second quarter of this year, rates on 30 year mortgages hit the lowest level on record. Although the data has not yet been published, it would be logical to assume that homeowners have taken the opportunity to refinance, lower their payments, and in some cases, pull money out. But even if they haven‚Äôt, there is evidence to suggest that an owner‚Äôs belief that his home has appreciated is enough to encourage greater spending. The ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äô from rising home prices combined with the similar influence of rising stock prices creates an aura of recovery. In fact, this week's revisions to first quarter GDP revealed that consumer confidence and spending are up despite real discretionary per capita incomes plunging at a 9.03% annualized rate. That is worse than the largest plunge during the 2008-2009 crisis (7.52%). Additionally, the household savings rate fell to an abysmal 2.3%, the lowest since the 3rd quarter 2007. Debt-financed consumption supported by inflated asset prices is what led to the financial crisis of 2008. It's amazing how willing we are to travel down that road again. Of course rising asset prices are completely dependent on continued Fed support. As we have seen time and again, whenever the Fed even hints at tapering its massive QE programs the stock market sells off. The housing market is even more dependent on that support. Given the risks, it is arguable that no private market for home loans would even exist without government intervention. The bubble that popped in 2008 consisted mainly of government-guaranteed mortgages. This time, the mortgages are not merely government-guaranteed, but government owned. In the meantime, by blowing more air into a deflating housing bubble, the Fed is misdirecting money into a sector that investment capital should be avoiding. A successful economy can‚Äôt be built on housing. Rather, a robust real estate market must result from a healthy economy. You can‚Äôt put the cart before the horse. As a nation, we do not need more houses. We built enough over the last decade to keep us well sheltered for years. Private equity funds should be using their investment capital to fund the next technology innovator, not wasting it on townhouses in Orlando and Phoenix. Of course the real risks in housing center on the next leg down, in what I believe will be a continuation of the real estate crash. We can‚Äôt afford to artificially support the market indefinitely. When significantly higher interest rates eventually arrive, the fragile market will again be impacted. We saw that movie about five years ago. Do we really want to see it again? To order your copy of Peter Schiff's latest book, The Real Crash: America‚Äôs Coming Bankruptcy ‚Äì How to Save Yourself and Your Country, click here. For in-depth analysis of this and other investment topics, subscribe to Peter Schiff's Global Investor newsletter. CLICK HERE for your free subscription. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
