Japan has re-opened for business after a Monday holiday, and its Nikkei index is up 0.8% in early trading. CNBC notes this is a 7-week high. Meanwhile, Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 0.2% and Korea's Kospi is down 0.2%. All of this comes after U.S. markets closed at new all-time highs. Here's a year-to-date look at the Nikkei via Bloomberg. Bloomberg

In the U.S., the S&amp;P 500 has been doing great. This index of large-cap stocks is up 19% since the beginning of the year. The Russell 2000, a benchmark for small-cap stocks, has been doing even better. It's up 22%. But the Russell 2000 is nothing compared to the Russell Microcap Growth Index.¬† It's up 28%. This latter index consists of tiny companies with a weighted average market cap of $543 million.¬† The average price-to-book value is a high 3.65, but it's justified by a lofty 10% long-term expected earning per share growth rate. "The Russell Microcap Growth Index maintains its number one spot for the sixth week in a row amongst the Russell-style indices with a gain of 28.29%," said Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. With higher risk comes higher rewards. Here's the year-to-date performance of 15 Russell indices via Stoltzfus. Oppenheimer
What is it about humans that we fail to see a crisis in advance, yet when we look back, its likelihood or inevitability so often seems blindingly obvious? Rather than a flaw, our under- reliance on foresight as opposed to hindsight is perhaps a necessary evolutionary design feature that has allowed us to make rapid progress as a species (especially over the last few thousand years), but in a complex modern society it can really create quite the crisis for individuals. This week we resume our musings about Cyprus, to see what that tiny island can teach us about our own personal need to engage in ongoing critical analysis of our lives and investment portfolios. Cyprus is not Greece or France or Spain or Japan or the US or ... (pick a country). I get that. No two situations are the same, but there may be a rhyme or two here that is instructive. This Country Is Different  In 1974, Turkey invaded Cyprus. Eventually the island was divided into two zones, and Greeks in the Turkish zone, like Turks in the Greek zone, were forced to leave with only the clothes on their backs and little else. That was a defining moment for Cyprus, and the aftershock is still evident when you get past the normal polite conversation. Plus, the wall dividing the two countries is always there when you are in the capital city of Nicosia, although lately there are a few places where you can cross into the other zone. The first night I was in Nicosia, we ate dinner outside at a Greek taverna (what else?) that stands almost in the shadow of the wall.  One hundred years after the Civil War, the South of my childhood was still mixed up with the aftereffects of that war. The war in Cyprus was less than 40 years ago. Another evening we went to a local club where the members were Greeks who had been expelled from a particular neighborhood in the Turkish-occupied area. Many looked young enough that they could not have been alive during the war, but the memory of the "old neighborhood" was still strong among them.  These people lost homes and businesses, jobs ñ everything. They had to start over. (I am sure it was that way for the Turks who had to relocate as well.) But for the next 40 years there was very steady economic growth, 4% or so a year over time. The people took advantage of what they had. There was no university, so children went abroad to study and work and then came back, generally with skills. The legal and accounting professions grew particularly strong. Like two other former British island colonies, Singapore and Hong Kong, Cyprus became a financial center. Fifty double tax treaties later, the island had become a place to domicile companies, handle taxes and accounting, etc.  And then they branched out into banking. After the creation of the euro, the deposit base of Cypriot banks went through the roof, until it was up to six times the size of local GDP (depending on whom you believe ñ official sources make it closer to five times). By some measures, Cyprus had the second wealthiest population in Europe and certainly one of the best educated. Twenty-five percent of the world's ships were operated under the flag of Cyprus. Because the country had been a member of the nonaligned movement in the '80s (remember that?), it had good ties (and double tax treaties) with Eastern Europe and the USSR. Some of the kids went to university in Russia and developed contacts there. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, it was natural for Russians to use Cyprus as a conduit to the West.  Cyprus has, by some accounts, the best beaches in the Mediterranean, and so more and more people came and built vacation homes. They brought their money with them and deposited it in the local banks and took out loans to build their homes. Real estate prices climbed and climbed. Below are Cypriot bank deposits and loans from 2009 through April of this year (data from the central bank). Thoughts From The Front Line Unemployment was quite low, less than 4% in 2008, although the global credit crisis led to a gradual rise (though nothing like that seen in the rest of Europe). Much of the new unemployment was in the construction industry, which fell into a slump along with the rest of Europe during the crisis.† Thoughts From The Front Line Banking soon became the biggest industry. There were more banking branches per capita in Cyprus than anywhere else in the world, more than double the European average. And there were over 40% more employees per branch than in the average eurozone country. Money was easy to get, so debt exploded by over 50% in both businesses and households in just six years, from 2005ñ 2011.  The country had always run a current account deficit, but by 2008 that deficit had topped 15%, keeping pace with Greece's and Portugal's. However, earnings and productivity had more than kept up. Cypriots worked hard and offered good value for their services. They saw themselves as different from the other Southern European countries. But, as in much of the rest of Europe, public-sector employment doubled from 1990, with the second-highest government wage bill (behind Denmark's) and a monstrous 50% growth in social benefits in the last 10 year Still, starting in 2003, public debt-to-GDP actually fell. Why ring the alarm bell when things are getting better? There were in fact no alarms bells ringing as 2012 opened. But there should have been. Cyrpiot banks were flush with cash. They bought foreign banks in Greece and Russia. They made ever more loans and then looked around and decided that Greek sovereign debt was something they needed more of. And then came the Greek sovereign debt crisis, and the capital base of the Cypriot banks was essentially wiped out. But the ECB and the EU had bailed out Irish and Spanish banks; and so depositors in Cyprus, many of them Russian, decided, along with the local citizens, to leave their money in the banks.  The country had been under the parliamentary control of the Communist Party since 2008. Seriously. Supported by the Orthodox Church. (Note that public debt began its serious rise after the communists came to power). No one reined in the banks, and they grew ever fatter and more exposed until the crisis hit. Then Cyprus could no longer fund its debt and needed EU help. Further, the Central Bank of Cyprus (not to be confused with the commercial Bank of Cyprus) had to make emergency liquidity loans to Cypriot banks that had to meet demands for withdrawals and could no longer raise capital. There was not a bank run, but there was a fast-paced walk. The ECB balked, as the quality of the collateral offered did not come close to the standards of the Emergency Lending Assistance (ELA) program. The government of Cyprus needed money to fund its basic needs as well as to "roll over" its debt as it came due. The EU basically declined to negotiate, as there was a Cypriot election scheduled for late February, and the EU preferred to wait to see the results before acting. There was talk of a "bail-in" (where depositors would shoulder some of the loss), but as usual that proposal came from the Germans, and the rest of Europe would surely not agree.  The new president assumed office and saw immediately that the country was in trouble. He tapped Michael Sarris, a "technocrat," to be his finance minister. Sarris was the man who had helped bring Cyprus into the euro and who oversaw the reduction in Cypriot debt. While he was not a member of the winning political party, he had been at the World Bank and had relationships with many of the finance heads of Europe.  Sarris went to Brussels, only to find no friends of Cyprus there. The Germans privately told him they would approve no bailout of Russian depositors (rumored to account for over half of the base of some of the banks) prior to the German elections this fall. Cyprus was seen as a money haven and a place for rather loose tax accounting. I have to admit that many of the Cypriots I talked to knew that money laundering was going on. It was a very open secret. Cyprus had very strict rules, but it seems there were ways to engineer exceptions.  In the end, Cyprus makes no difference ñ that was the perception in Europe, and while they were just talking a few billion euros here and there, a fraction of what Ireland or Spain needed, there was just no sympathy for Cyprus. Many of the European finance ministers wanted to establish the questionable principle that bank deposits were no longer sacrosanct, and Cyprus was just not seen as a systemic risk. The best deal Sarris could get was a 6.75% "tax" on deposits of less than Ä100,000 and 9.9% above that, with the aim of raising Ä5.8 billion. That was on a weekend, and by Monday, when Sarris returned, the indignation in Cyprus had grown to the point that not one politician voted to accept the deal.  A bank holiday was declared and Laiki Bank was put into receivership and closed as a "bad bank," but within a week the EU decided to insure all deposits up to Ä100,000, the number that "everyone" had understood to be the safe deposit amount. The banks eventually reopened, but Cyprus placed capital controls on deposits and limited withdrawals. A euro in a Cypriot bank was no longer the same as a euro in an Irish bank.† The Economist wrote shortly thereafter:  "The Cypriot deal has no coherence in the larger context. The euro crisis has been in abeyance for a few months, thanks largely to the readiness of the European Central Bank to intervene to help struggling countries. The ECB's price for helping countries is to insist they go into a bail-out programme. The political price of going into a programme has just gone up, so the ECB's safety net looks a little thinner. The bail-out appears to move Europe further away from the institutional reforms that are needed to resolve the crisis once and for all. Rather than using the European Stability Mechanism to recapitalise banks, and thereby weaken the link between banks and their governments, the euro zone continues to equate†bank bail-outs with sovereign bail-outs. As for debt mutualisation, after imposing losses on local depositors, the price of support from the rest of Europe is arguably costlier now than it ever has been." Since then, the crisis has deepened. Deposits of over Ä100,000 in Laiki Bank, which was the second largest bank in Cyprus, have been completely wiped out. The bad debts of Laiki Bank were forced into the Bank of Cyprus, saddling their depositor base with approximately 60% losses.  If you had a business with over Ä100,000 deposited in Cyprus, you are likely out of business. Many businesses that were going concerns on March 14, 2013, when the crisis fully erupted, were out of business a few days later. All the employees lost their jobs and their benefits. Unemployment will soon reach 20%. For now, all of the branch banks are open, but at least half will soon be shut.  On an ironic note, the EU resisted any talk of Russian banks coming in to take over the failed Cypriot banks. Now it looks as if Russian citizens may own over 50% of whatever is left of the Bank of Cyprus.  The Bang! Moment Shock  Cypriots are deeply shocked by these events. From "insiders" who sat on boards to politicians and ordinary citizens, no one can believe that the EU treated them the way they did. I was asked time and again, "How could this happen?" and not just by ordinary citizens.  I talked with one lady who had just retired from the Bank of Cyprus. She had 100% of her pension and life savings at the bank and now faces losses of up to 60%. She had no idea the crisis was coming. Interestingly, she and others I spoke to insisted that the Bank of Cyprus was a good bank. But when asked if she would redeposit her money in a Cypriot bank when (if) she ever gets it out, she shook her head no. The trust in the system is gone.  I talked with Symeon Matsis, a man in his early 70s who was at one time in charge of planning at the Ministry of Finance. He carried a copy of This Time Is Different by Rogoff and Reinhart. It was dog-eared and full of notes. "I am reading it so I can try to understand what happened to us. The more I read the more I understand that they were describing Cyprus. And we did think that 'This country is different.' Which is why the crisis has been such a shock to our local culture."  The Cypriots believed not just that their country was different but also that the stability they had seen for 40 years was normal and easy to achieve. Why would it end? They were just doing their jobs, and everything seemed OK ... until it wasn't.† Humans are hardwired to be optimists. Keeping our chins up is the only way we can keep working today and have hope for the future. If we lose that optimism, what Keynes called our "animal spirits," then why should we take risks? And the growth of free markets and capitalism over the last 500 years is nothing if not the growth in our ability to tame risk, through institutions such as insurance companies and corporations and mechanisms such as securitization and pensions. (I highly recommend the masterful book, Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk, by the late and sorely missed Peter Bernstein. This is on my list of must-read books for everyone who asks.) But with all the controls we have created, we still have not reduced risk to nothing. And the biggest risk is that created by our own politicians and institutions ñ by those we trust to somehow protect us from risk.  We write laws to protect us from politicians and government, limiting the power of the state to encroach on our lives. The citizens of Cyprus thought they had rules protecting them, too, but at the end of the day, there were no rules.  The central bankers and finance ministers of Europe are making the rules up as they go along. The monstrously long EU treaties and other eurozone agreements are wide open to bureaucratic interpretation.  If you live in the EU, you now must understand that the central risk to your financial well-being is the very governments you have asked to protect you from that risk. Many of those governments have made promises they cannot keep. I wrote a few weeks ago about the problems in France. I heard from some French readers who disagreed with me. The gist of their arguments boiled down to "we are different."  I agree that France is different in the sense that France will find some uniquely French way to deal with its crisis of too much debt and leverage, a government that is too large, and a system that is sclerotic. But whatever that is, it won't save France. French citizens and their politicians feel that their pensions, investments, and lifestyles are safe. Yes, things may have to change, they say, but not in any fundamental sort of way. They feel pretty much like the citizens of Cyprus did until March.  The word catastrophe is the same in English and French. And at some time in the future, lacking serious reform, a catastrophe is what France is facing. The same is true of dozens of countries in the "developed" world.  We love to tell ourselves that this time is different. But outcomes among countries with debt and deficits out of control, constrained by a limited ability to grow their way out of their problems, are unmistakably similar. Each country has its own reasons for thinking it is different, and right up until the end it goes on telling itself that it is. And then people are shocked when one day they wake up to a very different reality.  Michael Sarris did not come back empty-handed. He came back with billions of euros from the EU and the ECB. It just wasn't enough to keep things the way they were. The same plotline is repeated in Greece, Spain, and the rest of peripheral Europe.  Europe is making up the rules to deal with its crisis. Do you remember my writing about the very creative way the Irish dealt with their debt? Where was that in the rules? When the next phase of the crisis hits, the Europeans will make up more new rules. And that near certainty poses a serious risk for Europe. Of course, we in the US are different. We have the rule of law. That's what we all learn in school and what we keep telling ourselves, anyhow. Well, except that we find the President now wants not to have to deal with a law he helped pass, and so some third assistant at Treasury was appointed to mention as everyone went home for the holiday weekend that parts of the Affordable Care Act will be postponed without consulting with Congress, which is supposed to be involved in the whole law thing.  It's not just this president; it's everywhere. We have wandered far down the path from the rule of law to rule by lawyers. We have a Congress that refuses to deal with our deficit crisis in any manner. We have a central bank that is afraid to let the stock market learn to cope without easy money and financial repression, thereby making the bankers and finance world rich but hurting the average citizen. Indeed, low rates are killing those who worked and saved all their lives and now need to receive at least modest returns on their savings just to live.  My suggestion is that you pay attention to what is going on around you. If things are out of balance, do what you can to not get caught in the problem. It is almost never, ever different this time. You do not want to experience your own personal Bang! moment.  Newport, NYC, Maine, and Montana  After being seriously sick for 12 days, I am finally almost back to normal today; and I may even try to get to the gym tomorrow, although I may just touch the weights rather than actually lift them. Next Sunday I go to Newport, Rhode Island, for a week of intense involvement with a planning meeting of the Office of Net Assessment of the US Defense Department. A small group of us are tasked with developing a document that offers alternative scenarios for how things may work out in the future. It is quite the serious group, and I am honored to be invited. The sessions run all day and often into the evenings. It is a very eclectic group from a dozen disciplines, and I learn a great deal more than I impart.  Then I will stay in NYC (or somewhere up there) for a few days before going to Maine for the annual Shadow Fed Fishing Trip. That is always a good time with old friends. This year Bloomberg will cover the weekend with live broadcasts and interviews.  I will then return to Texas, and other than a trip to Montana to spend some vacation time on a lake with my friend and partner Darrell Cain, I really think I will stay in Texas, even through August. Home is just feeling very good after the last 12 months of almost constant travel. And while there are a few trips in the fall, the schedule seems oddly light, which is fine. I am sure things will come up. And I notice that WorldCon, the international science fiction and fantasy book conference, comes to San Antonio around Labor Day this year. I have always liked the Riverwalk. Might be a time to visit.† It is time to hit the send button. It is still light outside this evening, so I did something right this time, schedule-wise. Have a great week. Your thinking economics is stranger than science fiction (and maybe even scarier!) analyst,† John Mauldin
Last quarter, Goldman Sachs did what it's known to do and crushed earnings.†Tomorrow, the bank reports for Q2 2013 before the bell, with a conference call to follow at 9:30 a.m. Analysts are expecting an earnings per share of $2.82 (down from last quarter's $4.29) and revenue of $7.9 billion (down from last quarter's $10.09 billion). Two things to pay special attention to in this quarter's release: See you bright and early.

In that vein, why don't I try and tackle a subject so grand in a few hundred words that if you were to write a book about it would still be unsatisfactory in every imaginable regard, and risk coming out looking like a fool? I guess because some subjects can't be ignored, and you might as well start somewhere. The intersection of money (or economics) and religion (faith) so obvious in Hollande's claim is a topic I've touched upon numerous times in the past from several different angles, and I'd like to see if I can bring some of them together in a more or less coherent way; either that or fail horribly, and state beforehand I have no illusion of being comprehensive, just posing questions and don't shoot the piano player. My renewed interest in addressing the topic was triggered by Joris Luyendijk, the Dutch anthropologist turned journalist slash banking blogger†for the Guardian, whom I talked about recently, and who also writes a column in Dutch newspaper NRC, in which he discussed†religion and banking last week. Joris describes that a finance veteran he knows talks over tea, prior to a seminar in the City on "standards" (which play a prominent role in aviation but not finance), about how Thatcher's 1986 "Big Bang" deregulation changed 'everything'; before, most people worked at a bank for decades, but after, they change employer much more often. The "American thinking" - mindset - took over, and on the side of both employers and employees, "loyalty has been traded in for liquidity". Add giga-profits, opaque financial instruments and too big to fail banks, and you got your recipe for the next crisis. Once the actual seminar, which turns out to be very boring as usual, gets under way, Joris starts looking out the window, sees a church spire, and ponders how churches, once the tallest buildings in a city, are now dwarfed by the glistening high-rises of investment banks' headquarters. On his phone he looks up the seven christian virtues: Prudence, Justice, Temperance, Fortitude, Faith, Hope, and Charity. He wonders what a medieval monk would have thought of today's world of high finance with its monster bonuses, hyper risks, after-me-the-deluge attitude, £1000 champagne bottles and stripclubs. The monk would think this is the work of the devil. Of the seven deadly sins, Pride, Greed, Lust, Envy, Gluttony, Wrath, the only one bankers cannot be accused of is Sloth. Joris concludes the problem in the banking sector is "passive compliance": people obey the letter of the law without having any affinity with the spirit in which the letter was written. More rules won't solve this, but what will? He doesn't want to return to a time where religious figures dictate what he can and cannot do, but he wouldn't be surprised if the next, even bigger and "economically fatal" crisis were followed by a religious revival. Interesting thoughts, and in my book Joris Luyendijk is a very good writer. Plus I mostly agree with his conclusions. Both Nicole Foss and I have repeatedly mentioned at The Automatic Earth that the next crisis, or rather the next step in the present crisis, will risk a resurgence of political extremes and religions old and new. When confronted with sudden and life-altering change, people habitually flee into whatever makes them feel safer, and this time will be no different. But I still would go a step or two further than Luyendijk does. I think what we might be looking at when the real depth of the crisis hits will be a change of religion, rather than a revival of religion. Religion never went away or diminished, it just - temporarily - put on a different hat. Even in times of plenty, people never lose their need for religion; they just switch to different beliefs, namely the ones they think provided the plenty. Those church spires haven't just been dwarfed by the banks' high-rises, they have been outright replaced by them as both religious symbols and as symbols of power. Which are more or less the same to begin with. The tallest, strongest, most expensive, most enduring structures of any culture that has built them, have always been symbols of both. Even a king's castle would reflect the notion that the inhabitant had been elected to his position through divine intervention. If you want to talk religion in the western world, in the face of a financial crisis like the one we're presently living through, you can't really ignore the biblical stories of Mammon, one of the seven princes of hell (he represents Greed). Christianity overflows with warnings about adulation of this "false god", but apparently that doesn't sufficiently warn us away. Given the historic display of greed and wealth and lust for power by the Catholic church, perhaps that shouldn't be too surprising; how can you be expected to follow rules that your leaders do not? The ìAmerican mindset" that the trader in Joris's story mentions, seems to make it possible for people to chase Mammon, and still label themselves Christians. It takes a bit of interpretative rule bending, but if and when what you do is accepted as normal by a majority of those around you, who are you to question it, and why would you? A prime example: there is no doubt about what is meant in the US by looking out for no. 1; it's not Jesus, and once he is seen as no. 2 by a nation's entire population, that's it, no matter how differently this was and is viewed in different times and different places. In the end all is relative. The Christian warnings about the worship of Mammon have of course had one major effect: nobody sees themselves as money worshipers. "Greed is good" has taken a firm hold on western societies, but no-one will admit to believing in it, in money, in the religious sense of the word. For one thing, you don't go to a bank, or to your corporate job, to do penance (if there is such a place in greed-is-good, it's probably the IRS, or a favorite charity). As an aside, one might be forgiven for wondering why the Catholic church has never resorted to building worship skyscrapers in the City, or lower Manhattan, or Hong Kong. Intriguing question?! In the religion of greed a.k.a. Mammon, the priests work in banks, governments, economics faculties and media, preaching eternal growth like their Christian peers preach eternal life. There are various kinds of high priests (the distinctions can be blurry) : those who make billions of dollars a year (which must be because they are superior people), those who spend trillions of dollars of their inferiors' wealth creating those conditions that should without a shadow of a doubt facilitate and accelerate eternal growth (also requires superior intelligence), and those who develop and teach theories designed to prove the logic, inevitability, infallibility and overall blessings of eternal growth. All make sure they both work and reside in structures fit for their status, lest the people can see on a daily basis who are the most important members of their societies. A status confirmed, on an increasingly frequent basis, by the media, playing the role once, in the times of Luyendijk's medieval monk, reserved for church bells and town criers. Now, as then, a monotonous drone of identical messages intended to subdue the populace into submission and unquestioning faith. There are different factions, for sure, but they concern differences in opinion on how best to reach the stated goal, not whether the goal is attainable - or even desirable - in the first place. You got your Keynesians, monetarists, neo-monetarists and so on, all claiming that their ideas for achieving more growth, faster, are superior and the others' are a sure path to damnation. Their debate, however, leaves no space for questioning the validity of the ultimate goal. Now, obviously, we need to be careful with the term "American mindset": it may describe an origin, but it has evolved into what can better be described as an Anglo-Saxon mindset, and even that may fall short, since the whole of western Europe, plus many Asian countries, if not most of the rest of the world, have adopted it and made it their own, each of them perhaps in their slightly different versions, but still. And that makes me think about another apparent paradox. Not only have we created a way of thinking - a western mindset - that has us convinced we can chase maximum profit and still serve our deity of choice (in the west, principally the "Lord"), even if the chase causes us to do great harm to the planet he is claimed to have created (for one thing, we can simply state that this, too, is his will). We also, and the US is once again in the vanguard of this, have built highly militarized societies that invest huge amounts of the fruits of our daily labor in armies and weaponry. Which seems hard to blend in with the very clear message of peace that the man who gave his name to Christianity has so -seemingly - successfully spread around the world. It fits quite well, however, with money as a religion, and with the accumulation and defense of accumulated wealth. Of course you can say that Jesus didn't want you to be overrun by your enemies, but then again, Martin Luther King was very much a Christian.† In the American mindset, being successful means making lots of money, accumulating substantial wealth. Without money, you will not be considered successful. You can do things that will tempt the media in particular to - all too eagerly, albeit just for a day - label you a hero, you can save countless lives, you can alleviate an ocean of pain or facilitate millions of people to blossom who otherwise couldn't have, but unless you're rich to begin with or make a lot of money in the process, you will not be considered successful in the eyes of society at large. In a society where success is directly linked to the amount of money one makes or possesses, it's not surprising that many who strive for immortality, which in other places and times might be sought through good deeds, seek to do so through the accumulation of wealth. Even though it is written in their very own holy book that wealth makes it much harder for them to pass through the eye of a needle. There are of course many people who simply call themselves non-religious, though that's not a very common notion stateside, you see that much more in western Europe. And perhaps, though I'd have to think about it, that's somehow linked to the fact that Europeans tend to put less emphasis on money as a deciding factor for success as a label. In large parts of Europe, you can still be considered a successful writer or doctor or nurse or philosopher without any direct connection to your bank account. I could write a lot more about this, and you could find a lot more faults with it, but I wasn't going to write a book. The underlying idea is already clear. In my view, we haven't so much lost religion, we've exchanged one for the other even as we try to incorporate both into our life philosophies. And however you see all this, there is no denying that we have given money and wealth increasingly prominent positions in our lives and our societies. So much so that we see it as an almost divine right to have our houses and cars and gadgets and far-away holidays and pension plans, and we wouldn't know what to do with ourselves if all that fell away one day. Indeed, our societies would collapse without all of the (ever increasing) accumulated wealth. Even if we as individuals would say we have enough, our societies would still demand growth, or else; it's how we built them. There is no denying, either, that this comes painfully close to the biblical story of Mammon (I've left out the Golden Calf), and even if you don't call yourself a Christian, you can still understand what the intrinsic meaning is of that story. As a result of his two-year+ intensive contacts with the inner workings of the banking world in London, Joris Luyendijk concludes that a next big financial crisis - or the next step in the present one - is all but inevitable, simply because that world operates the way it does. But we won't just have a financial crisis, we'll have a crisis of faith as well. Which will lead to many people turning their backs on the Mammon religion they will continue to claim they were never card carrying members of, simply because it failed to deliver on its promises. These people will seek another belief, another faith, certainly when times get much harder then they've ever seen. That's human nature. Whether they choose one of the many Christian factions, or perhaps an eastern religion, is hard to predict. And I think it's perhaps not the most relevant issue either. What is, is that we begin to recognize how close to a religion our pursuit of material wealth has become, replete with its own versions of temples and high priests and holy books and all the other symbols and symbolism. That to an extent, we can all be said to have traded in loyalty for liquidity.
REUTERS/Peter Morgan PMBeyond fragmenting Sears into a series of warring tribes, as described by Bloomberg Businessweek's Mina Kimes, Chairman and CEO Eddie Lampert also pushed the company's IT department to create an internal social network called "Pebble," which he joined under the pseudonym "Eli Wexler."† His goal was to engage with employees and get an inside look at what was going on in the company. The reality got a bit weird.† "It quickly became clear that Eli Wexler was a little too engaged on Pebble," Kimes writes. "He left critical comments on other peopleís posts, according to more than 20 former employees; he even got into arguments with store associates." Not surprisingly, Sears employees were not excited about using Pebble and did so mostly to satisfy their bosses, according to Kimes. Internal social networks are popular enough that Microsoft bought Yammer (which produces a popular set of such tools) for $1.2 billion. A researcher at Northwestern's Kellogg School of Business found that such networks significantly improve people's ability to find information within a company. But since the success of these tools depends on people voluntarily giving good information, anonymous snooping by authority figures kills any benefit.†
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more, visit Business Insider's new†Wealth Advisor†vertical. It's Quite Clear That Cash Flow Remains King (Gluskin Sheff) The income equity theme is alive and well according to†Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. This however is in terms of dividend growth, which is a "crucial part of the investment decision-making process." A new report from Markit expects S&amp;P 500 companies to pay cash dividends in the amount of $97 billion in the third quarter, up 13% from a year ago.† "The companies leading the charge range from the ultra-defensive Walgreen (number-one drug retailer ó it has sweetened its dividend for 38 years in a row) to the uber-cyclical Cummins (global player in the diesel and natural gas engine manufacturing sphere ó uppity its dividend now for four years in a row) and Fastenal (industrial and construction equipment distributor ó hiking its dividend for an impressive 12 consecutive years). It's quite clear that cash flow remains king." Why TIPS Got Slammed During The Recent Run Up In Interest Rates (Morningstar) Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) lost 7.86% from May 1 - July 5. And this is because of their sensitivity to interest rates, the combination of longish durations, weak yields, and low inflation, according to Christine Benz at Morningstar. But this doesn't mean TIPS should be removed from one's portfolio. "TIPS remain the most direct way to hedge against inflation, and therefore they can serve a valuable role in a portfolio. But their recent weakness underscores their vulnerabilities in certain environments and the importance of having an appropriate time horizon for owning them. Because their rate sensitivity is likely here to stay, a core TIPS fund like† Harbor Real Return (HARRX) or Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities (VIPSX) is best used in the intermediate-term portion of a portfolio--that is, for time horizons of at least five years. (Vanguard Short-Term Inflation-Protected Securities (VTIPX), a new Vanguard fund, may be appropriate for those in need of a shorter-term inflation hedge.)† "It's also worth noting that working investors who are earning periodic cost-of-living adjustments need relatively less inflation protection than retired investors who are spending their portfolios. But some retirees may not need substantial TIPS exposure, particularly if Social Security and/or an inflation-adjusted pension or annuity is fulfilling a higher share of their income needs." This One Chart Shows You How Crazy The Current Rally In Small Cap Stocks Has Gotten (Miller Tabak) The Russell 2000, a benchmark for small-cap stock performance, has surged past its 200-day moving average. Miller Tabak chief technical market analyst Jonathan Krinsky writes that it now looks very overbought.† "The small-caps are once again leading first-tier stocks, with the [Russell 2000] up 0.49% to a new all-time high, while the [S&amp;P 500] and [Dow Jones Industrial Average] are up ~0.10%. With that continued outperformance, the index is certainly getting more towards an extreme overbought levelÖ "To be clear, overbought conditions, even extreme ones, are not reasons to sell. Especially in trending markets, they can get and stay overbought for extended periods of time. In fact, during the 2011 run, the spread first hit 15% in late March, and the Russell continued to push higher for over a month. We simply want to highlight that the short-term risk/reward is hardly favorable under the current conditions." Miller Tabak, Business Insider, Bloomberg A Huge Squeeze Is Being Put On Investors With Too Much Cash (Pragmatic Capitalism) Those involved in a short squeeze know just how markets can go against them. While this is "a very different psychological game than being long the market," according to Cullen Roche, the two have similar emotions.† "But thereís a similar emotion that I am seeing and hearing a lot of ñ the long cash squeeze.† That is the feeling of being long cash that you want to deploy as the market rises.† So you wait for the market to correct, but it never does.† All the while youíre losing purchasing power and the opportunity cost of having bought in at lower prices.† In other words, youíre feeling squeezed in cash.† And when enough people are all convinced of this position then they start feeding into the cycle.† A slow grind turns into a steady grind and everyone who is waiting for the market to correct uses increasingly tiny ìcorrectionsî to buy in.† And those who donít buy in end up buying higher and higher as they throw in the towel on their long cash position." Advisors Should Use Photos To Personalize Connections Between Clients And Their Firms (Nerd's Eye View) Using photos to personalize client files, and including photos of advisors and their staff at the office, or in emails, could help firms keep a personal touch, according to Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View.† "While there's a financial planner who may work directly with the client - akin to the client-facing doctor - a great deal of the analysis and supporting work is often done behind the scenes, just as the radiologist and analytical labs support the doctor. After all, the paraplanner who helps to write and analyze the plan may have never met the client in person, nor necessarily have the operational staff members vested with the weighty responsibility of processing insurance applications, or transfer forms to move the client's entire life savings. "Accordingly, perhaps it's time to consider some simple improvements that financial planning firms can implement to humanize the experience and improve the connection with the client."
Twitter/@NYMagThe cover of New York MagazineTwo high-profile politicians attempting to make a comeback on the grandest of stages are both leading their respective races, a new poll shows.† New York City mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner and comptroller candidate Eliot Spitzer both have leads in the Democratic primaries for their races, according to a new Quinnipiac University survey released Monday.† For Weiner, it marks the second high-profile poll in which he's held a lead over†Democratic rival and City Council Speaker Christine Quinn. He leads Quinn 25-22 among Democrats, which marks a 5-point swing from a Quinnipiac poll taken last month. Former Comptroller Bill Thompson†earns 11% of the vote, while†Public Advocate Bill de Blasio gets 10%. In the race for comptroller, meanwhile, Spitzer finds himself in an even more commanding position than he did in a poll released last week. He leads challenger and Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer by a 48-33 margin.† Both candidates are attempting political comebacks from high-profile scandals that initially forced them out of office. For Weiner, a sexting scandal ó and subsequent denials ó led him to resign from Congress. Spitzer resigned as New York's governor amid a prostitution scandal. "Notoriety has earned the 'Tabloid Twins,' former Gov. Eliot Spitzer as Client 9 and former Congressman Anthony (Tweets) Weiner, good initial numbers in the polls," said Maurice Carroll, the Quinnipiac poll director.† Several key numbers work in Weiner's favor: Spitzer, meanwhile, beats Stringer among both men and women. But the data suggests that there is room for improvement for Stringer. 62% of Democrats don't yet know enough about him to form an opinion on his favorability. "While I didn't take a poll to enter this race, the results of these early polls are gratifying," Spitzer said in an emailed statement.
REUTERS/Susana VeraSpanish bullfighter Saul Jimenez Fortes gets tossed in the air by a bull during the last bullfight of the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 14, 2013. The S&amp;P 500 has now closed in the green for eight days in a row. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:

REUTERS/Lucas Jackson(Reuters) - The trial of former Goldman Sachs Group Inc bond trader Fabrice Tourre began with the selection of five women and four men as jurors on Monday, in a case centering on alleged Wall Street wrongdoing during the financial crisis. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accuses Tourre, 34, of civil fraud, saying he misled investors in a mortgage investment called Abacus 2007-AC1. The case is the highest-profile to date stemming from the SEC's probe into the causes of the 2008 financial crisis. The three-week trial stems from a lawsuit the SEC filed against Goldman Sachs and Tourre in 2010. Tourre, who is no longer with Goldman and is earning a doctorate in economics at the University of Chicago, is proceeding to trial alone after Goldman agreed to pay a $550 million settlement in July 2010. Tourre, wearing a black suit and orange tie, sat with his counsel as the jury was selected on Monday. The SEC contends Tourre misled investors in the Abacus investment vehicle, called a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, in 2007. It says Tourre failed to disclose that Paulson &amp; Co Inc, the hedge fund run by billionaire John Paulson, was involved in picking mortgage securities tied to the CDO and was also shorting, or betting against, it. Investors lost more than $1 billion after almost all the securities tied to the transaction were downgraded, the SEC says. Paulson earned about the same amount thanks to his bet against it, the SEC says. Tourre denies the allegation and is "confident that when all the evidence is considered, the jury will soundly reject the SEC's charges," his lawyers, Pamela Chepiga and Sean Coffey, said in a statement. Jurors for the trial were picked out of a pool of 48 people brought into the courtroom. They include a retired special education teacher; a former retail broker now teaching art history; a recent medical school graduate; and a priest. U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest excused some potential jurors after they said they had views about Wall Street or the role of banks in the financial crisis. The first juror to be excused said he had "a fairly jaundiced view of Wall Street." Forrest also quizzed jurors on whether they had ever heard of Abacus, Tourre or his nickname, "Fabulous Fab." Earlier Monday, Forrest warned the lawyers on both sides to "have a heart" and be mindful many jurors would not know financial jargon expected to be used at trial. Among the words or phrases she singled out were "asset-backed," "short," "security," "flip book" and "swap." She also cited the term "trading desk," saying "mere mortals don't know what a trading desk is." "Do not assume people know what investment bankers do," Forrest said. The case is SEC v. Tourre, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 10-03229. (Reporting by Nate Raymond. Editing by Andre Grenon)
Wikimedia CommonsOrel Hershiser, MLB record holder for most consecutive scoreless innings pitchedNOTE: Earlier we said that the previous 8-day win streak for the S&amp;P 500 was November 2004. We corrected that to January 2013. The S&amp;P 500 is about to close in the green for eight trading sessions in a row. (This afternoon, the index is up 0.2% from Friday's close.) The last time that happened was in January. If the S&amp;P 500 closes up again Tuesday, the win streak will extend to nine days, which last happened in November 2004. The S&amp;P 500 has had 40 such nine-day win streaks since 1928. One has to go all the way back to September 1995 to find a streak of consecutive gains longer than nine days. That has only happened 22 times since 1928. The longest streak ever was in April 1971, when the S&amp;P 500 went 14 days in a row without sinking. That is also the only occurrence ever where the S&amp;P 500 has closed up more than 12 days in a row. According to Bespoke Investment Group, the average S&amp;P 500 return on the ninth day of a streak¬†like this is slightly negative. However, the median return is positive: ...the average return of the S&amp;P 500 the day after eight straight days of gains is a decline of 0.13%. ¬†While the average return is negative, the index has actually been positive on day nine (20 times) more often than it has been down (15 times). ¬†So more often than not, the S&amp;P has been positive on day nine than it has been negative. ¬†Overall, the longest winning streak for the S&amp;P 500 over the last fifty years has been 14 trading days in April 1971. The histogram below shows the frequency of win streaks over seven days in a row. The length of the win streak is plotted along the x-axis and the number of streaks is displayed on the y-axis. Bloomberg, Business Insider
Bloomberg Briefs, @m_mcdonoughThe economists are rapidly slashing their forecasts.Economists and investors around the world are finally getting used to the idea that China's years of blazing hot growth are a thing of the past. While GDP will continue to be above average for years to come, China's policymakers are pushing reforms to cool its housing market, legitimize its financial system, reduce corruption, and rebalance its economy as one driven consumption, not exports. However, the cost of all of these efforts is slower growth. And with public and private financial liabilities sky-high, more and more experts are worried that China will experience a hard landing, a scenario where the economy decelerates to roughly less than 5% causing unemployment to spike and social unrest to sweep the cities. As you can see from the chart above, GDP expectations are coming down quickly. And behind those numbers are disturbing trends in demographics, credit, housing, and other fundamental factors that are supposed to fuel the Chinese economy.
Steve Marcus/ReutersProbably not this much, but you get the picture.A friend asked me recently for investment advice.¬† I sent her my thoughts by email but couldn‚Äôt resist making it into an ‚ÄúAsk an Ex-Banker‚Äù post. Question: ¬†My daughter got caught in the housing downturn and finally has sold her condo in NY but is too poor in this economy to buy a bag of chips, let alone a house in LA. ¬†So she is trying to figure out what to do with the $90,000 left over after paying off student loans and replacing a broken car. ¬†Do you have any suggestions for earning more interest? ¬†K__ and I could use a suggestion as well, but none of us can stick it away for 3 years because as optimists, we are always hoping things will change. ¬† Thanks. ¬†Paula H., Sarasota, FL ¬† Hi Paula, It‚Äôs nice to hear from you.¬† Thanks for reaching out! Sorry to hear about your daughter D‚Äôs housing condo mess, but, from a distance, my first thought is that it could have been worse. Despite getting caught in the housing downturn, she came out $90,000 ahead ‚Äì after student loans and a broken car ‚Äì a victory.¬† It gives her a positive net worth, something most people in this country¬†don‚Äôt have. In my opinion, the¬†first and only¬†difficult thing about a pile of money like this is¬†deciding whether¬†you¬†should put it in the ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô or ‚ÄòNo Risk‚Äô investment bucket. ‚ÄòNo Risk‚Äô includes things¬†like cash, a bank account,¬†money markets, and annuities,¬†while ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô encompasses just about anything else, typically stocks,¬†as well as¬†real estate,¬†and funkier¬†investments as well.¬† We tend to assume lots of different flavors of ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô investments, but I‚Äôm increasingly convinced all ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô investments¬†are fundamentally¬†the same.¬† You can make money, you can¬†lose money,¬†but there‚Äôs no guarantee you‚Äôll get all your money back when you need it. If you decide on ‚ÄòNo Risk‚Äô then you should expect¬†virtually no return,¬†just¬†the same amount of money available to you¬†when you need¬†it¬†next.¬† If you decide ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô then the investment could go up or¬†it could go down in value, but, in the short run at least, there‚Äôs no way to know where you‚Äôll end up.¬† They key point in dividing up the world this way,¬†into these two buckets, forces you to realize the illusion of having both safety and a good return in the same investment.¬† You can‚Äôt.¬† Anyone who offers you both absolute safety and a good return is lying.¬† Run away from them. In your question you‚Äôve already hit on the key answer/problem in your question: Timing.¬† If¬†D might need the money within 3 years there‚Äôs no¬†chance to¬†earn a decent investment return, while also entirely protecting principal. Earning a reasonable return right now, without taking¬†risk, is impossible.¬†¬†If you choose the safe approach, you¬†earn nearly nothing ‚Äì $900 per year, or 1% on $90,000 -¬†which won‚Äôt buy much.¬†¬†¬†It‚Äôs hardly worth the effort of opening up¬†the bank savings account.¬† Interest rates are on the rise now, but from such a historically low base that they‚Äôve got a way to¬†rise before¬†return on traditional savings will be ‚Äúworth¬†it.‚Äù On the other hand, investing it ‚Äòin the market‚Äô or in another risky asset like real estate means that your $90,000 could be a lot smaller by the time you try to actually get it back.¬† It very well might be larger too, but that‚Äôs just one possibility, not a guarantee.¬† If you¬†have¬†to have at least $90,000 when you want it back, then ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô isn‚Äôt the right place to put the money. So, now, to D‚Äôs particular situation. If she‚Äôs a starving artist in LA, without a steady income right now, then it‚Äôs likely she‚Äôll need to access at least some of that $90,000 in the short run, in less than 5 years.¬† To the extent she might need this money for living expenses anytime in the next 5 years, it needs to be in ‚ÄòNo Risk.‚Äô¬† The return will be terrible, somewhere between 0% and 2%, but that‚Äôs just where we‚Äôre at.¬† It probably doesn‚Äôt matter where you invest.¬† Just stick it in a stupid bank savings account, earn the 0.9%, and be content.¬† Don‚Äôt even bother tying it up in a 2 year CD offering 1.9%, because it just doesn‚Äôt matter.¬† Another $900 per year won‚Äôt compensate for the fact that she can‚Äôt access all the money if she really needs it. When would it make sense to invest in something Risky?¬† It depends on her time frame for accessing the money. Less than 3 years, no way.¬†¬†‚ÄôNo Risk‚Äô bucket only. Over 5 years,¬†start to¬†lean towards¬†Risky. Over 10 years, put all of it in Risky. If D‚Äôs music royalties or other income can reasonably cover her monthly expenses for the next 5 years, so she knows she doesn‚Äôt have to access the money, then¬†it seems fine to¬†pick something risky.¬† Put it in a low-cost,¬†all-stock mutual fund and watch it grow.¬† Or use your real estate savvy to get involved in a rental building. ¬† I wouldn‚Äôt bother with sexier higher-risk situations like oil royalties, film-financing, hedge funds, start-up businesses, or art unless¬†she can blow the whole wad without missing it.¬† It might make 10X your money.¬† But it probably won‚Äôt. Is there a course in between ‚ÄòRisk‚Äô and ‚ÄòNo Risk‚Äô buckets? Yes, for example, D may know she‚Äôll only need a maximum of $30,000 to cover emergencies over the next 5 years.¬† In that scenario, make two allocations ‚Äì ¬†$30,000 into the stupid ‚ÄòNo Risk‚Äô bank account earning bupkis, and up to $60,000 in something that might earn a positive return over the long haul, like stocks or real estate. The longer her $60,000 has to stay tied up in that Risky bucket, the higher the probability that the money will be larger when she needs it.¬† The key here, though ‚Äì the really essential point ‚Äì is to know ahead of time which money she can‚Äôt afford to lose because she‚Äôll need it, and which money she can afford to risk, because she won‚Äôt need it, ideally until retirement. For you and your husband K, the equation might be different.¬† I‚Äôm presuming you‚Äôre much more likely to have your monthly expenses covered in the next few years, so you can afford to make much riskier choices.¬† If you lost some of your $90,000 in a risky situation that didn‚Äôt work, you‚Äôre still less likely to depend on the principal for daily living. Your time horizon for choosing risky investments is probably better than D‚Äôs.¬† For K and you, putting the money ‚Äòin the market,‚Äô¬†or in a real estate opportunity¬†seems perfectly reasonable to me, if you can weather the volatility.¬†¬†It makes sense to me that you‚Äôd invest the $90,000 differently than D should. I know I‚Äôm not giving creative investment ideas that offer both safety¬†and¬†good return, but the fact is that usually ‚Äì and certainly now ‚Äì we can get safety¬†or¬†good return, not both.

Among the charts getting passed around today is this one: the Russell 2000 and its 200-day moving average. The chart shows that the index ‚Äì a proxy for the performance of small-cap stocks ‚Äì hasn't risen this high above its 200-day moving average since May 2011. Miller Tabak Chief Technical Market Analyst Jonathan Krinsky points to this chart as a sign that the Russell 2000 is approaching extreme overbought levels: The small-caps are once again leading first-tier stocks, with the [Russell 2000] up 0.49% to a new all-time high, while the [S&amp;P 500] and [Dow Jones Industrial Average] are up ~0.10%. With that continued outperformance, the index is certainly getting more towards an extreme overbought level. Daily [relative strength index] is 71, which is high but not extreme. The index is nearly 5% above its 20 Day Moving Average, which is the highest in over a year, and is 15% above its 200 DMA, the highest since May 2nd, 2011. For reference, it reached 14.5% on May 20th, 2013, two days prior to the May peak. Of course May 2nd, 2011 was the peak for 2011.To be clear, overbought conditions, even extreme ones, are not reasons to sell. Especially in trending markets, they can get and stay overbought for extended periods of time. In fact, during the 2011 run, the spread first hit 15% in late March, and the Russell continued to push higher for over a month. We simply want to highlight that the short-term risk/reward is hardly favorable under the current conditions. Check out the Russell 2000 versus its 200-day moving average below. Miller Tabak, Business Insider, Bloomberg
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidShares of nutritional supplement-seller Herbalife are up more than 6.2% today. ¬† The stock was last trading around $52.08 a share. We haven't come across any news out today regarding the stock.¬† However, D.A. Davidson analyst Timothy Ramey put out a report on Friday saying that Herbalife's stock could rise if an agreement is reached with the FTC "over greater disclosure and 'lead generation.'" [via ValueWalk]¬† The analyst also called Herbalife his "best idea" in 2013 and said that he maintains the BUY rating and $78 price target. ¬† Ramey's report came out after a New York Post article about consumer groups meeting with the FTC. ¬† Last week,¬†the Post's Michelle Celarier reported¬†that representatives from the National Consumers League, the Hispanic Federation, the League of United Latino American Citizens and Consumer Action are expected to meet with the FTC today about looking into allegations that the company is a "pyramid scheme." ¬† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells weightloss shakes and vitamins, is the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's Pershing Square is famously betting against. ¬†Back in December, Ackman¬†publicly called Herbalife a "pyramid scheme." He's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0. ¬†He believes that¬†regulators will be induced to investigate Herbalife. ¬†¬† Not everyone has agreed with him, though. ¬†Ackman's rival, billionaire investor¬†Carl Icahn, snapped up a massive long position in Herbalife. ¬† And the battle continues...¬†
The U.S. stock markets have been the envy of the world this year. Within the those markets, small-cap stocks have been outperforming large-cap stocks. "Client conversations this week focused on the drivers and sustainability of recent small cap performance," said Goldman Sachs David Kostin. "The recently-reconstituted Russell 2000 has outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 580 bp in the last two months (12.1% vs. 6.4%) as both rose to new all-time closing highs. The Russell 2000 has returned 22% YTD vs. 19% for the S&amp;P 500. The rally began at the same time we published our in-depth report on small caps." Small-cap stocks tend to do better than the S&amp;P 500 during good times and worse during bad times. Current global economic conditions have also been favorable for the risk exposures offered by that corner of the market.¬† From Kostin: Small caps‚Äô leverage to US economic growth explains our EPS growth forecasts and much of their recent performance. Roughly 80% of Russell 2000 sales are derived domestically, compared with 66% for the S&amp;P 500, which is more exposed to foreign economic growth and FX. Our economists expect that US GDP growth will accelerate from about 1.5% now to over 3% in 2014-2016. The high exposure to domestic growth also insulates small caps from recent investor concerns about the impact of a strong dollar and uncertain EM growth on US corporate earnings. One thing that seems peculiar about Kostin's commentary was that rising interest rates he says rising rates have acted as a tailwind. This is strange because small-cap companies tend to employ more financial leverage than large-cap companies. From Kostin: Rising rates have also provided a tailwind to Russell 2000 performance. Small cap cost of debt, and therefore margins and earnings, have a low sensitivity to moves in the Treasury yield. The concern that small caps could not take advantage of historically low interest rates was commonly cited by investors when we first published our small cap analysis, but the same insensitivity should support their performance as rates rise. See Exhibit 1. It'll be interesting to see if this relationship holds up. Goldman Sachs
YouTubeThis baby replaced lots of jobs.With the U.S. unemployment rate still over 7%, Americans are understandably concerned about anything that might cause an additional loss of jobs. And one of the favorite targets for employment blame ó popular on both sides of the political aisle ó is robots. Robots and other automation technologies, it is said, are "stealing our jobs." Robots now build things people used to make. Computers now store, process, and analyze information that used to be handled by people. And so on ... If we don't stop this relentless technological "progress," the story goes, we will soon automate our entire society and put ourselves out of work. Don't bet on it. And, at least from a high level, don't worry about it. Although it obviously will come as little consolation to those whose jobs are threatened or eliminated by technology, this economic transformation process has been going on for centuries, and the vast majority of Americans still have jobs. As recently as 200 years ago, for example, most Americans worked on farms. During the 19th Century, as the Industrial Revolution really got cranking, workers moved off farms and into manufacturing. And in the second half of the 20th Century, as manufacturing became more automated, and many manufacturing jobs shifted offshore to take advantage of cheap international labor, the majority of jobs in the U.S. economy shifted to the services sector. This economic transformation process, which has been described as "creative destruction," can be painful and tumultuous, but it produces a vibrant and dynamic economy. It has helped the U.S. become the richest country in the world. And it is the reason why, even after two centuries of jobs lost through automation and productivity gains, almost 150 million Americans have jobs ó most of which didn't even exist in the age when most people were working on farms. As an example of how professions and industries can shrink while overall employment grows, take a look at this chart from the U.S. Census Bureau. The chart compares U.S. employment in 1940 and 2010. U.S. Census Bureau The first thing to notice in the chart is that, despite the number of jobs that have been destroyed by technology over the past 70 years, the number of employed Americans has tripled over this period, from 45 million in 1940 to 139 million in 2010. The second thing to notice is that America's biggest industry in 2010 ó educational services, health care, and social assistance ó an industry that now employs nearly a quarter of the working population ó barely registered in 1940. Back then, the biggest industry was manufacturing, which employed a similar percentage of the population. To be sure, recent decades of creative destruction have created other problems that this country needs to solve, the most important of which is extreme income inequality. The income gap between the rich and everyone else has grown as middle-class manufacturing jobs have been replaced with low-wage service jobs and companies have fired and cut their way to record profitability. But this is a compensation and investment problem, not an employment problem: These jobs are needed, which is why they exist. For a variety of reasons, however, the jobs just don't pay as much as the heavily unionized manufacturing jobs that they replaced. Addressing this income inequality is critical for the future of the economy and country: America's wealth and stability has long been supported by a healthy middle class. But what a specific job pays is a different issue than whether the job itself exists. As the economy grows, entrepreneurs and investors will continually develop new opportunities, and their companies will continually hire new employees to pursue them. And, gradually, jobs that are lost to technologies like, say, new "farm bots" that may someday pick produce that is now harvested by farm workers, will be supplanted by new jobs, industries, and professions.
ReutersInmates listen to a speech at Taiyuan No.1 prison in China's Shanxi provinceChina just executed real estate developer Zeng Chengjie. About 4,000 people are executed annually in the country, according to human rights organization Dui Hua. And a number of those executed are white collar criminals. Click here to jump straight to the white collar criminals &gt; Those who have been executed or who are sitting on death row include small business owners, political figures, and CEOs of large companies.¬† They have been handed death sentences after being found guilty of fraud, corruption, or illegal fund raising. Many protest the death sentence for such crimes because the definition of illegal fund raising, for example, is very close to private lending, a practice that is crucial for small and medium enterprises. And this has become increasingly controversial because of the role local party officials play in cases of illegal fund raising and fraud, according to Tea Leaf Nation.  China's legal system is widely criticized because those with political clout are said to get off with lighter sentences. What follows are some of the most notorious cases in which white collar criminals were given a death sentence and in some cases, executed. Some were given a two-year reprieve i.e. if they committed no more crimes for two years and were on their best behavior their sentence would be amended to life in prison. Note: Figures on the death penalty are a state secret. The number of executions have declined since 2007 because of a reform that required death penalties to be reviewed by the Supreme People's Court (SPC). Lucas Kawa contributed to an earlier version of this report.
Last week¬†OneWire¬†published their first¬†interview with Philippe¬†Laffont,¬†Founder and CEO of Coatue Management. ¬†In Part II of the interview,¬†Laffont¬†explains his investment philosophy, how he figures out great long and short positions, and how to get hired at a top hedge fund.‚ÄúFor us, the key to investing is thinking‚Ä¶how can a company perform three to five years out?...Not focus so much from the short term, try to see the forest from the trees‚Ä¶Few people in the market think about the long term, and that‚Äôs our edge.‚Äù But of course, he says, no one is right all the time. Laffont says he often finds it easier to prove something is wrong¬† (finding short positions) than it is to find great companies for long investments. When asked what his firm looks for when hiring,¬†Laffont¬†emphasizes the importance of a strong education and solid on-the-job training. ¬†He argues that once you‚Äôve gained both these experiences, you will be prepared for all kinds of career paths. ‚ÄúOn Wall Street, there‚Äôs sort of a true and proven way to succeed when you‚Äôre young,‚Äù¬†Laffont¬†insists. ‚ÄúGo spend the first two to three years at Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, McKinsey‚Ä¶an investment bank‚Ä¶Wall Street is a very competitive environment full of smart people, and if you can start your career [there], you‚Äôre going to learn a lot. ¬†And you can choose to carry those skills, whether you want to work at a large corporation, whether you want to create your own small business, whether you want to go to Silicon Valley and create a tech company‚Äîit doesn‚Äôt matter. ¬†But what a great training ground.‚ÄùSo when can you break into a hedge fund? ¬†Make sure you‚Äôve got the basics down and you are ready to add value the minute you walk in the door.‚ÄúPeople don‚Äôt expect you to be prepared at JP Morgan on day one. But when you come to a small company, you have to be up and running because we don‚Äôt have as much time to train people; we expect them to already be productive.‚ÄùWatch Part II of¬†Laffont‚Äôs interview below! ¬†Or watch Part I here. 
ShutterstockRight now, some of Wall Street's biggest institutions are testing a new technology that promises to change the way analysts model the markets, in the process eroding a massive competitive advantage possessed by perhaps only 10 of the industry's largest, most powerful hedge funds. Powerhouse investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley ñ along with titans of the fund management industry like Fidelity and Blackrock ñ are turning to the cloud to unlock powerful supercomputing capacity that will end their reliance on Microsoft Excel and give them the tools to compete with the "quants" that have taken over the business in the last decade. The company making all of this possible is Kensho. "A lot of these different financial institutions try to do financial analysis and financial modeling using Excel, which is fundamentally a piece of accounting software," says Kensho CEO Daniel Nadler. "They don't really have the kind of sophisticated market modeling and computing environments that they do at a lot of elite hedge funds." According to Nadler, only 7 to 10 of the top quantitative funds on the Street ñ names like Bridgewater Associates and Renaissance Technologies ñ possess the technology that Kensho hopes to bring to the masses. The reason so few funds possess this capability is that without access to cloud computing, these hedge funds have to pour millions of dollars into fixed computing infrastructure in order to run the kind of sophisticated financial modeling that gives the quants their trading edge. Meanwhile, the rest of the industry ñ even hedge funds running billions of dollars in assets but not counted among the utmost elite ñ are still relying on Excel. The idea behind Kensho is that by providing financial modeling and analysis software that resides in the cloud, an analyst or investor can tap into the cutting-edge supercomputing capabilities possessed by the quants at a cost so low that its use will become widespread among even retail investors. Kensho's flagship product is called Warren, which, according to Nadler, is "the true thing that is replacing Excel." "Bridgewater can literally just say, 'Here's every event that happens in the world.' Earnings, economic indicators, seasonality, cyclicality, political events, and so on," says Nadler. "And they can literally model every single stock in the AMEX and the NYSE in relation to every single event, and can gain that kind of precision around it, which obviously helps them in terms of making their investments." With Warren, an investor or analyst can simultaneously model the reaction of thousands of tickers ñ stocks, currencies, and commodities ñ to events that happened on dates of his or her choosing, much like the quants at Bridgewater are doing. "You literally press a button, say 'run the study,' and then [Warren] uses cloud computing capacity ñ it allocates to you that capacity ñ and it runs the study for you," Nadler says. "Some of these are extremely intensive studies, but they take five minutes as opposed to taking 15 analysts at Morgan Stanley who make six figures four weeks to do ñ which is the current state of the art." Warren is currently getting a lot of interest from sell-side analysts at big investment banks and buy-side analysts at big asset managers alike ñ those that know the right questions to ask and can use the software to answer those questions quickly and efficiently. The next step for Kensho, says Nadler, is a program that will use machine learning to not only provide answers to questions, but also determine which questions to ask in the first place. He describes it like this: "The next step is literally a financial analyst on Wall Street ñ or for that matter a retail investor ñ will turn on their computer in the morning, and they are going to have an intelligent assistant in that computer that says, 'Good morning Matt. It's 9:35 in New York City. You may or may not know that the jobs report just came out this morning at 8:30, and there was a big downside surprise. We lost 35,000 jobs more than the consensus. You should expect these 15 stocks to be most directly affected by this over the course of the day.'" Nadler hopes this vision can become reality in the next two or three years. In the meantime, though, retail investors can still benefit from the technologies Kensho Finance currently has in development. One such tool is called Seasonal Odds. The software provides investors with statistics on seasonality of historical returns for any given ticker symbol. Seasonal Odds was inspired by all of the "Sell in May and go away" articles you see in the financial press around that time of year. "If you're lucky, [these articles] tell you what happens to the S&amp;P 500. They never mention which stocks outperform, or underperform, let alone provide a resource for looking up the stocks that you actually hold," says Nadler. Kensho wanted to make that information freely available, so the company launched SeasonalOdds.com. "That itself caused a lot of angry phone calls from hedge funds, because you would be surprised how many hedge funds who actually have this information, because they have statistical computing capability, trade off of this," says Nadler.†"There are major, major blue chip companies like Hewlett Packard, Procter &amp; Gamble, and Wal-Mart that in some months are positive more than two-thirds of the time over sample sizes of 30 years, and in some months are negative more than two-thirds of the time. Those are serious pricing anomalies and pricing inefficiencies that are very persistent and durable." With Warren, Kensho hopes to bring that information ñ along with the computing capability to uncover it ñ to the masses. "Our belief is that people should be entitled to outperform the market," says Nadler, "but people should not outperform the market because they can buy a technology that no one else has." To get in touch with Kensho, send an email to info@kensho.com.

Radiohead lead singer Thom Yorke has pulled his solo material, as well as music by his new band Atoms for Peace, from Spotify. The tracks are already gone. And in a series of Tweets, Yorke blasted the streaming music service: Make no mistake new artists you discover on #Spotify will no get paid. meanwhile shareholders will shortly being rolling in it. Simples. ‚Äúyour small meaningless rebellion is only hurting your fans ... a drop in the bucket really‚Äù No we're standing up for our fellow musicians for me In Rainbows was a statement of trust .people still value new music ..that's all we'd like from Spotify. don't make us the target. Anyway. Here's one. We're off of Spotify.. Can't do that no more man.. Small meaningless rebellion. Someone gotta say something. It's bad for new music.. The reason is that new artists get paid fuck all with this model.. It's an equation that just doesn't work Plus people are scared to speak up or not take part as they are told they will lose invaluable exposure if they don't play ball. Meanwhile.. Millions of streams gets them a few thousand dollars.. Not like radio at all.. Anyway. Thems the breaks. Opinions welcome.. but discussion and new thinking necessary.. If you have a massive catalogue - a major label... ..for example.. then you're quids in. It's money for old rope.. But making new recorded music needs funding.. Some records can be made in .. .. a laptop, but some need musician and skilled technicians.. These things cost money.. Pink floyds catalogue has already generated billions .. of dollars for someone(not necessarily the band) so now putting it on a streaming site makes total sense.. But if people had been .. ..listening to spotify instead of buying records in 1973... I doubt very much if dark side would have been made.. It would just be too .. ..expensive. Anyway thumbs hurting now... ;)
Flickr via pinksherbetMention the ever-widening wealth gap in America and chances are most of the focus will be on the grown-ups.† Their 401(k)s were pummeled during the recession, their earnings plummeted, and even a college degree couldn't guarantee them a job in shaky economic times.† But what about the children? Under the radar, study after study has shown just how the growing wealth gap could stymie upward mobility for America's youth. In a telling report† by†Washington, D.C.-based think tank, The Hamilton Project,†a team of researchers uncover economic data†that show exactly how income inequality†can impact social mobility in America.† "It is too early to say for certain whether†the rise in income inequality over the past few decades has caused a fall in social mobility of the poor and†those in the middle class," the authors write. "The first generation of Americans to grow up under this inequality is, on average,†in high schoolóbut the early signs are troubling."†
Bloomberg TVSavita SubramanianIn a note to clients today, BofA Merrill Lynch Head of U.S. Equity Strategy Savita Subramanian¬†ups her year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 to 1750 from 1600 ‚Äì making hers the second-most bullish forecast on the Street, behind Cannacord's Tony Dwyer, who sees the index finishing 2013 at 1760. Subramanian's 1750 target implies around 4.2% upside from today's levels at 1680 by the end of 2013. (Before today, only two Wall Street equity strategists had lower S&amp;P 500 price targets than Subramanian:¬†Gina Martin Adams at Wells Fargo, with a target of 1440 by year-end, and Barry Knapp at Barclays, with a target of 1525.) "Our new 2013 year-end target of 1750 implies modest upside from current levels, attributable to expected earnings growth, contrasting with returns so far this year driven by multiple expansion," says Subramanian. "While the decline in the equity risk premium (ERP) has been more than twice what we expected, we think it is justified by diminished tail risks, positive surprises in the US economy, and, as expected, a continued decline in earnings volatility." BofA Merrill Lynch US Equity and US Quant StrategyThe biggest input into Subramanian's new S&amp;P 500 price target forecast is the BAML Fair Value model, which assumes a forward price-to-earnings ratio unchanged from current levels at 16 and full-year S&amp;P 500 earnings of $107.50 per share in 2014. The assumption of a 16x price-to-earnings ratio rests heavily on Subramanian's forecast for the equity risk premium. Below, Subramanian gives her thoughts on the ERP: The equity rally over the last eight months has been primarily driven by multiple expansion, with the forward PE multiple on the S&amp;P 500 expanding from 12x to 14x (18%). In our fair value model, we focus on the normalized forward PE multiple, which has also risen from 13.5x to 16.0x (18%). This multiple expansion has predominantly been a function of the significant decline in the equity risk premium (ERP), partially offset by a modest rise in real normalized interest rates. While current real normalized rates are only modestly higher than our previous year-end assumption of 1.0% (now forecasting 1.5%), the 135bp drop in the ERP is more than double the 50bp that we had originally assumed going into the year. This rapid ERP compression reflects the reality that many of the major uncertainties overhanging the market have been removed or significantly diminished (US election, fiscal cliff, sequestration, Eurozone collapse, China hard landing). But at 500bp, the ERP is currently still well above the sub-400bp levels preceding the financial crisis, and we think it should continue to decline over the next several years as the memory of the Financial Crisis fades, corporate profits continue to make new highs and some of the macro risks abate. We expect the ‚Äúwall of worry‚Äù to persist as new concerns emerge, but visibility is clearly improving and we still expect global growth to pick up as the year progresses. As such, we have lowered our normalized risk premium assumption in our fair value model for the end of 2013 from 600bp to 475bp, which assumes roughly another 25bp of ERP contraction by year-end. We have also raised our normalized real risk-free rate assumption for year-end from 1.0% to 1.5%. Not only have current and future inflation expectations declined since last fall, but long-term interest rates have also begun to rise recently. Meanwhile, our Rates Strategist Priya Misra also recently raised her interest rate forecasts. The chart below shows BAML's ERP forecast. BofAML US Equity & Quant Strategy, Federal Reserve Board, Standard & Poor‚Äôs, BLS

APBritish pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline has been accused by Chinese police of a massive bribery network run covertly with travel agencies, The New York Times reports. The agencies were used to funnel millions of dollars to doctors, hospitals, and officials, authorities told a press conference today. The aim of these payoffs was to keep sales of GSK products high and allow the firm to raise prices in China. According to Reuters, the value of the bribes was said to be over $450 million since 2007. The company is even accused of organizing fake conferences to account for the money. Travel agents keen to work with GSK are also alleged to have hired young women for GSK executives in what authorities called "sexual bribery." The investigation against GSK was announced last week, and Chinese state news agency Xinhua reports that four senior executives at GSK are being held for "serious economic crimes." According to The New York Times, Mark Reilly, the head of GSK‚Äôs operations in China, recently left the country. His departure coincided with a number of raids of the company's offices. Officially, GSK has released a statement saying it will cooperate with the investigation. The allegations against GSK first came to light in The Wall Street Journal earlier this year. An anonymous tipster sent the newspaper emails and documents from between¬†2004 and 2010 which appeared to show sale staff bribing doctors with speaking fees and lavish perks if they prescribed the company's products. Speaking at the conference today, Gao Feng, head of the economic crimes investigation unit at China's Ministry of Public Security, made an ominous warning to other foreign pharmaceutical firms in China. "Whether they were engaged in illegal behavior, you can go interview them," Feng said, according to Reuters. "You just need to ask them one question: Are you sleeping well at night?"
REUTERS/Sergio PerezNew accusations about an alleged long-running slush fund are threatening to sink the Spanish government. For several years, Spanish authorities have been investigating the existence of a fund run that allowed contractors to secure no-bid construction project deals from the government. † El Pais has reported that corporate donors allegedly made secret payments to Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and other Popular Party members in exchange for public contracts for nearly 20 years. Rajoy took power in 2011, but held high-level positions in the PP for years, including serving as Deputy Prime Minister from 2000 to 2003. Luis B·rcenas, the former PP treasurer who would have controlled the alleged fund, is being interrogated right now by Spanish investigators, and El Mundo reports B·rcenas has declared Rajoy†was one of the beneificaries of a secret Party account. Rajoy supporters have attacked B·rcenas†credibility, but a lawyer and friend of B·rcenas recently told a radio station,†ìHe has enough information to make the government fall,î the New York Times' Raphael†Minder reports.† The case has already sunk the approval ratings of a Spanish government still trying to get a grip on the country's financial crisis to near record lows. In a recent survey, 86% of Spaniards said they did not trust Mr. Rajoy, and 23% said they would now vote for the Popular Party, Minder says. Elections are not scheduled until 2015.
Google FinanceDespite today's disappointing June retail sales report, markets are holding up well. Should stocks close in the green, it would mark new all-time highs for the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow. Both indices have been up for seven straight days. Retail sales climbed by just 0.4% in June, missing economists estimates for 0.8% growth by a wide margin.¬† Excluding strong auto sales, there was no growth. The new numbers had economists across Wall Street immediately slashing their forecasts for Q2 GDP growth.
kuminiac / FlickrToday's disappointing U.S. retail sales report is sending shockwaves across Wall Street's economics departments. "The disappointing 0.4% m/m rise in US retail sales values in June¬† increases the chances that GDP grew at an annualised rate of less than 1% in the second quarter," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. Barclays just cut its Q2 GDP growth tracking estimate to 0.5% from 0.6%, reports CNBC's Bob Pisani. According to Zero Hedge, Goldman Sachs cut its GDP forecast to 1.0% from 1.3%. "Today's number complicates Q2 GDP estimates," tweeted BTIG's Dan Greenhaus. "Q2 should be less than 1.0%, the second time in 3 qtrs GDP is less than 1.0%. That's not very good."
Gold futures saw their shiniest week since 2011 upon comments from Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke tempering fears the central bank would imminently slow its bond purchasing program. Hedge funds and other speculators increased their net-long positions by 4.1 percent to 35,691 futures and options, Bloomberg reports. On June 19, Bernanke sent markets into a tizzy¬†‚Äî and gold plunging¬†‚Äî when he hinted the central bank may begin to taper quantitative easing if the economy improves. But gold rallied on the chairman's dovish comments during a question and answer session last week, with futures gaining 5.4 percent on Comex. Traders are the most bullish in five weeks, according to a Bloomberg survey. So is gold headed for a bull market? From Bloomberg: The prospect of higher interest rates and a stronger dollar mean the recent gains may be short-lived, said¬†John Goldsmith, the deputy head of equities with Montrusco Bolton Investments in Toronto. ‚ÄúGold may have gotten oversold and was due for a bounce, but a bounce doesn‚Äôt a¬†bull market make,‚Äù said Goldsmith, whose company manages C$5.50 billion ($5.28 billion) of assets. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs upward pressure on rates and on¬†the dollar.‚Äù The gold rally reversed much of its losses since that July 19th Fed press conference, but the shiny yellow metal is still down 24 percent this year.
China's new leadership has made an aggressive push to end corruption, which has focused on putting an end to "gift-giving." The results of these efforts have materialized through a sharp slowdown in the catering industry, the providers of China's most lavish private parties. However, policymakers have also pushed to rebalance the economy as one driven by consumption, not exports. This has provided a support for China's more legitimate lavish parties. And it appears to have contributed to the an upside surprise in recent economic data. "Nominal retail sales growth picked up to 13.3% y/y in June thanks to higher inflation (12.9% prior)," noted Standard Chartered's Stephen Green. "In real terms, growth moderated somewhat to 11.7% y/y from 12.1% prior. The biggest relief here is that catering sales, hit hard by Beijing<U+201F>s anti-corruption fight this year, are showing signs of stabilisation. The growth rate appears to be settling at around 9.5% y/y (Figure 10)." Standard Chartered Research
FlickrRetail sales missed expectations today, as top-line sales came in at just 0.4% growth, vs. 0.8% expected. Nomura finds one ominous nugget: Building material sales were a major drag on overall sales, as they declined by 2.2% in June. This could be a result of the recent run-up in mortgage rates, but we have to wait for more housing data to conclude that this is actually the case. Housing starts and building permits data for June will be released on Wednesday. Note that the building materials category reflects home improvement items, and given that distressed sales have declined recently, demand for home improvement items could have fallen off leading to the drop in the building materials category. Sales of miscellaneous items (such as office supplies, stationeries, gifts, used merchandise), and retail sales at eating and drinking places also declined in June. †
Weibo via Tea Leaf NationHunan province businessman Zeng Chengjie†ó who emerged from poverty to become a major real estate developer†ó was executed by the Chinese government for fraud and illegal fundraising†last week. According to Zeng's daughter, local†Party members removed their investments from her father's projects in 2009, causing panic among ordinary investors. Zeng was left "holding the bag" in the alleged Ponzi scheme. He was imprisoned and his assets sold by a state-owned company. From Tea Leaf Nation: He allegedly defrauded more than 57,000 investors out of approximately RMB2.8 billion (US $460 million), of which RMB1.7 billion had been returned. He used the money to fund his company that bid for urban development projects, including key local landmarks and public facilities, in Jishou, a small city in Hunan. In China, the execution of white collar criminals has become increasingly controversial, as†the government itself often has a large part in economic matters. In this case, the government profited from the liquidation of Zeng's company, his daughter argues. And Zeng's family was notified two days after his lethal injection took place, contrary to Chinese law, which says families must be allowed to see their loved ones before an execution. A Chinese court has held that Zeng made no request to see his family before his death. The Internet, of course, scoffed at all that. Former Google China executive Kai-Fu Lee wrote:†ìIf one day, Iím sentenced to death and told that I have the right to meet my family, I guarantee that I will absolutely ask to see my family. If the court claims that I didnít make such request after the execution, it must be a lie.î
AP ImagesAnyone who plays football professionally knows that they won't be able to play forever. That means they need to have post-football career plans in mind. For some, Wall Street is the perfect fit. ¬†It's cut-throat, super competitive and it takes a lot of discipline to put in all those long hours. So it should come as no surprise that there are a bunch of former football stars working in trading, investment banking and wealth management. We've compiled a list of some of the best football players in finance. (Note: These names are not in any particular order).¬† Many of these guys played professionally before heading to Wall Street. Others were standouts in college. ¬†Some have even done internships at investment banks during the off-season while still playing in the NFL. If we're missing any big names, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com¬†to add to the list. A photo would also be greatly appreciated.¬†

Last week late in the day on Wednesday, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke answered several questions from the audience after presenting a speech. His response to one of them sent stock prices soaring on Thursday: ìHighly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future is whatís needed in the US economy.î The S&amp;P 500 rose 1.4% on Thursday, and 3.0% last week. It is now up 6.8% since the recent low on June 24 to another new record high of 1680.†The S&amp;P 500 remains among the worldís best-performing stock indexes this year. On Friday, the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 rose to 14.3, almost matching the yearís high on May 21. It was 16.5 for the S&amp;P 400 MidCaps, also just under the previous recent high. It was 17.7 for the S&amp;P 600 SmallCaps. The current bull marketís highs for all three were recorded during 2009 or 2010: S&amp;P 500 at 15.1 on October 14, 2009; S&amp;P 400 at 17.3 on April 23, 2010; and S&amp;P 600 at 18.9 on September 18, 2009.†The marketís reaction to Bernankeís comment suggests that the Irrational Exuberance scenario is back in play. I still assign it a 30% probability. However, it is certainly looking more credible again now that the S&amp;P 500, S&amp;P 400, and S&amp;P 600 are all at record highs. Valuation multiples remain rational, and record highs in forward earnings suggest that the fundamentals continue to support those valuations.†We may be in for another four years of this bull market if it doesnít melt up over the rest of the year.Today's Morning Briefing: World Tour.†(1) Clevelandís economy is healthy. (2) Detroitís Greek tragedy. (3) Consensus: Earnings growth likely to be low. (4) Global growth remains subdued. (5) Chinaís growth slowing toward 6.5%? (6) Euro zone crawling along bottom of current recession. (7) Despite weak exports and fiscal drag, US economy remains resilient. (8) Federal outlays drop, while revenues soar. (9) Update on some submerging economies. (10) Back to melt-up? (More for subscribers.)Dr. Ed's Blog

 REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisStillborn births in Greece soared 21% between 2008 and 2011, almost certainly because of the country's economic recession, Greek news site Ekathimerini reports. In 2011, there were 4 stillbirths per one thousand individuals, compared with 3.31 per thousand in 2008. Researchers are linking it to spiking unemployment, especially among women: ‚ÄúThe findings of the research should not surprise us because it has already been observed in academic publications that recessions are linked to a fall in the number of births,‚Äù Simou told Eleftherotypia newspaper, which published her study. The overall birthrate also fell. Click here to read the full story at Ethathimerini ¬ª¬†
REUTERS/Gary HershornThe Empire State Manufacturing Survey hit 9.46. Economists expected the headline number to tick 5.0, from 7.84 in June. "Manufacturing surveys generally indicated better conditions in June than in May," said UBS's Kevin Cummins and Sam Coffin. "However, the NY Fed survey was more ambiguous: The headline index improved but details were softer. On an ISM-equivalent basis‚Äîusing details of the survey to construct an ISM-equivalent composite index‚Äîthe Empire State survey fell further below 50 in June. We expect some catch-up in the details of the Empire State survey in early July, but no change in the headline index." Click Here For Updates ¬ª
Flickr/Carolyn ColesThe June U.S. retail sales figures are out, and they are disappoining. The headline sales figure climbed by just 0.4%, falling short of expectations for a 0.8% gain. Excluding autos and gas, sales unexpectedly fell 0.1%. Economists were looking for a 0.4% gain. Strong auto sales were expected to be the key driver to growth.¬† Excluding autos, sales showed no growth. "The disappointing 0.4% m/m rise in US retail sales values in June¬† increases the chances that GDP grew at an annualised rate of less than 1% in the second quarter," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "Looking ahead, the latest pick-up in jobs and earnings growth bode well for consumption in the third quarter. But it is disconcerting that retail sales growth lost more momentum as the second quarter progressed. "
Citigroup just released its second quarter earnings results at 8 a.m. and they beat analysts estimates.¬† The bank posted adjusted EPS of $1.25. Revenue came in at $20.5 billion. On average, analysts were expecting the bank to post earnings per share of $1.18 and revenue of $19.7 billion. Here's the release:¬† New York ‚Äì Citigroup Inc. today reported net income for the second quarter 2013 of $4.2 billion, or $1.34 per diluted share, on revenues of $20.5 billion. This compared to net income of $2.9 billion, or $0.95 per diluted share, on revenues of $18.4 billion for the second quarter 2012. CVA/DVA was a positive $477 million in the second quarter ($293 million after-tax), largely resulting from the widening of Citi's credit spreads and the tightening of counterparty spreads, compared to a positive $219 million ($140 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Second quarter 2012 results included a loss of $424 million ($274 million after-tax) related to the sale of a 10.1% stake in Akbank T.A.S. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the Akbank loss in the second quarter 2012,4¬†second quarter 2013 revenues increased 8% from the prior year period to $20.0 billion and second quarter 2013 earnings per diluted share were $1.25, representing a 25% increase from prior year earnings per share of $1.00. The increase in Citi's earnings per diluted share was driven by the higher revenues and lower net credit losses, which were partially offset by higher legal and related costs, a lower loan loss reserve release and a higher effective tax rate. Michael Corbat, Chief Executive Officer of Citi, said, "Our businesses performed well during the quarter and these results are well-balanced through our products and geographies, especially in the emerging markets, where growth is being challenged. We also continued to make progress in several critical areas. We reduced the earnings drag caused by Citi Holdings, where we saw the largest percentage reduction of assets since 2010. We again consumed a modest amount of DTA, bringing the total utilized to about $1.3 billion for the first half of the year. We increased our already strong capital levels, reaching an estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio of 10%. Generating consistent and quality earnings is a key priority and this quarter met that goal." Citigroup revenues¬†of $20.5 billion in the second quarter 2013 increased 11% from the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the Akbank loss in the second quarter 2012, Citigroup revenues of $20.0 billion in the second quarter 2013 increased 8% from the prior year period, with increases in both Citicorp and Citi Holdings. Citicorp revenues¬†of $19.4 billion in the second quarter 2013 included positive $462 million of CVA/DVA reported within¬†Securities and Banking. Excluding CVA/DVA and the Akbank loss in the second quarter 2012, Citicorp revenues of $18.9 billion increased 7% from the prior year period.¬†Securities and Banking¬†revenues increased 25% (or 21% excluding CVA/DVA) and¬†Global Consumer Banking (GCB)¬†revenues increased 2%, partially offset by a 1% decline in¬†Transaction Services (CTS)¬†revenues, all versus the prior year period. Citi Holdings revenues¬†of $1.1 billion in the second quarter 2013 included positive $15 million of CVA/DVA. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citi Holdings revenues increased 17% versus the prior year period, driven by higher revenues in¬†Local Consumer Lending¬†and an improvement in¬†Special Asset Pool¬†revenues, partially offset by a decline in¬†Brokerage and Asset Management¬†revenues. Total Citi Holdings assets of $131 billion declined $60 billion, or 31%, from the second quarter 2012. Citi Holdings assets at the end of the second quarter 2013 represented approximately 7% of total Citigroup assets. Citigroup's net income¬†rose to $4.2 billion in the second quarter 2013 from $2.9 billion in the prior year period. Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA and the Akbank loss in the second quarter of 2012, Citigroup net income increased 26% to $3.9 billion. The increase reflected revenue growth and lower net credit losses, partially offset by higher legal and related expenses, a lower loan loss reserve release and a higher effective tax rate. Operating expenses of $12.1 billion were 1% higher than the prior year period mainly reflecting an increase in legal and related costs. Citigroup's cost of credit in the second quarter 2013 was $2.0 billion, a decrease of 25% over the prior year period, reflecting an $883 million improvement in net credit losses partially offset by a $225 million decline in net loan loss reserve releases. Citi's effective tax rate in the second quarter 2013 was 34%, compared to 19% in the prior year period. The higher effective tax rate reflected higher earnings in North America, a higher effective tax rate on international operations due to the previously disclosed change in Citi's assertion surrounding the permanent reinvestment of earnings in certain international entities, as well as the resolution of certain tax issues in the current quarter. Citigroup's allowance for loan losses¬†was $21.6 billion at quarter end, or 3.4% of total loans, compared to $27.6 billion, or 4.3% of total loans, at the end of the prior year period. The loan loss reserve release of $784 million in the quarter was 22% lower than in the prior year period. Reserve releases in Citicorp of $311 million compared to $740 million in the second quarter 2012, predominantly reflecting lower releases in¬†North America GCB, largely related to cards, with a net build in international GCB (Asia, Latin America and EMEA), reflecting portfolio growth as well as builds for specific credits in the commercial market businesses. Citi Holdings recorded a net loan loss reserve release of $473 million in the second quarter 2013, compared to a net reserve release of $269 million in the prior year period. Citigroup asset quality improved in the second quarter 2013 as total non-accrual assets fell to $10.1 billion, a 12% reduction compared to the second quarter 2012. Corporate non-accrual loans decreased 17% from the second quarter 2012 to $2.1 billion, while consumer non-accrual loans decreased 9% to $7.6 billion. The decline in consumer non-accrual loans versus the prior year period occurred despite the third quarter 2012 OCC guidance regarding the treatment of mortgage loans where the borrower has gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which added $1.5 billion to consumer non-accrual loans. Consumer loans that were 90+ days delinquent, excluding the¬†Special Asset Pool, declined 31% versus the prior year period to $5.9 billion, or 1.6% of consumer loans. Citigroup's capital levels¬†and book value per share increased versus the prior year period. As of quarter end, book value per share was $63.02 and tangible book value per share was $53.10, 1% and 2% increases respectively, versus the prior year period. At quarter end, Citigroup's Basel I Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 13.3% and its Basel I Tier 1 Common Ratio was 12.2%. Citigroup's estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio was 10.0% at the end of the second quarter 2013. Citigroup's estimated Basel III supplementary leverage ratio for the second quarter 2013 was 4.9%.5 CiticorpCiticorp revenues¬†of $19.4 billion in the second quarter 2013 increased by 11% from the prior year period. CVA/DVA, reported within¬†Securities and Banking, was $462 million in the second quarter 2013, compared to $198 million in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the Akbank loss in the second quarter 2012, revenues were $18.9 billion, up 7% from the second quarter 2012, driven by 21% growth in¬†Securities and Bankingrevenues to $6.4 billion and 2% growth in GCB revenues to $9.7 billion, partially offset by a 1% decline in CTS revenues to $2.7 billion.¬†Corporate/Other¬†revenues were $103 million in the second quarter 2013, versus $(296) million in the prior year period, which included the $424 million loss on the Akbank sale. Citicorp net income¬†increased 23% from the prior year period to $4.8 billion, as revenue growth, lower operating expenses and lower net credit losses were partially offset by lower loan loss reserve releases and a higher effective tax rate. Citicorp operating expenses¬†decreased 2% from the prior year period to $10.6 billion, largely reflecting lower legal and related costs. Citicorp cost of credit¬†of $1.6 billion in the second quarter 2013 increased 7% from the prior year period. The increase reflected a lower loan loss reserve release, which declined 58% to $311 million, partially offset by lower net credit losses, which declined 15% to $1.8 billion, each compared to the prior year period. The decline in reserve releases was largely in¬†North America GCB¬†and primarily related to cards. Citicorp's consumer loans 90+ days delinquent declined 14% from the prior year period to $2.6 billion, and the 90+ days delinquency ratio decreased 15 basis points to 0.94% of loans. Citicorp end of period loans¬†grew 3% versus the prior year period to $544 billion. Corporate loans grew 7% to $260 billion, including the impact of adding approximately $7 billion of previously unconsolidated assets during the current quarter, while consumer loans were flat at $284 billion, both versus the prior year period. Global Consumer BankingGCB¬†revenues¬†of $9.7 billion increased 2% versus the prior year period as volume growth in most businesses was offset by the continued impact of spread compression globally. The impact of foreign exchange translation into U.S. dollars6¬†had a positive impact on international¬†GCB¬†revenues in the second quarter 2013, with revenues up 6% on a reported basis. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange (constant dollar basis), revenues in international¬†GCB¬†grew 5% to $4.7 billion. Higher international¬†GCBrevenues were offset by a 1% decline in revenues in¬†North America GCB¬†to $5.1 billion. GCB¬†net income¬†declined 1% versus the prior year period to $1.9 billion, despite the higher revenues, predominantly driven by lower loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses and operating expenses. North America¬†GCB¬†revenues¬†declined 1% to $5.1 billion versus the prior year period driven mainly by lower retail banking revenues with total cards revenues (Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services) remaining roughly flat. Retail banking revenues declined 4% to $1.6 billion from the second quarter 2012, reflecting lower mortgage origination and servicing revenues and ongoing spread compression, partially offset by a gain of approximately $180 million on the sale of a mortgage portfolio during the quarter. Retail banking revenues are expected to continue to be negatively impacted by lower mortgage origination revenues and spread compression. Citi-branded cards revenues declined 1% to $2.0 billion, reflecting a 5% decline in average loans partially offset by an improvement in net interest spreads. Citi retail services revenues increased 1% to $1.5 billion as improved net interest spreads were partially offset by a 2% decline in average loans versus the prior year period. Citi retail services revenues were also negatively impacted by higher contractual partner revenue share payments due to the impact of improving credit trends. North America¬†GCB¬†net income¬†was $1.1 billion, 4% lower than the second quarter 2012. The decline in net income was driven by a reduction in the loan loss reserve release and lower revenues, partially offset by lower net credit losses and operating expenses. Operating expenses in the second quarter declined 3% versus the prior year period to $2.4 billion, reflecting lower legal and related costs. North America¬†GCB¬†credit quality¬†continued to improve in both cards and retail banking as net credit losses declined 21% to $1.2 billion as compared to the prior year period. Net credit losses improved in Citi-branded cards (down 21% to $665 million), Citi retail services (down 21% to $481 million) and in retail banking (down 29% to $44 million), each versus the prior year period. International¬†GCB¬†revenues¬†grew 6% to $4.7 billion from the prior year period. Revenues grew 5% on a constant dollar basis, with 8% growth in¬†Latin America¬†to $2.3 billion, a 2% increase in¬†Asia¬†to $2.0 billion and a 2% increase in¬†EMEA¬†to $364 million. International¬†GCB¬†net income¬†increased 4% from the prior year period to $826 million as revenue growth was partially offset by higher cost of credit and higher operating expenses, as well as a higher effective tax rate. Operating expenses in the second quarter 2013 increased 1% to $2.7 billion driven by volume growth, partially offset by efficiency savings. Credit costs increased 21% versus the prior year period, reflecting portfolio growth and seasoning, as well as reserve builds for specific credits in the commercial market businesses. International¬†GCB¬†credit quality¬†remained stable. Net credit losses rose 13% to $595 million from the prior year period, mainly driven by loan growth and portfolio seasoning, but were down 9% from first quarter net credit losses of $654 million. The international net credit loss rate was 1.74% of average loans in the second quarter 2013, slightly improved from 1.88% in the first quarter 2013 and up from 1.59% in the prior year period. Securities and BankingSecurities and Banking¬†revenues¬†rose 25% from the prior year period to $6.8 billion. Excluding the impact of the $462 million of CVA/DVA in the second quarter 2013 (compared to $198 million in the prior year period),¬†Securities and Banking¬†revenues were $6.4 billion, 21% higher than the prior year period. Investment Banking revenues¬†of $1.0 billion increased 21% from the prior year period, with growth in all major products. Debt underwriting revenues increased 14% to $558 million and equity underwriting revenues increased 58% to $266 million. Advisory revenues of $215 million were 6% higher than the prior year period. Equity Markets revenues¬†of $942 million in the second quarter 2013 (excluding $28 million of CVA/DVA) were 68% above the prior year period, reflecting improved derivatives performance as well as higher cash volumes. Fixed Income revenues¬†of $3.4 billion in the second quarter 2013 (excluding $433 million of CVA/DVA) increased 18% from the prior year driven by growth in all major products. Lending revenues¬†decreased to $424 million from the prior year period, mostly reflecting a lower mark-to-market gain on hedges related to accrual loans of $23 million (compared to a $156 million mark-to-market gain in the prior year period).7¬†Excluding the mark-to-market impact on hedges related to accrual loans, core lending revenues declined 3% to $401 million versus the prior year period as lower volumes were partially offset by slightly higher spreads. Private bank revenues¬†increased 9% to $645 million from the prior year period, with growth across all regions, primarily driven by investment products. Securities and Banking¬†net income¬†was $2.4 billion in the second quarter 2013. Excluding CVA/DVA, net income rose 57% to $2.1 billion from the prior year period, primarily reflecting the increase in revenues and a decline in operating expenses, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate. Transaction Services¬†Transaction Services¬†revenues¬†of $2.7 billion declined 1% from the prior year period. Treasury and Trade Solutions (TTS) revenues of $2.0 billion declined 3% from the prior year period as the impact of continued spread compression globally offset loan and deposit growth. Securities and Fund Services (SFS) revenues of $730 million increased 5% from the prior year period (6% in constant dollars), as higher settlement volumes and fees more than offset lower net interest spreads. Transaction Services¬†net income¬†of $803 million declined 9% from the second quarter 2012, reflecting the decline in revenues and a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by lower credit costs. Transaction Services¬†average deposits and other customer liability balances¬†grew 7% versus the prior year period to $424 billion. Assets under custody increased 10% from the second quarter 2012 to $13.4 trillion. Citi HoldingsCiti Holdings revenues¬†increased 16% versus the prior year period to $1.1 billion, including CVA/DVA reported within¬†Special Asset Pool¬†of $15 million (compared to $21 million in the prior year period). Excluding CVA/DVA, Citi Holdings revenues increased 17%.¬†Local Consumer Lending¬†revenues of $1.1 billion increased 13% from the prior year period, driven by lower funding costs. Excluding CVA/DVA, Special Asset Pool revenues improved to $42 million in the second quarter 2013, compared to $(102) million in the prior year period, mainly reflecting lower funding costs and improved asset marks.Brokerage and Asset Management¬†revenues were $(20) million, compared to $87 million in the prior year period, reflecting lower Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (MSSB) joint venture related revenues. As previously announced, Citigroup completed the sale of its remaining 35% stake in the MSSB joint venture during the current quarter. As of the end of the second quarter 2013, total Citi Holdings assets were $131 billion, 31% below the prior year period, and represented approximately 7% of total Citigroup assets. Citi Holdings net loss¬†of $570 million compared to a net loss of $910 million in the prior year period as higher revenues and lower cost of credit were partially offset by higher expenses. Expenses increased 25% to $1.5 billion, primarily due to higher legal and related expenses ($702 million in second quarter 2013 compared to $202 million in the prior year period). Citi Holdings cost of credit¬†declined 63% to $451 million versus the prior year period as net credit losses declined by $559 million or 42% from the prior year period and the net loan loss reserve release increased to $473 million, compared to a net release of $269 million in the prior year period. Citi Holdings allowance for credit losses¬†was $8.2 billion at the end of the second quarter 2013, or 8.1% of loans, compared to $12.2 billion, or 9.6% of loans, in the prior year period. 90+ days delinquent loans in¬†Local Consumer Lending¬†decreased 40% to $3.2 billion, or 3.6% of loans. Citigroup will host a conference call today at 10 a.m. (EDT). A live webcast of the presentation, as well as financial results and presentation materials, will be available athttp://www.citigroup.com/citi/investor. Dial-in numbers for the conference call are as follows: (866) 516-9582 in the U.S. and Canada; (973) 409-9210 outside of the U.S. and Canada. The conference code for both numbers is 92855981. CitiCiti, the leading global bank, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management. Additional information may be found at¬†www.citigroup.com¬†| Twitter:¬†@Citi¬†| YouTube:www.youtube.com/citi¬†| Blog:¬†http://blog.citigroup.com¬†| Facebook:¬†www.facebook.com/citi| LinkedIn:¬†www.linkedin.com/company/citi Additional financial, statistical, and business-related information, as well as business and segment trends, is included in a Quarterly Financial Data Supplement. Both this earnings release and Citi's First Quarter 2012 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement are available on Citigroup's website at www.citigroup.com. Certain statements in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results and capital and other financial condition may differ materially from those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including the precautionary statements included in this document and those contained in Citigroup's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including without limitation the "Risk Factors" section of Citigroup's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Click here for the complete press release and summary financial information. 1¬†Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) on derivatives (counterparty and own-credit), net of hedges, and debt valuation adjustments (DVA) on Citigroup's fair value option debt. See Appendix A. Citigroup's results of operations, excluding the impact of CVA/DVA, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citigroup believes the presentation of its results of operations excluding the impact of CVA/DVA provides a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses impacted by CVA/DVA. For a reconciliation of these measures to the reported results, see Appendix B. 2¬†Citigroup's estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio and certain related components are non-GAAP financial measures. Citigroup believes this ratio and its components provide useful information to investors and others by measuring Citigroup's progress against expected future regulatory capital standards. For the calculation of Citigroup's estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio, see Appendix D. Citi continues to review the recently released final U.S. Basel III rules. As such, Citigroup's estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio is based on its current interpretation, expectations and understanding of the proposed U.S. Basel III requirements (Basel III NPR) and is necessarily subject to, among other things, Citi's review and implementation of the final U.S. Basel III rules, anticipated compliance with all necessary enhancements to model calibration and other refinements and further implementation guidance in the U.S. 3¬†Tangible book value per share is a non-GAAP financial measure. Citi believes this ratio provides useful information as it is a capital adequacy metric used and relied upon by investors and industry analysts. For a reconciliation of this metric to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see Appendix E. 4¬†Citigroup's results of operations, excluding the impact of the Akbank loss, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citigroup believes the presentation of its results of operations excluding the impact of the Akbank loss provides a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses. For a reconciliation of this measure to the reported results, see Appendix B. 5¬†Citigroup's estimated Basel III supplementary leverage ratio and related components are non-GAAP financial measures. Citigroup believes this ratio and its components provide useful information to investors and others by measuring Citigroup's progress against expected future regulatory capital standards. Citi's estimated Basel III supplementary leverage ratio, as calculated under the Basel III NPR, represents the average for the quarter of the three monthly ratios of Tier 1 Capital (as defined under the Basel III NPR) to total leverage exposure (i.e., the sum of the ratios calculated for April, May and June, divided by three). Total leverage exposure is the sum of: (1) the carrying value of all on-balance sheet assets less applicable Tier 1 Capital deductions; (2) the potential future exposure on derivative contracts; (3) 10% of the notional amount of unconditionally cancellable commitments; and (4) the notional amount of certain other off-balance sheet exposures (e.g., other commitments and contingencies). Citi continues to review the recently released final U.S. Basel III rules, as well as the proposed enhanced supplementary leverage ratio requirements. As such, Citigroup's estimated Basel III supplementary leverage ratio is based on its current interpretation, expectations and understanding of the Basel III NPR and is necessarily subject to, among other things, Citi's review and implementation of the final U.S. Basel III rules and further implementation guidance in the U.S. 6¬†Results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures. Citigroup believes the presentation of its results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses impacted by FX translation. See Appendix C. 7¬†Hedges on accrual loans reflect the mark-to-market on credit derivatives used to hedge the corporate loan portfolio. The fixed premium cost of these hedges is included (netted against) the core lending revenues to reflect the cost of the credit protection.
REUTERS/Jonathan AlcornPolice confront a crowd of demonstrators on the Interstate 10 freeway as they protest the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the Trayvon Martin trial, in Los Angeles, California July 14, 2013. U.S. President Barack Obama called for calm on Sunday after the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin, as thousands of civil rights demonstrators turned out at rallies to condemn racial profiling. Zimmerman, cleared late on Saturday by a Florida jury of six women, still faces public outrage, a possible civil suit and demands for a federal investigation.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Earlier today, China confirmed that its economy was indeed slowing. GDP growth decelerated to 7.5% in Q2 from 7.7% in Q1. "Overall, signs of any meaningful recovery in Chinaís domestic demand remained limited, but the degree of deceleration is probably still acceptable to the new leadership," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao. But as usual, China's data dump had a some head scratchers in the details of its trade and inflation numbers.† From Yao: However, there are several puzzling details to us. First, the year-to-date contribution of gross capital formation rebounded strongly to 4.1ppt from 2.3ppt in Q1 and also a touch higher than the 4ppt in Q2 2012, which nearly offset the 1ppt decline in the contribution from net exports (0.1ppt ytd). Second, nominal GDP growth decelerated much more sharply from 9.6% in Q1 to 8%, as the deflator increased just 0.5% yoy (1.7% yoy in Q1). We find this deflator somewhat too low given the monthly inflation data published over the quarter. In comparison, Q4 2009 had much lower CPI, similar PPI, lower export price inflation and higher import price inflation, but yet the GDP deflator was significantly higher at 1.4% yoy. China unfortunately has a poor reputation for producing consistent data.† But experts note that its the trends that matter.† And the trend is clearly pointed downward.
Wikimedia CommonsFlasks for medicines, Santa Casa de Miseric√≥rdia de Porto Alegre, Brazil.Stocks rallied and ended last week at all-time highs. But it's probably a mistake to suggest stocks are at an impasse. After all, the economy is just beginning to get strong enough that the Federal Reserve has only recently begun talking about scaling back its ultra-easy monetary policies. This week, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke heads to Washington D.C. to update Congress on the economy. We also get a load of top-shelf economic data. On top of all of that, we're knee deep into earnings season. This week, we'll get Q2 results from Johnson &amp; Johnson, Yahoo!, CSX, Bank of America, and General Electric. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Much has been made about the surge in small cap stocks, which is tracked by the Russell 2000. "Client conversations this week focused on the drivers and sustainability of recent small cap performance," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin. "The recently-reconstituted Russell 2000 has outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 580 bp in the last two months (12.1% vs. 6.4%) as both rose to new all-time closing highs." Small-cap stocks aren't just smaller companies. Their risk exposures are such that they benefit more from an outperforming U.S. economy. "Small caps‚Äô leverage to US economic growth explains our EPS growth forecasts and much of their recent performance," said Kostin. "Roughly 80% of Russell 2000 sales are derived domestically, compared with 66% for the S&amp;P 500, which is more exposed to foreign economic growth and FX. Our economists expect that US GDP growth will accelerate from about 1.5% now to over 3% in 2014-2016. The high exposure to domestic growth also insulates small caps from recent investor concerns about the impact of a strong dollar and uncertain EM growth on US corporate earnings."
APTOKYO (Reuters) - Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is likely to win a mandate on Sunday for his three-part recipe to end stagnation in the world's third-biggest economy, but anyone expecting him to use it to push a "Big Bang" reform agenda may need a reality check. Abe's Liberal Democratic Party-led bloc is expected to win a hefty majority in a July 21 upper house election, ending a "twisted parliament" in which the opposition controls the upper chamber. Media surveys published on Monday showed the LDP maintained a substantial lead over rival parties. That stalemate has hampered policies for most of the past six years since Abe, then in his first term as premier, led the LDP to a humiliating 2007 upper house defeat. He resigned two months later and was followed by a string of short-term leaders. Abe, who returned to office in December for a rare second chance, will have few excuses for shying away from reforms including deregulation that many see as vital to generating growth - but his commitment to doing so remains in doubt. "What's required is the kind of thorough-going reform that Mr. Abe doesn't seem to have the vision or stomach for," said Jun Okumura, a senior advisor for Eurasia Group and former bureaucrat at Japan's trade and industry ministry. "Just because he wins an election doesn't mean vested interests will be any more amenable to changes that would affect them negatively," he said. "A leader can do a lot with the ability to appoint and dismiss cabinet members and ultimately, the right to call a general election. "But I don't see Mr. Abe as that kind of leader." Hopes for his "Abenomics" prescription of hyper-easy monetary policy, big spending and steps to promote growth pushed up Tokyo share prices and weakened the yen even before his LDP-led bloc won a December poll for the powerful lower house. "ENRICH THE COUNTRY, STRENGTHEN THE ARMY" Business executives and economists welcomed his decision in March to join talks on the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) free trade pact despite fierce opposition from the farm lobby, a traditional backer of the LDP. Advocates say joining the pact would open Japan's economy to competition and boost momentum for deregulation to spur growth. "TPP is not about agriculture reform, it's about whether Japan sits at the table when global rules are made and doing whatever it takes to be a first-rate power," said Jesper Koll, head of equities research at JP Morgan in Tokyo. "That's what fires them up." Abe has also backed reform of the energy sector that would break up regional utility monopolies, also powerful LDP supporters - although a political scuffle just before parliament ended in June prevented the reform bill from passing. Optimists argue the desire of Abe and like-minded nationalists for a strong economy to ensure Japan's place on the global stage will keep up pressure for reform - a sort of 21st century version of the "Enrich the Country, Strengthen the Army" slogan of the late 19th century reformers who modernized Japan. "I think he sees a genuine challenge to the sovereignty and power of the country," said Robert Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG in Tokyo. But reaction to Abe's "Third Arrow" of structural reforms unveiled in June has been tepid, prompting the premier and his aides to promise that more is in store after the upper house election. Among the areas where critics want bolder steps are agrarian land reform, labor market measures to make it easier for firms to exit loss-making business and shift to growth sectors, cuts in the corporate tax rate and an easing of barriers to immigration to cope with Japan's ageing, shrinking population. ACHILLES' HEEL ON HISTORY? Reform advocates also worry about potential backsliding on promised steps such as energy market reform. "The LDP might change some part of the (utilities reform bill) so it doesn't have so much impact on incumbent utilities," said Hiroshi Takahashi at Fujitsu Research Institute, who sat on an advisory panel that recommended the reforms incorporated in the bill. A split among Abe's growth strategists between those who see a big role for government in picking and backing new growth sectors, and those who want government to get out of the way to allow innovation, also clouds the outlook for reform. Ironically perhaps, too big a victory on Sunday could make it harder for Abe to push through the sort of reforms that would harm traditional LDP supporters. Such a win would increase party complacency along with the number of MPs with ties to vested interests. Some media forecasts give the LDP a shot at winning an upper house majority on its own for the first time since 1989. With no national poll required until 2016, LDP members keeping quiet now ahead of the election are likely to become more vocal afterwards. "Are we dealing with Japanese politics" the answer is 'yes'. Will there be compromise? You bet. The risk of compromise moving to the forefront gets bigger the bigger they win," said Koll, who nonetheless argues Abe is intent on meaningful reforms. Abe will also face a tough decision in autumn on whether to give the go-ahead for a plan to raise the 5 percent sales tax to 8 percent next year, the first stage in a scheduled doubling by October 2015 to help curb Japan's huge public debt. Some LDP members fear a tax hike would derail a recovery, but postponing it could cause havoc in financial markets, where the move would be taken as a signal of reneging on fiscal reform. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), while giving a cautious OK to "Abenomics", has warned of downside risks if Japan doesn't both cut its debt - already twice the size of its $5 trillion economy - and enact structural reforms. Concerns have eased a bit that the deeply conservative Abe might shift attention after the election from the economy to pet projects such as revising the pacifist constitution, drafted by U.S. Occupation officials after Japan's defeat in World War Two. The LDP's junior partner, the New Komeito, is wary of such changes and media forecasts suggest the LDP and small parties that also favor constitutional revision will fall short of the two-thirds majority needed to submit changes to a plebiscite. But Abe may find his Achilles' heel in questions relating to Japan's wartime history, which he wants to recast with a less apologetic tone. Abe visited Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, where wartime leaders convicted as war criminals by an Allied tribunal are honored with war dead, after becoming LDP leader in September. He has declined to say if he will do so as premier, but could face pressure from supporters to go on the August 15 anniversary of Japan's defeat or at an annual autumn festival. A pilgrimage to Yasukuni would outrage China and South Korea, which suffered from Tokyo's wartime aggression. Tokyo's relations with Beijing are already strained by rows over rival claims to tiny, uninhabited isles. Abe may also have trouble refraining from comments on history that spark ire in Beijing and Seoul, in turn upsetting security ally Washington and potentially undermining his support at home. "It is going to be very tempting for Abe to speak his mind that seems like an endorsement of what he stands for as a politician," said Sophia University professor Koichi Nakano. (Editing by Neil Fullick) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
REUTERS/StringerFollowing last night's China's GDP figures (which indicated slowing, but which came in line at 7.5% for Q2) Nomura is slashing its 2014 growth forecast to below 7%, which is kind of major threshold. Economist Zhiwei Zhang gives three reasons for reducing the firm's 2014 GDP forecast to 6.9%. First, we believe the government may lower its annual growth target to 7% for 2014. While this decision will not be made until the Central Economic Working Conference in December, the government has made it clear to the public that it is less concerned about the growth rate and more about the quality and sustainability of growth. We believe lowering the growth target would be a sound policy to adopt. Secondly, we believe China has likely entered a prolonged period of deleveraging, which will last well into 2014. Clear signs of systemic financial stress have seen the new government acting to rein-in credit growth since it took office in mid-March and we believe it is determined to bring down leverage. That said, a sharp deleveraging process is to be avoided as that would cause a disruptive slowdown in the economy; the liquidity squeeze in June illustrating just how easily a tightening could lead to unintended consequences. We therefore believe a gradual and prolonged deleveraging is the most likely scenario (see China may enter a prolonged period of policy tightening, 24 June 2013). Thirdly, potential growth continues to slow and may drop below 7% in 2014. The size of the working-age population fell in 2012 ‚Äì for the first time in at least 20 years ‚Äì and will likely continue to slide in 2014 and beyond. Progress on structural reforms has been slow. The government has announced guidelines twice in the past five years to encourage private investment, but concrete action has been limited. When the Central Committee of the Communist Party meets in October, it is expected to lay out the reform agenda for the next five to 10 years. We expect some positives to help growth recover modestly in H2 2014, but do not expect reforms to fully offset the negative effects of deleveraging and the demographic trends through H1 2014.
REUTERS/Mike Blake    SALINAS, Calif. (AP) ‚Äî On a windy morning in California's Salinas Valley, a tractor pulled a wheeled, metal contraption over rows of budding iceberg lettuce plants. Engineers from Silicon Valley tinkered with the software on a laptop to ensure the machine was eliminating the right leafy buds. The engineers were testing the Lettuce Bot, a machine that can "thin" a field of lettuce in the time it takes about 20 workers to do the job by hand. The thinner is part of a new generation of machines that target the last frontier of agricultural mechanization ‚Äî fruits and vegetables destined for the fresh market, not processing, which have thus far resisted mechanization because they're sensitive to bruising. Researchers are now designing robots for these most delicate crops by integrating advanced sensors, powerful computing, electronics, computer vision, robotic hardware and algorithms, as well as networking and high precision GPS localization technologies. Most ag robots won't be commercially available for at least a few years. In this region known as America's Salad Bowl, where for a century fruits and vegetables have been planted, thinned and harvested by an army of migrant workers, the machines could prove revolutionary. Farmers say farm robots could provide relief from recent labor shortages, lessen the unknowns of immigration reform, even reduce costs, increase quality and yield a more consistent product. "There aren't enough workers to take the available jobs, so the robots can come and alleviate some of that problem," said Ron Yokota, a farming operations manager at Tanimura &amp; Antle, the Salinas-based fresh produce company that owns the field where the Lettuce Bot was being tested. Many sectors in U.S. agriculture have relied on machines for decades and even the harvesting of fruits and vegetables meant for processing has slowly been mechanized. But nationwide, the vast majority of fresh-market fruit is still harvested by hand. Research into fresh produce mechanization was dormant for years because of an over-abundance of workers and pressures from farmworker labor unions. In recent years, as the labor supply has tightened and competition from abroad has increased, growers have sought out machines to reduce labor costs and supplement the nation's unstable agricultural workforce. The federal government, venture capital companies and commodity boards have stepped up with funding. "We need to increase our efficiency, but nobody wants to work in the fields," said Stavros G. Vougioukas, professor of biological and agricultural engineering at the University of California, Davis. But farmworker advocates say mechanization would lead to workers losing jobs, growers using more pesticides and the food supply becoming less safe. "The fundamental question for consumers is who and, now, what do you want picking your food; a machine or a human, who with the proper training and support, can" ... take significant steps to ensure a safer, higher quality product, said Erik Nicholson, national vice president of the United Farm Workers of America. On the Salinas Valley farm, entrepreneurs with Mountain View-based startup Blue River Technology are trying to show that the Lettuce Bot can not only replace two dozen workers, but also improve production. "Using Lettuce Bot can produce more lettuce plants than doing it any other way," said Jorge Heraud, the company's co-founder and CEO. After a lettuce field is planted, growers typically hire a crew of farmworkers who use hoes to remove excess plants to give space for others to grow into full lettuce heads. The Lettuce Bot uses video cameras and visual-recognition software to identify which lettuce plants to eliminate with a squirt of concentrated fertilizer that kills the unwanted buds while enriching the soil. Blue River, which has raised more than $3 million in venture capital, also plans to develop machines to automate weeding ‚Äî and eventually harvesting ‚Äî using many of the same technologies. Another company, San Diego-based Vision Robotics, is developing a similar lettuce thinner as well as a pruner for wine grapes. The pruner uses robotic arms and cameras to photograph and create a computerized model of the vines, figure out the canes' orientation and the location of buds ‚Äî all to decide which canes to cut down. Fresh fruit harvesting remains the biggest challenge. Machines have proved not only clumsy, but inadequate in selecting ripe produce. In addition to blunders in deciphering color and feel, machines have a hard time distinguishing produce from leaves and branches. And most importantly, matching the dexterity and speed of farmworkers has proved elusive. "The hand-eye coordination workers have is really amazing, and they can pick incredibly fast. To replicate that in a machine, at the speed humans do and in an economical manner, we're still pretty far away," said Daniel L. Schmoldt at the U.S. Agriculture Department's National Institute of Food and Agriculture. In southern California, engineers with the Spanish company Agrobot are taking on the challenge by working with local growers to test a strawberry harvester. The machine is equipped with 24 arms whose movement is directed through an optical sensor; it allows the robot to make a choice based on fruit color, quality and size. The berries are plucked and placed on a conveyor belt, where the fruit is packed by a worker. Still, the harvester collects only strawberries that are hanging on the sides of the bed, hence California's strawberry fields would have to be reshaped to accommodate the machine, including farming in single rows, raising the beds and even growing varieties with fewer clusters. Experts say it will take at least 10 years for harvesters to be available commercially for most fresh-market fruit ‚Äî not a moment too soon for farmers worried about the availability of workers, said Lupe Sandoval, managing director of the California Farm Labor Contractor Association. "If you can put a man on the moon," Sandoval said, "you can figure out how to pick fruit with a machine." ---- Contact Gosia Wozniacka at https://twitter.com/gosiawozniacka Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Denis Doyle/ Getty ImagesMADRID (AP) ‚Äî Spanish opposition leaders on Sunday urged Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy to resign after a newspaper published what it said were text messages Rajoy sent to his party's former treasurer after the treasurer was accused of making slush fund payoffs to politicians including Rajoy. The ongoing scandal of alleged secret payments has shaken Rajoy's governing Popular Party and damaged its popularity ratings. The publication of the text messages by the El Mundo newspaper placed even more pressure on Rajoy, whose resignation was demanded by leaders of two key opposition groups. The El Mundo report showcased what it identified as text messages over a period of three years between Rajoy and former Popular Party treasurer Luis Barcenas, who was a key player in the party's financial division for two decades. Barcenas, jailed last month while he awaits possible trial on tax fraud and money-laundering charges, told El Mundo last week that the party has long been illegally financed. El Mundo said documents show Rajoy received 42,000 euros ($54,000) in payments while serving as a minister between 1997 and 1999. The documents El Mundo published look like account ledger sheets that it says are genuine and show what it alleges is Rajoy's name next to payment amounts. What appear to be the same ledgers were previously ‚Äî some months back ‚Äî also published by another leading newspaper, El Pais. The striking resemblance between the ledgers has led many observers, and opposition leaders, to give credence to the reports. Rajoy and members of his party have denied wrongdoing, but the allegations have been huge news in Spain, where people are coping with harsh austerity measures and tough economic reforms aimed at reducing debt amid unemployment of 27 percent. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderFrom Calculated Risk, two interesting economic datapoints are coming out today: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, Retail sales for June will be released. The consensus is for retail sales to increase 0.8% in June, and to increase 0.5% ex-autos. ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for July. The consensus is for a reading of 5.0, down from 7.8 in June (above zero is expansion). Retail sales will be especially interesting, as the US consumer has been a hero of the recovery.
Flickr via msakrIt's going to be a pretty busy week in markets for three reasons: Earnings, Bernanke testimony in front of Congress, and a fair amount of economic data. And things are starting off on a bullish footing. Markets are gaining around the world, after Chinese GDP data that came in "in-line" (growth of 7.5%), this providing relief to investors who were worried that the bottom would fall out. Chinese stocks themselves ended up 1%. Italy is up 0.7%, Spain is up 1%, and Germany is up 0.7%. And US futures are pointing to a green open. In the US, the big economic datapoint today will be retail sales at 8:30 AM ET.
ReutersThe Shanghai Composite is up 1.5% despite the latest data confirming a slowdown in China. This is because the lack of bad news, i.e. Q2 GDP of 7.5% in line with expectations, is good news. Economists had been lowering their GDP forecasts ahead of the release. Here's a quick look at how other Asian markets are doing. Chinese GDP is up 7.6% in the first half of the year. Markets are watching to see if policymakers will move to support their 7.5% 2013 growth target.
Chinese data was a mixed bag in June. Here's a quick round-up: Business Insider/Mamta Badkar Here are the key takeaways:
