Inspire Kelly / FlickrNo one knows for sure what will happen next in the stock market. But there is no shortage of people who get paid to make a prediction Fourteen of Wall Street's best sell-side equity strategist have published their 2013 year-end targets for the S&amp;P 500. Some calls were bearish, like Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams who sees the S&amp;P falling to 1,390. Others were bullish, like Citi's Tobias Levkovich who sees the S&amp;P heading to 1,615. A few veterans, legends, and graybeards like Byron Wien, Richard Bernstein, and David Rosenberg also submitted their forecasts. We've also heard from money management behemoths BlackRock and Federated Investors. Even the bond gods Bill Gross and Jeff Gundlach made stock market predictions. Below is a round up of what the big Wall Street houses are predicting. † NOTE: Almost all forecasts were published in December.† We suspect many will make adjustments as the details of the fiscal cliff dealings get ironed out.
Goldman Sachs strategists have issued a big warning to clients hiding out in bond funds: You're about to lose your shirt. The reason: interest rates began rising this week, and if they return to the historical average yield of 3 percent, prices for long-term bonds will plummet. (By their very nature, fixed income prices must fall if rates rise.) "A reversion of risk premiums to historical averages of 6% nominal rates (3% real rates and 3% inflation) would suggest estimated losses in portfolios with bond durations of 5 years of 25% or more," equity strategist Robert D. Boroujerdi said in a note. The yield on the 10-year Treasury hit almost 2 percent this week‚Äìan 8-month high‚Äìafter minutes from the Federal Reserve's last meeting showed several members believe the central bank's quantitative easing should end this year. (Read More: End of Stimulus? What's Behind the Fed's Surprise Statement) That's one giant bond buyer leaving the market. Instead of bonds, Goldman suggests investors look to equities for income. That's because companies have plenty of cash to pay out on their books, mutual fund flows are set to pick up for stocks and equity valuations relative to bonds are very attractive. They list a number of "income-through-equity" plays. "Companies that return cash to shareholders in the form of dividends or accretive buybacks should outperform, in our view," wrote the Goldman team. Specifically, Bristol-Myers, Lorillard, Verizon, and Duke Energy are highlighted by Goldman because they have ample cash flow to comfortably pay their existing debt and then increase their dividend. The stocks also will appreciate by at least 5 percent over the next 12 months according to Goldman individual company analysts. Despite Goldman's call and the big move in yields this week, some investors believe low inflation and a slow-moving Fed chief will keep real rates (nominal yield plus inflation) in favorable territory for bonds. In fact, Goldman's own economist, Jan Hatzius, told CNBC Friday he expects quantitative easing to continue well into 2014. (Read More: Bond Buying Will Go On for Long Time: Hatzius) "My expectation is QE is still going to run for a long time through 2013, even 2014 at a reduced pace," Hatzius said in a"Squawk on the Street" interview. "That obviously is only going to become clear over time and it's going to depend on the economic data." Hatzius isn't alone, either. "It's a long journey to the higher yields many speculate on," said Tony Crescenzi, market strategist for PIMCO, the largest bond manager in the world. "Real interest rates today are deeply negative and the high level of unemployment limits inflation risk. Moreover, with the U.S. population aging, investors will prefer to stay high in the capital structure, especially with the memory of two shocks in a decade." For the best market insight, catch "Fast Money" each night at 5 p.m. ET, and the "Halftime Report" each afternoon at 12 noon ET on CNBC. Follow @CNBCMelloy on Twitter.

In money management long term success lies not in garnering short term returns but avoiding the pitfalls that lead to large losses of invested capital. ¬†While it is not popular in the media to point out the headwinds that face investors in the months ahead - it is also naive to only focus on the positives. ¬†While it is true that markets rise more often than not, unfortunately, it is when markets don't that investors are critically set back from their long term goals. ¬†It is not just the loss of capital that is devastating to the compounding effect of returns but, more importantly, it is the loss of "time" which is truly limited and never recoverable. Therefore, as we look forward into 2013, I want to review three reasons to be bullish about investing in the months to come but also review three risks that could derail the markets along the way. Bull Point 1: ¬†Interest Rates To Remain Low, Yield Chase Remains The Federal Reserve has committed to keeping interest rates suppressed until at least 2015 if not longer. ¬†This low interest rate environment will continue to weigh on the ever increasing number of individuals heading into retirement who feel an urgency to generate an income stream to supplement retirement benefits. ¬†Therefore, the chase for income, or yield, is set to continue in the coming year as the low interest rate environment continues to push more individuals out of cash and into more risky investments.¬† While "yield chases" have always ended badly in the current macro environment such an outcome is a low probability event in 2013.  Bull Point 2: ¬†Technical Trend Remains Bullish The "trend is your friend - until it isn't" is an age old traders axiom. ¬†Yet it is a sage piece of advice. ¬†There was a time in history when investors actually invested in stocks for the "long term," however, with the advent of the internet, online investment access and high speed trading, those days are gone.¬† The rise of ETF's and "program trading" has led to a market where the bulk of the daily price action in stocks is driven by the direction of the overall market. In such an environment investors are generally better served understanding, and investing, with the trend, or direction, of the overall market rather than "hoping" their investments will work out.¬† Currently, as the chart below shows, the markets are still in a well-defined bullish trend. ¬†While the historical peaks of the market are still providing some potential resistance to the current advance - the trend is remains positive suggesting that exposure to risk should maintained.  Bull Point 3: ¬†$85 Billion Per Month Of course, one of the most bullish catalysts in 2013 is the Federal Reserve and the two simultaneous large scale asset purchase programs (Quantitative Easing or QE) totaling $85 billion a month.¬† The liquidity that is pushed into the financial system by these programs has boosted asset prices historically.¬† While each program has had a diminishing rate of return the programs do provide support for the bullish investment theme.¬†  The chart below shows the current Federal Reserve stimulus induced market rally as compared to the "Mortgage ATM" liquidity boosted rally from 2004-2008.¬† If this market continues to play out the same pattern the markets could yet see a fairly bullish advance in the months to come as QE3/4 push assets prices higher.  Bear Point 1: ¬†Debt Ceiling Debate With the "fiscal cliff" resolution behind the next big hurdle for the market will be the debt ceiling debate. ¬†In 2011 the debate over the debt ceiling led to a credit downgrade by Standard &amp; Poors and a 10% stock market loss in a three week span.¬†  The obvious risk is that once again the debate reaches a fevered pitch and rattles the markets.¬† One caveat, however, is that market participants are more aware about the fact that the U.S. will not actually default on its debt so any negative impact to the financial markets will likely not be as severe as seen previously.¬† Furthermore, as opposed to the summer of 2011 when QE 2 had already ended, the markets are currently supported by QE3 and 4.¬† However, with increased taxes already set to provide roughly a 1.5% drag on economic growth any resolution of the debt ceiling debate which leads to larger than expected spending cuts could negatively impact the markets to some degree in the coming year.¬† Bear Point 2: ¬†Earnings¬† It is currently estimated that corporate earnings, as we addressed in our 2013 outlook, could reach an all-time higher of $105.88 a share this year. ¬†This would represent an increase of $8.10 a share over current levels. ¬†  Currently, 2013 reported earnings are currently set at $100.71 for the S&amp;P 500 by Standard &amp; Poors.¬† This would represent a rise of 14% in the coming year from the current levels of $87.1. ¬†The risk to that bullish outlook comes from a couple of areas: 1) the Eurozone recession is set to continue through the rest of this year putting a drag on exports which currently makes up roughly 40% of domestic corporate profits and more than 13% of GDP, and; 2) Corporate earnings have already begun to show early signs of weakness amid slower economic growth.¬† The impact of higher taxes and potential spending cuts will further impact earnings in 2013. The ability for corporations to continue keeping profit margins intact by cutting costs has likely come to an end. ¬†The recent price increases in the markets have led to an expansion of multiples as earnings have declined. ¬†Historically, price expansions, without an underlying increase in earnings, are not sustainable. ¬†Therefore, any further deterioration in corporate earnings in the coming year will likely lead to a recoupling of prices to earnings. Bear Point 3: ¬†Slow Growth Economy As stated above the impact from rising taxes, potential cuts in spending, and slower economic growth from the Eurozone is likely to further weigh on the domestic economy.¬† With the economy already growing at a sub-par rate there isn't much wiggle room between growth and contraction. One thing that has been overlooked on many fronts is that Obama had control of the House, and the Senate, when he first entered office in 2009. This control lead to the passing of ObamaCare, successive bailout programs for housing, automobiles, and the financial industry which flooded the economy, and financial markets, with dollars - a lot of dollars. Those injections, combined with a massively bombed out economy from the financial crisis, led to a sharp rebound in economic growth which was almost entirely centered around inventory restocking and a resumption of exported goods and services. However, in 2010, Obama lost control of the House to the Republicans which has led to two subsequent years of political gridlock. That gridlock has resulted in very little progress in providing the fiscal policies necessary to support economic growth.¬†  This lack of progress has clouded the planning ability for small businesses and reduced the need for continued buildup of inventories as the exportation of goods and services has slowed. The chart below shows exports, and imports, post the recessionary bottom as stimulus programs impacted the economy and the subsequent fade as economic strength has waned.  The problem of a sub-par growth economy is that lack of "escape velocity" required to start organic growth.¬† Current employment gains, and growth in GDP, has been little more than what would be expected from normal population growth and inflation. ¬†However, the problem is that such an environment does not foster higher levels of wage growth, higher levels of corporate profitability or economic prosperity. Risk Management Makes The Difference While the list could obviously be much longer the point is that for every bullish point that can be made there is an offsetting risk. ¬†The reality is that no one knows for sure where the markets will end this year. ¬†While it is true that "bull markets are more fun than bear markets" the damage to investment portfolios by not managing the risks can be catastrophic. ¬†A measured approach to optimism, where the relevant risks are given due weight, will always lead to longer term portfolio success. This is why we manage portfolios from a risk managed approach ‚Äì greater returns are generated from the management of ‚Äúrisks‚Äù rather than the attempt to create returns.¬† Our philosophy was well defined by Robert Rubin, former Secretary of the Treasury, when he said; ‚ÄúAs I think back over the years, I have been guided by four principles for decision making.¬† First, the only certainty is that there is no certainty.¬† Second, every decision, as a consequence, is a matter of weighing probabilities.¬† Third, despite uncertainty we must decide and we must act.¬† And lastly, we need to judge decisions not only on the results, but on how they were made. Most people are in denial about uncertainty.¬† They assume they're lucky, and that the unpredictable can be reliably forecast.¬† This keeps business brisk for palm readers, psychics, and stockbrokers, but it's a terrible way to deal with uncertainty.¬† If there are no absolutes, then all decisions become matters of judging the probability of different outcomes, and the costs and benefits of each.¬† Then, on that basis, you can make a good decision.‚Äù It should be obvious that an honest assessment of uncertainty leads to better decisions, but the benefits of Rubin's approach, and ours, go beyond that.¬† For starters, although it may seem contradictory, embracing uncertainty reduces risk while denial increases it.¬† Another benefit of acknowledged uncertainty is it keeps you honest. ‚ÄúA healthy respect for uncertainty and focus on probability drives you never to be satisfied with your conclusions.¬† It keeps you moving forward to seek out more information, to question conventional thinking and to continually refine your judgments and understanding that difference between certainty and likelihood can make all the difference.‚Äù  The mistake that most investors make is assuming that portfolios are treated like a light switch. ¬†However, good portfolio management, as stated, requires a strategy that manages portfolio risk like a rheostat. ¬†When the overall market trends are positive the allocation of risk is dialed up. ¬†Conversely, when data trends become negative - risk is reduced. ¬†The management of risk is what has always separated successful investors from the rest. ¬† Chasing markets higher is fun - until it isn't. The reality is that we can't control outcomes; the most we can do is influence the probability of certain outcomes which is why the day to day¬†management of risks and investing based on probabilities, rather than possibilities, is important not only to capital preservation but to investment success over time.
This handy table from the Washington Research Group shows just how inefficient the US tax code is. Tax breaks in fiscal year 2014 for health care benefits ($164.2 billion), mortgage interest ($99.8 billion), and state and local taxes ($54.0 billion) will amount to $318 billion. And that is a one-year number, keep in mind. These tax breaks inflate health care costs, nudge investment into housing over other sectors, and enable Big Government on the state level. They also keep marginal tax rates higher than they would otherwise be. This where tax reform should begin.James Pethokoukis
U.K. newspaper¬†The Guardian¬†wants President Obama to nominate economist Paul Krugman for Treasury Secretary ¬†to fill Tim Geithner's position when he leaves in the coming weeks. The paper thinks Krugman has the stuff to stand up to Wall Street and ignore calls for austerity. Actor Danny Glover has started a petition on Moveon.org supporting the nomination. From the Guardian: Krugman has been right about the major problems facing our economy, where many other economists and much of the business press have been wrong. A few examples: he wrote about the housing bubble before it collapsed and caused the Great Recession; he has forecast and explained that large budget deficits and trillions of dollars of "quantitative easing" (money creation) would not cause inflation or long-term interest rates to rise; and that the "confidence fairies" would not reward governments that pursued austerity in the face of recession. Most importantly, Krugman is on the side of the majority of Americans. He has¬†written extensively in favor of policies¬†that favor job creation, explained the folly of budget cutting in the face of a weak economy, and opposes cuts to social security and¬†Medicare¬†benefits. After all, why should the secretary of the treasury have to prioritize the interests of Wall Street and the "criminal enterprise" of big finance... Imagine a treasury secretary who favored employment, poverty reduction and development, rather than unnecessary austerity, in developing countries. Of course, Krugman's appointment would have to be confirmed by the Senate, which we know can get a little hairy (see Susan Rice). However, The Guardian argues that Obama has the chutzpah to nominate people outside the box, like Chuck Hagel (a man who wants to get America out of Afghanistan and cut military spending) for Secretary of Defense. ¬†It's a thought.
The surprise of the week was not the goofy ending to the cliff. It was the minutes from the Fed. The meeting in question took place on 12/12, just 23 days ago. Some very major announcements came as a result of that meeting. A new, and much more aggressive Fed policy was revealed. For the first time ever, the Fed set a target for when monetary policy would change. The Fed said it would keep its foot on the monetary gas pedal until unemployment fell to 6.5%, and maybe even lower than that. The economic forecasts that the Fed released showed a consensus estimate for unemployment staying above the magic 6.5% until at least 2015. So that set a bar for any changes in monetary policy years into the future. The Fed backed up its new long-term commitment to boost the economy by doubling up with QE4 ‚Äì another $45b a month of POMO buys. In December the Fed set the ‚Äúneedle‚Äù for monetary steam at the same level that existed during the dark days of 2009. All in, the last Fed meeting was a precedent setting commitment to extended monetary easing. At least that is how I read it. And then we get the minutes from the meeting where all these dramatic steps were taken. The minutes read completely different. What the hell happened?¬† I have the sense that there was a conversation that might have gone like this: Bernanke: Okay, we will go forward with QE4. This is our last chance to do anything for a long time to come. There will be no more QE on my watch as head of the Fed. Yellen: But, but Ben‚Ä¶..We just promised‚Ä¶.. Bullard: You‚Äôre kidding? I love it! But I don‚Äôt understand. What‚Äôs up? Bernanke: I‚Äôm looking at the calendar. I‚Äôm outta here it 18 months. Before I leave, and turn the keys over to the next guy, I have to ‚Äúregularize‚Äù monetary policy. So that means we end the LSAP‚Äôs this year. Yellen: But, but, Ben, the markets will be disappointed.¬† The S&amp;P could fall, interest rates might rise. We wouldn‚Äôt want that, would we? Evans: Yeah Ben, we don‚Äôt want to upset the apple cart just at the time we have it righted. Remember 1937? Bernanke: I‚Äôve made up my mind. I will not leave the Fed with a policy that is still in an extreme position. I want to give the new guy a fighting chance. Greenspan did the same thing for me before he handed over the reins. Yellen: I‚Äôm very sad. I thought we would be able to have fun goosing markets for another two years. Now you‚Äôre taking away the punchbowl much earlier than anyone has thought. How will we be able to communicate this to the market? It will be a big shock if we just come out and say that QE is over. Bernanke: We can control the markets; I‚Äôm not worried about that. We‚Äôve being doing it for years now, we should have no trouble doing it for another year. Evans: Gee! What happened to my plan to target monetary policy to unemployment? I thought we agreed to that! Now you‚Äôre doing a 180 on us. Bernanke: I‚Äôm not suggesting a 180. We will not reverse any QE. I‚Äôll leave that up to who ever sits in this chair next. I would like to bring policy closer to neutral. We will just have to manage the news flow. ¬†We can, and will, control that. We will use our usual sources, guys like Hilsenrath, to help introduce this slowly. After all, we don‚Äôt want any knee jerk reactions. We will sanitize the minutes of this meeting. We can introduce the possibility of a change in policy with the words we use. We just have to vague about it‚Ä¶plant a seed. Yes, we will cause some confusion, but that can‚Äôt be helped. Most analysts are so confused at this point, I doubt that too many will take the suggestion we are changing direction seriously. Yellen: But, but Ben‚Ä¶.this is all coming as a surprise. I‚Äôm very disappointed. Evans: (Sobbing) So am I! Bernanke: Well, all I can say is tough! I have a legacy at the Fed, and I want to preserve that legacy. I will not allow my term at the Fed to end with a policy that must be reversed by someone else on the first day he takes over. Unless something very significant happens over the next half year, ‚Äúmy‚Äù Fed is going to move toward a neutral monetary policy by 2014. We will continue to drop hints for the next few months, and I will make my final speech in August, at Jackson Hole. I will use that opportunity to confirm what we have agreed to today. Yellen: But, but, but Ben‚Ä¶. Bernanke: Drop it Janet. My mind is made up. Meeting over. Okay, I‚Äôm kidding a bit. But this is not so far fetched. Why would the Fed send one signal on December 12 and quite a different one on January 4? When it comes to the Fed, there is always a motive for its actions. The motives are not always clear. I do believe this development is connected to the ‚Äúlegacy‚Äù issue. Bernanke‚Äôs term at the Fed will set many historical precedents. To a significant extent, history will judge Bernanke on what he did while chairman of the Fed. But the books will also look at what happened after he left. I believe that Bernanke would very much like to leave his successor with a Fed that had policy choices. As of today there are no options left.¬† Just more useless QE. I doubt that Bernanke wants to exit with the Fed‚Äôs foot planted firmly on the gas pedal. The next guy does deserve a cleaner plate than now exists. Is the Legacy factor influencing Bernanke? I think it has some sway in his thinking. Consider what Greenspan did before he left. After years of soft monetary policy he ratcheted up the Federal Funds rate 17 times in 22 months. He took the funds rate from 1% all the way up to 6%. Part of that rapid increase was driven to get monetary policy ‚Äúneutral‚Äù, so that Bernanke could do as he wished. Not long after Bernanke took over, he took the funds rate down to zero.   Clearly, Greenspan tried to get monetary policy back to neutral before he left, I don‚Äôt see any reason why Bernanke would think differently. Are we watching a repeat of history? At a minimum, his legacy, and where he wants the Fed to be when he leaves,¬† is part of Ben‚Äôs thinking today. Readers may conclude that I‚Äôm all wet with this. That Bernanke‚Äôs Fed will never end the easy money policies. And the idea that his legacy has anything to do with current policy, is just gas. Readers might be right in that observation. But those who think that the legacy issue is not a factor, have to answer the question, ‚ÄúWhat the hell happened at that meeting? Why are we getting hints of a change in policy at this time?‚Äù If there is another excuse for the Fed‚Äôs apparent change of heart, I would love to hear about it. I can‚Äôt come up with anything else. Something has changed, and it isn‚Äôt the economy. So what is the motivation? ¬†++ Reading the Fed‚Äôs tealeaves is a bit of a fool‚Äôs game. The chances of being right are about 50-50. But for the sake of discussion, assume that the Fed was telling the truth this past week. Monetary policy will change over the course of the year. It will go from 4th gear and full gas, to ‚Äúneutral‚Äù. When I say neutral, I mean that the monthly QE programs would come to a gradual end. It‚Äôs even possible that there could be some very small backup in the Federal Funds rate early in 2014. To me, this sets up a very interesting scenario. There are two schools of thought on the Fed‚Äôs QE activity:  - All of the Fed Governors (specifically, Bernanke and Yellen) have stated their belief that it is the size of the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet that matters when it comes to measuring monetary stimulus. The vast number of folks who opine on the Fed, also believe this is the case. So the markets, and the Fed believe that ‚Äúneutral‚Äù means that the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet remains static. - A small, but vocal minority, lead by Tyler Durden at Zero Hedge, see it differently. This group believes that it is not the size of the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet that is the issue. It is the daily, weekly, monthly flows that the Fed creates with QE that is the critical metric when measuring monetary policy. The two different views are remarkably divergent in their conclusions. And only one camp will be proven right.  I happen to agree with Durden. It‚Äôs the flow, not the size. We have a capital market that has a $20B ‚Äúbid‚Äù in it every week. With each POMO buy, the primary dealers have cash money in their pockets, and they have to spend it. So they buy ‚Äústuff‚Äù. The stuff they buy with the loot from QE ranges from Treasuries, to junk, to equities. I believe that the constant demand from the Fed is the gas that makes these transactions happen. I believe that when POMO stops, so does the merry-go-round.  The Fed will not stop QE abruptly. There will be a 3-6 month wind-down of the POMO buys. We have been here before, with QE1. Well before the Fed stopped buying, markets started to react to what was then perceived to be the end of the QE party.  To a significant extent, this question, and how the markets answer it, will resolve the fate of the markets, the broader economy and Bernanke‚Äôs legacy. So this is a very big deal.  The view of the Fed, that it is balance sheet size not flow that matters, is supported by 95% of the market today. So when Steve Liesman tells you that the Fed is moving to ‚Äúneutral‚Äù, and that‚Äôs not a big deal, be wary. The ‚Äúconsensus view‚Äù is rarely right in these matters. I think the Fed‚Äôs neutral is going to feel as if we are in reverse, and moving backwards pretty fast.  Note: I have long felt that Greenspan‚Äôs rapid reversal of the Funds rate in 2006 led to the collapse in 2008. Alan tried to ‚Äúregularize‚Äù what he did after the Dotcom bust. Bust went to bust as a result.
For the last couple of days, we've been talking about the "Platinum Coin Solution" to the debt ceiling crisis. This is the idea that the Treasury could mint a trillion dollar platinum coin and deposit it at the Fed, so that the Treasury could continue to pay the country's bills without breaching the debt ceiling, in the event that the debt ceiling wasn't raised by Congress. I walked through most of the concept here. This idea been getting a lot of attention, and a lot of folks in the media think it's a big joke. I was on CNBC yesterday discussing it, and clearly the anchors thought it was just a joke discussion. The video is here, if you want to watch it.  So is it a joke discussion? Well, plainly, the idea of a "trillion dollar coin" is like something out of fiction, but it's not the silliest idea that's floating around. The silliest idea that's floating around is the discussion we had in 2011, and now again in 2013, about whether a rich nation like the United States should voluntarily consider not paying some of its bills. That we're even having this debate is much sillier than this talk of minting a coin. Apologists for the GOP who think it's okay to use the debt ceiling as "leverage" in a fight to reshape fiscal policy deny that this brinksmanship is reckless, because they say not raising the debt ceiling wouldn't cause a debt default. They say that we have plenty of tax revenue to cover interest payments, and that we would be able to prioritize payments to make sure our creditors get paid first. But even if it were true that the Treasury has the technical capacity to prioritize payments like this, and even if it were the case that the Treasury "prioritizing" the budget didn't result in legal problems, the fact of the matter is that some bills would go unpaid. The country would be a deadbeat. The argument from most fiscal conservatives is that our country's finances should be "balanced" the way a business's need to be, and that, if the country doesn't get spending under control, then interest rates will soar like they have in Greece. But if you think government spending should be analogized to a business, then any creditor should start to get nervous once they see the government not making some of its legally-obligated payments, even if the credit payments are temporarily maintained. So, make no mistake, the debt ceiling fight is about whether the US is going to pay legally obligated bills, even if a debt default wouldn't necessarily come with it. Suggesting that you will voluntarily force a rich nation to stop paying its bills just to achieve your own budgetary agenda is far more absurd than the trillion dollar coin. SEE ALSO: Suddenly, lots of people are talking about the trillion dollar coin &gt;
By:¬† Peter Schiff Thursday, January 3, 2013 With the possible exception of the New York Times‚Äô editorial board (and the cast of The Jersey Shore), everyone on the planet understood that the United States Government needs to cut spending, increase taxes, or both. Instead, after months of political posturing and hand wringing, the Federal Government has just delivered the exact opposite, a deal that increases spending and decreases taxes. The move lays bare the emptiness of budget legislation, which can be dismantled far easier than it can be constructed. One question that should be now asked is whether Moody‚Äôs Research will finally join S&amp;P in downgrading the Treasury debt of the United States.¬† After the Budget Control Act of 2011 (which resulted from the Debt Ceiling drama) Moody‚Äôs extended its Aaa rating, saying in an August 8 statement: ‚Äú‚Ä¶last week‚Äôs Budget Control Act was positive for the credit of the United States‚Ä¶. We expect the economic recovery will continue and additional budget deficit reduction initiatives will be put in place by 2013. The political parties now appear to share similar deficit reduction objectives.‚Äù Now that Moody‚Äôs has been proven wrong, and the straight jacket that Congress designed for itself has been shown to be illusory (as I always claimed it was), will the rating agency revisit its decision and downgrade the United States? Given the political backlash that greeted S&amp;P‚Äôs downgrade in 2011, I doubt that such a move is forthcoming.¬† For now, the real budget negotiations have been supposedly pushed later into 2013, when the debt ceiling will be confronted anew. But who can really expect anything of substance? The latest deal emerged from a Congress that is nearly two years removed from the next election. As a result, Congressmen were as insulated from political pressures as they could ever expect to be. Nevertheless, they still chose political expediency over sound policy. ¬†If Congressional leadership (an oxymoron that should join the ranks of ‚Äújumbo shrimp‚Äù and ‚Äúdefinite maybe‚Äù) could not put the national interest in front of political interests now, why would anyone expect them to do so later? They will continue to ignore our fiscal problems until a currency crisis forces their hand. I expect deficits to approach $2 trillion annually before Obama leaves office. Unfortunately, at that point the solutions would be far more draconian than anything economists and politicians are currently considering. In light of the extensions of the popular middle class tax rates, the loudly trumpeted tax increases on those individuals making more than $400,000 (and couples making more than $450,000) will not be enough to translate into higher tax revenues. Instead they will result in perhaps $60 billion per year in new revenue to the Federal government that will be more than offset by the new spending announced in the agreement.¬† In fact, with the likely passage of the $60 billion Hurricane Sandy aid package, it will have taken Congress less than one week to spend all of the projected revenue. ¬†¬† But the tax increases will push many individuals in high tax states like California and New York into paying more than 50% of their income in taxes. While many economists are cautioning that higher taxes on the wealthy will take a bite out of spending, in my opinion it is more likely to result in lower business investment, which is far more detrimental to the economy. When faced with diminishing discretionary income, most rich people would sooner cut back on savings and investment than they would on health care, education, home improvements and vacations.¬† But it should be clear that the rate increases are just the opening crescendo in a symphony of tax hikes on the nation‚Äôs entrepreneurial class. President Obama has recently stated that he will consider needed cuts in spending and entitlement programs only if they are coupled with additional tax increases on the wealthy. In other words, as far as the President is concerned, the hikes included in the budget agreement that was just passed didn‚Äôt count for anything. ¬† It cannot, or should not, be denied that Washington‚Äôs latest fig leaf will have a major impact on the markets. The New Year‚Äôs ‚Äúrelief rally‚Äù is understandable given the clear implications that the government will simply print its way out of trouble for as long as it can. ¬†In the past, fiscal profligacy was held in check by investors who would sell bonds and push interest rates higher whenever it appeared that the government was not serious about national solvency. But with the Federal Reserve now buying the vast majority of U.S. government debt, no such roadblock exists. With monetary and fiscal stimulus pushing up stock and bond prices, and no immediate fear of a rally-killing spike in interest rates, there is no reason to stay on the sidelines. Markets are now driven by¬†stimulus, not fundamentals, and the stimulus is firmly at the wheel. (For more on this ‚Äì see the article in the January edition of Euro Pacific‚Äôs Global Investment Newsletter). But it is important to look at the nature of the rally. Most significantly we would bring investors‚Äô attention to the increase in gold and oil and other assets that are expected to outperform in an inflationary economy. ¬†Our new Newsletter edition also includes an analysis of some of the more promising overseas markets. But by taking the nominal risk out of investing, the government is insuring that the risks to the U.S. economy will grow exponentially. We are now ‚Äì and will remain ‚Äì a debt-fueled economy for as long as the rest of the world permits this to continue. But this is no way to create real, sustainable economic growth. On the contrary, it will simply permit the growth of government, the depletion of economic vitality, and ultimately the collapse of the U.S. dollar. ¬† ¬† In the meantime, President Obama and Congressional leaders will take credit for a tax cut that is in reality a huge tax increase in disguise. Government spending is the real source of taxpayers‚Äô pain and it is only a matter of time before the bill comes due in the form of inflation. See our Newsletter for fresh analysis as to why inflation may already be higher than you think. ¬†Because the deficits will grow even larger, more purchasing power will be lost in this manner than would have been lost had all the Bush tax cuts been allowed to expire. In addition, though entitlement cuts were taken off the table, the real value of benefits could be slashed, as cost of living adjustments fail to keep up with skyrocketing consumer prices. ¬†That‚Äôs a Fiscal Cliff that will not be so easy to avoid.¬† This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
Steve ForbesThe Brooks School, a prep school in North Andover, Massachusetts, sent a letter to the school community yesterday saying that a former headmaster of the school had engaged in an "objectionable, manipulative" relationship with a student in the late 1990s. The purpose of the letter was to inform the community about the incident and ask whether there were other instances in which the headmaster, Lawrence W. Becker, had behaved inappropriately. The headmaster's relationship with the student was not alleged to have been sexual, but it was discovered when a male escort hired by Mr. Becker in 2011 sent the school emails this summer (the escort was not a student). This followed an earlier incident with an escort on a school business trip in 2004. When confronted about the emails this summer, the Brooks School says, Mr. Becker first lied about them and then admitted that the escort was threatening him. A subsequent investigation into Mr. Becker's 22-year tenure at Brooks led to the discovery of the relationship with the student, the school says. And it turns out that Becker's relationship with the student was known to, and investigated by, the chairman of the school's Board of Trustees at the time--the former Presidential candidate and publishing mogul Steve Forbes. Mr. Forbes, a Brooks alumnus, served as chairman of the board from 1987 to 1997, the period in which the incident occurred. Mr. Forbes was made aware of the relationship, the Brooks School says, and he investigated it. But Mr. Forbes did not inform the school community or the rest of Brooks board about it. Yesterday, Forbes Media issued a statement to the New York Times about Mr. Forbes's conduct: ìA matter that came to the attention of the school was referred to the schoolís legal counsel and was properly investigated and appropriate action was taken. Every step was undertaken with the advice and direction of the schoolís outside counsel. The matter did not involve sexual abuse.î Given the potential reputational damage and risk of future incidents after the discovery of such a relationship, it seems strange that, at the very least, the entire Brooks board would not have been informed. Lawrence W. BeckerWithout knowing more details about the relationship, as well as the precise steps Mr. Forbes and the school's outside counsel took during the investigation and how the matter was resolved, it's too early to pass judgement. There may have been sound legal and other reasons why the information went no further than Mr. Forbes. Now that Brooks has gone public about the incident, the school's handling of the investigation and resolution will obviously come under scrutiny. And if other incidents are discovered, especially incidents that came after the inappropriate relationship, the school could face significant liability. Here's the letter that Brooks sent to its community yesterday, via Barstool Sports Boston: January 3, 2013 Dear Brooks Alumni, Parents and Friends,  We write to you today about a troubling matter. It involves Lawrence W. Becker, who served as headmaster of Brooks School from 1986 to 2008. After long deliberations, the schoolís Board of Trustees has authorized this outreach because we have genuine concerns that cause us to carefully review Mr. Beckerís tenure at the school. Last July and continuing throughout the summer, the school received a number of disturbing e-mails about Mr. Becker from an anonymous writer. After denying any knowledge regarding the emails, Mr. Becker eventually acknowledged in early September that he was being threatened by someone who, we later learned, was an escort whom Mr. Becker had hired in the fall of 2011. Although these events took place after Mr. Becker retired as headmaster, his lack of candor with the school during this episode compelled us to look back at his tenure at the school. In so doing, we reviewed an incident in 2004, when several school employees received calls claiming that Mr. Becker had engaged in inappropriate sexual behavior while traveling alone on school business. Mr. Becker denied the allegations at the time and provided an account of his activities which, we now know, was untrue. Unfortunately, we must also report one additional, disturbing situation. We have grave concerns about Mr. Beckerís relationship with a student while serving as headmaster. In our judgment, his conduct in this relationship was objectionable, manipulative, and an abuse of his position. Each of these situations is completely inconsistent with the values of the school and, taken together, cause us to be profoundly concerned. In an effort to assess how best to handle this information, we consulted with a highly regarded psychologist with experience in relevant matters. He concurs that this letter is an advisable and prudent step. Thus, we are writing to ask if you have personal knowledge that calls into question Mr. Beckerís conduct and/or oversight during his tenure. A small group of trustees will join the two of us in considering anything you would like to share.  We do not take this step lightly. Brooks School grew and prospered during Mr. Beckerís tenure, and our alumni from that era have gone on to achieve great personal and professional success. We act now in the belief that this inquiry is compelled by our highest priority, which is the well-being of the students who have been entrusted to our care.
There has been a lot of talk lately about adding push barriers to the subway system in New York City after multiple incidents received a lot of media attention.† Some subway systems around the world are outfitted with push barriers, but what would it look like in NYC? Here's a 2007 digital illustration from Crown Infrastructure that shows what a safety system would look like if installed at a Grand Central subway platform (on the 7 line): AP / Crown Infrastructure And here's what the 7 platform looks like now: Wikimedia Commons Will it ever happen? In a statement, the MTA said that it was unlikely: Based on the MTA's preliminary analysis, the challenge of installing platform edge barriers in the New York City subway system would be both expensive and extremely challenging given the varied station designs and the differences in door positions among some subway car classes. But in light of recent tragic events, we will consider the options for testing such equipment on a limited basis. Of course, we remind customers of the overall safety of the subway system but urge them to stand well back from the platform edge and remain watchful of their surroundings. The MTA won't cite a specific number, but the installation could cost more than $1 million per station,†according to Alex Goldmark of Transportation Nation. New York's subway system has 468 stations.
All signs point to the fact that Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is not long for this world. The last reports of his condition say that his cancer treatment isn't going very well and that he's suffering from complications from a severe lung infection. So it's time to look at what's coming next. After all, Chavez, who has been President of Venezuela since 1999, has already given his second in command, Nicolas Maduro, and his party, the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV), their marching orders. A special election is to be held 30 days after Inauguration Day in the likely event that Chavez can't make it. Maduro would then be the PSUV's candidate, and for some reason this making investors optimistic. Check out this assessment of the situation from a recent Morgan Stanley report: We continue to recommend our long Venezuela vs. Brazil RV trade as investors envisage a more market-friendly policy from the Venezuelan government if M. Chavez were forced to give up power. And this one Bank of America Merrill Lynch: We expect a major FX adjustment early next year which, together with the ongoing spending cuts, is likely to significantly improve the countryís fiscal position. A major delay of the adjustment could occur if the government were to significantly postpone calling new elections. In view of yesterdayís results, we think this is unlikely. Either the government takes advantage of its electoral strength, calls elections now and implements the adjustment soon thereafter, or Cha¥vezís health improves enough to allow him to take office and Cha¥vez himself implements the adjustment. We thus believe that the risks of a major delay in adjustment are low. One of the few things that's clear about Venezuela's political system is that most decisions are made behind closed doors. From Venezuela's current political theater though, we can see is that Chavez's party is taking great pains to show unity and stress that it wants to follow Chavez's 30-day directive to the letter. If there is infighting, though, expect chaos as former bus driver and labor activist Maduro's supporters clash with those of military man Diosdado Cabello, according to ABC's Manuel Rueda. Chaos, of course, has never been good for markets. Not a great scenario. There's another option. Maduro could lose the special election to Venezuela's opposition party. As Venezuelan journalist Francisco Toro points out, though, that's highly unlikely as Maduro he will have Chavez's powerful political machine behind him. From The New Republic: Venezuela's long suffering liberal opposition looks on this spectacle with some hope and not a little trepidation. In elections barely two months ago, the opposition was thumped by more than 11 points as an ailing Ch·vez, barely able to campaign, nonetheless coasted to a third term. To some, Ch·vez's charisma carried the day. My analysis is less optimistic: That campaign showed the obscene structural advantages a cash-flush petrostate incumbent enjoys in an increasingly autocratic environment where opposition fundraising is badly hobbled by harassment and intimidation against its donors, and all checks on the abuse of official prerogatives for campaign advantage have been hollowed out. While Maduro has none of Ch·vez's charisma or storied emotional bond with the poor, he would undoubtedly inherit that advantage. So that's the third option ó that these politicians stick to their script, and the people re-elect PSUV. † The question becomes, then, in that event would Maduro institute more market friendly policies? Based on his record the answer to that is simple ó no. Maduro has always been a Chavista without wavering, loyal to a fault. Not only that, but if he's elected he will have to build legitimacy for himself (the party's alone may not carry him). Now how will he do that? Probably not by making the tough decisions that the Venezuelan economy desperately needs, like cutting spending (as the fiscal deficit approaches 20%), cutting the number of public sector jobs, and/or ending oil subsidies for Venezuelans. Those were policies that made Chavez popular. Discontinuing them may not only anger the Venezuelan populace, but also create the perception that Maduro has turned away from their departed leader's philosophy. Maduro's close relationship with Fidel Castro doesn't help the "opening up the market" theory much either. That said, there have been reports of overtures to re-open dialogue between Venezuela and the United States. According to El Universal, Maduro had a long phone conversation about life-after-Chavez with Roberta S. Jacobson, the top US State Department official in charge of Latin American affairs, on November 21st. However, El Universal also points out that that call could just be a way for Maduro to buy time: Maduro, in turn, may be buying time to consolidate his leadership at home. "A hard-liner who is very close to Cuba's dictatorship, Maduro may have talked to Jacobson to send a message within the polarized Chavista movement that he's in charge, before any internal power struggle in Venezuela breaks out in the open," the sources added. Either way, one phone call with the United States certainly does not make Maduro a free market capitalist. Besides, Chavez himself constantly walked the line between bombastically proclaiming his hatred for the U.S., and ensuring that his enemy, and biggest oil importer, never brought sanctions down against Venezuela. Foreign Affairs' Javier Corrales calls that tight-rope routine "conservative anti-imperialism" (h/t Caracas Chronicles), and it looks something like this: ìAnd that points to a final piece of the Ch·vez legacy. He wants to be remembered as the most anti-American leader the world has seen since Fidel Castro. In reality, Ch·vez broke with Fidelís approach to the Yankee empire early on. To be sure, Ch·vez has enjoyed provoking the Americans, but only to a certain point, and never so much that the United States brought an embargo down on his head. So he has played his anti-Americanism conservatively: he has sided with the anti-imperialist FARC in Colombia, but has also managed to stay on good terms with the Colombian government. He has cooperated with Iran, but has also maintained good relations with the pro-American Saudis. He avoided nuclear weapons Ö Ch·vez came to understand that his expensive revolution needed the U.S. oil market and that he couldnít put his access to that market at risk. If he dies soon, he should be remembered as the United Statesí reliable oil partner ó the ultimate seller.î So it's complicated. All that said, does Venezuela sound like a place that ready to get its fiscal house in order to you?
Lance Armstrong is considering finally admitting that he doped, Juliet Macur of the New York Times reports. According to Macur, Armstrong "has told associates and antidoping officials that he is considering publicly admitting that he used banned performance-enhancing drugs and blood transfusions during his cycling career." The motivation for this confession, according to Macur? Armstrong wants to compete in organized sports again. And Lance Armstrong is reportedly hoping that, if he finally comes clean, the anti-doping agencies will lift his lifetime ban. It's easy to understand why Lance Armstrong would want to compete in organized sports again: He's an extraordinary athlete and competing is what he does best. And it's possible that Armstrong's conversations with the doping agencies are just part of a broader legal strategy to get agreements from every entity that might come after Armstrong in advance of an Armstrong confession. But from a broader perspective--a moral perspective--this might be called "putting the cart before the horse." Because there's a lot more riding on a Lance Armstrong doping confession than whether Lance Armstrong can compete in organized sports again. Specifically, there's Armstrong's future public reputation. And his financial fortune. And the careers and reputations of the many, many people that Armstrong lied about, insulted, attacked, and destroyed over the years while protecting his own fortune and reputation by lying about racing clean. And then there is just the simple, moral "doing the right thing," which--after more than a decade very publicly doing the wrong thing, again and again--Armstrong might want to consider doing, assuming that doing the right thing is something that is even remotely important to him. In other words, there is something more important in a Lance Armstrong confession than competing in organized sports will ever be: The beginning, possibly, of redemption. Because, don't forget, this confession would come after a decade of explicit, angry, and vicious denials, in which Armstrong and his lawyers attacked many former teammates, colleagues, and friends who helped him achieve all of his victories and then did nothing more than tell the truth. It would come after Armstrong received tens of millions of dollars in prize money, sponsorships, legal settlements, and other compensation that depended on his telling the truth about having raced clean. And it would come after a decade in which millions of Armstrong fans wanted to believe him and gave him the benefit of the doubt despite an ever-increasing mountain of evidence that he was lying...only to be made to feel like fools in the end. If Lance Armstrong wants to start righting wrongs--and if he wants people to believe that he's righting them because he actually cares about righting them--Armstrong might want to focus on those things first and worry about "competing" later. In other words, Armstrong might want to start with one simple concept: Telling the truth. Telling the truth not because doing so will allow Lance Armstrong "to compete again" or serve some other goal that is all about Lance Armstrong, but because telling the truth is just the right thing to do. And then, once he tells the truth, completely and humbly, Lance Armstrong could begin to apologize to all of the people he attacked, lied about, and tried to destroy over the years. Then he can start settling some of the lawsuits that have and will be brought against him now that it has been conclusively determined that he did, in fact, dope. (Combining the mountain of highly persuasive evidence the USADA brought against Armstrong, with Armstrong's decision not to defend himself, and, now, reports that Armstrong is considering finally confessing, makes any other conclusion seems impossible). Then he might write a book in which he tells his full story, honestly, and gives the proceeds to his charity. Then he might devote his amazing work ethic, discipline, and ability to inspire people to telling this story all over the world--with the same inspiring commitment that he demonstrated when he was still the king of the world. And then, after that, perhaps, if he still wants to, Lance Armstrong can go to the world anti-doping agencies and ask them if they might consider letting him compete in organized sports again. Because if he puts the last goal first, which he already appears to be doing, everyone looking in from the outside will be forced to conclude what they have already been forced to conclude over the past several years: That there's only one thing that Lance Armstrong cares about--and that's Lance Armstrong. SEE ALSO: Lance Armstrong Owes A Lot Of People An Apology

You know how HP said it uncovered $5 billion worth of allegedly fraudulent revenue at Autonomy? One thing HP has accused Autonomy of doing is¬†booking software-as-a-service contracts as software licensing deals. Autonomy has denied all allegations and the Department of Justice is now investigating. While we wait for information on that, the world is trying to figure out what this alleged "fraud" is really all about. How would the mechanics of this type of accounting work? A former Autonomy salesperson named Virginia Briody says she's seen it happen, firsthand. She alleges that, prior to HP's acquisition,¬†Autonomy executives massaged a SaaS deal into a big software licensing deal so they could recognize revenue up front, and show more growth than what the deal really was, a monthly agreement spanning four years. She says she has evidence ‚Äì emails and documents. Equally interesting is that a day after HP accused Autonomy of cooking the books, it used the testimony of Autonomy's former vice president of finance in court to defend Autonomy's accounting practices in this deal. Her tale is pretty interesting. But, before we get too far into it, readers should know that Briody is¬†not an unbiased witness.¬†She's been in a legal battle with HP over compensation since April 2012. She says HP owes her nearly $200,000. Also, representatives of both HP and of former Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch challenge much of what Briody¬†has to say. They deny wrongdoing with this deal and say she's upset that the most recent ruling in her legal battle with HP went against her (linked). With those caveats in mind, let's get to Briody's story. It all started when Briody was working as a salesperson for another software company, CA. She had closed a four-year $1.22 million hosting/software-as-a-service deal with a customer, Pioneer Investments, and was paid her full commission, over $100,000, she says. Autonomy bought the software unit from CA on June 9, 2010, and Briody became an employee of Autonomy and Autonomy inherited the Pioneer contract. But there was an issue. Autonomy didn't acquire all the pieces called for in the original contract, Briody says. It didn't have a partnership with the hosting facility and it didn't gain from CA a critical piece of compliance software the customer needed, she says. Autonomy needed to find substitutions or Pioneer would cancel the contract, Briody says. So in the fall of 2010, she signed a new deal with Pioneer and walked away with a four-year, $1.859 million contract of which Autonomy execs considered $1.8 million as new revenue, she says. According to Briody, the new deal was the same as the old one in that the customer would not install any software and agreed to make ongoing payments (see email embedded below). That's when things got weird, she describes. She says Autonomy execs wanted to change the terms from a mostly hosting deal to a mostly software license deal. Why would Autonomy execs want to do this? Briody says a¬†software licensing contract would allow Autonomy to recognize most of the deal's revenue up front. The accounting, legal and finance departments created the contract, she said, and "I did not have a choice, Autonomy made me do the contract this way," she told Business Insider. Briody knows Autonomy executives were working on a way to recognize more of the $1.9 million because she obtained emails from them and used them as evidence in her wage claim suit with the New Hampshire Department of Labor. Here is one of them, from Matt Stephan, in Autonomy's finance department: From: Matt Stephan [mailto:matt.stephan@autonomy.com]Sent: Friday, September 10, 2010 4:56 PMTo: Mike SullivanCc: Steve Chamberlain - Autonomy; 'James Crumbacher'Subject: PioneerImportance: High Mike ‚Äì need your help. As it currently stands, this deal has two problems which make recognizing licence revenue upfront very problematic. First is the payment terms which extend over the whole term of the licence, suggesting it‚Äôs a 3 year service we‚Äôre providing and not a software licence. Second is the fact that we‚Äôre combining the licence and hosted fees into a single number and then calling out in the contract a high hosting fee of $1.50/GB/mo for exceeding the 22TB. When calculating a carve out, we would need to start with this contracted rate and could only lower it to our VS OE with a compelling argument about why the $1.50 doesn‚Äôt apply. I appreciate the customer‚Äôs demands are driving the current structure but to get rev rec on the licence we need to get the following: 1) Substantial payment upfront and following payments not dragging out over whole term 2) Separate monthly hosting fees Give me a shout if you need more info. Thanks Matt Ultimately Autonomy execs revised the contract to spell out over $1 million of software licenses sold, Briody says, showing us another email (embedded below). To make the deal with Pioneer really look like a software deal, Briody says Autonomy even sent the customer "product code keys" which are used to unlock software. Briody says this confused the customer, since the customer wasn't installing any software. Briody showed us an email from the customer asking about the keys. (Again, representatives from HP and former Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch say that the customer asked for and bought the software.) Eventually, Briody says she re-did the deal as her Autonomy bosses asked. Then, she says, they fired her. Briody¬†filed a wage claim with the Department of Labor in April, 2012.¬†The DOL found in her favor in July 2012, and said she was due $196,000 including full commission on the second Pioneer contract and damages.¬†In August 2012, HP, which by then owned Autonomy, appealed the ruling.¬†This time, the court ruled in HP's favor. (Here's a link to DOL document.) Importantly, Briody's actual legal claim against HP has nothing to do with whether or not Autonomy committed fraud on this deal. Her claim is that HP, because it owns Autonomy, owes her a commission on the second deal (even though CA had already paid her a commission for the first deal) based on her employment contract with Autonomy and conversations made to her by her supervisors. HP says that the only reason Autonomy had to redo the deal was that Briody didn't get the customer, Pioneer, the deal it wanted in the first place, and that Pioneer had to ask for it to be redone. To this, Briody says that the deal was fine until Autonomy acquired it from CA, but didn't also buy from CA all the software and services that was part of it. At this point, it's a he-said/she-said legal mess ‚Äì with HP getting the latest result from the courts and another appeal in the works. The whole saga is, interesting, however, in that it is a look at¬†how, as Briody alleges, Autonomy might have structured a SaaS deal to look more like a licensing deal primarily by ‚Ä¶writing a contract that denotes a large portion of the fees as a software license ‚Ä¶shipping the license keys even if they will not be used¬† ... invoicing the customer for a big chunk of money up front (much to the surprise of this customer, Briody contends) ‚Ä¶and structuring monthly payment terms on a single invoice (see email embedded below). We asked HP for comment and HP politely declined. A source close to the company told us that "this transaction was not one that surfaced during the investigation" by HP into Autonomy's accounting. A spokesperson for Autonomy's founder and former CEO Mike Lynch said that Lynch was not involved in the deal. Since this contract was over $100,000, it was reviewed by an auditor and the "revenue would have been recognized in accordance with IFRS, as applied by the auditor," the spokesperson said. This is the same response that Lynch has made to HP's accusations. As we previously reported, in addition to HP's accusations about hosting deals, HP has also accused Autonomy execs of improper accounting on hardware sales and in how it handled accounts related to its reseller channel. Here is the email that shows how executives discussed restructuring the Pioneer hosting contract into a software licensing deal (click to enlarge image): Virginia Briody ¬† Here is a second email that shows how Autonomy execs structured monthly payment terms. Virginia Briody ¬† Here is a link to the original DOL document finding in Briody's favor that summarizes how the customer's contract was negotiated.
">St. Louis FedJames BullardNEW YORK (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will be in a position to think about halting its large-scale asset purchases this year if the U.S. economy improves, a top central bank official said on Friday, fingering a 7.1-percent unemployment rate as a possible goal. "If the economy performs well in 2013, the Committee will be in a position to think about going on pause" with the asset buys, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said on CNBC television. "If it doesn't do very well then the balance sheet policy will probably continue into 2014." Fed policymakers are increasingly concerned about the impact their purchase of $85-billion in longer-term bonds and mortgage securities are having on financial markets. Minutes from their December policy meeting showed that "several" top officials expected to slow or stop the so-called quantitative easing program, dubbed QE3, "well before" the end of the year - news that surprised some on Wall Street and prompted a drop in stocks and bonds, and a rise in the dollar. Bullard, a voter this year on Fed policy who is toward the hawkish end of the spectrum of Fed policymakers, is the first top central bank official to speak publicly since the minutes were unveiled on Thursday. Bullard said he expects unemployment to "continue to tick down through 2013," adding the Fed could ramp down the asset purchases if the jobless rate drops to 7.1 percent. "That would be probably substantial improvement and the committee could think about removing accommodation on the balance sheet side of the policy at that point," he said. U.S. unemployment was 7.8 percent last month. With the Fed's key interest rate having remained near zero since late 2008 to encourage economic recovery from the Great Recession, the bond purchases are meant to lower longer-term rates and to encourage investment and hiring in the broader economy. A few more Fed policymakers are due to speak later on Friday. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Additional reporting by Herb Lash; Editing by Vicki Allen) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
">St. Louis FedJames BullardNEW YORK (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will be in a position to think about halting its large-scale asset purchases this year if the U.S. economy improves, a top central bank official said on Friday, fingering a 7.1-percent unemployment rate as a possible goal. "If the economy performs well in 2013, the Committee will be in a position to think about going on pause" with the asset buys, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said on CNBC television. "If it doesn't do very well then the balance sheet policy will probably continue into 2014." Fed policymakers are increasingly concerned about the impact their purchase of $85-billion in longer-term bonds and mortgage securities are having on financial markets. Minutes from their December policy meeting showed that "several" top officials expected to slow or stop the so-called quantitative easing program, dubbed QE3, "well before" the end of the year - news that surprised some on Wall Street and prompted a drop in stocks and bonds, and a rise in the dollar. Bullard, a voter this year on Fed policy who is toward the hawkish end of the spectrum of Fed policymakers, is the first top central bank official to speak publicly since the minutes were unveiled on Thursday. Bullard said he expects unemployment to "continue to tick down through 2013," adding the Fed could ramp down the asset purchases if the jobless rate drops to 7.1 percent. "That would be probably substantial improvement and the committee could think about removing accommodation on the balance sheet side of the policy at that point," he said. U.S. unemployment was 7.8 percent last month. With the Fed's key interest rate having remained near zero since late 2008 to encourage economic recovery from the Great Recession, the bond purchases are meant to lower longer-term rates and to encourage investment and hiring in the broader economy. A few more Fed policymakers are due to speak later on Friday. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Additional reporting by Herb Lash; Editing by Vicki Allen) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
AP ImagesNOTE: This post's headline originally suggested that Mr. Sack had been fired, when he actually resigned. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Brian Sack, the former head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's open market operations who for the last six months served as a senior policy adviser, is to resign effective January 18. In the latest twist in Sack's tenure at the U.S. central bank, the New York Fed said late on Friday that Sack had announced his intention to resign. It was the second such notice in less than a year. In April 2012 it was announced that Sack would resign his position overseeing the U.S. central bank's market-based monetary policy actions - including its quantitative easing programs - which he had held since 2009. But on what was to be his last day on the job, June 29, the New York Fed said Sack had withdrawn his resignation and would instead stay on in a new position as adviser to New York Fed President William Dudley. Seen as a rising star at the Fed, Sack helped it steer through the fallout from the financial crisis and tepid U.S. recovery from recession. Through a New York Fed spokesman, Sack declined to comment. The New York Fed's markets group deals directly with Wall Street and foreign central banks, carrying out Fed actions in the open market. Simon Potter, formerly an internal director of economic research, now heads that group. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Leslie Adler) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
