REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannIf you're following the "race" for the Fed chairmanship, then you ought to read Ben White and Patrick Reis at Politico in a big story that basically amounts to the compleat defense of Lary Summers, the embattled frontrunner to replace Ben Bernanke. White and Reis report that Summers is the White House's #1 choice right now, although nothing is settled. What's key is that the piece has a roundup of all of the arguments from the Summers camp against the biggest anti-Summers complaints. Specifically it addresses claims of sexism, that he's uncomfirmable, that he caused the meltdown, and that his views on monetary policy are a wildcard. Here's part of the section on Summers and monetary policy: People close to Summers rebut this argument in two ways. First, they say that the one person who knows exactly where Summers stands on monetary policy is the only one who really matters right now: Obama. They also note that Summers has actually written extensively on monetary policy. One person noted that if you use Google Scholar and type in ‚ÄúLawrence Summers‚Äù and ‚Äúmonetary policy‚Äù you get more than 7,000 hits, including many long academic papers on the subject. Summers has indeed questioned the overall efficacy of ‚Äúquantitative easing‚Äù ‚Äî widely known as ‚ÄúQE,‚Äù which means buying up bonds to keep the rate low across the economy. According to the Financial Times, he told a conference in April: ‚ÄúQE in my view is less efficacious for the real economy than most people suppose.‚Äù Summers supporters note that Bernanke himself has questioned how effective it is. And there is no real evidence that Yellen, though beloved by liberals, is some kind of radical who would dramatically change the central bank‚Äôs current direction. Another person who has questioned the risks of QE: Barack Obama. The president told The New York Times in an interview last week: ‚ÄúI want a Fed chairman that can step back and look at that objectively and say, ‚ÄòLet‚Äôs make sure that we‚Äôre growing the economy, but let‚Äôs also keep an eye on inflation, and if it starts heating up, if the markets start frothing up, let‚Äôs make sure that we‚Äôre not creating new bubbles.‚Äô‚Äù Anyway, the big thing is that between this story, and tonight's story from WSJ's Jon Hilsenrath (which focuses specifically on Summers' views on monetary policy), it appears that A) Summers is still the state frontrunner according to insiders and B) Team Summers has decided to really fight back against some of the stories going against them. Read the full POLITICO story here &gt;
The translation of Abenomics (aggressive monetary easing) into an improving economy is not a smooth process. Not only has there been quite a bit of financial market volatility (admittedly, much of it to the upside), but the data remains spotty. Yesterday we got two bad datapoints. Both industrial production and household spending missed estimates. Today we got a miss on its PMI reading for July. It came in at 50.7 vs. 52.3 expected. Via Markit, here's the summary and the chart. Markit Markit You can't read a ton into three datapoints, but still, Japan is early in a process of coming out of its slump. A little ominous to already see a string of misses.
For the last 24 hours, there's been a meme in the media: Nobody really knows where Larry Summers stands on monetary policy. That's kind of a big deal, since that's what the Fed deals with. It's also important since his presumed chief rival, Janet Yellen, is one of the world's most important monetary policy minds, who has done work that's at the cutting edge of the field. We wrote about this issue for Summers this morning. Neil Irwin at The Washington Post followed up with it later on. Well, Summers just answered the question. Kind of. Jon Hilsenrath at WSJ has a new report that clearly comes from Team Summers. A close reading of Mr. Summers's columns and speeches, as well as conversations with people familiar with his thinking and a June interview with him, show that Mr. Summers has been skeptical about the benefits of the Fed's huge bond-buying programs, known as "quantitative easing," but that he also has said he sees few harmful side effects stemming from them. Mr. Summers's views are of intense interest, both in Washington and on Wall Street, because the next Fed chairman likely will have to manage the exit from extraordinarily easy policies intended to bolster the economy. Investors have become unsettled about any mention of the Fed's pulling back from the bond buying, and both Democrats and Republicans have been vocal about what they would like to see from the next Fed chief. So Summers, like Yellen, would likely be dovish. That being said, we kind of lied in the title of this post. Summers answered a question, but he didn't answer the question. Yes, Summers would be dovish, and he wouldn't knee-jerk pullback on QE, but frankly, the QE question is pretty overrated. The "tapering" of large-scale asset purchases is baked in the cake, and will likely start later this year, with an eye towards ending them totally some time next year. It's not that controversial that Summers is skeptical on the efficacy of QE. Even the Fed is done with it. Most of the interesting questions have to do with guidance, and other unconventional tools that the Fed can use while interest rates are near zero. Here is where Yellen is a leading-edge theorist (see here, for example) and Summers is a closed book. This story from Hilsenrath assures that Summers is no hawk, though as we said this morning, that was always a dubious way to characterize him. But what tools Summers would be inclined to use as Fed Chair remains unclear.
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens to questions as he testifies before a House Budget Committee hearing on "The Near-Term Outlook for the U.S. Economy" on Capitol Hill in Washington, January 17, 2008.The Federal Reserve will wrap up its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Wednesday.† That's when we'll get their latest FOMC statement, which will update us on the direction of monetary policy. For the most part economists don't expect much news.† The Fed is expected to keep it benchmark interest rate target unchanged at near-zero. Since May, all of the talk has been about when the Fed would begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds. But economists don't believe that will begin tomorrow. "Even uber-hawk Charles Plosser has called a first move in September, and if he doesn't advocate a July move, it's hard to see anyone in the leadership doing so," said JP Morgan's Michael Feroli. So, if there's anything new, it'll be in the form of tweaks to the language in the Fed's statement. And we can't begin to guess what those tweaks will look like until 8:30 a.m. ET tomorrow. "[T]here will obviously need to be some changes here to reflect the Q2 GDP report, reported only 5-1/2 hours before the statement is released (though the Fed will likely get most of the report the prior afternoon)," said Feroli. "If we are right that growth last quarter prints with a zero-handle, the statement will need to reflect this without sounding too downbeat, e.g. through appeals to transitory fiscal drags, etc." "We don't necessarily think a zero-handle would spook the Fed too much or get them to backtrack on taper talk. When Bernanke last spoke before Congress, he probably had a good sense that Q2 would look pretty lame, and yet he did not walk back the taper timeline. Although the Chairman raised some deflation concerns in the inter-meeting period, we believe the incoming data has been such that there will be little change in the statement's description of the inflation situation." We'll cover the GDP release and FOMC statements live at BusinessInsider.com.
Shares of Booz Allen Hamilton are spiking in after-hours trading. However, it's unclear exactly what's going on. The move comes after a CNBC tweet: "ALERT: Accenture in talks to buy consulting firm Booz &amp; Company; unclear if Booz &amp; Co. has other suitors - DJ" According to the Wall Street Journal's Joann Lublin and Sharon Terlep, "Consulting giant Accenture PLC is in talks to acquire smaller rival Booz &amp; Co., people familiar with the matter said." Booz &amp; Co. was spun out of Booz Allen Hamilton via a 2008 private equity deal. Booz Allen Hamilton saw its shares experience quite a bit of volatility after one of its employees Edward Snowden leaked classified information belonging to the National Security Agency, a client. "The two companies aren't connected today," said Lublin and Terlep regarding Booz &amp; Co. and Booz Allen Hamilton. It's possible that some traders got a little trigger happy. Here's a look at the late move via MarketWatch.com: MarketWatch Here's the Tweet from CNBC: ALERT: Accenture in talks to buy consulting firm Booz &amp; Company; unclear if Booz &amp; Co. has other suitors - DJ | $ACN
REUTERS/Susana VeraTraders talk at the Madrid stock exchange.It's been a while since we've heard the words "Europe" and "crisis" used in the same sentence. Indeed, new purchasing managers index (PMI) figures appear to be the green shoots of an economic recovery. All of this comes as the emerging market (EM) countries like China have slowed down considerably. Investors who believe the tides are beginning to turn will want to adjust their investment exposures before they miss the boat. "More than a few clients have expressed interest in finding companies with exposure to Europe and less exposure to EM," said Tom Lee, JP Morgan's top equity strategist. "Granted, Europe is not likely to grow at the pace of EM, but a positive turn is still a positive turn," added Lee. Lee and his team looked at over 200 companies housed in North America that report their geographic exposure to both Europe and the EMs.
REUTERS/Valentin FlauraudFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. How One Advisor Team Abandoned Merrill Lynch For HighTower And Saw It's Business Double (WealthManagement.com) After 20 years at Merrill Lynch, Paul Pagnato and David Karp jumped to HighTower Advisors. Since then the Pagnato-Karp Group, as the team is known, has grown from $1 billion in assets and 11 people, to $2 billion in assets and 17 people, reports WealthManagement.com. This, they said, is because of their fee-based compensation model. "Now that they know we don‚Äôt have a product to sell or an offering, they know that we‚Äôre fiduciaries, the floodgates just opened up," Pagnato told WealthManagement.com.¬† Switching to HighTower also gave them more flexibility than they had at Merrill allowing them to make TV appearances allowing them to establish the brand. They also have more options in terms of the investment products they use.  Advisors Need To Factor In A Few Different Metrics To Benchmark Properly (The Wall Street Journal) Jonathan Citrin founder of Michigan based CitrinGroup writes that it is important for advisors to benchmark properly so they can better gauge their performance.¬† "One thing that advisers struggle with is whether to benchmark‚Äìincluding fees‚Äìbecause they can change the appearance of performance. My advice is to report performances to clients without the noise caused by fees, to show whether the net increase is desirable. However, when you're looking at performance internally, examine your performance including fees, in addition to net performance, to analyze their effect." To benchmark properly he says advisors should factor in rate of return and measurement of risk. "Blending benchmarks" is also important because portfolios consist of stocks and bonds. And since advisors are operating in an increasingly globalized world, he also recommends using a global market cap benchmark. Advisors Should Stop Taking Performance At Face Value And Check For These Metrics (FA Mag) Advisors shouldn't take the performance of an asset at face value writes Jason Brady, a portfolio manager at Thornburg Investment Management in a new FA Mag column. Instead, he recommends that we factor in "the complexity of taxes on investment income." He also points out that "the take home value of dividends is higher than that of ordinary income in the form of bond yield." He also argues that the type of asset and the length of the holding period should be factored into performance. "Some other key metrics that advisors should look out for when judging the tax efficiency of a particular portfolio are turnover, volatility, and embedded capital gains or losses." Our Big Institutional Clients Have Capitulated And Are Diving Into Stocks (Bank of America) In recent weeks Bank of America Merrill Lynch's retail clients have loaded up on stocks while institutional investors have shed them. "After near-record net sales by institutional clients in mid July, and following five weeks of outflows, institutions became net buyers of US stocks this past week," writes BAML's Savita Subramanian.¬† "Flows at extremes can signal a shift in trends, as late last year we saw capitulation by private clients which preceded two months of net buying in by this group. And outflows by institutional clients [year-to-date] are now approaching full-year 2008 and 2010 levels, after which they were net buyers in 2009 and 2011." Bank of America Merrill Lynch FBI Agents Arrest Tech Analyst Sandeep Aggarwal For Leaking Non-Public Info To A Former SAC Portfolio Manager (Business Insider) Sell side analyst Sandeep Aggarwal was arrested yesterday in San Jose, California on insider trading charges. Aggarwal is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud, and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Aggarwal worked at Collins Stewart at the time that he is reported to have tipped off SAC portfolio manager Richard Lee to a potential deal between Microsoft and Yahoo.
Firefly/Dan ShipperJustin Meltzer (L) and Dan Shipper (R) run a profitable startup, Firefly. Dan Shipper, 22, is going into his final semester at University of Pennsylvania. Unlike most seniors, Shipper doesn't spend his nights fretting about finding a job or endlessly partying. He is already self-employed. Much of his spare time is spent running a tech business that's more or less bootstrapped: Firefly. He and his partner, Justin Meltzer, raised $20,000 from First Round Capital's Dorm Room Fund. This isn't their first startup either. The pair met at a coffee shop during Shipper's sophomore year (Meltzer is one year older), where a group of students interested in tech entrepreneurship gathered on Fridays. Their first joint venture was Airtime, a company they've since discontinued. Both are technical; Shipper has been coding since he was in fifth grade. Meltzer taught himself five years ago. Firefly is a 2-person startup (three if you count the intern) that has only been around for 10 months. It enables customer service reps to share their screens with customers and co-browse without requiring them to download any software. Its 6,000 customers either pay $25-99 per customer service rep or a fixed monthly rate if it's a large organization. Today Firefly announced a partnership with chat company Olark that accounts for 5,000 of its 6,000 clients. Despite Shipper splitting time between class and "real" work, Firefly is profitable. It's "well into the 6-figures in annual revenue," says Shipper. Most college kids in that position would be throwing keggers and buying friends rounds at the bar. We asked Shipper what he does with all the money he earns, how he manages his time, and what his plans are when he graduates in December. The following is a lightly edited Q&amp;A. BUSINESS INSIDER: Firefly generates 6-figures per year. What does a college kid ñ sorry, "young adult" ñ do with all that extra cash? DAN SHIPPER: Yes, well into the 6-figures. But I can't tell you exactly where in the six figures. We just plow the money right back into the business. We pay ourselves a little bit of a salary but most of it goes toward expenses. Lawyer bills when you run a company like ours can get high. It's not like all of this is profit. We are pretty frugal with our money. BI: So Firefly is profitable? DS: Definitely profitable. It's just the two of us and an intern. BI: What do your friends and classmates think of all this? DS: They think it's cool, especially when we tell them the number of customers we have. Before we were successful they stopped listening when we said "customer support software." BI: What is your typical day like? DS: I go to classes during the day, which start between 10 and 1. After that I'm in the office [First Round Capital's in Philadelphia] until midnight. I have a full course load and I'm graduating early; I took more classes than I had to so I could graduate in December. BI: Do you have a social life? DS: Yah, I go out some. BI: Do your friends see the fruits of your labor? AKA do you buy them rounds of drinks?† DS:†[Laughs] Maybe when we get to 7 figures in revenue we'll do that. BI: But you're a college kid making tons of money. Even if you paid yourself $30,000 a year that'd be a fortune for a college student. You never share the financial love with any friends? DS:†We're not paying ourselves even close to $30,000.† BI: Justin, what was your schedule like? JUSTIN MELTZER: I had the same schedule as Dan. I graduated early but after class we'd meet and work on the business. DS: We'd meet in my lounge in the dorm. People were running around; chairs were uncomfortable. Now at First Round we have things like free snacks and a skeeball machine. Our office is closer to my house than any of my classes. BI: With such hectic schedules, how did you manage to close a big partnership like Olark? You said that deal alone increased your customer base from 1,000 to 6,000. JM: Dan got an intro to them. We've been working really hard on it over the last year to get it done. We thought Olark would be a natural fit. DS: I realized Olark was a Y Combinator [a Silicon Valley startup accelerator] company. I asked another Y Combinator grad, Jason Freedman of 42Floors, for an intro. He set it up. BI: What's the plan when you graduate? To join Justin full time? Will you relocate Firefly to New York? DS: The plan is to keep working on Firefly full time. We're not sure where we'll be located. We both really, really like Philly.

Everyone's going nuts about a Huffington Post story that McDonald's could double wages for all of its employees, including its very well-paid CEO, and pay for this increase by raising the price of a Big Mac by only 68 cents. Those who would like McDonald's to pay its employees enough to live on love this idea. And what's not to love? Finally, McDonald's full-time restaurant employees would not have to suffer the ignominy and hardship of being poor in addition to having to work at McDonald's. Finally, McDonald's restaurants would be staffed by folks who felt proud and lucky to work there. Finally, America's "McJobs" problem, in which middle-class manufacturing jobs are being replaced by low-paying retail service jobs, would be getting addressed at the source. And, finally, America's strapped consumers, some of whom are McDonald's employees, would have more money to spend ó and that money might accelerate revenue growth for not just McDonald's (employees eat there, too), but many other companies. Those who have bought into the "profit maximization" obsession that has taken over American business culture over the past 30 years, however, hate this idea. McDonald's shouldn't pay its employees a penny more than it absolutely has to, these folks say. It's not McDonald's fault that those employees have no skills and aren't worth more than $7.25 an hour. McDonald's should pay those people as little as possible and deliver as much profit as possible to its shareholders. The only purpose of a company, after all, is to make money for its shareholders. And McDonald's should absolutely not raise the price of its Big Macs by so much as a penny, because then it would sell fewer of them! Those are the two schools of thought on the McDonald's-doubling-wages talk. But there is another possibility here ó one that, in this profit-obsessed country, no one is even considering. That possibility is that McDonald's could double its restaurant-worker wages and not increase its prices at all ... but instead just make a little less money. In other words, it could better balance the interests of all three of its stakeholders ó shareholders, customers, and employees ó instead of shafting employees to deliver as much profit as possible to shareholders. According to the Kansas City researcher who did the original wages-to-Big Mac study, McDonald's spends about 17% of U.S. revenue on employee salaries and benefits. If that ratio holds true worldwide, McDonald's would have spent about $4.7 billion on salaries and benefits last year, on revenue of $27 billion. Meanwhile, the company made about $8.5 billion of operating income. (This is for the corporate parent, not the franchises.). If McDonald's doubled the wages of its restaurant employees (not management, which is presumably very well-compensated), it might add, say, another $3 billion of annual expenses. This would knock its operating profit down to a still healthy $5.5 billion. Importantly, however, $5.5 billion is still a lot of money. McDonald's would still be very profitable. Big Macs would still cost the same as they do today (billions and billions would still be served!) McDonald's managers would still take home their impressive salaries. And McDonald's restaurant employees would, finally, rise above the poverty line. And their extra spending money would quickly be spent on other products and services, thus helping the whole economy. By paying these higher wages, McDonald's would also be able to hire the best restaurant workers in the whole economy, thus presumably improving the McDonald's experience for customers and reducing turnover and retraining costs. So, how about it McDonald's? How about doubling your restaurant employees' wages and just making less money? Your employees will be in great shape. And your shareholders will still do just fine. UPDATE: Ryan Chittum at CJR dug into McDonald's numbers and estimates that employee costs are about 24% of revenue, not 17%. So if the company doubled wages, its operating income would likely drop a bit more than I ballparked above.
Facebook's stock hasn't closed above $38 since its first day of trading last year. But in the last week, its stock has been on a tear.¬†Today, the stock got as high as at least $37.95.¬† Part of Facebook's recent stock jump is due to its better-than-expected earnings report last week. The numbers in its mobile business were especially good. Facebook said 41% of its ad revenues came from mobile, a huge jump.
REUTERS/Herwig PrammerPeople enjoy the Altausseer See (Altaussee lake) in the alpine village of Altaussee in Austria's southern province of Styria, August 23, 2012.Stocks spent most of the day in the green.† After dipping briefly into the red early in the afternoon, they climbed back and basically ended flat for the day. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
The amazing economics website FRED got a bunch of new international data last week and it makes charting the global economic situation very fun and easy. So to play around with the new datasets we made two charts that nicely tell the story of the European crisis. Understand these, and you'll understand what the crisis was and is all about. The first shows Greek imports (red line) vs. German exports (blue line) since about the introduction of the Euro. Both are indexed to start at 100. As you can see, Greek imports exploded after the Euro's introduction (as the country got a stronger currency and cheaper access to credit) and this proved to be a gigantic boon to German exporters, who now had a much wealthier end market in Greece. German exports boomed at roughly the same pace as Greek imports (note there's more to the Euro crisis than just Greece, but it's a good example to magnify the whole situation) FRED The second chart shows unit labor costs in Greece (red line) vs. Germany (blue line) since the Euro's introduction. Greek labor costs soared post euro, while Germany famously held the line on keeping labor costs down. This made Greece relatively uncompetitive, forcing a painful "internal devaluation" in order to get competitive again. FRED Both of these stories are pretty well known, but now they're super easy to chart, and a lot of these themes still aren't known by many folks.
ReutersDespite its growing popularity, the belief that money has little or nothing to do with happiness is misleading. Like Schopenhauerís musings and Marianaís troubles, the sweeping rhetoric about the emptiness of material wealth supports a dubious proposition that the pursuit of economic progress is somehow a waste of time because it does not deliver what is most important in life. Despite the skepticism about run-of-the-mill economic growth, despite the angry denunciations of materialism, it is usually better to have a big gross domestic product than a small one. Just ask one of the more than 3 billion peopleóhalf the worldís populationóhow happy they are making do with less than $2.50 a day.†In fact, surveys <U+FB01> nd that richer people tend to be happier than poorer people. Thatís because money provides many of the things†that improve peopleís lot. Richer countries are generally healthier†and have lower child mortality and higher life expectancy. They tend to have cleaner environments, and their citizens often have more education and less physically demanding and more interesting jobs. Richer people usually have more leisure time, travel more, and have more money to enjoy the arts. Money helps people overcome constraints and take control over their lives. Whatever Kennedy said, gross national product does allow for the health of our kids. Researchers in Britain found that an extra £125,000 a year increased peopleís sense of satisfaction with their lives by one point on a scale of one to seven. A study in Australia pored through surveys to understand how peopleís feelings of happiness responded to lifeís events. It found that a windfall of $16,500 to $24,500 provided more or less the same boost to happiness as getting married. Losingbetween $178,300 and $187,600 generated the same level of unhappiness as that caused by the death of a child. A Gallup survey in 2009 found that 30 percent of Americans earning less than $24,000 a year had received a diagnosis of depression, compared with only 13 percent of Americans making $60,000 or more. Happiness can be bought for a price. There is a problem with the enthusiasm for replacing GDP with a measure of happiness. Who gets to de<U+FB01>ne what makes people happy? Would it be the very same governments that would bene<U+FB01>t if the indicator found a happy citizenry? For instance, media reports from Bhutan suggest the Bhutanese have lost interest in Langthab and other traditional sports. They are nonetheless included among the fonts of happiness. Bhutan is a fairly authoritarian nation. The government banned television until 1999. In 1989 it made it mandatory for all Bhutanese to speak Dzongkha in public places. In 1985, it passed a new citizenship law that rede<U+FB01> ned ethnic Nepalese in southern Bhutan who couldnít prove they had arrived by 1958 as nonnationals, and subsequently expelled about 100,000 of them. It has nice things, like 72 percent forest cover and few tourists. But it also has a lot of female infanticide and feticide and a lopsided sex ratio of 89.2 females per 100 males. More democratic regimes might have problems de<U+FB01>ning the attributes of happiness. While Bhutan may be a happy nation, this probably has less to do with the many dimensions of their index than with their material wealth. In 1980, Bhutanís GDP per person was 10 percent higher than Indiaís. Today it is 75 percent higher. In 2009, as the rest of the world slumped, Bhutan grew 6.9 percent. In 2008 the Bhutanese economy grew by a <U+FB01> fth. Like other countries around the world, it has grown happier as it has grown richer. The World Values Survey, a set of polls performed around the world over the past twenty years, found that the happiest country in the world is rich Denmark. The least happy is poor Zimbabwe. The 2006 Gallup World Poll asked adults in 132 countries to rank their satisfaction with life on a scale of zero to ten. The citizens of Togo,whose gross domestic product per person is only $832, ranked their satisfaction at just above three. Americans, <U+FB01>fty-<U+FB01>ve times as rich, put their happiness at seven. This post has been excerpted from The Price of Everything: Solving the mystery of why we pay what we do by Eduardo Porter†by arrangement with Portfolio, a member of Penguin Group (USA), Inc., Copyright (c) Eduardo Porter, 2013.
Courtesy of Vanity FairNow we know what that tantalizing Michael Lewis "One Man's Goldman Sachs Nightmare" cover story in the upcoming issue of†Vanity Fair†is about...† According to a Goldman source familiar with the situation, Lewis's story is about former Goldman Sachs programmer Sergei Alyenikov, who was tried, convicted, and then later acquitted of stealing trade secrets from Goldman. Says our Goldman source: "This is a sexed-up headline for a very old story, one that has already received extensive ink from the financial and tabloid press. It's about a former GS techie, Sergei Alyenikov, who was prosecuted by the US Department of Justice for stealing proprietary technology from his employer and convicted by a jury in US federal court. When an appeals court reversed that conviction on a technicality, the US congress closed the loophole on a bipartisan vote, and President Obama then signed it into law." "'Vanity Fair, which typically gives writers months to work on its longer articles, sent Goldman Sachs a series of detailed and one-sided questions about the Alyenikov case on a Saturday afternoon in July and asked for responses by Tuesday morning." This is the response that Goldman sent Vanity Fair:† "Goldman Sachs has spent millions of dollars and tens of thousands of hours developing the proprietary source code and technology used in our market making business. The firm has put in place extensive safeguards to protect this valuable technology. In addition to the contractual limits on disseminating confidential information, the firm restricts access to proprietary technology to those employees whose duties designing and maintaining the technology require such access. The firm has also implemented a broad array of technical safeguards to identify or block attempts ot move such code outside its firewall.† "In this case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit determined that Sergei Alyenikov, minutes before his going-away party, 'encrypted and uploaded to a server in Germany more than 500,000 lines of source code for Goldman's HFT system.' While some of those files included open source software, the Court determined that 'a substantially greater number of the uploaded files contained proprietary code.' The Court went on to note that the code 'could be integrated into a competitor's system' and that Mr. Alyenikov†then 'deleted the encryption program as well as the history of his computer commands.' After leaving Goldman, he downloaded the code to his home computer and brought it to his new employer, who had offered him a job paying more than 2.5 times his salary at Goldman. Those facts are not in dispute."† The next issue of the magazine hits newsstands on Thursday. It's Vanity Fair and Michael Lewis, so even if it's an old story, it will probably be good...
Corporate margins in the US are no longer expanding at the rate they were in the first couple of years after the recession. In fact margins are now undergoing a gradual decline. WSJ: - Revenue at the companies that make up the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock indexóexcluding banks, whose profits have soaredóis expected to creep up by just 1.1% in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to Thomson Reuters, which melds Wall Street analysts' projections with company reports. Earnings, meanwhile, are expected to decline 0.6%. That would be the first profit decline for nonfinancial companies since last autumn and the first time in a year that earnings grew more slowly than revenue,†a sign that margin widening is petering out. Analysts are blaming this on weak economic growth and poor business spending. Some are pointing to the end of the refinancing binge that allowed corporate treasurers to capture falling interest rates. That game is now over and lower funding costs will no longer add to margins. If we step outside the US however, most nations - particularly emerging markets - are seeing even sharper downward adjustments to margin growth. Sober Look According to JPMorgan, profit margins are heavily impacted by changing trends in labor productivity gains, which have declined globally. Change in profit margins is in fact proportional to the deviations from longer term growth trend in productivity. And emerging markets have seen the highest correction to that trend, resulting in higher reduction in corporate margins. Sober Look The US actually exhibits a relatively stable productivity trend which had accelerated right after the recession but has since declined. That's why US margins grew sharply after the recession and have been in a gradual downward drift recently. Nations such as Hungary and Russia on the other hand saw an extreme adjustment in the productivity trend, resulting in collapsing profit margins. Sober Look As we begin to adjust to lower profit margins for US companies, we should keep in mind that the declines are sharper for most other nations. Going forward, while business spending and interest rates will certainly have an impact, it's the labor productivity gains that will ultimately drive adjustments in corporate margins.
REUTERS/Larry DowningPresident Barack Obama took one of his most significant shots at the Keystone XL oil pipeline during a speech Tuesday in Chattanooga, Tenn., chiding Republicans for favoring a plan that he said would create, at most, 50 permanent jobs. "That's not a jobs plan," Obama said to applause, following it up by hitting House Republicans for voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act en masse since its passage. The prepared remarks sent out by the White House were even harsher, as Obama accused Republicans of too much backing in a "gimmick" jobs plan.† "Putting all your eggs in the basket of an oil pipeline that may only create about 50 permanent jobs, and wasting the countryís time by taking something like 40 meaningless votes to repeal Obamacare isnít a jobs plan," Obama was set to say in those prepared remarks. Obama's figure relies on projections from the State Department, but they have been subject to some scrutiny. In June, Obama said during a major address on climate change that he wouldn't approve the pipeline's construction unless it met strict environmental standards.
via CNBCFormer tech analyst Sandeep Aggarwal was arrested and charged today for leaking non-public information to a former SAC Capital portfolio manager. Aggarwal is accused of leaking confidential deal talk between Microsoft and Yahoo to former SAC Capital ("Hedge Fund A") portfolio manager Richard Lee back in July 2009. The complaint alleges that on July 9, 2009, Aggarwal had a phone conversation with Lee about the pending deal. ¬†According to the complaint, Aggarwal told Lee that he heard from a "senior guy at Microsoft" that it was possible a Microsoft/Yahoo deal may happen within the next couple of weeks. The complaint then alleges that after the phone conversation Lee purchased several hundred thousand of shares of Yahoo for his SAC portfolio. It also says that he bought 25,000 shares for his personal trading account.¬† Just last week, Lee pleaded guilty to insider trading charges, U.S. prosecutors said in a federal indictment against Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital Advisors. One interesting tid-bit in today's complaint against Aggarwal is that a second unnamed hedge fund "Hedge Fund B" called up Aggarwal's then-employer (Collins Stewart) to tell them that they suspected he had disseminated non-public information.¬† Collins Stewart confronted Aggarwal about this and he lied to his employer, the complaint alleges. From the complaint [.PDF] (emphasis ours)¬† Based upon my review of documents provided by teh Firm, and an interview with a former employee at the Firm, I have learned the following:¬† On or about July 10, 2009, Hedge Fund B contacted the Firm and informed the Firm that it suspected that SANDEEP AGGARWAL, the defendant, was disseminating inside information.¬† Members of the Firm's senior management, and legal compliance departments, questioned AGGARWAL about his communications with clients and his belief that there was a greater likelihood of a transaction between yahoo and Microsoft. AGGARWAL stated, in substance, that his sources of information were industry participants, not current employees of Microsoft or Yahoo nor professionals who could be involved with a transaction.¬† Following the interview, at approximately 1:46 p.m., AGGARWAL sent an e-mail to employees at the Firm, including the Firm's then-head of research, in which AGGARWAL stated "Please note that I have been making some comments on a likely MSFT/YHOO search deal/partnership since morning and suggesting a higher likelihood for MSFT/Yahoo search deal" and that "My comments about MSFT/YHOO are based on my own assessment... and I have not heard anything to this regard either from current MSFT/YHOO employees or any bankers/layers etc involved in MSFT/YHOO possible deal."¬† Subsequent to the 1:46 p.m. email, the Firm's management question AGGARWAL again and he reiterated his statement that he had not received information from any current Microsoft or Yahoo employees. AGGARWAL identified his "best industry contact" (reference in his call with Hedge Fund B) as a former employee of Microsoft, who left the company more than two years earlier and AGGARWAL stated that he did not believe that his contact possessed material nonpublic information.¬† After Collins Stewart, Aggarwal worked at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. and Caris &amp; Co., FINRA records show. Before that, he worked at Citigroup, Microsoft and Charles Schwab,¬†according to FINRA.¬†After leaving Wall Street, he started running ShopClues.com, an online marketplace in India.¬†In his bio, he refers to himself as "one of the most popular and prominent Internet analysts in the US."
Reuters / Steve MarkusItís no more Mr. Nice Guy for the founder of hedge fund†Third Point, a major investor in†Sony.  In a letter to his investors today,†Daniel Loeb†says heís fed up with the performance of the electronics giantís movie, TV, and music businesses ó which†he wants Sony to package in a separate stock, with a minority stake sold to the public.† ìWe were surprised that after Entertainmentís highly touted big budget summer releases ó†After Earth†and†White House Down†ó bombed spectacularly at the box office, CEO [Kazuo] Hirai, speaking at the Allen &amp; Co. Sun Valley conferences a few weeks ago, brushed off these failures saying: ëI donít worry about the Entertainment business, itís doing just fineí,î Loeb says.  Calling the films ì2013's versions of†Waterworld†and†Ishtar,î Loeb says itís ìperplexingî that Hirai gave ìfree passesî to Sony Pictures Entertainment Co-CEOs Michael Lynton and Amy Pascal, who he called ìthe executives responsible for these debacles.î Loeb adds that heís concerned about the studioís pipeline, which he describes as ìbleak, despite overspending on numerous projects.î And the television business ìrelies on old Merv Griffin Production workhorses like†Jeopardy!†and†Wheel Of Fortuneî but ìhas no hit network television shows, only one major syndicated network show, the†Dr. Oz Show, and has missed the market for unscripted television.î  Loeb says a stock offering would make the operation more transparent and accountable. ìWhile CEO Hirai focuses on Electronics, Entertainment is in desperate need of proper supervision,î the letter says. ìWe believe Sonyís Board, which we understand continues to consider our suggestions, has plenty of reasons to worry about Entertainment and should enact our partial listing proposal quickly.î Loeb is an investor in†Variety†with Deadlineís parent company PMC.
Market skeptic Bill Fleckenstein has¬†long warned¬†that the Fed's ultra-easy monetary policy would lead to implosion.¬† Now he's saying a stock market collapse could materialize in only three days. In an interview with King World News, Fleckenstein argues people are deluding themselves if they translate rising stock prices into a "glass half full" outlook. From the interview: At some point the bond markets are going to say, ‚ÄòWe are not comfortable with these policies.‚Äô¬† Obviously you can‚Äôt print money forever or no emerging country would ever have gone broke.¬† So the bond market starts to back up and the economy gets worse than it is now because rates are rising.¬† So the Fed says, ‚ÄòWe can‚Äôt have this,‚Äô and they decide to print more (money) and the bond market backs up (even more). All of the sudden it becomes clear that money printing not only isn‚Äôt the solution, but it‚Äôs the problem.¬† Well, with rates going from where they are to 3%+ on the 10-Year, one of these days the S&amp;P futures are going to get destroyed.¬† And if the computers ever get loose on the downside the market could break 25% in three days.¬† The contrarian money manager is nothing if not consistent. He has been a loud opponent of easy money and¬†the Fed's false sense of infallibility¬†since the 2000s. Read the rest at King World News&gt;
REUTERS/Larry DowningPresident Barack Obama kicked off the second round of seven major economic policy speeches this summer today at the Amazon Fulfillment Center in†Chattanooga, Tenn. Last week's big speech came at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., where he framed the debate for the upcoming series of budget battles over the debt ceiling and continuing resolution this fall. In today's speech, he announced a plan for a new so-called "grand bargain" ó one that aims to†cut the corporate tax rate, while using billions of dollars in revenue generated in business tax overhaul to fund a job-creation program. Republicans have already panned the plan and the speech. In the ongoing battle, Obama again chided the proverbial Washington for "taking its eye of the ball" on the subject of the economy and focusing on "phony scandals." "If folks in Washington want a 'grand bargain,' how about a grand bargain for middle-class jobs?" Obama said. Here's the full text of Obama's speech, according to prepared remarks from the White House: Hello, Chattanooga!† Itís great to be back in Tennessee, and itís great to be here at Amazon.† Thank you, Lydia, for that introduction and for sharing your story.† I just finished getting a tour of a very small part of this massive facility.† Itís the size of 28 football fields.† Last year, during the busiest day of the Christmas rush, customers around the world ordered more than 300 items from Amazon every second ñ many of them traveling through this building.† So itís kind of like the North Pole of the South.†† Before we start, I want to recognize your general manager, Mike Thomas; my tour guide and your Vice President, Dave Clark; the mayor of Chattanooga, Andy Berke; and Congressman Jim Cooper.† Thank you all for being here. Iíve come here today to talk a little more about something I laid out last week, and thatís what we need to do as a country to secure a better bargain for the middle class ñ a national strategy to make sure everyone who works hard has a chance to succeed in the 21st†century economy. Over the past four and a half years, weíve been fighting our way back from a devastating recession that cost millions of Americans their jobs, their homes, and their savings ñ a recession that laid bare the long erosion of middle-class security.† Together, we took on a broken health care system.† We invested in new American technologies to reverse our addiction to foreign oil.† We changed a tax code that had become tilted in favor of the wealthiest at the expense of working families.† We saved the auto industry, and thanks to GM and the UAW working together to bring jobs back to America, 1,800 autoworkers in Spring Hill are on the job today in what was a once-closed plant. Today, our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs over the last 40 months.† This year, weíre off to our best private-sector job growth since 1999.† We now sell more products made in America to the rest of the world than ever before.† We produce more renewable energy than ever, and more natural gas than anyone.† Health care costs are growing at the slowest rate in 50 years.† And our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years. Thanks to the grit and resilience of the American people, weíve cleared away the rubble from the financial crisis, and begun to lay a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth ñ the foundation required to make this century another American century. But as any middle-class family will tell you, weíre not where we need to be yet.† Even before the crisis hit, we were living through a decade where a few at the top were doing better and better, while most families were working harder and harder just to get by.† Reversing this trend must be Washingtonís highest priority.† Itís certainly mine.† But for most of this year, an endless parade of distractions, political posturing and phony scandals have shifted focus from what we need to do to shore up the middle class.† And as Washington heads towards another budget debate, the stakes could not be higher.† Thatís why Iím visiting cities and towns like this ñ to lay out my ideas for how we can build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in America.† A good job with good wages.† A good education.† A home to call your own.† Affordable health care thatís there for you when you get sick.† A secure retirement even if youíre not rich.† And more chances for folks to earn their way into the middle class as long as theyíre willing to work for it. Iíve come to Chattanooga today to talk about that first and most important cornerstone of a middle-class life: a good job in a durable, growing industry.† But the truth is, each of these cornerstones is about jobs.† Preparing our children and our workers for the global competition theyíll face ñ thatís about jobs.† A housing finance system that makes it easier and safer to buy and build new homes ñ thatís about jobs.† Health care that frees you from the fear of starting your own business ñ thatís about jobs.† And retirement benefits speak to the quality of our jobs. And jobs are about something more than a statistic or a headline.† In America, weíve never just defined having a job as having a paycheck.† A job is a source of pride and dignity; the way you support your family; the proof that youíre doing the right thing and meeting your responsibilities and contributing to the fabric of your community.† So we should be doing everything we can as a country to create more good jobs that pay decent wages.† Period.† And the problem is not a lack of ideas.† Plenty of independent economists, business owners, and people from both parties agree on what we have to do to create good jobs.† Youíve heard them debated again and again these past few years.† I proposed many of these ideas two years ago in the American Jobs Act.† Some were passed by Congress.† But most of them werenít, even if theyíre ideas that have historically had Republican support. Putting people back to work rebuilding America.† Equipping our kids and our workers with the best skills and education.† Leading the world in the scientific research that paves the way for new jobs in new industries.† Accelerating our clean energy and natural gas revolutions.† Fixing a broken immigration system with reform that independent economists say will boost our economy by more than trillion dollars.† If we donít make these investments and reforms, we might as well throw up the white flag while the rest of the world forges ahead in a global economy.† And that does nothing to help the middle class. So today, Iíve come here to offer a framework that might help break through the political logjam in Washington and get some of these proven ideas moving.† But first, let me briefly outline the areas in which we need to focus if we want to create good jobs that pay good wages in durable industries ñ areas that will fuel our future growth. Number one: jobs in American manufacturing.† Over the past four years, for the first time since the 1990s, the number of manufacturing jobs hasnít gone down; itís gone up.† Now we have to build on that progress.† Letís offer new tax incentives for manufacturers that bring jobs back to America, and new tax credits so communities hit hardest by plant closures can attract new investment.† In my State of the Union Address, I also asked Congress to build on a successful pilot program and create 15 manufacturing innovation institutes that connect businesses, universities, and federal agencies to turn communities left behind by global competition into global centers of high-tech jobs.† Today, Iím asking Congress to build on the bipartisan support for this idea and triple that number to 45 ñ creating a network of these hubs and guaranteeing that the next revolution in manufacturing is Made in America. Number two: jobs rebuilding our infrastructure.† Letís put more construction workers back on the job doing the work America needs done ñ vital projects our businesses need, like widening Route 27 here in Chattanooga, or the Jacksonville Port I visited last week; and projects vital to our national pride, like the one weíre breaking ground on this week at the St. Louis Arch.† Congress should pass my ìFix-It-Firstî plan to put people to work immediately on our most urgent repairs, like the 100,000 bridges that are old enough to qualify for Medicare.† And we should partner with the private sector to upgrade what growing, 21st-century businesses like Amazon need most: modern air traffic control systems to keep planes running on time, modern power grids and pipelines to survive a storm, modern schools to prepare our kids for the jobs of†tomorrow.† Number three: weíll keep creating good jobs in wind, solar, and natural gas that are reducing energy costs, reducing dangerous carbon pollution, and reducing our dependence on foreign oil.† Now is not the time to gut the investments in American technology that have brought us to this point ñ now is the time to double down on renewables, and biofuels, and electric vehicles, and the research that will shift our cars and trucks off oil for good.† And since the cheaper cost of natural gas is a huge boost to our businesses, we should develop even more, as long as we do it in a way that protects our air and water for our children and future generations.† Number four: jobs exporting our goods around the world.† One year after I signed a new trade agreement with Korea, our Big Three automakers were selling 18% more cars there.† Now we have to help more of our businesses do the same thing.† Iím asking Congress for the authority to negotiate the best trade deals possible for our workers along with robust training and assistance measures to make sure our workers have the support and skills they need for good jobs.† Weíll also sharpen our competitive edge in the global job marketplace.† Two years ago, we created SelectUSA, a coordinated effort to attract foreign companies looking to invest and create jobs.† Today Iím directing my Cabinet to expand these efforts, and this October, Iíll bring business leaders from around the world, and connect them with state and local leaders who are ready to prove thereís no better place to do business than right here in America. Number five: helping the more than four million long-term unemployed Americans.† Many lost their jobs in the recession through no fault of their own.† And even though theyíve got what it takes to fill that job opening, theyíve been out of work so long that employers wonít give their application a fair look.† Iím challenging CEOs to do more to help these Americans get back on their feet, and this fall, Iíll bring together the CEOs and companies that are putting in place the best practices for recruiting, training, and hiring workers whoíve been seeking work for too long. Iíve also called on our businesses to do more for their workers.† A good example is what youíre doing at Amazon with your ìCareer Choice Programî that pays 95% of the tuition for employees who want to earn skills in fields with high demand, like computer-aided design and nursing.† Offering training programs, health care and retirement plans, or paying better wages isnít just the right thing to do ñ itís actually good for the bottom line.† One recent study shows that when a company makes the list of the ì100 Best Companies to Work for in America,î its share price outperforms its competitors.† And because no one who works full-time in America should have to live in poverty, I will keep making the case that we need to raise a minimum wage that in real terms is lower than it was when Ronald Reagan took office.† That means more money in consumersí pockets, and more business for companies like Amazon. Like I said ñ weíre not lacking for ideas.† Weíre just lacking for action.† And for much of the past two years, Washington has taken its eye off the ball when it comes to the middle class.† A growing number of Republican Senators are trying to get things done, but rather than keep focus on what should be our priority ñ a growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs ñ weíve seen a faction of Republicans in Congress hurt a fragile recovery by suggesting they wouldnít pay the very bills Congress rang up, and threaten to shut down the peopleís government if they canít shut down Obamacare.† Then, rather reduce our deficits with a scalpel in a way that promotes growth ñ by cutting programs we donít need, fixing ones we do, and making government more efficient ñ this same group has left in place a meat cleaver called ìthe sequesterî that harms growth, hurts our military, and guts the investments in education, science, and medical research we need to make this country a magnet for good jobs. Worse, these moves donít just hurt our economy in the long term; they hurt the middle class right now.† The independent Congressional Budget Office estimates that these cuts will cost our economy 750,000 jobs this year, and result in 900,000 fewer jobs in total next year.† Many of the jobs at risk are at small businesses that contract with the military and federal agencies.† Over the past four years, more than 700,000 workers at the federal, state, and local levels of government have lost their jobs.† These are cops, and firefighters, and about half of them are the people who work in our kidsí schools.† These are real jobs, too.† It doesnít help a company like Amazon when hundreds of thousands of customers have less money to spend.† If those layoffs hadnít happened ñ if public sector employment grew like it did after the past two recessions ñ the unemployment rate would be more than a full percent lower today, at 6.5%.† And our economy would be much better off. The point is, if Washington spent as much time and energy these past two years figuring out how to grow the economy and the middle class as it spent manufacturing crises in pursuit of a cut-at-all-costs approach to deficits, weíd be much better off.† As a share of the economy, weíve cut the deficit by nearly half since I took office.† Half.† Itís projected to fall even further the next couple years.† And Iíve told Republicans that if theyíre serious about a balanced, long-term fiscal plan that replaces the harmful budget cuts that are currently in place, prevents those 900,000 jobs from being lost next year, and helps grow the economy and the middle class, Iím ready to work.† But Washington has to stop losing sight of that North Star.† We canít allow an impasse over long-term fiscal challenges to distract us from what the middle class needs right now. If folks in Washington want a ìgrand bargain,î how about a grand bargain for middle-class jobs? If weíre going to break free of the same old arguments, where I propose an idea and Republicans say no just because itís my idea, let me try offering something that serious people in both parties should be able to support: a deal that simplifies the tax code for our businesses and creates good jobs with good wages for the middle-class folks who work at those businesses.† Right now, our tax code is so riddled with wasteful loopholes that many companies doing the right thing and investing in America pay 35%, while the corporations with the best accountants stash their money abroad and pay little or nothing at all.† Iím willing to simplify our tax code in a way that closes those loopholes, ends incentives to ship jobs overseas, and lowers rates for businesses that create jobs right here in America.† While weíre at it, letís provide tax incentives for manufacturers that bring jobs home.† And letís simplify taxes for small business owners and give them incentives to invest, so that they can spend less time filling out complex forms, and more time expanding and hiring. But if weíre going to give businesses a better deal, weíre going to give workers a better deal, too.† We can use some of the money we save by transitioning to a better tax system to create more good construction jobs with the infrastructure initiatives I highlighted.† We can build that broader network of high-tech manufacturing hubs that leaders from both parties support.† We can help our community colleges arm our workers with the skills that a global economy demands without forcing them to go far from home.† All of these things would benefit the middle class right now and in the years to come. So hereís the bottom line: Iím willing to work with Republicans on reforming our corporate tax code, as long as we use the money from transitioning to a simpler tax system for a significant investment in creating middle-class jobs.† Thatís the deal. I am laying out my ideas to give the middle class a better shot in a 21st-century economy.† Now itís time for Republicans to lay out theirs. If theyíve got a better plan to bring back more manufacturing jobs, or create jobs rebuilding our infrastructure for the long run, or help workers earn the high-tech skills our businesses demand, letís hear ëem.† But gutting protections for our air and water isnít a jobs plan.† Gutting investments in things like education and energy isnít a jobs plan.† Putting all your eggs in the basket of an oil pipeline that may only create about 50 permanent jobs, and wasting the countryís time by taking something like 40 meaningless votes to repeal Obamacare isnít a jobs plan. Look, there are no gimmicks that create jobs.† There are no simple tricks to grow the economy.† What we need is a serious, steady, long-term American strategy that reverses the long erosion of middle class security and gives everyone a fair shot to get ahead.† More good jobs that pay decent wages.† A better bargain for the middle class.† An economy that grows from the middle-out.† This isnít what Iím going to focus on just for the next few months; this is what Iím going to focus on for every one of the 1,270 days left in my presidency.† Because this is where I believe America needs to go. We can do all this if we work together.† It wonít be easy, but if weíre willing to take a few bold steps ñ and if Washington will just end the gridlock and set aside the kind of slash-and-burn partisanship weíve seen these past few years ñ our economy will be stronger a year from now.† And five years from now.† And ten years from now.† And as long as I have the privilege of serving as your President, Iíll spend every minute of every day I have left in this office doing everything I can to build that better bargain for the middle class and make this country a place where everyone who works hard can get ahead.† Thank you, Chattanooga, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.†
There's a natural gas boom going on in America. Many have credited it with helping to curb CO2 emissions. Now, according to a new study from CO2 Scorecard, a web group that monitors¬†climate friendly economic growth, we have an estimate of just how much it helped (via InsideClimateNews). The first thing to know is that there was a huge drop in CO2 emissions in 2012. Check it out ‚Äî just a single month saw gains: CO2 Scorecard The group looked at the extent of coal plants shutting down on their own, versus instances in which utilities switched to natgas from coal. They found that 160 million MWh of coal power was substituted by natural gas, but an additional 51 million MWh of coal power was phased out thanks to, "¬†energy efficiency, conservation, and the mild January, February and March of 2012."¬†¬† In some regions, declines in coal use actually exceeded increases in natgas. Meanwhile, natgas actually increased CO2 emissions when it replaced hydro, nuclear and renewables (which of course release zero emissions), canceling gains from coal to the tune of 25%-30% (or 24 million tons).¬† Finally,¬†87 million tons worth of the decline can be chalked up to gains in transportation and industry: The transportation sector cut 39 million tons (19%) as a result of two phenomena‚Äîpeople are driving less, and when they drive they tend to drive fuel efficient cars. The residential and commercial sectors shaved off an additional 48 million tons, reflecting the effects of energy efficiency, conservation and the mild winter of 2012. In sum, we get this chart crediting natural gas with 26% of the total reductions in 2012 ‚Äî just behind the overall decline in coal for the aforementioned reasons at 27%. CO2 Scorecard In an interview, author Shakeb Afsah said the study did not look at whether gains from natural gas may have been offset by fugitive methane emissions from gas wells, pipelines and compressor stations.¬† The extent of methane releases from natgas infrastructure remains highly controversial¬†and Asfah says an upcoming study will attempt to reckon the range of data on that phenomenon.¬† In any event, he said, the government must be doing more to put a price on carbon.
Google FinanceThe markets have gone negative in the last few minutes. Earlier today, we learned that the Case-Shiller home price index climbed by 12.17% in May, which was a tad below expectations. Investors and traders around the world are waiting for a series of mega economic events later this week including Wednesday's release of Q2 GDP and Friday's release of the U.S. jobs report. We also hear from the Federal Reserve on Wednesday, and on Thursday we hear from the Bank of England and European Central Bank.
APThis afternoon, President Barack Obama gave the second of seven (seven!) planned economic policy speeches this summer. Today's focus was a "grand bargain for middle-class jobs." But it's not clear who he's bargaining with. The president proposed to reform the corporate tax and use short-term revenues from reform to pay for one-time spending, likely on infrastructure, community colleges, and support for manufacturing. Republicans have been "crapping all over" this proposal, as the Huffington Post's Jennifer Bendery put it on a conference call with the White House this morning. A spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner said the proposal leaves "small businesses and American families behind." It's easy to understand why Republicans hate the proposal. Obama is proposing a short-term business tax increase, which he would use to finance a new round of temporary government spending. Does that sound like a grand bargain with conservatives? Yes, Obama is proposing a big cut in the corporate income tax rate, from 35% to 28%.†But the White House is also saying corporate tax reform should be revenue-neutral in the long term and actually raise revenue in its first few years, which would mean a big expansion of the corporate tax base. While most everyone nominally favors "lower rates, broader base," the particular way you broaden the base is a major point of contention. And the President's signals, though vague, do not line up with conservative priorities on the corporate tax. Some base-broadening ideas, like limiting the deduction of interest expenses and changing inventory accounting rules, can achieve bipartisan support. But it's probably impossible to develop a corporate tax reform plan that cuts the top rate to 28%, is revenue neutral, and isn't full of base-broadeners that conservatives hate. On this morning's conference call, National Economic Council Director Gene Sperling cited reform of depreciation rules as one potential base-broadener. This would mean slowing the pace at which companies can deduct capital expenses from their taxes. Conservatives generally favor faster expensing, which they believe encourages capital investment. There is also the issue of changing our current system (which nobody likes) where U.S.-based multinational firms pay tax on their foreign profits, but only when they bring those profits back to this country. But the two sides want to change this system in different ways:†Democrats' priority is to stop multinational companies from shifting their income to shield it from tax; Republicans want to make sure American companies aren't disadvantaged against foreign competitors that don't pay U.S. taxes. Accordingly, the President wants a minimum tax on foreign profits even if they're not repatriated and, according to the Wall Street Journal, is considering a one-time fee on profits of American corporations being held abroad. Conservatives want to move the other way, abandoning worldwide taxation for a "territorial" system where both U.S. and foreign companies only pay tax on their activities in the U.S. Bipartisan corporate tax reform is difficult enough because of these differences. Now, the President is proposing to take any short-run revenue windfall from such a reform and use it to pay for a spending agenda he's already advanced and gotten no interest in from Republicans. It's not much of a grand bargain. As with the president's last speech, the main purpose seems to be sending a message: Obama is focused on growing the economy and creating jobs, while Republicans just say "no." And that message might be helpful for strengthening the president's position in upcoming fights over the debt ceiling and a plan to fund the federal government after Sept. 30. But it won't actually get corporate tax reform enacted. There is one silver lining in today's proposal, though. The idea for a fee on American corporate profits held abroad is actually a Republican idea. Rep. Dave Camp (R-Mich.), who chairs the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, proposed it in 2011 to help offset revenues that would be lost if the U.S. stopped trying to tax foreign profits of U.S. companies in the future. The problem is that Obama is proposing to spend the fee on infrastructure, and in the past he's said he's opposed to a "territorial" system of the sort Camp wants. But on today's call, Sperling opened the door a crack to a compromise with Camp. Sperling noted that the U.S. currently has a "hybrid" tax systemónominally worldwide, but in fact creating many ways that U.S. companies can shield foreign income from tax. And he said that our system ought to be a hybrid, but one that produces better incentives than today's. Similarly, though Camp calls himself an advocate of territorial taxation, his past proposals have included many provisions that would tax "foreign" income of U.S. firms if they appear to be hiding domestic income abroad. In other words, there might be room for compromise on a hybrid system of taxation that would be acceptable to both Obama and Camp. But there are still big hurdles: a deal that†is amenable to Camp probably couldn't achieve a 28% rate and be revenue neutral, and adding an infrastructure package to the bill would decrease Camp's ability to shepherd it through the House. Camp's office didn't immediately respond to a request for comment about Obama's proposal. So, the framework the President is advancing today is mostly about posturing. But one aspect of it might, eventually, become part of a bipartisan deal on corporate tax reform.
International business travel is often a necessary part of remaining globally competitive, but paying for transportation, lodging, dining, and entertainment can be expensive for companies. Concur, a provider of travel and expense management solutions for businesses, recently released their "Expense IQ Report," which looks at the habits of business travelers. To determine how businesses are spending money on travel, Concur processed†$50 billion in expense reports last year. Among other factors, it ranked the most expensive international cities for† business travelers, and Brisbane, Australia, ranked as the most expensive city for business travelers, with an average spending cost of $547.53 per person. Lodging in Brisbane alone costs an average of $305 per night.  Other Australian cities, including Sydney (#3), Perth (#4), and Melbourne (#7), also made the top 10 list.† London, which took the #5 spot with an average cost of $516, also ranked as the #1 most visited international city by business travelers, proving that cost is no deterrent for business travel.  The list only looked at international cities, but had it included U.S. Cities, New York would have ranked ninth on the list, with an average spending cost of $476. Here are the† 10 most expensive international cities for business travelers:  Courtesy of Concur
Net income at Coach fell a whopping 12% this quarter as the retailer faces intense competition from Michael Kors, Kate Spade, and Tory Burch, the company said¬†in an earnings statement today, according to Bloomberg. Chief Financial Officer Jane Nielsen said the negative sales trend will continue for the next year.¬† In an attempt to spur revenue, the company is trying to break into menswear and plans to offer more expensive handbags in the future.  Handbags currently top out around $600, but new lines could be as much as $5,000. Why is Coach so hurt by the competition?¬† Analysts have blamed the lack of a visible personality, like Michael Kors or Tory Burch.¬† "The question is where is the authenticity going to come from?‚Äù Jeffry Aronsson, a fashion brand-builder, told Bloomberg earlier this year. ‚ÄúA brand is a reflection of the person who is leading it, that provides the authenticity, the foundation of a business.‚Äù
YouTubeSteve Stevens, the star of an upcoming CNBC reality show called "Money Talks," is being called a fraud and an ex-convict by some of the most prominent people in the sports betting world today. Stevens has a business where he sells sports betting picks called VIP Sports Las Vegas. The CNBC press release for the show calls him "a well-known handicapper," and a promo video on his company's website claims he has a winning percentage of 71.5%. The show is a "docu-soap," and it's set to air Sept. 10. But apparently no one in Vegas has heard of Stevens, and his 70% winning percentage is considered impossible. YouTubeStevens' officeEven worse, a damning report from WagerMinds lays out evidence alleging that his name is actually Darin Notaro, and he has been arrested multiple times for telemarketing fraud. Todd Fuhrman, a former oddsmaker at Caesar's Palace, wrote in a blog post yesterday, "No one, and I mean no one, in the sports betting community I speak with daily knows who this guy is." Bob Voulgaris, a popular sharp NBA bettor, said on Twitter last night that he'd never heard of Stevens either, calling him "a complete scam artist" for the 70% claim. WagerMinds ó a sports betting website that is focused on transparency in the industry ó also said they've never heard of him in their article. The 70% claim was a red flag for a lot of sports betting folks. Voulgaris, whom Nate Silver called the best sports bettor in the world, only wins about 57% of his NBA bets. SportsInsights ran the numbers in June and found that your chances of winning 70% of bets against the spread are about one in one trillion. It's basically impossible to win 70%, but the VIP Sports Las Vegas website is using that claim to sell its picks to customers. Here's the promo video from the website (with NSFW language):  A CNBC spokesman told us in a statement that viewers will have to draw their own conclusions about Stevens' business, adding, "We are merely betting that viewers will be interested in the world of touts and handicappers and in no way endorse either Stevensí picks or his business model." While CNBC says it doesn't endorse his business, there's a website called†CNBCvipsports.com†that directs readers to the VIP Sports Las Vegas site and asks readers for their email addresses and phone numbers. A CNBC spokesman told us, "He is not authorized to use the CNBC name or logo." CNBC declined comment on whether or not they're taking steps to remove the association on the website. The website boasts, "You may have seen VIP Sports on the new CNBC show Money Talks. If so you know Steve Stevens is the real deal." Before we jump on CNBC, there's a big difference between Stevens being a fraud and the show itself being a fraud. We'll have to wait to see how he is portrayed. But that's not all. This morning, WagerMinds reported that the domain name for Stevens' business VIP Sports Las Vegas was only registered eight months ago. It was registered under the name Darin Notaro. According to WagerMinds, Notaro has been arrested and convicted in telemarketing scams going back to 1999. He was sentenced to a year in prison at age 25 for a scheme that "bilked elderly citizens across the nation out of at least $234,000," according to the Las Vegas Sun. Judging by this screenshot from WagerMinds, they look alike: Courtesy of WagerMinds According to WagerMinds, it appears that Notaro also rents the office space where VIP Sports Las Vegas is housed. A CNBC spokesman said they are aware of the 1999 conviction. Here's the full statement: "We are aware of Steve Stevensí 1999 conviction and while we are very clear in the press release that VIP Sports clients risk big dollars in the hopes that Stevens and his agents have the expertise to consistently deliver winners, viewers should tune in on September 10th at 10pm ET/PT to draw their own conclusions about VIP Sports. We are merely betting that viewers will be interested in the world of touts and handicappers and in no way endorse either Stevensí picks or his business model." We called the number provided on the VIP Sports Las Vegas website and left a message. We are waiting a response. Again, we'll have to wait until the show airs to see if he is portrayed as what he claims to be (a big-shot sports bettor) or what many in the betting community see him as (a shady figure).
REUTERS/Vivek PrakashA man speaks on his mobile phone in front of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) seal at the RBI headquarters in Mumbai July 30, 2013. India's central bank left interest rates unchanged on Tuesday as it supports a battered rupee but said it will roll back recent liquidity tightening measures when stability returns to the currency market, enabling it to resume supporting growth. MUMBAI, July 30 (Reuters) - India left interest rates unchanged, but the rupee lost 1.8 percent against the dollar in its deepest plunge in more than a month as investors worried that further measures will be needed to support a currency that is teetering close to a record low. The dovish tone struck in the Reserve Bank of India's policy statement had caused the rupee to sag, but it then crumpled when Governor Duvvuri Subbarao poured cold water on chances for a sovereign bond issue to help plug a yawning current account gap. "In the Reserve Bank's view, the cost of a sovereign bond issue, especially in the current juncture, outweighs benefits," Subbarao told reporters after delivering the final monetary policy statement of his five-year tenure, unless it is extended. As expected, the RBI left its policy repo rate at 7.25 percent and held banks' cash reserve ratio at a record low 4.00 percent, but said it will roll back recent liquidity tightening measures when stability returns to the currency market, enabling it to resume supporting growth. Bond investors were initially cheered by that stance, but lost heart once they saw the rupee begin to slide. The partially convertible rupee tumbled past the symbolically significant 60 per dollar, ending the day at 60.47. "There were no rupee supportive measures in the policy, like a hike in the policy rate," said Navin Raghuvanshi, associate vice president at Development Credit Bank. Earlier this month, the RBI took steps to tighten market liquidity and push up short term interest rates in order to make it harder to speculate against the currency after it hit a record low 61.21 to the dollar on July 8. "Markets will test the RBI again ... and possibly this will provoke new RBI measures," said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist for Asia excluding Japan at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. "The bank's credibility is at stake now that it is targeting primarily the currency." TOUGH POSITION Subbarao is in a tough position. The rupee has given up all the gains since the RBI's rescue measures on July 15, which came at the cost of squeezing corporate borrowers and crimping India's already weak growth outlook. The longer the squeeze goes on the more likely it becomes that commercial banks will have to raise their lending rates -- dealing another blow to an economy that grew at a decade low of five percent in the last fiscal year. Pratip Chaudhuri, the chairman of State Bank of India, the country's largest bank, said his own bank would take a decision in two or three weeks. On Tuesday, the RBI cut its growth forecast for Asia's third-largest economy to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent for the current fiscal year. Subbarao said that, had the currency been stable, the growth and inflation balance would have allowed for sticking with a monetary easing stance. "India is currently caught in a classic 'impossible trinity' trilemma whereby we are having to forfeit some monetary policy discretion to address external sector concerns," Subbarao said. Subbarao repeated his call for the government to take urgent steps to bring down a current account deficit that hit a record 4.8 percent of GDP in the last fiscal year. However, New Delhi has struggled to implement measures to attract foreign corporate investment, and with elections due by May, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's weak coalition government has limited room for pushing through further reforms. Officials in New Delhi said Finance Minister P. Chidambaram would likely hold a news conference on the economy on Wednesday. Chief Economic Adviser Raghuram Rajan said the government was considering various ways to narrow the current account deficit, including expanding exports. The current account gap makes India especially vulnerable as global investors move away from emerging markets in anticipation of a winding down of loose U.S. monetary policy. "Most external vulnerability indicators have deteriorated, eroding the economy's resilience to shocks," Subbarao said. Turkey, Brazil and Indonesia have all raised rates to counter capital outflows. Indian policymakers will be hoping the U.S. Federal Reserve doesn't spark a fresh surge in flows away from emerging markets when it holds its policy review this week. (Additional reporting by Shamik Paul, Subhadip Sircar, Swati Bhat and Neha Dasgupta; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
via CNBCSan Francisco-based technology sell-side analyst Sandeep Aggarwal was arrested yesterday by FBI agents in San Jose, California on insider trading charges, the FBI New York bureau Tweeted. Today, the U.S. Attorney‚Äôs Office for the Southern District of New York announced criminal charges against Aggarwal.¬† Aggarwal, 40, is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud, and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. He has also been civilly¬†charged by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Aggarwal, who lives in India and recently returned to the U.S., ¬†is accused of tipping off former SAC portfolio manager Richard Lee about a pending deal between Microsoft and Yahoo!.¬† From the U.S. Attorney's release:¬† On the evening of July 9, 2009, AGGARWAL learned from a friend who was an employee of Microsoft that discussions about the Partnership had recommenced and that a transaction was likely within the next few weeks. The next day, AGGARWAL provided information about the Partnership to at least two different hedge funds, including to Richard Lee, then a portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors LP. On July 10, 2009, AGGARWAL told Lee, in substance, that he had heard from a source ‚Äì whom AGGARWAL described as ‚Äúa senior guy at Microsoft‚Äù ‚Äì that (a) senior Yahoo executives had been meeting with senior Microsoft executives at Microsoft‚Äôs offices; (b) senior Microsoft executives were making requests for information that suggested to the sources that a deal was likely to be completed soon; (c) the success of Microsoft‚Äôs Bing search engine had caused Yahoo to move closer to Microsoft‚Äôs offer; and (d) it was likely that the deal could be announced within the next two weeks. Thereafter, Lee‚Äôs hedge fund purchased several hundred thousand shares of Yahoo stock, and Lee purchased 25,000 shares of Yahoo stock in his personal account. Last week, U.S. prosecutors said in a federal indictment that Lee pleaded guilty to insider trading charges. U.S. prosecutors said that Lee received non-public information in July 2009 about confidential talks between Yahoo! and Microsoft.¬† "As alleged, Sandeep Aggarwal leveraged his contacts in the technology industry to obtain an illegal edge in the form of inside information about a highly anticipated development, and then lied about his criminal conduct. With his arrest today, we continue our work to investigate and prosecute privileged professionals who think the laws requiring honesty and fair play do not apply to them,"¬†Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a release. Aggarwal worked as an analyst at Collins Stewart when he was allegedly passing the non-public information along, FINRA records show. ¬†There were several articles about him from 2009 talking about a possible deal between Microsoft and Yahoo!. (See here, here and here).¬† After Collins Stewart, he had been employed with Oppenheimer &amp; Co. and Caris &amp; Co., records show. Before that, he worked at Citigroup, Microsoft and Charles Schwab, according to FINRA.¬† Last week, Steve Cohen's $14 billion SAC Capital was indicted by a federal grand jury on criminal charges of insider trading. The hedge fund behemoth was charged with four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud.¬†Defense lawyers for the fund pleaded not guilty.¬†
Five years after the start of the financial crisis, the U.S. economy is still struggling. Unemployment is above 7%. Growth is weak. Most consumers are strapped. Meanwhile, the stock market is hitting record highs, and corporations are printing money. If you're wondering what's going on here--why these two seemingly contradictory things are happening--we have four charts for you.†They go a long way to explaining why our economy is the way it is--why a handful of Americans have never had it better while everyone else is getting crushed. (The answer is that our 30-year obsession with "efficiency" and "return on capital" has produced a business culture that believes that companies only exist to make money for their owners, instead of also serving their other stakeholders--customers and employees. But we'll let the charts speak for themselves.)† CHART ONE: Corporate profits and profit margins are at an all-time high.†American companies are making more money and more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. Full stop. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed (Remarkably, some people are still saying that the problem with our economy is that companies are suffering from "too much regulation" and "too many taxes." Maybe little companies are, but big ones certainly aren't. What they're suffering from is a myopic obsession with short-term profits at the expense of long-term investment and value creation). CHART TWO: Wages as a percent of the economy are at all-time low. Why are corporate profits so high? One reason is that companies are paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. And that, in turn, is one reason the economy is so weak: Those "wages" represent spending power for American consumers. And American consumer spending is "revenue" for other companies. So our profit maximization obsession is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART THREE: Fewer Americans are employed than at any time in the past three decades.†Another reason corporations are so profitable is that they don't employ as many Americans as they used to. This is in part because companies today regard employees as "costs" and "inputs" instead of human beings who are dedicating their lives to the organizations that, in turn, are supporting them and their families. (Symbiosis! Imagine that!) As a result of frantic firing in the name of "efficiency" and "competitiveness" and "return on capital," the U.S. employment-to-population ratio has collapsed. We're back at 1970s-1980s levels now.†Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART FOUR: The share of our national income that is going to the people who do the work †("labor") is at an all-time low. †The rest of the income, naturally, is going to owners ("capital"), who have it better today than they have ever had it before. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed, Bureau of Labor Statistics In short, the religion of "maximizing profits" that has developed in America over the past 30 years has created a business culture in which executives dance to the tune of short-term traders and quarterly financial reports, instead of investing aggressively on behalf of employees, customers, and long-term owners. That's not what has made America a great country. It's also not what most people think America is supposed to be about. And, by contributing to ever-growing inequality and economic malaise, it will only lead to more problems for most Americans going forward. So it's probably time to rethink our current business philosophy. Specifically, we might want to make the goal of our corporations be to create long-term value for all of their constituencies (customers, employees, and shareholders), not just short-term profit for their shareholders.

Lakshman Achuthan, head of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, is out with some new commentary today. Achuthan, the controversial economist who is convinced that the U.S. slipped into a recession in mid-2012, warns that the economy is not on its way back to trend growth. He believes that Japan's lost decade is a good case for what's to come in the U.S., and he illustrates it with a 3-D bar chart. "Japan‚Äôs entry into its lost decades (1992 to present, red bar), and the other developed economies‚Äô entry into the 21st century (yellow bars), saw major downshifts in growth." he says. "Notably, the U.S. and other major developed economies have experience slower growth in the last five years (blue bars, front row) than Japan experienced in its lost decades (red bar)." Achuthan, notes that Japan employed quantitative easing to stimulate its economy, a path that the U.S. economy is on now. "[T]o those betting on a return to much stronger trend growth, either after the end of deleveraging or after policy changes, it is simply not convenient to recognize that the downshifts in growth are global in nature," he adds.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueIn September, we'll likely see the culmination of three major economic policy storylines that have been building in recent weeks and months. First and foremost on the minds of financial market participants is the Federal Reserve's monetary policy meeting on September 18, upon conclusion of which the FOMC is expected to announce a reduction in the pace of its monthly bond purchases to $65 billion. (The central bank has been buying $85 billion of bonds every month since September 2012, and hints that it may begin to taper the pace of these purchases beginning this September caused a big sell-off in the Treasury market in May and June.) Another issue that has taken the media by storm in recent weeks is who President Obama is likely to nominate to replace Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke when his term expires in January. Two candidates ‚Äì current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers ‚Äì are thought to be the frontrunners. While relatively little is known about Summers's stance on monetary policy, Yellen is an outspoken advocate of the Fed's current course of action. Last week, Bloomberg reported that Obama won't be ready to nominate a Bernanke replacement until at least September, so we could hear something on this front as well. Meanwhile, Obama is also facing an upcoming showdown with Republicans over the continuing resolution that has allowed the government to fund itself this year. The resolution expires October 1, when fiscal year 2014 begins. If Congress can't come to an agreement on how to continue to fund themselves by then, a partial government shutdown will go into effect. Obama is already taking pre-emptive action in a series of public speeches designed to frame the upcoming debate. Not long after that, Congress will need to raise the debt ceiling again. Between tapering, the Fed nomination, the budget, and the debt ceiling, we'll see a pretty remarkable confluence of macroeconomic events in the coming months.
Award winning financial author Michael Lewis has a new Goldman Sachs piece in the upcoming issue of†Vanity Fair. You can see the tantalizing headline at the top of the cover. The September issue hits newsstands on Thursday, August 1st. We can't wait to check it out.† Courtesy of Vanity Fair
en.wikipedia.orgHenry Ford, who was born 150 years ago today, is remembered as the guy who unleashed the full potential of the assembly line, beginning in 1913 when the Ford Motor Company cranked out Model T's much faster and cheaper than anyone could imagine. But his business philosophy, known as Fordism, went beyond the implementation of mass production. Ford argued that high wages were essential for economic and moral reasons.†As he wrote in his autobiography: What good is industry if it be so unskillfully managed as not to return a living to everyone concerned? No question is more important than that of wages ó most of the people of the country live on wages. The scale of their living ó the rate of their wages ó determines the prosperity of the country. Ford set a powerful precedent in 1914 when he doubled wages for workers on his assembly line in Detroit, Mich.†The move was in part†a reaction to high turnover†among his workers, who found the work too hard and unrewarding.†At the same time, he argued that it was good for his business.† High wages support a good market: If we can distribute high wages, then that money is going to be spent and it will serve to make storekeepers and distributors and manufacturers and workers in other lines more prosperous and their prosperity will be reflected in our sales. Country-wide high wages spell country-wide prosperity, provided, however, the higher wages are paid for higher production. High wages lead to good products: The kind of workman who gives the business the best that is in him is the best kind of workman a business can have. ...[I]f a man feels that his day's work is not only supplying his basic need, but is also giving him a margin of comfort and enabling him to give his boys and girls their opportunity and his wife some pleasure in life, then his job looks good to him and he is free to give it of his best. This is a good thing for him and a good thing for the business. Whatever the reason, Ford's higher wages were successful. Applications to work at the Dearborn, Mich. factory soared and turnover plummeted. Ford's advanced production methods were so effective that other automakers and companies in every industry followed suit.†Fordism,†"the eponymous manufacturing system designed to spew out standardized, low-cost goods and afford its workers decent enough wages to buy them," spread rapidly around the world. It was good for the workers too. The average Ford worker in 1914 had savings of $207.10; workers who stayed at the factory for the next five years would amass†$2,171.14 in savings†on average, according to author Richard Snow. Sure enough, they were entering the middle class. Ford imagined a bright future in which wages would keep on rising: What do we mean by high wages, anyway?†We mean a higher wage than was paid ten months or ten years ago. We do not mean a higher wage than ought to be paid.†Our high wages of to-day may be low wages ten years from now.†If it is right for the manager of a business to try to make it pay larger dividends, it is quite as right that he should try to make it pay higher wages. So what happened? As smart as Ford was, his vision of capitalism would become dated by the 1970s.†As described by Walter Russell Mead in "The Decline of Fordism and the Challenge to American Power": The trouble is that capitalism did not stop with Henry Ford and the system named for him. The era of regulation, income equality, state planning and stability has gradually been yielding to a new form of capitalism over the last generation. Many writers have worked to describe the difference between Fordism and what we might as well call ìmillennial capitalism,î the new system we seem to be inventing and exploring. For some, the shift from Fordism to millennialism is a rakeís progress: the end of a system that produced peace, justice, mass prosperity and social security and the rise of a grotesque new system of inequality, instability and bare-knuckled competition in a hideous, neoliberal dog-eat-dog world. For others, the shift represents the glorious triumph of technology and entrepreneurial spirit over a decadent and stagnant era, and the new and more dynamic capitalism offers opportunities to eliminate poverty and transform the human condition. No aspect of Fordism became more passÈ than his ideas about high wages. While liberal economists like Robert Reich still argue about the economic benefits of greater income equality, corporations have realized that they can get away with paying relatively less and less. For a visualization of what has happened on this front in the past half century, check out a graph of corporate profits relative to GDP versus employee compensation relative to GDP: research.stlouisfed.org While corporate profits relative to GDP are soaring, employee compensation relative to GDP has steadily decline. And it's not just a case of rising tides: median U.S. income in 2012 fell to†levels not seen since 1995.† This chart doesn't even include the vastly lower wages received by a growing population of foreign laborers who work indirectly for U.S. corporations.†Just look at how bad conditions are for garment workers in Bangladesh or tech workers in China. The industrial revolution is not continuing as Ford predicted, and ó at least as far as wages are concerned ó that's a tragedy.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonBill Ackman of Pershing Square Capital Management speaks during the Ira W. Sohn investment research conference in New York May 27, 2009. Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, just sent out a five-page press release on Herbalife ‚Äî the stock he is massively short. So far, the short hasn't been working out well for Ackman. According to Reuters reporter Katya Wachtel, Ackman has lost an estimated $300 million since putting on his Herbalife short last year.¬† What's more is since December 18, 2012, the trading session before Ackman unveiled his short position, Herbalife's stock has moved up more than 42%. ¬† Herbalife's stock has been trading at a 52-week high after it crushed¬†second quarter earnings estimates yesterday¬†afternoon. The stock has been trading in a range of $63.25 to $66.23. The company will hold an earnings call this morning at 11 a.m. ET. Ackman has said that shutting down Herbalife would be the¬†"greatest achievement"¬†of his life. It looks like he's digging deeper and has questions about the nutrition supplement seller's recent earnings report. Here's the Pershing Square press release:¬† NEW YORK, July 30, 2013 //- In advance of Herbalife‚Äôs earnings call for the second quarter of 2013, Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. (‚ÄúPershing Square‚Äù) has compiled a list of questions arising from Herbalife‚Äôs recently published earnings release and second quarter 10-Q that we think any reasonable investor, analyst, and regulator would like answered. Weak Reported Q2‚Äô13 Operating Income Growth Despite 18% growth in Q2‚Äô13 net sales compared to the same time period in 2012, GAAP operating income ‚Äì the most important measure of the core earnings power of the Company ‚Äì grew by only 3% as a result of a 31% increase in SG&amp;A expenses (See page 5 of the 10-Q, Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income). The Company has attempted to characterize $11.5mm of this large increase in SG&amp;A as non-recurring; however, more than two-thirds of the Q2 SG&amp;A increase relates to: (i) higher salaries, bonuses and benefits ($22.0mm);(ii) higher distributor promotion, event costs and advertising expense ($15.3mm); (iii) higher expenses related to China independent service providers ($19.7mm); and higher non-income tax expenses such as value added tax and sales tax ($6.8mm). Weak Implied Q3‚Äô13 Operating Income Growth Herbalife‚Äôs updated guidance for Q3‚Äô13 implies flat year-over-year operating income of approximately $161M, ¬†despite its guidance of net sales growth of 16.5% to 18.5% vs. 2012. Herbalife‚Äôs Continued Use of Exchange Rates that are Unavailable in the Venezuelan Market  According to the 10-Q on page 10, in the second quarter of 2013 Herbalife used the official CADIVI rate of 6.3 Bolivars to 1 U.S. dollar for the purpose of consolidating its Venezuelan operations and balance sheet. Herbalife has been unable to convert Bolivars to U.S. dollars at this rate and has resorted to ‚Äúalternative legal exchanges‚Äù in which the Company has only been able to convert a nominal amount of Bolivars at a rate ‚Äú75% less favorable than the new CADIVI rate (10-Q p. 10).‚Äù As highlighted in the 10Q on page 37, if the company used an exchange rate commensurate with the rates available in alternative legal exchanges, the company‚Äôs reported cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2013 would decline by $93.2 million and it would incur a corresponding amount of foreign exchange loss to operating profit. Furthermore, ‚ÄúHerbalife Venezuela would operate at a loss and this could have a significant negative impact to our consolidated financial statements.‚Äù Herbalife‚Äôs Independent Auditor When a public company files its Form 10-Q, it is customary for an independent auditor to review the filing beforehand. Page 8 of the 10-Q notes that ‚ÄúThe unaudited interim financial information presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q has not been reviewed by an independent registered public accounting firm as the Company‚Äôs former independent registered public accounting firm resigned on April 8, 2013.‚Äù Prior Period Errors in Reported Income Tax Expenses Page 9 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q2‚Äô13 10-Q notes that ‚Äúin connection with preparing the unaudited and unreviewed interim financial information presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, prior period errors were identified which affected the interim period ended June 30, 2013, and the interim periods within and annual periods ended ‚ÄúDecember 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. These income tax errors primarily relate to income tax expenses calculated on intercompany inventory transactions and the Company‚Äôs application of ASC 740-10-25-3(e).‚Äù The 10-Q continues: ‚ÄúThe Company concluded that these errors were not material, individually or in the aggregate, to any of the prior reporting periods. (emphasis added)‚ÄùPages 9 and 10 of Herbalife‚Äôs 10-Q disclose that the impact of such ‚Äúprior period errors‚Äù caused Herbalife‚Äôs reported deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2012 to increase by 286%, from $15.9mm to $61.3mm. In addition, reported 2012 diluted earnings per share decreased approximately 3% from $4.05 to $3.94. Page 10 of the 10-Q further discloses that, of the $13.2mm tax expense adjustment in year 2012, $1.6mm was misstated in the first six months. Assuming the remainder of the restatement is split across the third and fourth quarters, this implies that Herbalife‚Äôs Q4‚Äô12 diluted EPS results were overstated by five cents per share. We note that Herbalife‚Äôs Q4‚Äô12 results were the first period reported after Pershing Square‚Äôs presentation entitled ‚ÄúWho wants to be a Millionaire?‚Äù on December 20, 2012. This was an important quarter for the Company to demonstrate EPS growth. During that quarter, the Company reported $1.05 of diluted EPS, which exceeded consensus EPS estimates by four cents per share. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company‚Äôs press release for Q2‚Äô13 notes $26.1mm of ‚ÄúNon-GAAP financial measures‚Äù net of taxes, which serve to make reported Adj. EPS for the first half of 2013 10% greater than GAAP diluted EPS. These financial measures include add-backs for expenses associated with (1) the Venezuela devaluation impact, (2) expenses incurred responding to attacks on the Company‚Äôs business model, and (3) expenses incurred for the re-audit of 2010 to 2012 financial statements due to resignation of KPMG. The press release also notes that such Non-GAAP adjustments are ‚Äúunaudited and unreviewed. Page 16 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q2‚Äô13 10-Q notes that Herbalife‚Äôs effective tax rate decreased from 28.1% in Q2‚Äô12 to 23.4% in Q2‚Äô13 ‚Äúprimarily due to an increase of net benefits from discrete events, principally related to favorable tax Page 22 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q2‚Äô13 10-Q notes that ‚Äúthe Company recorded $8.1 million and $17.6 million, respectively, of professional fees and other expenses related to [expenses incurred responding to attacks on the Company‚Äôs business model].‚Äù The 10-Q further notes that: included in these amounts are expenses related to ‚Äúa cash settlement liability award, or the Liability Award, outstanding as of June 30, 2013, which is tied to the Company‚Äôs stock price and which only vests if certain conditions are met relating to the above matter.‚Äù Herbalife‚Äôs SEC filings contain vague statements that Herbalife‚Äôs ‚Äúsales leaders, together with their downlinesales organizations, account for substantially all of our revenues‚Äù and that ‚Äúthe loss of a group of leading sales leaders, together with their downline sales organizations, or the loss of a significant number of distributors for any reason, could negatively impact sales of our products, impair our ability to attract new distributors and harm our financial condition and operating results.‚Äù (HLF Q2 FY 2013 Report on Form 10-Q, page 45) The Impact of Pricing Increases Page 30 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q2‚Äô13 10-Q notes that net sales in Brazil increased 32.7% in Q2‚Äô13, partially due to ‚Äúa price increase of approximately 4.0% in March 2013 which contributed to the increase in sales.‚Äù Similarly, net sales growth in Venezuela increased 73.1%, fueled, in part, by ‚Äúprice increases of 15% in December 2012 and 17% in April 2013.‚Äù However, page 31 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q2‚Äô13 10-Q explains the decrease of net sales in Malaysia by 20.1% in Q2‚Äô13 by saying: ‚Äúthe decrease in net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2013 was primarily due to a price increase that took effect at the end of March 2013. As generally occurs, distributors reacted to the announcement of upcoming price increase by accelerating their purchases in advance of the price increase, which increased sales for the first quarter of 2013 but led to lower sales for the second quarter of 2013.‚Äù Amendment To The Agreements Of Distributorship On July 18, 2002, the Company published a Notice To Distributors regarding Amendment To The Agreements Of ¬†Distributorship between Herbalife International, Inc. and Each Herbalife Distributor.¬†As part of this agreement, ‚Äúthe Company may not, in countries where the Company is currently operating, materially change the relative relationship between the volume points, the adjusted retail price and/or the retail price of all products sold by the Company in the markets in which such products are being sold, unless such changes are made to convert adjusted retail prices up to a full retail price basis (i.e., one volume point per US $1.00 in the United States) or unless such changes are required by applicable law or are necessary in the Company‚Äôs reasonable business judgment to account for specific local market conditions or local currency conditions to achieve a reasonable profit on ¬†operations in such respective market or markets.‚Äù¬†We note that, since 2004, the ratio of ‚ÄúRetail Sales‚Äù to volume points in North America has increased from a ratio of 1.04x to 1.20x (as of Q2‚Äô13). This has the effect of increasing the price a distributor must pay to ‚Äúbuy‚Äù a volume point. Distributor Churn Page 8 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q1‚Äô13 10-Q stated that as of March 31, 2013, the Company had 3.6 million independent distributors, which included 0.2 million in China. Page 8 of Herbalife‚Äôs Q2‚Äô13 10-Q states that as of June 30,2013, the Company had 3.4 million independent distributors, which includes 0.2 million in China. This implies nonChina distributors decreased a net 0.2 million from Q1‚Äô13 to Q2‚Äô13. We further note that Herbalife‚Äôs Regional Key Metrics supplement shows that Herbalife gained 517,701 new distributors in Q2‚Äô13 (excluding China). Herbalife, a multi-level marketing nutrition company, has also been the focal point of a major¬†clash of hedge fund titans. Back in December, Ackman publicly said that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock because¬†he believes the company is a "pyramid scheme."¬† His rival investor Carl Icahn then snapped up a massive stake in Herbalife. Icahn said he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the¬†"mother of all short squeezes."
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz The Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to 80.3 in July.  Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for consumer confidence to moderate to 81.3. Consumer confidence for June was however revised up to 82.1.  The headline is based on consumers perceptions of both current business and employment conditions, and their expectations six months into the future. Investors watch this number because it offers insight into consumer spending. Here's the full report: The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had improved in June, pulled back slightly in July. The Index now stands at 80.3 (1985=100), down from 82.1 in June. The Present Situation Index increased to 73.6 from 68.7. The Expectations Index decreased to 84.7 from 91.1 last month. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was July 18. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence fell slightly in July, precipitated by a weakening in consumers‚Äô economic and job expectations. However, confidence remains well above the levels of a year ago. Consumers‚Äô assessment of current conditions continues to gain ground and expectations remain in expansionary territory despite the July retreat. Overall, indications are that the economy is strengthening and may even gain some momentum in the months ahead.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô appraisal of current conditions continues to improve. Those stating business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù increased to 20.9 percent from 19.4 percent, while those stating business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 24.5 percent from 24.9 percent. Consumers‚Äô assessment of the job market was also more positive. Those claiming jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù increased to 12.2 percent from 11.3 percent, while those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù declined to 35.5 percent from 37.1 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations regarding the short-term outlook weakened in July. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months decreased to 19.1 percent from 21.4 percent. However, those expecting business conditions to worsen remained virtually unchanged at 11.2 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was less upbeat. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead declined to 16.5 percent from 19.7 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs increased to 18.1 percent from 16.1 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase decreased moderately to 15.3 percent from 15.9 percent; however those expecting a decrease declined to 13.8 percent from 14.2 percent.
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleBarclays CEO Antony JenkinsShares of Barclays, one of Britain's biggest banks, are down more than 7% today after the bank announced in its quarterly earnings release a new plan to fill a ¬£12.8 billion capital shortfall in order to meet updated regulatory requirements. The plan includes a ¬£5.8 billion share offering, issuance of¬†¬£2 billion in debt, and a¬†¬£65-80 billion reduction of its loan book to approximately¬†¬£1.5 trillion. "If Barclays needs to raise that much capital, and it was relatively well capitalized by European standards, it suggests we've got a long way to go in Europe," the head of equities at a UK fund manager told Reuters.
Later today Obama will deliver a speech on economic proposals, and reportedly he will offer some kind of one-time foreign cash repatriation deal. As Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus points out, the "repatriation trade" is doing well. Although the overall market is up just 0.3%, several stocks with large piles of foreign cash are up over 1%. Via Yahoo Finance, here's a look. Yahoo Finance
TreasuryThe Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee meeting begins today and concludes tomorrow. No one expects any major changes to monetary policy when the Fed releases its FOMC statement. However, they will certainly be discussing the tapering, or gradual reduction, of their monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds. While the Fed said that it will rely largely on measures of unemployment and inflation to guide monetary policy, it will certainly have to consider other forces in the market. Art Cashin, the veteran trader from UBS, point to one such factor. From today's Cashin's comments: A Tapering Tipoff For Sure ‚Äì As the FOMC convenes today, one of the first documents they will probably consider will be last night's Treasury statement on borrowing needs in the near future.¬† Here's that lead: During the April ‚Äì June 2013 quarter, Treasury paid down $11 billion in net marketable debt and ended the quarter with a cash balance of $135 billion.¬† In May 2013, Treasury had estimated $35 billion in net pay-down and assumed an end-of-June cash balance of $75 billion.¬† The increase in the cash balance [1] was primarily the result of $66 billion in dividend payments received on June 28 from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement Program. Let me help you translate.¬† Thanks to sequester cuts and some larger than expected tax, and other, receipts, your government will reduce its borrowing needs by almost 30%.¬† There's no way that doesn‚Äôt lead to taper. So, unless the Fed tapers its purchases of Treasury bonds, then all things being equal it will effectively become a larger player in that sector of the bond market.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton Is there anyone that New York City mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner is "sexting" currently? That was the question posed to him by New York Daily News columnist Denis Hamill in an interview published Tuesday. And Weiner responded with a classic "non-denial denial," tiptoeing around a firm answer. "You can quibble about beginnings, middles and ends but what we're talking about is over a year ago," Weiner said.† Hamill didn't follow up on that non-denial denial. What we've been talking about, of course, is the latest round of revelations about Weiner's online sexual relationships that has spilled out over the past week. Weiner admitted last week to online sexual relationships with at least three women after resigning from Congress in 2011. In total, he estimated that he had online relationships with between six and 10 women both during his time in Congress and otherwise.Weiner announced on Sunday that†amid the scandal, his campaign manager, Danny Kadem, had quit. In the interview with the Daily News, Weiner said he wasn't surprised that the latest revelations have hampered his chances. He fell to fourth place among Democratic primary candidates in a new poll released on Tuesday. "I knew it would be bad. It's too easy this stuff. The puns. The jokes. The institutional frustration that I was doing well in the race," Weiner said.  "Look at the tenor of the editorials before this second wave. Shaking the voters by the lapels and saying 'Why are you voting for this Weiner guy?' They couldn't understand that my message was reaching people. So now that they have something on which to hang their righteousness.  "I guess I'm not surprised. I've been in this business too long not to know it would be bad. It's not like some outside force did this to me. I did this to myself. This is my private life that is now public."
Garden State Hiker via FlickrSvenja Gudell, a senior economist at home price website Zillow, has some sharp words about today's Case-Shiller home price report, which indicated the fastest pace of annual price acceleration since 2006. Via Email, Gudell states: ‚ÄúThree straight months of national home value appreciation above 10 percent is not normal, not sustainable and, frankly, not very believable. As the overall housing market continues to improve, the impact of foreclosure re-sales on the Case-Shiller indices continues to be pronounced, as homes previously sold under duress trade again under more normal circumstances, leading to inflated and misleading markups in price... It‚Äôs increasingly critical that the average American homeowner not read numbers like today‚Äôs Case-Shiller results and assume their homes must also have appreciated at these levels over the past year, or will continue to appreciate at these levels going forward. In reality, typical home values have appreciated at roughly half this pace for the past several months, which is still very robust. Looking ahead, a combination of rising mortgage interest rates, flagging investor demand and more inventory entering the market will all help to moderate the pace of home value appreciation and stabilize the market.‚Äù
Wikimedia Commons/ Tiago FiorezeA Royal Bank of Scotland banker has gone missing after his private plane crashed in the sea last week, Josh Pettitt from the London Evening Standard reports.¬† From the LES:¬† Sascha Schornstein, 36, from Knightsbridge, has not been seen since his single-engine aircraft came down off the coast of Kent a week ago. Investigators pulled a small amount of wreckage from the sea but have found no trace of the financier‚Äôs body, parachute or flight data. According to the report, this is being treated as a missing persons investigation. Schornstein works in Structured Trade and Commodity Finance at RBS. ¬†He previously worked in CEEMEA Debt Origination.¬† He graduated from the London School of Economics.¬†
Home prices continued to surge in May, though they came in just shy of expectations. The 10- and 20-city composites had their best year-over-year gains since March 2006. Moreover, all 20 cities saw home price gains on a month-over-month and year-over-year basis. The composites are also back to their spring 2004 levels. Business Insder/Case-Shiller
Wikimedia CommonsDallas, TexasThe May Case-Shiller home prices stats are out.¬† Year-over-year, prices climbed by 12.17%. While this was a hair below expectations, all twenty cities showed increases. And two cities set new records. "Dallas and Denver reached record levels surpassing their pre-financial crisis peaks set in June 2007 and August 2006," read the report. "This is the first time any city has made a new all-time high." Here's a look at the trajectory of Denver prices: S&P Case Shiller And here's Dallas: S&P Case Shiller
Every week, the BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategy team breaks out data on how much stock clients are buying and selling. Over the past few weeks, we've highlighted how while BAML's retail clients have continued to increase their exposure to the stock market, week in and week out, BAML's big institutional clients have been doing just the opposite. Last week, those institutional clients unloaded stocks in size, marking the biggest weekly sales since 2008. This past week, says BAML equity strategist Savita Subramanian, it appears the institutions have capitulated ‚Äì because they are now buying stocks after being such big sellers. In a note to clients, Subramanian writes: After capitulation, institutions join private clients in net buying After near-record net sales by institutional clients in mid July, and following five¬†weeks of outflows, institutions became net buyers of US stocks this past week.¬†Flows at extremes can signal a shift in trends, as late last year we saw capitulation¬†by private clients which preceded two months of net buying in by this group. And outflows by institutional clients [year-to-date] are now approaching full-year 2008 and¬†2010 levels, after which they were net buyers in 2009 and 2011. Private clients ‚Äì who tend to exhibit the stickiest flow trends of the three groups ‚Äì were net buyers last week for the ninth consecutive week. While their inflows were chiefly due to ETFs, five of the ten GICS sectors still saw net buying by this group last week. Private clients have largely shunned single stocks over the last several years, and in our view, continued purchases of single stocks would suggest ongoing confidence in the bull market. Overall, BofAML clients were net sellers of US stocks last week for the third consecutive week, though the amount (-$843mn) was muted relative to previous weeks. Hedge funds drove overall net sales, and have been net sellers of stocks for the past three weeks. The chart below shows the reversal in institutional selling this past week. Institutional clients purchased $262 million of stock in the week ended July 26 after selling $1.46 billion the previous week, and unloading $1.26 billion the week before that. Institutional clients have averaged $650 million in sales per week over the past four weeks, $392 million in sales over the past 12 weeks, and $177 million in sales over the past 52 weeks. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
This morning we pointed out something odd. Larry Summers is in the "running" to be the next Fed Chief, but we don't know anything about his views with respect to current monetary policy. And since monetary policy is what the Fed does, this is a pretty big deal. Sure we know that he's skeptical of the effectiveness of QE at this point, but so are a lot of people, and QE is just one tool in the Fed's arsenal. In a tweet, Dan Greenhaus of BTIG boils it down to one big question mark. To repeat, does anyone even know Larry Summers' views on monetary policy in general or at the ZLB specifically? Seriously. We don't know! And since rates probably won't come off zero for awhile, this is a biggie. Over at Wonkblog, reporter Neil Irwin says Summers' reluctance to talk on this issue is part of a deliberate strategy: What Summers is trying to do is to create a situation in which conservative senators view him as a tough, no-nonsense central banker who will maintain the integrity of the dollar against those dirty hippies who want to debase the currency. Simultaneously, he wants liberals to view him as someone who will do whatever he can to try to strengthen job creation and find creative ways to improve growth. Is monetary policy right now too tight, too loose, or just right? Is the Fed‚Äôs strategy of setting thresholds for the unemployment or inflation rates that would trigger interest rate increases a wise one?¬†His silence on these topics, in theory, at least, allows him to have it both ways. In the meantime, he's getting hammered for not being a blank slate, while his primary "opponent" Janet Yellen is portrayed (correctly) as one of the leading thinkers on the matter.
Kevin Krejci/FlickrThe S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price index for May climbed 12.17% year-over-year. This was just shy of expectations for a 12.4% year rise. Both the 10 and 20-city composites posted their biggest year-over-year gains since March 2006. On the month this was up 1.05%, below expectations for 1.4%. April's Case-Shiller was revised up to show a 1.73% MoM and 12.09% YoY rise. This is up from an initial reading of 1.72% MoM and a 12.05% YoY rise. "We will be paying particular attention to the breadth of¬† price gains in n3e.x5t week‚Äôs report. Since last December, all of the metropolitan areas surveyed have posted sequential increases in home selling prices," according to Societe Generale's Brian Jones. But not everyone was optimistic on the report. "Three straight months of national home value appreciation above 10 percent is not normal, not sustainable and, frankly, not very believable," said Zillow Senior Economist Svenja Gudell in an email. "As the overall housing market continues to improve, the impact of foreclosure re-sales on the Case-Shiller indices continues to be pronounced, as homes previously sold under duress trade again under more normal circumstances, leading to inflated and misleading markups in price." She thinks that home prices have appreciated at half the pace for the past few months, and that those numbers are "still very robust." Economists expect home price growth to slow in the second half of the year. Here's a look at the latest S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index chart: Case-Shiller
APHouse Speaker John Boehner has already thrown a wrench into President Barack Obama's latest "grand bargain" offer ó just a few hours after details of it began trickling out, and just five hours before Obama is set to deliver a speech detailing the plan in Tennessee. The gist of Obama's grand bargain is a plan to cut the corporate tax rate, while using billions of dollars in revenue generated in business tax overhaul to fund a job-creation program.† In a statement, Boehner spokesman Michael Steel shot down the idea, marveling that it left small businesses "and American families behind." "The President has always supported corporate tax reform. Republicans want to help families and small businesses, too," Steel said. "This proposal allows President Obama to support President Obama's position on taxes and President Obama's position on spending, while leaving small businesses and American families behind." A House GOP leadership aide explained that Republicans have advocated corporate tax reform being paried with individual tax reform. Cutting the corporate tax rate to 28% while leaving the top individual rate at 39.6%, the aide said, would have a "devastating" effect on small businesses. House Republicans also want corporate-tax reform to be revenue neutral ó all positions that the GOP aide said the White House is well aware of. "The first we heard about this ëofferí was through the press. So itís probably not really a serious effort to break the log-jam," the aide said.
Completed foreclosures in the U.S. fell 20% year-over-year to 55,000 in June, according to CoreLogic's latest foreclosure report. On an annual basis this was the 19th straight month of declines in completed foreclosure But this was up 2.5% from the previous month. This number represents the number of homes lost to foreclosure. And there have been 4.5 million completed foreclosures since the financial crisis began.¬† Meanwhile, foreclosure inventory, or the homes that are in some stage of foreclosure fell to 1 million as of June 2013, down 28% from 1.4 million a year ago. This represents 2.5% of all homes with a mortgage. The stock of distressed homes has "fallen dramatically" according to Mark Fleming, chief economist of CoreLogic. And seriously delinquencies are also down 15.9%. "The housing market is clearly on the mend, but we expect the ultimate conclusion of the present housing down cycle to be another several years away," Anand Nallathambi, CEO of CoreLogic said in a press release. Here are some details from the report: This chart from CoreLogic shows the number of mortgaged homes per completed foreclosure: CoreLogic
Getty Images/ Mark WilsonJP Morgan has agreed to pay a $410 penalty over allegations it manipulated U.S. electricity markets.¬† Here's the release ¬ª The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) today approved a stipulation and consent agreement under which JP Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation (JPMVEC) will pay $410 million in penalties and disgorgement to ratepayers for allegations of market manipulation stemming from the company‚Äôs bidding activities in electricity markets in California and the Midwest from September 2010 through November 2012.¬†Under the agreement, JPMVEC will pay a civil penalty of $285 million to the U.S. Treasury and disgorge $125 million in unjust profits. The first $124 million of the disgorged profits will go to ratepayers in the California Independent System Operator (California ISO), which operates the California electricity market. The other $1 million will go to ratepayers in the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO).¬†JPMVEC admits the facts set forth in the agreement, but neither admits nor denies the violations. The company did, however, agree to waive claims for additional payments from the California ISO relating to two of the strategies under investigation. JPMVEC also will conduct a comprehensive assessment by outside counsel of its policies and practices in the power business.¬†The case stems from multiple referrals to FERC from the California ISO and MISO market monitors in 2011 and 2012 regarding JPMVEC‚Äôs bidding practices. These practices were the subject of four emergency tariff filings by the California ISO and MISO, each of which was approved by the Commission.¬†FERC investigators determined that JPMVEC engaged in 12 manipulative bidding strategies designed to make profits from power plants that were usually out of the money in the marketplace. In each of them, the company made bids designed to create artificial conditions that forced the ISOs to pay JPMVEC outside the market at premium rates.¬†FERC investigators further determined that JPMVEC knew that the California ISO and MISO received no benefit from making inflated payments to the company, thereby defrauding the ISOs by obtaining payments for benefits that the company did not deliver beyond the routine provision of energy. FERC investigators also determined that JPMVEC‚Äôs bids displaced other generation and altered day ahead and real-time prices from the prices that would have resulted had the company not submitted the bids.¬†Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Congress directed FERC to detect, prevent and appropriately sanction the gaming of energy markets. Consistent with that direction, the Commission approved the settlement as in the public interest.
Societe GeneraleAt 9:00 a.m. ET, we'll get the May reading of U.S. home prices as measured by S&amp;P/Case-Shiller. "We will be paying particular attention to the breadth of price gains in next weekís report,"† said Societe Generale's Brian Jones. " Since last December, all of the metropolitan areas surveyed have posted sequential increases in home selling prices." This breadth of gains is illustrated by the gold line in the chart above. Economists estimate the 20-city index climbed 1.7% month-over-month in May and 12.1% year-over-year. "Figures released by data provider CoreLogic suggest that home selling prices remained on an uptrend during May in the twenty cities covered by the S&amp;P/Case- Shiller survey," said Jones. "Both new and pending home sales, the latter of which tracks signed contracts for existing home sales, ramped up during the month signaling greater demand," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michelle Meyer. "Coupling this with lean inventories, home prices should continue to rise. Meyer estimates the 20-city composite increased 1.5% mom, leaving prices up 12.6% yoy.
The big losers this morning are companies like Potash, which is a big producer of fertilizer. The stock is down 21% in the pre-market. So what's going on with Potasha and its ilk? Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the following: Yesterday, Potash names surged late in the session as Dan Loeb‚Äôs Investor letter signaled a large position in CF.¬† This morning, OAO Uralkali, the world‚Äôs largest potash producer, broke up a marketing venture that controlled about 43 percent of global exports, signaling prices will weaken as the Russian company grabs market share - Uralkali plans to boost sales to consumers including China, which imports about a fifth of global supplies - Expects prices to fall to $300 a tonne from $400 a tonne. There was a point a couple of years ago, when it seemed like these companies could do no wrong. There was reportedly a shortage of raw materials, and we were in the midst of this massive agriboom, which was partly predicted on endless demand from China. Now the commodity boom has peaked, and the China story isn't so exciting.
Obama will unveil a new "grand bargain" in which he will propose a combination of tax reform and new infrastructure spending. According to Reuters, the gist is this: In a note to clients, Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus writes: "Todayís speech in Chattanooga from President Obama may spark the bulls." Most likely one speech isn't going to do too much, and you have to assign pretty low odds on anything getting passed. But if there were any prospects of something like this passing, you have to imagine that investors would go crazy for it. Lower corporate tax rates, plus another jolt of stimulus spending would be crack for the market.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
ReutersEarlier we posted a video of gold advocate Peter Schiff getting destroyed on Larry Kudlow's show while talking about inflation, and when it might come. Schiff's view is that it's not a manner of when inflation will come because it's already here, and that the government is lying about how low it is. That claim, that the government is lying, is why Schiff doesn't feel the need to make a mea culpa. Anyway, Schiff was on TV with economist professor Scott Sumner, who writes the Money Illusion blog, and who is the leading proponent of Nominal GDP targeting, which in this current environment would call for more easing. In a blog post responding to his interaction with Schiff, Sumner provides a neat proof that Schiff is wrong on there being significant inflation now. Why? Because if there were high inflation right now, then real GDP would have to be currently negative. And we know that's not true, because... 1. ¬†More than 2 million new jobs a year in recent years, and (contra Schiff) the average work week is stable. 2. ¬†Rising industrial production and rising output in all sorts of other sectors like housing and oil and autos and retail and services. Unless you believe that literally every data point is being faked, then the inflation truthers are just full of it.
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama will propose a "grand bargain for middle-class jobs" on Tuesday that would cut the U.S. corporate tax rate and use billions in revenues generated by a business tax overhaul to fund projects aimed at creating jobs. His goal, to be outlined in a speech at an Amazon.com Inc facility in Chattanooga, Tennessee, is to break through congressional gridlock by trying to find a formula that satisfies both Republicans and Democrats. Efforts to reach a bipartisan "grand bargain" on deficit reduction have been at an impasse for months. Senior administration officials say Obama is not giving up on a big deficit-cutting package, but given that no agreement appears on the horizon so far, he is offering a new idea to try to follow through on his 2012 re-election campaign promises to help the middle class. "As part of his efforts to focus Washington on the middle class, today in Tennessee the president will call on Washington to work on a grand bargain focused on middle-class jobs by pairing reform of the business tax code with a significant investment in middle-class jobs," Obama senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer said. Obama wants to cut the corporate tax rate of 35 percent down to 28 percent and give manufacturers a preferred rate of 25 percent. He also wants a minimum tax on foreign earnings as a tool against corporate tax evasion and increased use of tax havens. The new twist is that in exchange for his support for a corporate tax reduction, he wants money generated by the tax overhaul to be used on a mix of proposals such as funding infrastructure projects like repairing roads and bridges, improving education at community colleges, and promoting manufacturing, senior administration officials said. Obama's proposal would generate a one-time source of revenue, for example, by reforming depreciation or putting a fee on accumulated foreign earnings. Officials gave no specific figure on how much money would be raised. But Obama in his State of the Union speech in February called for $50 billion for infrastructure spending. The White House is hopeful that the idea will gain some traction in the U.S. Congress because Republicans want corporate tax reform and Democrats want spending for infrastructure. This offers something for both sides, administration officials said. Officials said they recognize, however, that the climate is difficult in Congress with Republicans adamantly refusing anything that is seen as increasing spending and Democrats in no mood to cut taxes and get nothing for it. Obama's speech in Chattanooga is the latest in a series of speeches aimed at making good on his promises to boost the U.S. economy in ways that helps the middle class. And he is looking to breathe new life into his second term, which has so far found successes to be fleeting. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Eric Beech)
Lakshman Achuthan is one of the most "notorious" voices in economics. Achuthan, the head of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, predicted in 2011 that the U.S. was doomed for a recession. And in late 2012, he said that the recession started in mid-2012. This morning, Achuthan is appearing with Bloomberg Surveillance with Tom Keene defending his assessment. "You reaffirm your call right?" asked Keene. "Correct," said Achuthan. "First off, all you have now is preliminary numbers," he said of the BEA's GDP figures. "All that stuff gets revised massively." "Secondarily, you cannot get away from the fact that 35-54 year olds have lost almost a million jobs since this jobs recovery began. That's where you make your money.¬† You don't make your money as a kid. And you don't make your money when youre about to retire. and that's a problem." "We believe a recession began last year," he added. Achuthan argued that the behavior of the Federal Reserve supported his call. Specifically, the Fed wouldn't be maintaining its ultra-easy monetary policy if it wasn't convinced the economy was very sick. Achuthan notes that the NBER, the folks who date recessions, sometimes take up to two years before they call a recession. He also added that the BEA also makes huge revisions to their numbers. "Over that last few recessions, the downward revisions are on the order of 2% to 4%," he noted. Speaking of revisions, the BEA will be revising all of the GDP data since 1929 to include R&amp;D as a category of investment.¬† These new numbers will be published on Wednesday.
Here's some great Goldenfreude from last night's Larry Kudlow show. Peter Schiff, the famous gold advocate and hyperinflationista, battled with economics professor Scott Sumner on the issues of inflation (or lack thereof), quantitative easing, and Janet Yellen. What's great is that Larry Kudlow started off with a mea culpa about having once been wrong about thinking that QE would cause massive inflation, which is a rare thing in the world today. Sadly, Schiff offered no such Mea Culpa, instead arguing that we're already seeing massive inflation (which Kudlow obviously thought was nonsense, at one point telling him to not go on a tangent). Near the end, when Schiff finally made a point that they all agreed with (that there were too many regulations), Kudlow actually said "Good for you, Peter" in making a point that was solid. Anyway, we're happy to see the hyperinflationist stance get clearly marginalized, and for more savvy voices like Scott Sumner (a big advocate of Nominal GDP targeting) get more attention. (via @izakaminska) 
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThere's a ton of economic news this week, and that gets started today. Calculated Risk has the two big datapoints coming out today. ‚Ä¢ At 9:00 AM ET, S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for May. Although this is the May report, it is really a 3 month average of March, April and May. The consensus is for a 12.3% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for May. The Zillow forecast is for the Composite 20 to increase 12.1% year-over-year, and for prices to increase 1.3% month-to-month seasonally adjusted. ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for July. The consensus is for the index to decrease to 81.0 from 81.4 Both should be interesting. The housing number is obviously a crucial part of the story. Meanwhile, there are a lot of conflicting signals about consumer confidence. On the one hand, you have surveys indicating the highest levels in years. On the other hand, there are all these "falling behind", "part-time nation" type stories showing consumers in a state of ongoing distress.
The Australian dollar is getting slammed. Here's a chart, via FinViz, of the last several hours. FinViz So what's going on? A combination of weak data, and dovish talk. In an email, SocGen's Kit Juckes explained: If this is a market-moving week, it will be because of what emerges from the FOMC meeting (tomorrow) and the US ISM and payroll data (Friday). Today is therefore a bit of a sideshow, dominated overnight by another AUD fall. Very soft building approvals (-6.9% in June with May revised lower), were followed up by RBA Governor Stevens saying that inflation data still give the RBA scope to ease further. The rates market has promptly priced in a rate cut (to 2.5%) for the August 6 RBA meeting with even greater conviction than before. The AUD has already fallen a fair way but there is probably another 10% of downside to come.
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriMonetary policy. That's the massive issue on which we don't really know the views of Larry Summers, who is one of the leading candidates to replace Ben Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve. And since monetary policy is pretty much the Fed's whole thing, his lack of clear views are a pretty big deal. This is a point that Matthew Yglesias got at yesterday, in arguing that it would probably be helpful for Summers to establish a position on some of the big monetary policy questions of the day to further his chances of being nominated by Obama. Right now there's this idea that Yellen is "dovish" and that Summers is "hawkish" but this is really a gross oversimplification. Pretty much the only thing we have to go on, with Summers, are comments about how he hasn't regarded QE to be particularly effective. But that doesn't necessarily imply dovishness. Even the Fed seems to be losing faith in the power of QE, as it shifts its stimulative efforts more towards guidance about keeping future rates low. If Summers is skeptical about QE, but, say, a fan of Evan's Rule (which promises to keep rates low until a certain unemployment threshold is hit) then perhaps Summers could be considered more dovish. We just don't really know. As an aside, calling Janet Yellen "dovish" is also an oversimplification. For one thing, she's been correct in her assessment of the economy (predicting subdued inflation and weak growth), so the dovish stance hasn't necessarily been philosophical--just correct. It's also true that in the 90s she was battling with Alan Greenspan, warning about inflation risks, so she hasn't spent her whole career just obsessing about one side of the Fed's dual mandate. The important thing about Janet Yellen isn't just that she believes in more Fed action, but that she's at the forefront of discussions about monetary policy technology ó the new tools that monetary policy observers have been talking about and honing since the crisis. Back in January, Goldman Sachs argued that Yellen was basically a supporter of Nominal GDP targeting, which is one of the hottest ideas in monetary policy. Yellen hasn't addressed the idea in name, but she's a serious, leading edge monetary policy theorist. A lot of the discussion about who will lead the Fed has either been about non-monetary policy questions (who's close with Obama, who's got the temerity for the job, etc.) and the part about monetary policy itself has been superficial. But it seems clear that with Larry Summers, we really don't know that much about where he stands on the single most important aspect of the Fed's role.
en.wikipedia.orgThis is a significant week for markets and the economy, but it hasn't really gotten started yet. The real fireworks begin tomorrow, with the FOMC meeting, and of course end Friday, with the Non-Farm Payrolls report. In the meantime, things are pretty quiet in markets. Japan snapped its losing streak, with a gain of 1.5%. And China rallied. European markets and US futures are somewhat up, but nothing to write home about. The Australian dollar had a rough night, on weak data and dovish talk. That's probably the most exciting thing.
